TOWN CODE
of
WRIGHT
WYOMING
2007
Code current through:
Ord. 2023-01, passed 3-27-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Town of Wright, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 2023-01, passed March 27, 2023. Ordinances of the town
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the town
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE 2023-06
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF WRIGHT, WYOMING, APPROVING THE RE-ZONE OF A
PROPERTY OWNED BY AND PREVIOUSLY RESUBDIVIDED BY THE TOWN OF WRIGHT, WYOMING.
 
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF WRIGHT, WYOMING THAT:
On January 9, 2020, the Wright Planning and Zoning Commission held a public
hearing on the re-zoning of a property owned by the Town of Wright, Wyoming.
The parcel in question was at that time part of a resubdivision which was in
process, and there were errors in the proposed resubdivision plat as it existed
at that time. The minutes of the January 9, 2020 make reference to “Lot 11 B”,
however in a later corrected and approved resubdivision plat the parcel in
question was and now is identified as Lot 12A, Block 6, of the Hay Creek
Subdivision Filing No. 1, in the Town of Wright, Campbell County, Wyoming,
according to the official plat thereof recorded April 15, 2022 in Book 11 of
Plats, Page 229, Folder 61, of the records of Campbell County, Wyoming.
As a result of that resubdivision, Lot 12A now has two different zoning
designations, which was not addressed as part of the corrections made to the
resubdivision plat. The northern portion of the newly created Lot 12A retained
its earlier zoning as Light Industrial district, and the southern portion
retained its earlier zoning as Public Facilities district. On January 13, 2020,
the Wright Town Council considered the rezoning of the parcel in question, and
approved the proposed rezoning, so that the entirety of what is now known as
Lot 12A would be zoned Light Industrial district. However, the Planning and
Zoning Commission was not able to take action on the corrected subdivision plat
until September 27, 2021.
The corrected subdivision plat was later approved and filed, as identified
above, and this ordinance is now approved in order to establish and confirm
that the entirety of Lot 12A, not just the northern portion, is zoned as Light
Industrial district. The Wright Town Council has determined that there is no
need for additional public hearings, consistent with Section 11-4-5(J) of the
Wright Town Code.
Pursuant to the above, the entirety of Lot 12A of Block 6 of the Hay Creek
Subdivision Filing Number 1, Town of Wright, Campbell County, Wyoming is zoned
as Light Industrial district.
PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED THIS 23rd day of October, 2023.
 
                  TOWN OF WRIGHT, a municipal corporation
 
 
 
 
                  ________________________________
                  Ralph Kingan, Mayor
Attest:
 
 
 
________________________________
Barbara Craig, Clerk/Treasurer
 
First Reading: September 25,2023
Second Reading: October 10, 2023
Third Reading; October 23, 2023
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 2010-03
   AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF WRIGHT, WYOMING,
   ADOPTING THE TOWN CODE OF WRIGHT, WYOMING
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF WRIGHT, WYOMING THAT:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the town
code of the town of Wright, Wyoming, containing the compilation of all
ordinances of a general nature together with the changes hereafter made to said
ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the town, shall be
accepted in all courts and tribunals without question as the official code and
law of the town as enacted by the mayor and town council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with a continuous supplement service,
whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general and permanent nature
amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the official town code is
identified by the proper catchline and is inserted in the proper place in each
of the official copies, one copy of which shall be maintained in the office of
the town clerk, certified as to correctness and available for inspection at any
and all times that said office is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in and compiled into
this official town code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance
provision and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated
by the governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the
continuous effectiveness of ordinances included in the official town code. Any
citation written before or after the adoption of this ordinance which makes
reference to an ordinance number rather than to the corresponding code section,
shall be deemed to be a reference to the corresponding adopted code section,
and shall not be subject to dismissal on that basis. All ordinances of a
special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises,
vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and
effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the town code.
Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the official town code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful, and punishable as a misdemeanor, for any
person, firm, corporation, or any other entity to change or amend, by
additions, deletions, or in any other manner, any part or portion of such code,
or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with
such code in any manner whatsoever, which could or does thereby cause the law
of the town to be misrepresented.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the town
code, are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed. Provided, however,
that in the event that any town code provision is later discovered to be
clearly in conflict with the underlying town ordinance due to a typographical
or other scrivener's error, such error in the town code shall be disregarded,
and such town code provision shall instead be interpreted and understood as
though such error was not printed in the town code, and that the provision from
the underlying town ordinance had been correctly set forth in the town code.
Furthermore, in the event that any town code provision makes reference to an
incorrect source of statutory or other legal authority, such incorrect
reference shall be disregarded, and understood instead to be a reference to the
correct statutory or other legal authority for such town code provision.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the town code adopted hereby shall be in full
force and effect from and after the date of its passage.
PASSED, APPROVED AND ADOPTED THIS 8th day of March, 2010
         TOWN OF WRIGHT, a municipal corporation
         /s/ Ralph Kingan
         Ralph Kingan, Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ Chrissy Herrera
Chrissy Herrera, Clerk/Treasurer
First Reading:    February 8, 2010
Second Reading:    February 22, 2010
Third Reading:   March 8, 2010
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
WRIGHT TOWN CODE 1
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 15-1-103(a)(xxxviii).
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the town council, this town code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Wright. This town code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the WRIGHT TOWN CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the town as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this town code by title in any legal document. (2007 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The town code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2007 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the town code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this town code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this town code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the town code. (2007 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this town code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
town council. The town clerk-treasurer shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk-
treasurer. Any person having custody of a copy of the town code shall make
every effort to maintain said code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
office of the town clerk-treasurer. Said code books, while in actual possession
of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of
the town and shall be returned to the office of the town clerk-treasurer when
directed so to do by order of the town council. (2007 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this town
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this town code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
town; and all special ordinances. (2007 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this town code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the town code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this town code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2007 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the town herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the town under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this town code. (2007 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this town code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The town council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2007 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   When not inconsistent with the context, any word in any section of this
town code importing the plural number is used in describing or referring to any
matters, parties or persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed
to be included, although distributive words may not have been used. When any
subject matter, party or person is referred to in this town code by words
importing the singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters,
parties or persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed
to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied
to any section of this town code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto. Words not defined in this chapter shall have their common and ordinary
meaning.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town has been
changed in the content of this town code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the town's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2007 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CLERK-TREASURER: The clerk-treasurer of the town of Wright, Wyoming.
CODE: The municipal code of the town of Wright.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day unless the last day
is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, in which case the period shall run
until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
COUNCIL/GOVERNING BODY: Shall refer to the elected town council for the town of
Wright, Wyoming.
COUNTY: Campbell County, in the state of Wyoming, in which the town of Wright
is located.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a town employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the town of
Wright".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
JOINT AUTHORITY/JOINT POWERS: Any statutorily created entity that derives its
authority from the Wyoming joint powers act.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAY: Permissive.
MONTH: A calendar month.
MUNICIPALITY OR MUNICIPAL: The town of Wright.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH: Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" are
equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a town officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the town of
Wright".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: When applied to a building or land, shall include not only the owner of
the whole but also any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common or joint
tenant of the whole or part of such building or land and shall include any
agent of such owner; and where such owner is a body corporate, it shall include
the managing agent or officer within the town of Wright.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, organization, club, fraternal organization, company,
corporation, business, trust, or their manager, lessee, agent, servant,
officer, or employee or any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: The next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes both real and personal property.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SHALL: Mandatory.
STATE: The state of Wyoming.
STREET: Means and includes public streets, avenues, boulevards, highways,
roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts, bridges and the approaches thereto and all
other public thoroughfares in the town of Wright.
TENANT; OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
TOWN: The town of Wright, county of Campbell, state of Wyoming, and any other
territory, land or place over which regulatory jurisdiction has been conferred
to the town by general or special act or statute, unless otherwise specified.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WILL: Mandatory.
WRIGHT WATER AND SEWER DISTRICT: Political subdivision charged with providing
water and sewer services to the town of Wright.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Includes printing, lithographing or modes of representing
words and letters; provided, that in all cases where the written signature of a
person is required, the proper handwriting of such person, or his mark, shall
be required.
YEAR: A calendar year. (2007 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the town code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2007 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   General Penalty; Remedies Generally: Any violation of any town
ordinance or amendment thereto, whether in effect at this time or hereinafter
enacted, unless otherwise specifically set forth in the ordinance, shall be a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction of a violation of any such ordinance or amendment,
the person violating the ordinance shall be fined up to seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) per offense. (Ord. 91-6, 11-11-1991; amd. 2007 Code)
   B.   Additional Remedies: The imposition of any such fine shall not bar
institution of appropriate legal actions or proceedings by the town to
restrain, correct or abate the violation nor shall the institution of such
legal actions or proceedings be deemed a bar to the imposition of such fine.
   C.   Continuing Violations: Except as otherwise provided, each day any
violation of this code or any such ordinance, resolution or regulation
continues shall constitute a separate offense. (2007 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. WS §§ 5-6-301, 6-10-103 and 15-1-103(a)(xli).
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter, unless otherwise provided, shall
be applicable to every section of this town code the same as though it were a
part of each and every separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this town code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this town code and there shall be no
fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply. (2007 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this town code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the town council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2007 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Fiscal Year
1-5-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the town shall begin July 1 of each year pursuant to the
authority granted to the town in Wyoming Statutes section 15-2-201. (Ord. 86-1,
3-17-1986)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL MEETINGS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Meetings
1-6-2: Committees
1-6-3: Conduct Of Business
1-6-4: Ethics And Protocol
1-6-1: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings:
      1.   Scheduled: Pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 15-1-105, the Town,
by and through its Town Council, does hereby announce that there will be at
least two (2) regular meetings of the Town Council per month. Such meeting will
be held on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M. (Ord. 2017-05, 4-24-2017)
      2.   Notice Of Change: It is further provided that notice of changes in
the regular meeting time will be given at least twenty four (24) hours in
advance.
   B.   Special Meetings: Pursuant to Wyoming Statutes sections 15-1-105 and
16-4-404, special meetings may be called by the Mayor or a majority of the
qualified members of the Town Council. Notice of the meeting must be given to
each member of the Governing Body and to each newspaper of general circulation
or radio or television station requesting the notice. The notice shall specify
the time and place of the special meeting and the business to be transacted.
   C.   Emergency Meetings: Nothing in this section shall be read to prevent
the Town Council from holding emergency meetings on matters of serious
immediate concern without notice to the public, as provided in Wyoming Statutes
section 16-4-404. (Ord. 2001-16, 1-28-2002)
   D.   Presiding Officer: The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the
Governing Body. In the absence of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem of the Council
shall preside, and in the absence of both, the Council shall choose a presiding
officer from among the members present.
   E.   Quorum: At all meetings of the Governing Body, three (3) members shall
constitute a quorum to do business, unless a greater number of Council members
is required to conduct the business at hand (including Mayor). (Ord. 85-18, 11-
18-1985)
   F.   Agendas: Items to be brought before the Governing Body at any such
meetings shall be placed upon a meeting agenda, the format of which shall be
approved by the Governing Body. Items to be placed on the agenda shall be
submitted to the Town Clerk- Treasurer's Office by four thirty o'clock (4:30)
P.M. on Friday prior to the date of the meeting at which the item is to be
heard. Provided, however the Governing Body may, by a majority vote of those
members present, vary the order of items or make additions to the agenda. (Ord.
85-18, 11-18-1985; amd. 2007 Code)
   G.   Responsibility For Agendas: The Mayor is responsible for assembling the
agenda for Governing Body meetings. It is the Mayor's prerogative, subject to
any proper motion put before the Governing Body, to schedule public appearances
and vary the order of business to improve the effectiveness of the meeting.
   H.   Times, Hearings: At the hour appointed for meeting, the members of the
Governing Body shall be called to order by the Chair. The Town Clerk-Treasurer
or his/her representative shall note absences, members requesting to be
excused, and announce whether a quorum is present. Upon the appearance of a
quorum, the Governing Body shall proceed to business. Hearings pertaining to
recommendations from the Planning and Zoning Commission shall also be conducted
at regular meetings except by approval of the Governing Body.
   I.   Meetings Open To The Public: All meetings of the Governing Body and its
committees shall be open to the public and a record kept of all business
transacted except as hereinafter provided. All such meetings shall be called at
least twenty four (24) hours prior to the hour set for such meetings, and the
subject(s) of such meetings shall be posted for public inspection. No official
meeting of the Council shall occur without due notification of the Wright
media. A meeting may be closed to the public by formal motion made, seconded
and carried, to recess the meeting to a specified time for the purpose of
having an executive session in accordance with applicable state law. A reason
must be stated for this motion. No binding action shall be taken by vote in
executive session. (Ord. 85-18, 11-18-1985)
   J.   Proceedings Of Meetings To Be Recorded: The proceedings of all meetings
of the governing body and governing body committees shall be recorded with
minutes of such meetings to be retained by the town clerk-treasurer and made
available for public inspection upon request. The minutes shall reflect the
attendance of all governing body members. Members who cannot attend a meeting
due to business, other governmental or family reasons shall notify the mayor
prior to the scheduled meeting in order for the absence to be recorded. Should
the mayor be unable to attend, the member shall notify the town clerk-treasurer
who will advise the mayor pro tem. (Ord. 85-18, 11-18-1985; amd. 2007 Code)
   K.   Absences: Members who cannot attend a meeting due to business, other
governmental or family reasons shall notify the mayor prior to the scheduled
meeting in order for the absence to be recorded. Should the mayor be unable to
attend, he/she shall notify the town clerk-treasurer who will advise the mayor
pro tem.
   L.   Executive Sessions: Minutes shall be taken, and approved at the next
scheduled meeting of the governing body. Upon approval, such minutes shall be
maintained by the town attorney and not at the town hall in any format. (2007
Code)
   M.   Telephone Polling Prohibited: The polling of absent council members for
the purpose of voting is prohibited. (Ord. 85-18, 11-18-1985)
1-6-2: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Appointments To Standing And Special Committees: The mayor shall
appoint the members of all standing committees and the members of any special
committees from time to time as necessary, with the consent of council, and may
designate the chairman or vice chairman thereof. Ad hoc or special task force
committees may be established by the mayor with consensus of the town council
in order to make recommendations to council on specific issues.
   B.   Standing Committees: The council will have standing committees as
assigned by the mayor and approved by the town council. The following
provisions provide for the work assignments and jurisdictions of the
committees.
   C.   Meeting Times Of Standing Committees: Each committee will meet once a
month or as approved by the mayor, with the mayor determining the week of the
month for each committee. The committee itself will annually determine the day
of the week which will permit the highest attendance and report their decision
to the mayor.
   D.   Committee Structure: Size and qualifications of members of ad hoc
committees shall be decided upon by the mayor. Standing committees will be
established by ordinance or resolution. All committees shall be assigned a
staff coordinator and council representative as deemed appropriate by the
mayor.
   E.   Alternate Member Of Committees: If a council member of a committee
cannot be present at a meeting, an alternate may be appointed to serve at that
meeting, with full voting rights. The alternate shall be appointed in the
following order of priority:
      1.   An alternate council member at the absent member's request;
      2.   An alternate council member at mayor's request;
      3.   An alternate chosen by the chairman from those other council members
present at the meeting. (Ord. 85-18, 11-18-1985)
   F.   Duties Of Committees: It shall be the duty of the committees to act
promptly and faithfully in all matters referred to them and to submit reports
from time to time to the town council. Any special committee requesting time on
the agenda must notify the mayor by four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. on Thursday
prior to such meeting, and the discussion of committee matters at such council
meeting shall be limited to those items requiring council action or status
reports. The mayor shall be notified in advance of the time and place of all
committee meetings. (Ord. 85-18, 11-18-1985; amd. 2007 Code)
   G.   Committee Procedures:
      1.   Minutes: Minutes shall be kept of each committee meeting. Minutes
shall be reviewed and approved by the chairman prior to submittal to the
governing body. A majority of the committee may amend the minutes at the next
regular meeting of the committee. The minutes shall reflect the attendance of
members, excused and unexcused absences, and the vote on each issue.
      2.   Reports Of Committees:
         a.   Report To Governing Body: The chairman or his designated
representative shall report to the governing body all recommendations of the
committee and, if possible, shall forward any related reports and minutes prior
to the scheduled meeting.
         b.   Summary Of Recommendations: The chairman should prepare a summary
of each of the committee's recommendations, which should include the key pros
and cons of the issue. (Ord. 85-18, 11-18-1985)
1-6-3: CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Preservation Of Order: The chair shall preserve order and decorum and
shall decide questions of order subject to an appeal from the members present.
   B.   Addressing The Chair: Every member, prior to his speaking, shall
address himself to the chair and shall not proceed until he has been recognized
by the chair. The member shall confine his remarks to the matter under debate
or discussion, and shall refrain from a discussion of individual personalities.
   C.   Limitation Of Speaking: No interested person in attendance shall speak
more than twice to any question, nor more than three (3) minutes each time,
except when such other limitations may be imposed by action of the council.
Representatives of groups shall be under same constraints, but be granted a
total of two (2) 5-minute time allocations. (Ord. 85-18, 11-18-1985)
   D.   Disruptions: If any public meeting is wilfully disrupted by a person or
group of persons so as to render the orderly conduct of the meeting unfeasible,
and order cannot be restored except by the removal of the person or persons who
are wilfully interrupting the meeting, the removal of such person or group from
the meeting room may be ordered and the meeting continued, or the meeting may
be recessed and reconvened at another location. Only matters appearing on the
agenda may be acted upon in a meeting recessed to another location. Procedures
for readmitting an individual to the meeting shall be established by the body
conducting such meeting. Duly accredited members of the press or other news
media except those who participated in a disturbance shall be allowed to attend
any meeting permitted by this section. (Ord. 85-18, 11-18-1985; amd. 2007 Code)
   E.   Point Of Order: Upon a point of order being raised, debate shall
immediately cease until the point of order is decided by the chair.
   F.   Motions: Every motion, except to adjourn, postpone, reconsider, commit
to table the motion, or for the previous question, shall be reduced to writing
if the chair or any member requests it; when moved or seconded, it shall be
stated by the chair, or if it is written, shall be read by the town clerk-
treasurer and may be withdrawn before discussion or amendment or any
disposition thereof has been made, or a vote thereon had.
   G.   Resolutions: All resolutions must be a part of the permanent records of
the town, either in written form or incorporated in the minutes of the meeting.
   H.   Ordinances: Ordinances are approved by three (3) readings unless an
emergency is declared, at which time the ordinance may be approved after one
reading.
   I.   Parliamentary Procedure: The town council expects its public meetings
to be held in an orderly manner using general guidelines of proper
parliamentary procedure. These guidelines are shown in appendix A attached to
ordinance 85-18.
   J.   Voting: When a question is put by the chair, every member present shall
either vote or abstain from voting, but if a member has personal interest or
concern in the matter under consideration, he shall not vote. The yeas and nays
shall be called upon at the request of the chair and upon the final passage of
all ordinances, in which case the names of the members voting shall be recorded
in the minutes. Voting by secret ballot is prohibited.
   K.   "Robert's Rules Of Order": This chapter does not formally adopt
"Robert's Rules Of Order".
   L.   Suspension Of Rules: The provisions of this section shall constitute
rules governing the proceedings of the governing body and shall be strictly
adhered to, unless temporarily suspended by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
members present at any meeting. The motion shall state for what purpose the
suspension is to be made and the suspension shall exist only until the purpose
named in the motion is accomplished. (Ord. 85-18, 11-18-1985)
1-6-4: ETHICS AND PROTOCOL:
   A.   Courtesies To Other Members And Staff: Other governing body members
should be contacted in advance, if information related an item appearing on a
regular meeting agenda is desired, to assure that correct, timely information
is given and to avoid undue confusion or embarrassment. It is the
responsibility of the mayor to request the presence of appropriate department
heads to attend committee or governing body meetings. It is the responsibility
of the mayor to determine the need for and request the attendance of the town
attorney, town prosecutor and town judge.
   B.   Nonagenda Items: Confine nonagenda items to information matters and to
business items which cannot wait. In the latter case, inform the mayor and
committee chairman in advance so they can make some preparation. The mayor,
appropriate committee chairman or individual council members may request the
consideration of a nonagenda item.
   C.   Treatment Of Members, Staff And Public: Treat all members and staff and
general public with respect. Uphold the stature of the town through the manner
of deliberations in the treatment of fellow council members and persons
appearing before the council.
   D.   Courtesy To Committees: When a council committee submits a
recommendation on which you have a question or concern, extend the appropriate
courtesy to the committee chairman and staff coordinator by discussing the
matter in advance with them.
   E.   Tabling Of An Item: A request for tabling of an item for review and
study by the mayor until the next regularly scheduled governing body meeting
shall be honored only by a majority vote of the governing body. In sensitive
matters regarding administration, personnel, or potential litigation, any
person may request to confer with the mayor in order to recommend tabling of a
particular item. (Ord. 85-17, 11-18-1985)
CHAPTER 7
TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Employment Policy Manual
1-7-2: Drug And Alcohol Policy
1-7-3: Other Employment Matters Required By State Or Federal Law
1-7-1: EMPLOYMENT POLICY MANUAL:
The town hereby authorizes an employment policy manual setting forth the terms
and conditions of employment pursuant to Wyoming Statutes subsection 5-1-103(a)
(xxxvii). The employment policy manual shall:
   A.   Prescribe duties and rules of all employees and appointees;
   B.   Determine working conditions or pay scales and supplementary benefits,
as long as those provisions are not in conflict with existing statutes and
laws;
   C.   During an emergency or special conditions warranting, make additional
temporary appointments;
   D.   Provide that if any person is removed from office for incompetency,
neglect of duty or otherwise for cause, the charges against that person shall
be specified and the person removed shall be provided an opportunity for a
hearing on the charges under procedures established; and
   E.   Make the cause of removal a matter of record.
In the interest of expediency, the adopting of the employment policy manual is
hereby authorized to be made and/or amended by resolution. (Ord. 95-15, 11-27-
1995)
1-7-2: DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY:
A drug and alcohol policy is authorized to be adopted and amended by resolution
to comply with all state and federal laws and regulations regarding mandatory
drug and alcohol testing, education and other programs. (Ord. 95-15, 11-27-
1995)
1-7-3: OTHER EMPLOYMENT MATTERS REQUIRED BY STATE OR FEDERAL LAW:
Any other employment matters which are required by state or federal law or
which are advisable or needed, in the discretion of the town council, may be
adopted or amended by resolution. (Ord. 95-15, 11-27-1995)
ARTICLE A. CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Purpose
1-7A-2: Appointment
1-7A-3: Citations
1-7A-4: Investigations
1-7A-5: Assistance
1-7A-6: County, State And Federal Law Enforcement Officers
1-7A-1: PURPOSE:
In order to effectively enforce ordinances of the town and carry out those
powers set forth in Wyoming Statutes section 15-1-103 and provide those
services which are necessary for the health, safety and welfare of the town and
to further give effect to the powers conferred by Wyoming Statutes section 15-
1-101 et seq., there is hereby established the position of enforcement officer
for the town. (Ord. 93-6, 4-26-1993)
1-7A-2: APPOINTMENT:
The enforcement officer shall be appointed by resolution of the town council.
(Ord. 93-6, 4-26-1993)
1-7A-3: CITATIONS:
The enforcement officer may issue and serve citations for all violations of
town ordinances. (Ord. 93-6, 4-26-1993)
1-7A-4: INVESTIGATIONS:
The enforcement officer shall have the power to investigate any allegations of
violations of town ordinances. (Ord. 93-6, 4-26-1993)
1-7A-5: ASSISTANCE:
The enforcement officer may appoint any other competent person to aid in
issuing or serving the citation upon the person to be cited or in investigating
any matter concerning violations of town ordinances. (Ord. 93-6, 4-26-1993)
1-7A-6: COUNTY, STATE AND FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS:
The sheriff of Campbell County, the sheriff's deputies, Wyoming highway patrol
officers, officers of the department of criminal investigation, officers of the
federal bureau of investigation, Wyoming game and fish officers and any other
certified peace officer or law enforcement officer shall be authorized to
enforce any ordinance of the town. Such officers shall have all the powers
granted to the town enforcement officer and additionally all those powers
reasonably necessary to enforce town ordinances. (Ord. 93-6, 4-26-1993; amd.
2007 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Municipal Judge
1-8-2: Alternate Or Assistant Judges
1-8-3: Fines; Community Service Work
1-8-4: Crime Victims Compensation Act
1-8-1: MUNICIPAL JUDGE:
   A.   Position Established: There is hereby established the position of
municipal judge.
   B.   Appointment; Term: The mayor, by and with the consent of the town
council at their first meeting after each town election and at such other times
as they may deem necessary or proper, shall appoint a judge, who shall hold
office at the will of the council.
   C.   Salary: The salary or compensation of the judge shall be as may be
fixed and determined by the town council.
   D.   Duties: The judge shall perform all of the duties of such position
under the laws of the state and the provisions of this code and other
ordinances of the town. (Ord. 85-10, 9-23-1985)
   E.   Jurisdiction: The judge shall have the jurisdiction as provided by law
and as may be provided in this code and other ordinances of the town. (Ord.
2005-03, 5-23-2005)
   F.   Powers: The judge shall have the power to fine, enter judgment and
sentence, and hear and determine all cases arising under this code or other
ordinances of the town. (Ord. 2005-03, 5-23-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
   G.   Procedure: The procedure of the court shall be in compliance with the
procedures for courts of limited jurisdiction including the uniform rules for
the circuit courts of Wyoming, the Wyoming rules of civil procedure for circuit
courts, and the rules for fees and costs for municipal courts. (Ord. 2005-03,
5-23-2005)
   H.   Judgment To Include Costs; Payment Of Costs: Every judgment by the
judge requiring any person to pay a fine for the violation of any provision of
this code or other ordinance of the town, and in every case where the defendant
is convicted under any provision of this code or other ordinance of this town,
the judgment shall include costs of the proceedings and shall be paid by the
defendant. Such court costs shall be twenty dollars ($20.00), and it shall be
in addition to the fine or judgment. (Ord. 2001-13, 12-17-2001)
   I.   Disposition Of Fines And Costs: The judge shall turn in to the town
clerk-treasurer all fines and costs collected by him.
   J.   Admission To Bail: Any person arrested for any offense under any
provision of this code or other ordinance of the town may be admitted to bail
by executing a bond to the town, with sufficient surety to be approved by the
judge, in such sum as is required, conditioned for his appearance upon a day
mentioned and that he will not depart without leave, which bond shall be
approved by the judge and filed with the court. (Ord. 85-10, 9-23-1985)
1-8-2: ALTERNATE OR ASSISTANT JUDGES:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor, by and with the consent of the town council, at
their first meeting after each town election and at such other times as they
deem necessary or proper, shall appoint such number of alternate or assistant
judges to act in the absence or inability to act of the municipal judge, as the
council shall deem proper.
   B.   Term: The alternate or assistant judges shall hold office at the will
of the council.
   C.   Salary: The salary or compensation of alternate or assistant judges
shall be as may be fixed and determined by the town council. (Ord. 85-10, 9-23-
1985)
1-8-3: FINES; COMMUNITY SERVICE WORK:
   A.   Payment Of Fine By Performance Of Community Service Work: Any fines
issued by the municipal court judge may, at the judge's discretion, be paid in
full or in part by the defendant performing community service hours at a rate
to be determined by the municipal court judge. Community service may, in the
municipal court judge's discretion, be imposed as a sentence without placing a
dollar value on the community service. Community service by itself may be
imposed partially or wholly as a sentence.
   B.   Availability Of Community Service Work: In determining whether a fine
may be paid by community service work, the judge shall inquire of the
appropriate town employees/personnel regarding the need and availability of
such community service work. The judge shall consider the information received
from town employees/personnel in determining whether to require community
service.
   C.   Judicial Discretion: This section shall not be construed to require the
municipal court judge to consider the availability of community service in lieu
of a fine or as part of a fine should the municipal court judge, in his/her
discretion, not wish to do so. Nothing in this section shall require the
municipal court judge to require community service work if, in the municipal
court judge's discretion, it is not warranted in the circumstances.
   D.   Verification Required: Any community service performed pursuant to any
order of the municipal court judge shall be verified, in writing, by the person
or persons whom the court deems appropriate.
   E.   Types Of Community Services: Community service may consist of, but
shall not be limited to, working for:
      1.   Personnel at the town hall;
      2.   Personnel at the town maintenance department;
      3.   Personnel with town animal control responsibilities;
      4.   A public, nonprofit, individual, business or any other appropriate
person or entity; or
      5.   Any other work which the municipal court judge deems just and proper
in the circumstances of the particular case.
   F.   Liability Release: Should the municipal court require or allow
community service hours to be performed, the municipal court shall require the
defendant and/or his/her parents/guardians to execute a liability release to
the town and any and all other individuals which the court deems just and
proper in the circumstances. (Ord. 94-8, 10-10-1994)
1-8-4: CRIME VICTIM COMPENSATION ACT:
   A.   Provided By Statute: Wyoming Statutes section 1-40-101 et seq.,
provides for a crime victims compensation act in which surcharges are to be
assessed in certain criminal cases in addition to fines for criminal offenses
when a defendant pleads guilty or nolo contendere.
   B.   Extended To Municipal Court: Wyoming Statutes section 1-40-101 et seq.,
is hereby extended to the Wright municipal court for all violations set forth
in the state statutes and which are processed through the town municipal court.
   C.   Powers And Duties Of Municipal Judge: The municipal court judge shall
have those powers and abilities which are set forth in the Wyoming crime
victim's compensation act under the same conditions and guidelines as set forth
in the Wyoming crime victim's compensation act. (Ord. 94-10, 10-24-1994; amd.
2007 Code)
CHAPTER 9
RULES FOR ADMINISTRATION OF CONTESTED CASES BEFORE ANY TOWN AGENCY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Scope
1-9-2: Petitions
1-9-3: Answers
1-9-4: Docket; Filing Fee
1-9-5: Default
1-9-6: Disposition Without Hearing
1-9-7: Hearing Of Motions
1-9-8: Depositions; Discovery
1-9-9: Prehearing Conference
1-9-10: Hearings
1-9-11: Subpoenas
1-9-12: Swearing In Of Witnesses
1-9-13: Applicability Of Civil Rules Of Procedure
1-9-14: Attorneys
1-9-15: Recording Of Proceedings
1-9-16: Making And Filing Of Decisions
1-9-17: Review Or Rehearing Of Rate Making, Price Fixing Or Licensing Cases
1-9-18: Appeals
1-9-19: Applicability Of Wyoming Administrative Procedure Act
1-9-1: SCOPE:
The rules of practice and procedure set forth in this chapter shall be
applicable only in "contested cases", as defined in Wyoming Statutes section
16-3-101, 1977, as amended, before "agencies" of the municipality as defined in
Wyoming Statutes section 16-3-101. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-2: PETITIONS:
   A.   Initiation Of Contest; Filing Period:
      1.   Initiation: All contested cases to which the rules of practice and
procedure set forth in this chapter apply shall be initiated by the particular
agency of the municipality or by a petitioner upon written verified petition
which shall allege the acts or omissions by which the petitioner is aggrieved
or adversely affected.
      2.   Filing Deadline: The petition shall be filed within ten (10) days of
the act or omission from which the petitioner is aggrieved or adversely
affected.
   B.   Place Of Filing; Contents: The verified petition shall be filed with
the town clerk-treasurer and shall set forth:
      1.   The name of the agency to which the petition is directed;
      2.   The name and address of each contestee and his attorney, if any;
      3.   The legal description and a plat plan of real property involved in
the contest, if any;
      4.   A statement, in ordinary and concise language, of the facts upon
which the petition is based, including reference to statutory law, ordinances,
rules, regulations and orders and including any instruments or documents
involved in the allegations therein contained;
      5.   A concise request or prayer for the specific relief desired. (Ord.
85-12, 10-7-1985)
   C.   Service: The petitioner shall cause to be served upon all contestees
named in the petition a full, true and correct copy thereof. Service shall be
made personally or by registered or certified mail with return receipt thereof
in accordance with the provisions of rule 4, Wyoming rules of civil procedure;
provided, that personal service made within the town may be made by a member of
law enforcement. In the case of the agency, service shall be made upon the
presiding officers. Proof of service shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of rule 4, Wyoming rules of civil procedure. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985;
amd. 2007 Code)
1-9-3: ANSWERS:
Contestees shall be allowed twenty (20) days from and after the date of service
of the petition within which to file with the clerk of the agency his answer or
other appearance. A copy of such answer or other appearance shall be served
upon the petitioner in accordance with the provisions of rule 5, Wyoming rules
of civil procedure. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-4: DOCKET; FILING FEE:
   A.   Docket: When a proceeding is instituted by the filing of a petition as
provided in this chapter, the clerk of the agency shall assign it a number and
enter it with the date of its filing on a separate page of a docket provided
for that purpose. The clerk shall establish a separate file for each docketed
case, in which shall be placed all pleadings, documents, papers, transcripts,
evidence and exhibits pertaining thereto; and all such items shall have noted
thereon the docket number assigned and the date of filing.
   B.   Filing Fee: There shall be a filing fee in the amount of ten dollars
($10.00) which shall be paid to the clerk of the agency at the time of filing
of the verified petition. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-5: DEFAULT:
In the event of failure of a contestee to answer or otherwise appear within the
time allowed by these rules, provided that subsection
1-9-2C of this chapter has been complied with, such contestee so failing to
answer or otherwise appear thereafter and after written notice to the
petitioner, the proceeding will be brought before the agency to which it was
presented for consideration and appropriate action. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-6: DISPOSITION WITHOUT HEARING:
Any proceeding initiated under this chapter may be concluded by stipulation,
agreed settlement, consent order or default of the parties or motion and order
of dismissal, if such disposition is approved by the agency before which it was
initiated. If a proceeding is so disposed of, an appropriate order shall be
entered and included in the case record. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-7: HEARING OF MOTIONS:
The agency before which the proceeding was initiated may, after ten (10) days'
notice given in accordance with section
1-9-10 of this chapter, hear any motion filed in connection with any proceeding
initiated pursuant to the rules set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-
1985; amd. 2007 Code)
1-9-8: DEPOSITIONS; DISCOVERY:
Any party to a proceeding initiated pursuant to the rules set forth in this
chapter may take depositions and discovery in accordance with Wyoming Statutes
section 16-3-107. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-9: PREHEARING CONFERENCE:
Prior to the day of hearing, the agency before which the proceeding was
initiated may direct the parties to the proceeding or their attorneys to appear
before the agency for a prehearing conference. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-10: HEARINGS:
   A.   Date; Notice; Representatives:
      1.   Date: After the issues of the case have been joined, the agency
before which the proceeding was initiated shall set a date, time and place for
hearing.
      2.   Notice: The agency shall give notice of hearing to all parties to
the proceeding in accordance with the provisions of Wyoming Statutes section
16-3-107, 1977, as amended. Such notice shall be given personally or by
certified or registered mail with return receipt thereof not less than fifteen
(15) days prior to the date of hearing. If notice of hearing is given by mail,
the computation of time shall begin to run on the date the notice is deposited
in the United States mail.
      3.   Issues: All issues and matters involved in a proceeding shall be
presented on behalf of the agency by an officer or agent of such agency as
designated by it.
      4.   Representation: Any contestee may be represented personally or by
counsel subject to the provisions of section
1-9-14 of this chapter.
   B.   Order Of Procedure: As nearly as may be, hearings shall be conducted in
accordance with the following order of procedure:
      1.   The presiding officer of the agency before which the hearing is
being conducted shall announce the hearing convened upon the call of the docket
number and title of the matter to be heard and shall direct the reading into
the record of the formal notice of hearing given by the agency and shall note
for the record all subpoenas issued and all appearances of record including
contestees and their counsels of record;
      2.   The petitioner or his agent or attorney shall be allowed to make an
opening statement to briefly explain his position to the agency and to outline
the evidence he proposes to offer;
      3.   The petitioner or his agent or attorney shall thereupon proceed to
present his evidence. Witnesses may be cross examined by the other parties and
may be examined by members of the agency. All exhibits offered by and on behalf
of the petitioner shall be marked by letters of the alphabet beginning with
"A";
      4.   The other parties shall, in the order of answers or appearances
made, be heard in the same manner as the petitioner;
         a.   They shall be allowed to make an opening statement in the same
manner and for the same purpose as the petitioner;
         b.   Their evidence, witnesses and exhibits shall be presented and
heard in the same manner as allowed the petitioner and their exhibits shall be
marked by numbers beginning with "1";
      5.   The agency may, in its discretion, allow evidence to be offered out
of order;
      6.   At the conclusion of the presentation of the other party's evidence,
the petitioner may present rebuttal evidence;
      7.   At the conclusion of the petitioner's rebuttal evidence or if there
is no rebuttal evidence, at the conclusion of the other party's evidence, the
presiding officer of the agency shall declare the evidence closed;
      8.   Closing statements will be made in the following sequence:
         a.   Petitioner;
         b.   Other parties in order of answers or appearances;
         c.   Petitioner in rebuttal;
The time for oral argument or closing statement may be limited by the agency;
      9.   After all the proceedings have been concluded, the agency shall
declare the hearing closed. Any party may tender briefs of law to the agency,
and the agency may call for such briefs as they may deem advisable or grant a
party a reasonable time within which to prepare and submit briefs to aid the
agency in arriving at a decision. The agency shall take the case under
advisement and shall declare that its decision will be announced within a
reasonable time following consideration of all the matters presented at the
hearing. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-11: SUBPOENAS:
The presiding officer of the agency before which a proceeding is initiated
pursuant to the rules set forth in this chapter shall, upon written request of
any party to the proceeding, issue subpoenas for appearance or to produce
books, papers or other documents or subpoenas duces tecum in accordance with
the provisions of Wyoming Statutes section 16-3-107, 1977, as amended. (Ord.
85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-12: SWEARING IN OF WITNESSES:
All persons testifying at any hearing pursuant to the rules set forth in this
chapter shall stand and be administered the following oath by either the
presiding officer or secretary of the agency:
Do you swear (or affirm) to tell the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the
truth in this hearing now before the (name of agency)?
(Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-13: APPLICABILITY OF CIVIL RULES OF PROCEDURE:
The following rules of practice and procedure contained in the rules of civil
procedures of Wyoming, insofar as the same may be applicable and not
inconsistent with the laws of the state in matters before an agency and
applicable to the rules, orders and regulations promulgated by an agency under
such laws, shall apply: 4(c), 4(d), 4(m)(1), 4(m)(2)(i), 4(m)(2)(ii), 4(m)(2)
(iii), 4(m)(2)(v), 4(n); 5; 6; 10; 11; 17(a); 20; 26; 28 through 37 [excepting
rules 37(b)(1) and 37(b)(2)(D) therefrom]; 45; and Wyoming rules of appellate
procedure no. 12. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985; amd. 2007 Code)
1-9-14: ATTORNEYS:
The filing of an answer or other appearance by an attorney constitutes his
appearance for the party for whom the pleading is filed. The agency before
which the proceeding is initiated shall be notified, in writing, of his
withdrawal from any hearing. Any person appearing before an agency at a hearing
in a representative capacity shall be precluded from examining or cross
examining any witness unless such person shall be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state or a nonresident attorney associated with a Wyoming
attorney qualified to practice law in the state. This rule shall not be
construed to prohibit any person from representing himself in any hearing
before an agency. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-15: RECORDING OF PROCEEDINGS:
When oral testimony of witnesses is taken in contested cases before an agency,
the proceedings, including all testimony, shall be reported verbatim by a
competent reporter or by tape recording. The compensation of such reporter
shall be paid by the unsuccessful party or as otherwise ordered by the agency.
If a transcript of testimony is required in the subsequent agency
deliberations, the cost thereof shall be furnished to the agency by the
unsuccessful party. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-16: MAKING AND FILING OF DECISIONS:
The agency before which a hearing pursuant to this chapter is conducted shall,
following the full and complete hearing, make and enter a written decision and
order in all contested cases, in accordance with the provisions of Wyoming
Statutes section 16-3-110, 1977, as amended. Such decisions and orders shall be
filed with the agency and will, without further action, become the decision and
order as a result of the hearing. Upon entry and filing the agency shall send a
copy by prepaid mail to each party or their attorneys of record. (Ord. 85-12,
10-7-1985)
1-9-17: REVIEW OR REHEARING OF RATE MAKING, PRICE FIXING OR LICENSING CASES:
In all contested cases conducted in accordance with the rules of practice and
procedure set forth in this chapter, the subject of which is rate making, price
fixing or licensing, the decision of the agency before which the proceeding is
initiated shall be final and shall not be subject to review or rehearing by
such agency. Subsequent petitions requesting the same or similar relief shall
not be accepted by the clerk of the agency or considered by the agency subject
to these rules for a period of twelve (12) months following the entry of the
decision of the agency before which the original proceeding was initiated.
(Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985)
1-9-18: APPEALS:
   A.   Appeals To District Court: Appeals to the district court from decisions
of an agency are governed by Wyoming Statutes section 16-3-114, 1977, and
Wyoming rules of appellate procedure no. 12 promulgated by the supreme court of
the state of Wyoming. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-1985; amd. 2007 Code)
   B.   Transcripts: In case of an appeal to the district court, the party
appealing shall secure and file a transcript of the testimony and all other
evidence offered at the hearing which transcript must be verified by the oath
of the reporter who took the testimony as a true and correct transcript of the
testimony and other evidence in the case. The compensation of the reporter for
making the transcript of the testimony and all other costs involved in such
appeal shall be borne by the party prosecuting such appeal. (Ord. 85-12, 10-7-
1985)
1-9-19: APPLICABILITY OF WYOMING ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT:
In all proceedings before an agency pursuant to the rules set forth in this
chapter, the "Wyoming administrative procedure act" 1  shall apply. If conflict
arises between such act and the rules set forth in this chapter, the act shall
supersede these rules. Nothing in this act shall be construed as subjecting the
governing body of the town to the Wyoming administrative procedure act. (Ord.
85-12, 10-7-1985; amd. 2007 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 16-3-101 et seq., as amended.
CHAPTER 10
PUBLIC RECORDS REQUESTS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Authority
1-10-2: Purpose
1-10-3: Definitions
1-10-4: Electronic Public Records
1-10-5: Non-Electronic Public Records
1-10-6: Form Of Request
1-10-1: AUTHORITY:
These rules are promulgated under the Town of Wright's rule-making authority
established by Wyoming Statutes section 16-4-204(e), and the general authority
of municipalities to regulate access to the Town's public records. (Ord. 2017-
09, 8-14-2017)
1-10-2: PURPOSE:
The Town hereby establishes uniform procedures, fees, costs, and charges for
inspection, copies, and production of public records. (Ord. 2017-09, 8-14-2017)
1-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: The person that is making the public records request.
CLERICAL/SUPPORT STAFF: Employees who generally perform office or
administrative support duties. Clerical/support staff employees include
secretaries and administrative assistants.
ELECTRONIC PUBLIC RECORD: A public record that is primarily or solely stored in
an electronic format. Typically, the Town will only be able to produce a copy
of the original electronic public record due to the native format, security,
and integrity of the original data or electronic record.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STAFF: Employees, contractors, or consultants who
perform duties relating to retrieving, compiling, constructing, formatting, or
extracting electronic public records located on computer systems, software,
servers, or networks. Information technology staff may also perform computer
programming or other computer services relating to electronic public records.
PROFESSIONAL STAFF: Employees or contract professionals who are not clerical/
support or information technology staff as defined herein. Professional staff
perform administrative, managerial, or professional duties. These include, but
are not limited to the Town Clerk and department heads.
SUPERVISE COPYING: As stated in subsection
1-10-5B8 of this chapter occurs if someone other than the Town is allowed under
Wyoming Statutes 16-4-204(b) to make copies, printouts, or photographs. Under
Wyoming Statutes 16-4-204(b), the Town is authorized to charge a reasonable fee
to supervise the copying, printing out, or photographing if someone other than
the Town makes the copies, printouts or photographs. The supervision fee shall
be the hourly rates stated in subsection
1-10-4C of this chapter, which shall be assessed in addition to other costs
associated with the copying, printing out, or photographing. (Ord. 2017-09, 8-
14-2017)
1-10-4: ELECTRONIC PUBLIC RECORDS:
   A.   Production And Construction Costs: Under Wyoming Statutes 16-4-202(d)
(i), the Town shall charge an applicant the reasonable costs of producing and
constructing a copy of an electronic public record for inspection and copying.
This cost may include, but is not limited to, the time spent retrieving,
compiling, sorting, reviewing, redacting, formatting, converting, or copying
the electronic public record, as well as activities required to create or
construct a new electronic public record from existing data sources and all
associated programming and computer services.
   B.   Minimum Requirement To Charge Costs: Production and construction costs
will be charged only if they exceed ten dollars ($10.00). If the costs exceed
ten dollars ($10.00), the initial ten dollars ($10.00) will be a credit and not
charged to the applicant. If electronic production and/or construction costs
for a request total ten dollars ($10.00), the applicant will not be charged any
costs for production and/or construction of said electronic records. If, for
example, the production and/or construction costs for a request total twenty
dollars ($20.00), the applicant will be charged ten dollars ($10.00). The
initial ten dollars ($10.00) is a credit upon the total amount charged for the
production and/or construction of electronic records. Applicants may not use
multiple record requests to evade this ten dollar ($10.00) threshold. The Town
Clerk has discretion to consolidate public records requests that she or he
reasonably believes have been drafted and submitted to evade this ten dollar
($10.00) threshold.
   C.   Production And Construction Costs: Production and construction costs
for electronic public records shall be as follows:
      1.   Twenty dollars ($20.00) per hour for clerical staff time.
      2.   Thirty dollars ($30.00) per hour for information technology staff
time, or actual cost if it involves contractors, or consultants.
      3.   Forty dollars ($40.00) per hour for professional staff time, or
actual cost if it involves contract professionals.
      4.   Actual cost of programming and computer services, or other cost
incurred for the time of any person involved who is not listed in subsections
C1 through C3 of this section.
   D.   Payment: The Town will provide the applicant with an estimate of the
reasonable costs of production and construction of the electronic public
records. The applicant must pre-pay the estimated costs before the Town
produces or constructs the electronic public records or provides any copies for
inspection. Payment shall be made to the Town. If the Town reaches the limit of
the payment by the applicant, the Town will, if feasible, produce the records
that are ready and available at that point and will provide an additional
estimate pursuant to this subsection prior to continuing with the request.
   E.   Refund: If the Town estimates and receives costs exceeding the actual
time required to produce and construct the electronic public records, the Town
shall refund the excess charge.
   F.   Inspection: The Town shall notify the applicant in writing when copies
of the electronic public records are produced and available for inspection. The
applicant shall have one month from the time the Town provides notification to
come to the Town's designated location to inspect the records. After the one
month time period, the request shall be officially closed.
   G.   Request Priority: Requests that are at or below the ten dollar ($10.00)
threshold will be handled expeditiously by the Town and will take priority over
other public record requests that are above the threshold.
   H.   Costs For Producing Copies: The fee schedules described in subsections
1-10-5B, D, and E of this chapter apply to electronic public records. (Ord.
2017-09, 8-14-2017)
1-10-5: NON-ELECTRONIC PUBLIC RECORDS:
   A.   Inspection: The Town shall notify the applicant in writing when copies
of the non-electronic public records are produced and available for inspection.
The applicant shall have one month from the time the Town provides notification
to come to the Town's designated location to inspect the records. After the one
month time period, the request shall be officially closed.
   B.   Fees For Copying Non-Electronic Public Records: Under Wyoming Statutes
16-4-204, an applicant may obtain a paper or "hard" copy of a non-electronic
public record upon payment as follows:
1. Standard (8.5 inch by 11 inch) - black and white   $0.15/page
copy
2. Standard (8.5 inch by 11 inch) - colored copy      0.60/page
3. Legal (8.5 inch by 14 inch) - black and white copy 0.25/page
4. Legal (8.5 inch by 14 inch) - colored copy         1.00/page
5. Other sheet size                                   Actual cost
6. Photograph                                         Actual cost
7. Utilization of an outside vendor for copying       Actual cost
8. Town's fee to copy or supervise copying            Same as subsection
                                                      1-10-4C of this chapter
9. Special instances, e.g., film, CD, USB drive, etc. Actual cost
 
   C.   Payment: The applicant shall pre-pay the fees in subsection B of this
section before the Town provides the copies, if requested. Payment shall be
made to the Town.
   D.   Costs For Producing Electronic Copies: An applicant may obtain an
electronic copy of a non-electronic public record upon payment as follows:
 
1. Scanning non-electronic public records     $0.10/page
2. Electronic media (disk, thumb drive, etc.) Actual cost
3. Town's fee to scan or supervise scanning   Same as subsection
                                              1-10-4C of this chapter
 
   E.   Fees For Transmitting Public Records: The Town may charge the following
fees for transmitting non-electronic public records:
 
1. Mailing, including cost of the shipping container Actual cost
2. Facsimile                                         $0.50/page
 
(Ord. 2017-09, 8-14-2017)
1-10-6: FORM OF REQUEST:
Applications for public records must be made in writing, and on an approved
official form, adopted by the Town Council, which may be amended from time to
time by resolution. However, the Clerk may in her or his discretion deem a
verbal request to be an application if such verbal request is very simple and
straightforward, and will only involve a few public records. (Ord. 2017-09, 8-
14-2017)
CHAPTER 11
WEAPONS OF TOWN PROPERTY
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 2025-
03, adopted 8-25-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below
when the ordinance is codified.
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created; Membership; Compensation
2-1-2: Vacancies
2-1-1: CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION:
There is hereby created a planning and zoning commission for the town which
shall consist of five (5) members who shall be qualified electors of the
municipality and who shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 2001-12, 12-26-
2001; amd. 2007 Code)
2-1-2: VACANCIES:
Pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 15-1-502, the following procedure for
replacement of planning and zoning commission members in the event of a vacancy
is hereby declared:
   A.   The opening and its term is advertised in the Sasse Flats Newsletter or
other permanent newspaper of general circulation within Wright, Wyoming.
   B.   Any party expressing an interest be invited to the next planning and
zoning commission meeting for an informal interview with the planning and
zoning commission.
   C.   After consideration at the meeting, the planning and zoning commission
shall make its recommendation to the town council.
   D.   The town council shall make the appointment.
   E.   Notice of the town council appointment will be sent to all parties
interested. (Ord. 91-7, 1-13-1992)
CHAPTER 2
TREE ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Short Title
2-2-2: Statement Of Intent And Purpose
2-2-3: Definitions
2-2-4: Tree Advisory Board
2-2-5: Tree Planting
2-2-6: Care Of Trees
2-2-7: Tree Topping
2-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the TOWN OF WRIGHT COMMUNITY FORESTRY
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 95-8, 4-24-1995)
2-2-2: STATEMENT OF INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to encourage the preservation, expansion, protection
and proper maintenance of the community forest of Wright. Enhancing the beauty
of the town, stimulating the planting and growing of desirable trees and
educating the public about the community forest are the primary goals of this
chapter. (Ord. 95-8, 4-24-1995)
2-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
ADMINISTRATOR: A town staff member appointed by the mayor to be responsible for
coordinating requests to and recommendations from the tree advisory board. The
administrator oversees the community forest and acts to effectuate this
chapter.
APPLICANT: A person who is applying for a license, certification or permit as
required by this chapter.
COMMUNITY FOREST: The sum of all tress and shrubs within the town.
CONTROLLER: Every person (owner, agent, tenant, occupant or lessee) who
exercises care, custody and control of private real property that abuts a right
of way upon which a public tree or shrub is located.
DISEASED TREE: A tree or part thereof which has become blighted, defaced or has
become significantly diseased.
INJURIOUS PEST OR DISEASE: Refers to organisms capable of seriously damaging
the form or structural integrity of a tree.
LICENSEE: A person with a valid contractor's license and/or tree service
certification as required by this chapter.
PARK TREES: All public trees in public parks and in all areas owned by the town
or to which the public has free access, but excluding those trees in the public
right of way.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association, company,
municipal corporation or other governmental entity or organization of any kind.
PLANTED TREE: A tree having a minimum diameter of one inch (1") at one and one-
half feet (11/2') above ground level.
PRIVATE TREE: A tree that is not a public tree.
PRUNING: The removal of plant parts, dead or alive, in a careful and systematic
manner so as not to damage other parts of the plant or the tree as a whole.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Means improved or unimproved public property owned by,
dedicated to, or deeded to, the public or for the public's use, for the purpose
of providing vehicular, pedestrian and other public use. Such public property
provides circulation and travel to abutting properties and includes, but is not
limited to, streets, alleys, sidewalks, tree lawn, provisions for public
utilities, cut and fill slopes, and open public space.
PUBLIC TREE OR SHRUB: A tree or shrub that is situated in such a manner that
fifty one percent (51%) or more of the tree trunk or shrub base at ground level
is on public property or public right of way, including the tree lawn.
SHRUB: A multiple stemmed, woody plant whose height at maturity is between
three feet (3') and fifteen feet (15').
STREET: That portion of the public right of way which is improved, maintained
and intended for use by vehicles to provide traffic circulation, primary access
to abutting properties and parking. This definition includes all of the area
typically located between curbs.
STREET TREES: All public trees located within the public right of way.
TOPPING: The severe cutting back of limbs within the tree's crown to such a
degree that only stubs remain or the removal of the top part (trunk and limbs)
of a coniferous tree, thereby removing a significant portion of the normal
crown.
TREE: A woody perennial plant usually having one main stem or trunk and many
branches. It usually exceeds fifteen feet (15') in height at maturity; however,
its failure to achieve such height at maturity shall not preclude its inclusion
as a tree.
TREE ADVISORY BOARD: An advisory board appointed by the mayor and approved by
the town council to assist the town in the management of its community forest.
TREE LAWN: That portion of the public right of way lying between the street and
private property lines which is generally unimproved and planted with grass or
other vegetation. (Ord. 95-8, 4-24-1995; amd. 2007 Code)
2-2-4: TREE ADVISORY BOARD:
   A.   Created; Appointment: An advisory board of no less than three (3)
citizens shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the town council.
   B.   Term: There shall be no terms of office, and members of the tree
advisory board shall serve until such time as they resign or are removed for
cause by the town council.
   C.   Compensation: Members of the board shall serve without compensation.
   D.   Advisory Board Responsibility:
      1.   The tree advisory board shall be advisory in nature with the purpose
of providing advice to the mayor and town council as to the preservation,
protection, and management of the community forest, in accordance with the
intents and purposes of this chapter.
      2.   The board will report its findings and recommendations to the mayor
and town council as requested by the mayor and town council, or as is
appropriate.
      3.   The board will help develop and implement educational materials and
programs.
      4.   The board shall recommend an annual budget to the mayor and town
council. The board is authorized to seek outside funding for board projects as
may be approved by the town council in accordance with town budgetary
procedures.
      5.   It shall be the responsibility of the tree advisory board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop written standards, rules and regulations for
the care, preservation, trimming, planting, removal or disposition of trees and
shrubs in public ways, streets and alleys, parks, and in other areas owned by
the town. (Ord. 95-8, 4-24-1995; amd. 2007 Code)
2-2-5: TREE PLANTING:
   A.   Tree Species To Be Planted: Any tree which is hardy and adaptable to
this climate and is recommended for growth in this area may be planted.
Listings of trees recommended for growth in Wyoming are available from the tree
advisory board.
   B.   Distance From Curb And Sidewalk: The minimum distance that trees may be
planted from curbs and sidewalks will be in accordance with the species and
size of the tree to be planted.
   Small trees   2 feet
   Medium trees   3 feet
   Large trees   4 feet
   C.   Distance From Street Corners And Fireplugs: No street tree shall be
planted closer than thirty feet (30') from any street corner, measured from the
point of the nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street tree shall be
planted closer than ten feet (10') from any fire hydrant or streetlight.
   D.   Utilities: No street trees other than those species designated as small
trees by the town tree advisory board may be planted under or within ten (10)
lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5) lateral
feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other
utility. (Ord. 95-8, 4-24-1995)
2-2-6: CARE OF TREES:
   A.   Town Responsibilities:
      1.   Care and maintenance of park and street trees and shrubs;
      2.   Removal of dead, diseased, or hazardous park trees and shrubs;
      3.   Controlling insects and diseases of park trees and shrubs; and
      4.   Managing insect and disease management programs for all trees in the
town, e.g., cytospora canker.
   B.   Private Sector Responsibilities: Every owner of any tree overhanging
any street or right of way within the town shall prune the branches so that
such branches shall not obstruct the light from any streetlamp or obstruct the
view of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of
eight feet (8') above the surface of the street or sidewalk. The owners shall
remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which
constitute a menace to the safety of the public. (Ord. 95-8, 4-24-1995)
2-2-7: TREE TOPPING:
It is unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm or town department to
top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property. "Topping" is
defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to such a degree as to remove the
normal canopy and disfigure the tree. (Ord. 95-8, 4-24-1995)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-1-1: Standards For Sale And Possession Of Alcoholic Beverages
3-1-2: License Fees
3-1-3: Hours Of Operation
3-1-4: Public Intoxication
3-1-5: Minors
3-1-1: STANDARDS FOR SALE AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Liquor License Holder Standards:
      1.   Standards: All establishments, by and through their agents,
operating by virtue of a liquor license, are expected to meet the following
standards:
         a.   Refuse To Serve: Refuse to serve any patron who is obviously
intoxicated or is endangering people or property within or upon the property of
the licensed establishment;
         b.   Safe Transportation: Assist in arranging safe transportation for
any person who is obviously intoxicated;
         c.   Notify Sheriff's Department: Notify the Campbell County sheriff's
department by telephone immediately when an assault, battery or aggravated
assault occurs in or on the property of the establishment or when a person is
endangering people or property within or upon establishment property;
         d.   Cooperate With Sheriff's Department: Cooperate fully with the
Campbell County sheriff's department in regard to the investigation of any
possible criminal activity occurring within or upon establishment property.
      2.   Liquor License Holder Sanctions: If, within twelve (12) months, two
(2) separate violations of any liquor control ordinance or similar state
statute that lead to conviction have occurred within or at a licensed
establishment, the town shall recommend to the state liquor commission that it
suspend the establishment's liquor license for ten (10) days. Following a third
conviction within twelve (12) months, the town shall recommend to the
commission a thirty (30) day suspension. A fourth violation resulting in
conviction shall result in the town recommending the commission revoke the
establishment's license. (Ord. 2005-10, 8-22-2005)
   B.   Intoxication And Open Containers:
      1.   No person shall be under the influence of any alcoholic beverage in
any vehicle or at any public place, or within view of any public place within
the town, to the extent that the person is a danger to himself or herself, or
to any other person, or a danger to any property, or to the extent that he or
she disturbs any occupant or occupants of the town.
      2.   Except as authorized by subsection B3 of this section, no person
shall consume, nor carry in an open container, nor possess in an open
container, an alcoholic beverage in any public place within the town.
      3.   A person may consume, or carry in an open container, or possess in
an open container, an alcoholic beverage under any of the following
circumstances:
         a.   Upon Hay Creek golf course when purchased at the golf course from
the course vendor.
         b.   Within the passenger compartment of a commercial limousine, which
is a passenger car pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 31-1-101, and which has
a closed passenger compartment capable of seating three (3) or more passengers
which is separated from the driver's seat area with a partition, which may be
of glass, and provided that no fee may be charged for any alcoholic liquor or
malt beverage consumed or possessed in the limousine.
         c.   Within the licensed premises, as identified and described on the
face of the liquor license, of any business or club which is properly licensed
pursuant to Wyoming state law for the sale of alcoholic liquor or malt
beverages for on site consumption, together with any meeting room or restaurant
which is located within the same building, and which is also immediately
adjacent to the licensed premises, together with any other area which has been
specifically approved by the town as part of the liquor license. Provided,
however, that under no circumstances may an open container be carried or
otherwise possessed by a person who is present in any hallway which serves or
connects to any business or room which is not immediately adjacent to the
licensed premises.
         d.   When in compliance with a valid permit issued in accordance with
subsection D of this section.
      4.   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
    ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Also means and includes any "intoxicating liquor",
"alcoholic liquor", "spirituous liquor", and/or "malt beverage".
   OPEN CONTAINER: Any container other than the original unopened package or
container, the seal of which has not been broken and from which the original
cap, cork or other means of closure has not been removed. Notwithstanding this
definition, a resealed bottle of wine may be transported or possessed as
provided in section 12-4-410(e) of the Wyoming Statutes.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the general public has access, including,
but not limited to, a public street, highway, road, thoroughfare, sidewalk,
walking path, bridge, alley, plaza, park, recreation area, public building, any
place of business or assembly which is open to or frequented by members of the
public, and any other place to which the general public has access, including,
but not limited to, a shopping area, shopping mall, retail store, grocery
store, convenience store, public transportation facility, vehicle used for
public transportation, parking lot, public library or any other public
building, structure or area. "Public place" also includes being inside or
outside of any vehicle which is located upon or being operated upon any public
place defined above. However, for purposes of this section, "public place" does
not include a place of religious worship or assembly of a bona fide religious
organization when the consumption of wine is part of the tenets of the faith of
such religious organization, and further provided that wine is the only
alcoholic beverage being consumed or possessed in an open container at such
location.
   C.   Penalties: Violation of subsection B of this section is a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord.
2008-3, 6-9-2008)
   D.   Permits:
      1.   The town clerk, upon receipt of a completed application, may issue a
permit allowing consumption of alcohol and the carrying of open containers in a
public park upon the conditions in this paragraph. A permit may be issued for a
specific location/park, and only for specified times between the hours of six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., and two o'clock (2:00) A.M., not to exceed a period of
twelve (12) hours. All persons involved must vacate the location/park before
two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M.
      2.   Permits shall normally be issued for a period of not more than
twelve (12) hours. However, an applicant may apply for a permit which exceeds
the normal twelve (12) hour period, pursuant to this paragraph. Such
applications shall be made to the town council, and may be for an extended
duration of up to not more than a total period of twenty four (24) hours. Any
such application for more than twelve (12) hours must be made at least three
(3) weeks prior to the date being requested for the permit, and must provide a
specific and detailed explanation regarding why the extended period is being
requested, and the number of additional hours being requested, up to a total of
not more than twelve (12) total additional hours. The application for the
extended period will then be considered by the town council in a regular public
meeting of the town council, and the council may grant such additional period
of time as the council determines, not to exceed twelve (12) additional hours,
and upon such terms and conditions as the council determines to be in the best
interest of the town. No permit shall be for more than twelve (12) additional
hours, for a total permitted period of not more than a total of twenty four
(24) hours.
      3.   The person(s) or group(s) requesting any permit pursuant to this
section shall pay a nonrefundable fee of ten dollars ($10.00) and a damage
deposit of fifty dollars ($50.00); the damage deposit being returned if there
are no damages to the location/park resulting from the event.
      4.   A responsible person, individually, or acting as an agent for a
group, shall sign a liability release and indemnification agreement in favor of
the Town; this person shall also sign a document accepting personal
responsibility for any and all damages caused by any person attending the
function for which the permit is issued. (Ord. 2010-02, 3-22-2010)
3-1-2: LICENSE FEES:
The Town hereby adopts the following fee schedule for retail liquor licenses,
restaurant liquor licenses, twenty four (24) hour malt beverage permits and
catering permits:
   A.   Retail Liquor License 1 : A retail liquor license fee shall be one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
   B.   Restaurant Liquor License 2 : A restaurant liquor license fee shall be
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
   C.   Twenty Four Hour Malt Beverage Permit 3 : A twenty four (24) hour malt
beverage permit fee shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00).
   D.   Catering Permit 4 : A catering permit fee shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00). (Ord. 85-3, 6-3-1985)
 
Notes
1 1. WS § 12-4-201(e).
2 2. WS § 12-4-405.
3 3. WS § 12-4-502(e).
4 4. WS § 12-4-502(e).
3-1-3: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   All liquor licensees may open the room or rooms in the licensed
building in which alcoholic and malt beverages are sold or dispensed for on
premises consumption, and may commence the sale therein of both alcoholic and
malt beverages, not earlier than six o'clock (6:00) A.M., and shall close the
room or rooms in the licensed building in which alcoholic and malt beverages
are sold or dispensed for on premises consumption, and cease the sale of both
alcoholic and malt beverages promptly at the hour of two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
the following day. In addition, licensees shall clear the room or rooms in the
licensed building in which alcoholic and malt beverages are sold or dispensed
for on premises consumption of all persons other than employees by two thirty
o'clock (2:30) A.M.
   B.   Liquor licensees holding a retail license may set their own hours of
operation for a package store, which may include a drive-up window, for the
sale of alcoholic and malt beverages for off premises consumption. All
alcoholic or malt beverages sold and/or delivered in the package store or
drive-up area must remain in the original, factory sealed, unopened package.
(Ord. 2017-08, 6-27-2017)
3-1-4: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
No person shall be under the influence of any alcoholic beverage in any vehicle
or at any public place, or within view of any public place within the Town, to
the extent that the person is a danger to himself or herself, or to any other
person, or a danger to any property, or to the extent that he or she disturbs
any occupant or occupants of the Town. (Ord. 2010-04, 3-22-2010)
3-1-5: MINORS:
   A.   Appearance In Public Six Hours After Consumption: It shall be unlawful,
and punishable as a misdemeanor, for any person under twenty one (21) years of
age to appear on any street, thoroughfare or public place within this Town, six
(6) hours after drinking and/or consuming any intoxicating liquor or malt
beverage; and the odor of intoxicating liquor or malt beverage on the breath of
said person shall be prima facie evidence that said person has, within six (6)
hours, drunk or consumed either alcoholic liquors or malt beverages.
   B.   Possession Or Consumption Prohibited; Exceptions:
      1.   Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years who has any
alcoholic or malt beverage in his possession or who is drunk or under the
influence of alcoholic liquor, malt beverages or a controlled substance on any
street or highway or in any public place, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   This subsection does not apply to possession of alcoholic or malt
beverages by a person under the age of twenty one (21) years:
         a.   When making a delivery of alcoholic or malt beverages pursuant to
his employment;
         b.   Who is in the physical presence of his parent or legal guardian;
         c.   When serving alcoholic or malt beverages pursuant to his
employment in a restaurant which holds a license to serve alcoholic or malt
beverages, if the person is at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   C.   Attempt To Purchase; False Identification: Any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years who attempts in any manner to purchase alcoholic or malt
beverages or who falsifies any identification or uses any false identification
in order to obtain alcoholic or malt beverages, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 99-11, 12-27-1999)
   D.   Prohibited Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, furnish,
give or cause to be sold, furnished or given away, any alcoholic liquor or malt
beverage to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, who is not his
legal ward, medical patient or member of his own immediate family.
   E.   Violation: Any person who violates subsection A, B, C or D of this
section, or aids, abets or incites any violation hereof, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 2006-04, 7-24-2006)
   F.   Presence In Licensed Building: No person under the age of twenty one
(21) years shall enter or remain in any room or rooms in the licensed building
where alcoholic or malt beverages are sold or dispensed, unless:
      1.   Accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who is at least twenty
one (21) years of age, and the room is for the sale of alcoholic or malt
beverages for off premises consumption and separate from any room for on
premises consumption; or
      2.   In a dining or waiting area with a person who is twenty one (21)
years old or older not later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M., if the waiting area
is part of the room; or
      3.   The room is a restaurant in which dining and food service is the
primary business purpose, but in which persons who are dining may also order
alcoholic or malt beverages to be delivered to their table. (Ord. 2017-08, 6-
27-2017)
CHAPTER 2
CONTRACTOR LICENSES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: License Required
3-2-4: Classification Of Licenses
3-2-5: Authority; Licensing Board Examinations; Issuance Of Licenses
3-2-6: License Fees
3-2-7: Electrical Contractor Licenses
3-2-8: Plumbing Contractor Licenses
3-2-9: Licensee's Responsibility
3-2-10: Contractor, Duties And Responsibilities
3-2-11: License Renewal
3-2-12: Reissuance Of Licenses
3-2-13: Change In Name, Business Designation Or Personnel
3-2-14: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-2-15: Penalty
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is hereby made a part of the building code of the town of Wright,
Wyoming. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986; amd. 2007 Code)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CONTRACTOR:
   A.   Includes:
      1.   A person, firm, partnership, company, corporation, agency,
association, or other organization, or any other combination thereof:
         a.   Who undertakes with or for another within the town to build,
construct, alter, repair, add to, demolish, or move any building or structure
or any portion thereof, for a fixed sum, price, fee, percentage, or other
compensation or any combination thereof.
         b.   Who builds, constructs, alters, adds to, moves or demolishes any
building or structure either on his own or other property for the purpose of
resale or rental except residential buildings and buildings or structures
accessory thereto intended for his own personal use and occupancy. A person
constructing his own home without the aid of a licensed contractor may secure a
permit on only one residence in any one calendar year and the construction of
more than one residence by said person in any one calendar year shall be
presumed to be for resale.
   B.   Exception: The following shall not be deemed to be contractors as the
term is used in this chapter:
      1.   An owner who makes ordinary repairs, alterations, additions, or
improvements to his or her residence or business, including buildings accessory
thereto, which do not involve the structure of the building.
      2.   A homeowner who constructs his or her own residence or building
accessory thereto which is intended for his or her own personal use; however,
this will be permitted only once in a one calendar year.
LICENSE: Authority granted to the person, firm, partnership, company,
corporation, association, or agency to whom it is issued to perform certain
building construction.
STRUCTURE: Includes driveways, walkways, sidewalks, streets, roads, and alleys
constructed of asphalt or concrete. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986; amd. Ord. 93-8, 5-
24-1993)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No contractor shall perform any work as a contractor within the town without
first having obtained a license as provided herein. No permits shall be issued
for work to be done by a contractor who does not have a valid and subsisting
license as required in this chapter. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
3-2-4: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
There shall be various classes of licenses and the holder of each license shall
be authorized to do the following:
   A.   Building Contractor Class A: This license shall entitle the holder
thereof to contract for the construction, alteration, or repair of any type or
size of structure permitted by the building codes of the town.
   B.   Building Contractor Class B: This license shall entitle the holder
thereof to contract for the construction, alteration, or repair of one-, two-,
three-, or four-family residential buildings of two (2) stories or less and/or
one story commercial buildings with five thousand (5,000) square feet total
area or less; provided, that contractors holding class B licenses shall not
contract for public building or places of public assembly. This license
entitles a contractor to perform class C category work.
   C.   Building Contractor Class C: All other contractors not included within
categories class A, class B and class D, who build, alter, add to, move or
demolish any portion of any building or any portion thereof, or structure,
including specifically, but not limited to, house repair, maintenance, siding
applications, tile laying, carpet laying, plastering, sheetrock installation,
painting, fencing, residential roofing, and any other activities involved in
maintenance, improvement, or construction of additions to residences and
buildings within the town. This section will include all specialized
contractors who are not licensed under other sections hereof.
   D.   Building Contractor Class D: This class includes all plumbing,
electrical, mechanical, sheetmetal, commercial roofing contractors, gas, water
and sewer, pipe layer licensed contractors, roofing contractors and mechanical
contractors. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
3-2-5: AUTHORITY; LICENSING BOARD EXAMINATIONS; ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
   A.   Authority: The council shall review applications for licenses and
accomplish the provisions and objectives of this chapter. The council may
request the town clerk-treasurer to issue licenses without their formal
presentation to the board when the license applications clearly reflect that
the licensee is entitled to the license under the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Application Standards And Procedures: The applications shall measure
the applicant's knowledge of the applicable building, mechanical, and other
codes, laws and ordinances adopted by the town; and the council shall set the
application standards and establish procedures.
   C.   Issuance Of Licenses:
      1.   Eligibility: The determination of eligibility for a license or other
matters pertaining thereto shall be by the council. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
      2.   Application; Review Fee: Applications for a contractor's license
shall be on such forms and shall furnish such information as the council may
prescribe and shall be accompanied by a review fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00), said review fee shall be applicable to the licensing fee to
successful candidates, said review fee shall not be refunded to unsuccessful
applicants. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986; amd. 2007 Code)
      3.   Review By Council; Issuance: The council shall meet at reasonable
intervals to review the applications, and if, in the opinion of a majority of
the council, the applicant is qualified to fulfill the obligations of a
contractor, they shall direct the clerk-treasurer to issue the applicant a
license upon payment of the annual license fee prescribed and the fulfilling of
the other requirements imposed by this chapter.
      4.   Notice Of Council Action; Procurement Of License: A final review and
appropriate action shall be taken on such license application and the applicant
shall be notified accordingly within thirty (30) days. The applicant shall
procure such license within ninety (90) days after notification of approval, or
such license fee shall become null and void. Thereafter, a new application
shall be filed.
      5.   Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by any decision of the council may
appeal from such adverse decision to the district court in and for the sixth
judicial district, Campbell County, Wyoming.
      6.   Register: The town shall maintain a register reflecting the name,
date of issue, type of license, license fees paid, and date of expiration of
each contractor licensed by the town. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
3-2-6: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Annual Fees Required: The annual license fees applicable to those
herein enumerated shall be as follows:
 
Type Of License New    Renewal
Class A         $75.00 $15.00
Class B         50.00  15.00
Class C         25.00  10.00
                See subsections
Class D         3-2-7D and
                3-2-8D
 
   (Ord. 87-7, 9-14-1987)
   B.   Prorating Fees: License fees shall not be prorated for any portion of
the year.
   C.   Refund: License fees are not refundable. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
3-2-7: ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR LICENSES:
   A.   Licenses Issuable; Term: The following licenses are issuable for the
term of one year by the council in compliance with the applicable provisions of
this chapter:
      1.   Electrical Contractor's License: An electrical contractor's license
may be issued individually to natural persons or to corporations that hold a
current Wyoming state electrical contractor's license. In addition, electrical
contractors must meet all of the other requirements for contractors provided in
other parts of this chapter.
      2.   Electrician's License: Electrician's licenses are issued to natural
persons who hold Wyoming state electrician's licenses of the following kinds:
         a.   Master electrician license;
         b.   Journeyman electrician license; and
         c.   Apprentice electrician license.
   B.   Application: To obtain a license, the applicant shall submit to the
town clerk-treasurer a written and verified application for the type of license
sought. The application shall state the education, training and experience of
the applicant, the type of Wyoming electrical license held, and shall contain
the names and addresses of at least three (3) references who are familiar with
the character of the applicant's work.
   C.   Master Electrician: An electrical contractor must either be licensed as
a master electrician himself or have a master electrician in his employ.
Electrical contractors shall have at least one master electrician or journeyman
electrician supervising each two (2) apprentice electricians. In any event, the
master electrician in charge of work shall be on the job site on a regular
basis to inspect and supervise the work done. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
   D.   License Fees: The following fees are payable upon issuance of the type
of license indicated:
 
Type Of License    New    Renewal
Contractor         $75.00 $15.00
Master electrician 25.00  15.00
Journeyman         15.00  15.00
Apprentice         5.00   5.00
 
   (Ord. 87-7, 9-14-1987)
3-2-8: PLUMBING CONTRACTOR LICENSES:
The following licenses are issuable by the town upon approval by the council
and compliance with the applicable provisions of this chapter:
   A.   Licenses Issuable:
      1.   Contractor Licenses: Contractor licenses may be issued individually
or in combination to natural persons or to corporations. These licenses
include:
         a.   Plumbing contractor license;
         b.   Heating contractor license; and
         c.   Pipe laying contractor license.
      2.   Individual Licenses: These licenses are issued individually to
natural persons:
         a.   Master plumber license;
         b.   Journeyman plumber license;
         c.   Apprentice plumber license; and
         d.   Gas pipe layer license.
   B.   Application: To obtain a license, the applicant shall submit to the
town clerk-treasurer a written and verified application for the type of license
sought. The application shall state the education, training and experience of
the applicant, the type of Wyoming plumbing license held, and shall contain the
names and addresses of at least three (3) references who are familiar with the
character of the applicant's work.
   C.   Master Plumber: A plumbing contractor must either be licensed as a
master plumber himself or have a master plumber in his employ. Plumbing
contractors shall have at least one master plumber or journeyman plumber
supervising every two (2) apprentice plumbers. In addition, a plumbing
contractor must meet all of the requirements for contractors contained in other
parts of this chapter. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
   D.   License Fees: The following fees are payable upon issuance of the type
of license indicated:
Type Of License New Renewal
Type Of License            New    Renewal
Contractor                 $75.00 $15.00
Master plumber             25.00  15.00
Journeyman                 15.00  15.00
Apprentice                 5.00   5.00
Gas pipe layer             5.00   5.00
Water and sewer pipe layer 5.00   5.00
 
   (Ord. 87-7, 9-14-1987)
3-2-9: LICENSEE'S RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Generally: All licensees shall be responsible for work requiring a
permit under the provisions of this chapter, and without limitation, to the
items as herein listed:
      1.   To present his license card when requested by any authorized
representative of the town;
      2.   To obtain a permit when the same is required;
      3.   To faithfully construct, without substantial departure from or
disregard of drawings and specifications when such drawings and specifications
have been filed and approved by the town and permit issued for same, unless
such changes are approved by the town;
      4.   To complete all work authorized on the permit issued under the
authority of the building code unless good cause is provided;
      5.   To obtain inspection services when the same are required by the
building code;
      6.   To pay any fee or penalty assessed under authority of the building
code;
      7.   To build in compliance with all applicable codes; (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-
1986)
      8.   To contact "One Call Of Wyoming" before doing any excavation in
compliance with Wyoming Statutes sections 37-12-301 through 304.
      9.   To immediately notify the owner of an underground facility if it is
contacted or damaged in the course of excavation, in compliance with Wyoming
Statutes section 37-12-301. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986; amd. 2007 Code)
   B.   Safety Measures, Bonding And Insurance Requirement:
      1.   Safety Measures: All federal and state laws and municipal ordinances
dealing with measures for the safety of workmen and of the public shall be
observed in addition to any requirements contained within this chapter.
      2.   Liability Insurance:
         a.   Required: Every contractor granted a license of any kind under
the terms hereof shall be required to maintain at all times public liability
insurance of a minimum amount of not less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) for one person and three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00)
in any accident and public property damage insurance with a limit of not less
than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for one accident.
         b.   Certificate Of Insurance; Endorsement: At the time application is
made, and before a license can be issued, the contractor shall file with his
application a certificate signed by a qualified insurance agent licensed by the
state of Wyoming stating that a policy has been issued to the licensee for
liability insurance and setting forth the name of the company, the effective
date of such policy, the expiration date of such policy, together with a
statement and a copy of an endorsement placed on such policy requiring ten (10)
days' written notice to the town clerk-treasurer if it becomes necessary to
cancel the policy for any reason. In the event of a cancellation of a policy,
the town clerk-treasurer shall immediately notify the licensee, and the license
shall automatically be revoked. The license may be reinstated by the town
clerk-treasurer when the licensee has furnished a certificate of insurance in
compliance with this section. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
   C.   Bond: No license or permit bond shall be required of any contractor
after the contractor's current bond expires. (Ord. 93-8, 5-24-1993)
3-2-10: CONTRACTOR, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Any contractor licensed hereunder shall be responsible for all work included in
his contract whether or not such work is done by him directly or by a
subcontractor. He shall also see that all applicable permits are obtained by
subcontractors under his contract. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
3-2-11: LICENSE RENEWAL:
Licenses shall be renewed annually with a thirty (30) day grace period
following the renewal date. Any work performed after expiration and prior to
obtaining such license shall be a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-
1986)
3-2-12: REISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
The council shall have the authority to reissue a license, provided such
reissuance shall be accomplished prior to the date of expiration. If such
license is not reissued prior to this time, the license shall be declared null
and void and new application shall be filed. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
3-2-13: CHANGE IN NAME, BUSINESS DESIGNATION OR PERSONNEL:
A change in name, business designation or personnel of a licensee shall not
have the legal effect of transferring a license and shall have the effect of
the contractor operating without a license. Therefore, all such changes shall
be reported by the licensee to the town clerk-treasurer within thirty (30) days
after making such change. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
   A.   Incorporation Or Change In Corporate Status: Incorporation or change in
corporate status may create a new legal entity which requires a license even
though one or more stockholders or directors have a license. A new license is
required, however, a new fee shall not be charged.
   B.   Organization Or Change In Partnership: The organization of a
partnership or the change in a partnership creates a new legal entity which
requires a new license, even though one or more of the partners are licensed. A
new license is required, however, a new fee shall not be charged.
   C.   Dissolution Of Corporation Or Partnership: The dissolution of a
corporation or partnership which has been licensed, terminates the license and
no individual or firm may operate under such license. A new license is
required, however, a new fee shall not be charged. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986; amd.
2007 Code)
3-2-14: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds For Suspension Or Revocation: The council may suspend or revoke
a license when the licensee commits one or more of the following acts or
omissions:
      1.   Failure to comply with any of the licensee responsibilities outlined
in section
3-2-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
      2.   Knowingly combining or conspiring with a person, firm, or
corporation by permitting one's license to be used by such person, firm or
corporation, except as provided in subsection B of the definition of
"contractor" found in section
3-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 84-6, 6-16-1986; amd. 2007 Code)
      3.   By acting as agent, partner, associate, or in any other capacity
with persons, firms or corporations to evade the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   Knowingly violating any provisions of this chapter.
         a.   A contractor's license shall be suspended at least ten (10) days
for failure to comply with subsection
3-2-9A8 of this chapter if underground facilities within the town are damaged
in the course of excavation.
         b.   A contractor's license shall be suspended at least five (5) days
for failure to comply with subsection
3-2-9A9 if underground facilities within the town are damaged in the course of
excavation.
   B.   Procedure: When any of the acts or omissions as herein enumerated are
committed by a license holder and the town deems that such license shall be
suspended or revoked, the procedures shall be as follows:
      1.   Notice: The licensee shall be notified, in writing, by certified
mail, at least seven (7) days prior to suspension or revocation.
      2.   Request For Hearing: Upon receipt of the notice, the licensee may
request a hearing. Such request shall be in writing to the council within seven
(7) days of receipt of notice.
      3.   Hearing; Notice: If a hearing is requested by a licensee, the town
clerk-treasurer shall notify the council and the council shall set a time, date
and place for the hearing, and shall notify the licensee in writing.
      4.   Findings And Ruling: When a hearing is conducted, the licensee
shall, and other interested parties may, be in attendance. Upon completion of
the hearing, the council shall notify the licensee of its findings and ruling,
in writing, by certified mail.
      5.   Appeal: If the decision rendered by the council is adverse to the
licensee, the licensee may appeal to the district court in and for the sixth
judicial district, Campbell County, Wyoming, as an aggrieved person and shall
file a complaint in the manner prescribed by law within thirty (30) days after
notice of ruling.
   C.   Emergency Suspension: If the council finds that cause does exist for
suspension or revocation of a license, it may enter an order for immediate
suspension of such license, pending further investigation. The licensee may,
upon notice of such suspension, request an immediate hearing before the council
and the hearing shall be conducted in the manner prescribed by subsection B of
this section. (Ord. 86-4, 6-16-1986)
3-2-15: PENALTY:
Any contractor who violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined up to
two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each day that the violation continues. (Ord.
86-4, 6-16-1986)
CHAPTER 3
TOBACCO
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Sale Or Delivery To Minors
3-3-3: Sign Required; Vending Machines
3-3-4: Purchase By Minor; Misrepresentation Of Age
3-3-5: Possession And Use By Minor
3-3-6: Aid In Misrepresentation Of Age
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
 
                      A product, regardless of size or shape, that employs any
                      mechanical heating element, battery or electronic
                      circuit, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
                      deliver doses of vapor with nicotine or other substances
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE: by means of heating a liquid solution contained in a
                      cartridge or other delivery system. This term includes,
                      but is not limited to, electronic cigarettes, electronic
                      cigars, electronic cigarillos, electronic pipes, or
                      similar products or devices.
RETAILER:             A business of any kind at a specific location that sells
                      tobacco products to a user or consumer.
                      Any display of tobacco products that is located in an
SELF SERVICE DISPLAY: area where customers are permitted and where the tobacco
                      products are readily accessible to a customer without the
                      assistance of a salesperson.
                      Any substance containing tobacco leaf, or any product
                      made or derived from tobacco that contains nicotine,
                      including, but not limited to, cigarettes, electronic
TOBACCO PRODUCTS:     cigarettes, liquids or substances used in conjunction
                      with electronic cigarettes, electronic cigars, electronic
                      cigarillos, electronic pipes, or similar products or
                      devices, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing
                      tobacco, or dipping tobacco.
                      Any mechanical, electric or electronic self-service
VENDING MACHINE:      device which, upon insertion of money, tokens, or any
                      other form of payment, dispenses tobacco products. (Ord.
                      94-15, 1-9-1995; amd. Ord. 2019-10, 10-28-2019)
 
3-3-2: SALE OR DELIVERY TO MINORS:
   A.   No individual shall sell, offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco
products or electronic cigarettes to any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years.
   B.   Any individual violating subsection A. of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than:
      1.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first violation committed within a
twenty-four (24) month period. The court may allow the defendant to perform
community service and be granted credit against his fine and court costs at the
rate of five dollars ($5.00) for each hour of work performed;
      2.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a second violation committed
within a twenty-four (24) month period, regardless of the locations where the
violations occurred. The court may allow the defendant to perform community
service and be granted credit against his fine and court costs at the rate of
five dollars ($5.00) for each hour of work performed;
      3.   Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a third or subsequent
violation committed within a twenty-four (24) month period, regardless of the
locations where the violations occurred. The court may allow the defendant to
perform community service and be granted credit against his fine and court
costs at the rate of five dollars ($5.00) for each hour of work performed.
   C.   No retailer shall sell, permit the sale, offer for sale, give away or
deliver tobacco products or electronic cigarettes to any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years.
   D.   Any person violating subsection C. of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than:
      1.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first violation committed within a
twenty-four (24) month period;
      2.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a second violation committed
within a twenty-four (24) month period;
      3.   Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a third or subsequent
violation committed within a twenty-four (24) month period.
   E.   In addition to the penalties under paragraph D.3. of this section, any
person violating subsection C. of this section for a third or subsequent time
within a two (2) year period may be subject to an injunction. The department of
revenue or the Town Attorney, may petition the district court for an injunction
to prohibit the sale of tobacco or electronic cigarettes in the establishment
where the violation occurred. If the court finds that the respondent in the
action has violated the provisions of subsection C. of this section for a third
or subsequent time within a two (2) year period and may continue to violate
such provisions, it may grant an injunction prohibiting the respondent from
selling tobacco products in the establishment where the violation occurred for
a period of not more than one hundred eighty (180) days. For the purposes of
this subsection, multiple violations occurring before the petition for the
injunction is filed shall be deemed part of the violation for which the
injunction is sought. If the person against whom the injunction is sought
operates multiple, geographically separate establishments, the injunction shall
apply only to the establishment where the violation occurred. The injunction
shall prohibit all sales of tobacco products or electronic cigarettes in the
establishment where the violation occurred, regardless of any change in
ownership or management of the establishment that is not a bona fide, arms-
length transaction while the injunction is in effect.
   F.   It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution under subsections A. and
C. of this section that, in the case of a sale, the person who sold the tobacco
product or electronic cigarette was presented with, and reasonably relied upon,
an identification card which identified the person buying or receiving the
tobacco product or electronic cigarette as being over eighteen (18) years of
age.
   G.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection D. of this section, no
fine for a violation of subsection C. of this section shall be imposed for a
first offense in a twenty-four (24) month period if the retailer can show it
had:
      1.   Adopted and enforced a written policy against selling tobacco
products to persons under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      2.   Informed its employees of the applicable laws regarding the sale of
tobacco products to persons under the age of eighteen (18) years;
      3.   Required employees to verify the age of tobacco product customers by
way of photographic identification or by means of electronic transaction scan
device; and
      4.   Established and imposed disciplinary sanctions for noncompliance.
(Ord. 94-15, 1-9-1995; amd. Ord. 2019-10, 10-28-2019)
3-3-3: SIGN REQUIRED; VENDING MACHINES:
   A.   Any person who sells tobacco products or electronic cigarettes shall
post signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided by this
chapter at or near every display of tobacco products or electronic cigarettes
and on or upon every vending machine which offers tobacco products or
electronic cigarettes for sale. Each sign shall be plainly visible and shall
contain a statement communicating that the sale of tobacco products or
electronic cigarettes to persons under eighteen (18) years of age is prohibited
by law. Any person who owns, operates or manages a business where tobacco
products or electronic cigarettes are offered for sale at retail and at which
persons under the age of eighteen (18) are allowed admission with or without an
adult, shall maintain all tobacco products or electronic cigarettes within the
line of sight of a cashier or other employee or under the control of the
cashier or other employee. For purposes of this subsection:
 
UNDER CONTROL:            Means protected by security, surveillance or
                          detection methods.
WITHIN THE LINE OF SIGHT: Means visible to a cashier or other employee while at
                          the sales counter.
 
   B.   No person shall sell or offer tobacco products or electronic
cigarettes:
      1.   Through a vending machine unless the vending machine is located in:
         a.   Businesses, factories, offices or other places do not open to the
general public;
         b.   Places to which persons under the age of eighteen (18) years of
age are not permitted access; or
         c.   Business premises where alcoholic or malt beverages are sold or
dispensed and where entry by persons under eighteen (18) years of age is
prohibited.
      2.   Through a self-service display except in:
         a.   A vending machine as permitted in paragraph 1. of this
subsection; or
         b.   A business where entry by persons under eighteen (18) years of
age is prohibited.
   C.   Any person violating subsection A. or B. of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than:
      1.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first violation committed within a
twenty-four (24) month period;
      2.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a second violation committed
within a twenty-four (24) month period;
      3.   Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a third or subsequent
violation committed within a twenty-four (24) month period.
   D.   For purposes of subsection C. of this section, each day of continued
violation under subsection A. or B. of this section shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   E.   In addition to the penalties under paragraph C.3. of this section, any
person violating subsection A. or B. of this section for a third or subsequent
time within a two (2) year period may be subject to an injunction. The
department or the Town Attorney, may petition the district court for an
injunction to prohibit the sale of tobacco from the vending machines or the
establishment where the violation occurred. If the court finds that the
respondent in the action has violated the provisions of subsection A. or B. of
this section for a third or subsequent time within a two (2) year period and
may continue to violate such provisions, it may grant an injunction prohibiting
the respondent from selling tobacco products or electronic cigarettes from
vending machines or from the establishment where the violation occurred for a
period of not more than one hundred eighty (180) days. For the purposes of this
subsection, multiple violations occurring before the petition for the
injunction is filed shall be deemed part of the violation for which the
injunction is sought. If the person against whom the injunction is sought
operates multiple, geographically separate establishments or vending machines,
the injunction shall apply only to the establishment where the violation
occurred and to the vending machines resulting in the violation. The injunction
shall prohibit all sales of tobacco products or electronic cigarettes from the
vending machines or the establishment involved in the violation, regardless of
any change in ownership or management of the vending machines or the
establishment that is not a bona fide, arm’s length transaction while the
injunction is in effect. (Ord. 94-15, 1-9-1995; amd. Ord. 2019-10, 10-28-2019)
3-3-4: PURCHASE BY MINOR; MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE:
   A.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall purchase or
attempt to purchase tobacco products or electronic cigarettes, or misrepresent
his identity or age, or use any false or altered identification for the purpose
of purchasing or attempting to purchase tobacco products or electronic
cigarettes.
   B.   Any person violating subsection (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than:
      1.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first violation committed within a
twenty-four (24) month period;
      2.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a second violation committed
within a twenty-four (24) month period;
      3.   Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a third or subsequent
violation committed within a twenty-four (24) month period.
   C.   In lieu of the fine under subsection B. of this section, the court may
allow the defendant to perform community service or attend a tobacco cessation
program and be granted credit against his fine and court costs at the rate of
five dollars ($5.00) for each hour of work performed or each hour of tobacco
cessation program attended.
   D.   After twenty-four (24) months or upon reaching the age of majority,
whichever occurs later, a criminal conviction under this section may be
expunged in accordance with W.S. 14-6-241. (Ord. 94-15, 1-9-1995; amd. Ord.
2019-10, 10-28-2019)
3-3-5: POSSESSION AND USE BY MINOR:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
possess or use any tobacco products or electronic cigarettes.
   B.   Any person violating subsection A. of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than:
      1.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first violation committed within a
twenty-four (24) month period;
      2.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a second violation committed
within a twenty-four (24) month period;
      3.   Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a third or subsequent
violation committed within a twenty-four (24) month period.
   C.   In lieu of the fine under subsection B. of this section, the court may
allow the defendant to perform community service or attend a tobacco cessation
program and be granted credit against his fine and court costs at the rate of
five dollars ($5.00) for each hour of work performed or each hour of tobacco
cessation program attended.
   D.   After twenty-four (24) months or upon reaching the age of majority,
whichever occurs later, a criminal conviction under this section may be
expunged in accordance with W.S. 14-6-241.
   E.   It is an affirmative defense to a prosecution under subsection A. of
this section that the defendant possessed or used the tobacco product or
electronic cigarette in the home of, or under the direct supervision of, his
parent or guardian. (Ord. 94-15, 1-9-1995; amd. Ord. 2019-10, 10-28-2019)
3-3-6: AID IN MISREPRESENTATION OF AGE:
   A.   Prohibited: No person shall aid another person under the age of
eighteen (18) years in misrepresenting the minor person's identity, age, or in
using false or altered identification for the obtaining or purchasing of
tobacco products or electronic cigarettes.
   B.   Any person violating subsection A. of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than:
      1.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first violation committed within a
twenty-four (24) month period;
      2.   Two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a second violation committed
within a twenty-four (24) month period;
      3.   Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a third or subsequent
violation committed within a twenty-four (24) month period.
   C.   In lieu of the fine under subsection B. of this section, the court may
allow the defendant to perform community service or attend a tobacco cessation
program and be granted credit against his fine and court costs at the rate of
five dollars ($5.00) for each hour of work performed or each hour of tobacco
cessation program attended. (Ord. 94-15, 1-9-1995; amd. Ord. 2019-10, 10-28-
2019)
CHAPTER 4
TEMPORARY OR TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Permit Process
3-4-3: Prohibited Activities
3-4-4: Penalties
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
CANVASSER: One engaged in business of a temporary or transient nature that goes
from door to door traveling by foot, automobile, truck or any other type of
conveyance, as principal, agent or otherwise, in an effort to take or secure
orders for goods, services or merchandise, without prior specific invitation or
appointment.
DOOR TO DOOR: From one residence to another or from one business location to
another or from a residence to a business location or from a business location
to a residence or any other combination involving residences and/or business
locations.
PEDDLER: One engaged in business of a temporary or transient nature that goes
from door to door traveling by foot, automobile, truck or any other conveyance,
as principal, agent or otherwise, in an effort to sell goods, wares or other
commodities without prior specific invitation or appointment.
SOLICITOR: One engaged in business of a temporary or transient nature that
either goes from door to door without prior specific invitation traveling by
foot, automobile, truck or other conveyance or from one locality which is not a
permanent structure, who attempts to lure another person into a business or
commercial venture of any type.
STREET PEDDLER (VENDOR): One engaged in business of a temporary or transient
nature who sells or offers to sell from one locality which is not a permanent
structure or building affixed to land, goods, wares, merchandise or other
commodities.
TEMPORARY OR TRANSIENT MERCHANT: One engaged in business anywhere within the
town of Wright who does not intend to become and does not become, a permanent
merchant at such place. The terms "temporary or transient" shall mean less than
one hundred twenty (120) consecutive days or less than one hundred eighty (180)
days within a calendar year. Any person or entity which does business within
the town in excess of the foregoing time restrictions shall not be eligible for
a "solicitor's, canvasser's, peddler's or street peddler's permit" and shall be
required to comply in all respects with town ordinances regarding the operation
of businesses within the town of Wright. (Ord. 2006-6, 11-13-2006)
3-4-2: PERMIT PROCESS:
   A.   Any person, or each member of a group or organization, whether a
resident or not wishing to conduct business as a canvasser, peddler, solicitor
or street peddler must first obtain a permit from the town clerk's office. Each
applicant must provide the town clerk's office with the following information:
      1.   Completed notarized application (application can be obtained from
the town clerk; notary is available).
      2.   Valid driver's license.
      3.   Recent photograph showing head and shoulders of applicant.
      4.   Copy of Wyoming state sales tax number.
   B.   The fee for a permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be fifty
dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 2006-6, 11-13-2006)
3-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to engage in business as
a "canvasser", "peddler", "solicitor" or street peddler as such terms are
defined herein without having first applied for and received a canvasser's,
peddler's, solicitor's or street peddler's permit.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether engaged in business or
not, in the public rights of way to solicit, offer for sale or transact the
sale of goods or services, or to seek donations or contributions, or distribute
materials to persons situated within vehicles which are located within the
right of way of any public road, street or highway regardless if such is for a
commercial, charitable or nonprofit purpose. Nothing in this section shall be
deemed to prohibit otherwise lawful noncommercial activities on sidewalks or
other designated areas where such activities clearly do not hinder or stop
vehicular traffic or adversely affect public safety. The prohibition with
regard to public rights of way shall not apply to community sponsored
activities provided that prior to such activity the sponsoring community
organization has first obtained permission therefor from the town. Any
permission granted by the town shall limit the activity both with respect to
duration and geographic location.
   C.   The solicitor's, peddler's, canvasser's or street peddler's permit
shall be carried at all times by the applicant to whom issued while performing
such in the town and shall be exhibited by such applicant whenever he/she shall
be requested to do so by any town official, deputy sheriff or any person
solicited. It shall be unlawful for any person who is required to obtain a
permit pursuant to this chapter to fail or refuse to exhibit the permit upon
request by a town official, deputy sheriff or any person solicited. (Ord. 2006-
6, 11-13-2006)
3-4-4: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction be fined up to seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2006-6, 11-13-2006)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Nuisance Compliance Program
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Specific Nuisances
4-1-4: Enforcement
4-1-5: Interference With The Enforcement Officer
4-1-6: Penalties
4-1-1: NUISANCE COMPLIANCE PROGRAM:
The Nuisance Compliance Program is intended to promote, protect and improve the
health, safety and welfare of all citizens. Every Owner, Occupant, Person,
Responsible Person, or Contractor, (“Responsible Party”) is responsible for
maintaining all premises under their control or responsibility, including any
adjacent publicly owned right-of-way, in a clean, sanitary and orderly
condition at all times. No nuisance, as defined below, shall be permitted at
any time. (Ord. 2021-03, 10-25-2021)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
            Repair, replace, remove, destroy, eliminate, or otherwise remedy a condition to
ABATE:      an extent determined necessary, by the Town, to protect, restore or maintain
            public health, safety and welfare.
            Debris includes, but is not limited to: motor vehicle parts, tires of any kind
            or size, silt from automobile wash racks, dead animals, batteries, abandoned
            machinery, discharged machinery parts, any sort of household appliance, bath
DEBRIS:     tubs, furniture, wood pilings, pallets, dirt pilings, paper pilings, rubber and
            plastic products, metal products, broken glass, barrels, any article resulting
            from the wrecking, construction or remodeling of any building, fence, sidewalk
            or structure of any kind or character. Debris is a nuisance. Exception: Neatly
            stacked or stored firewood, at the sole discretion of the Enforcement Officer.
            Anyone with authority to enforce this chapter, including but not limited to: The
ENFORCEMENT enforcement officer pursuant to Title 1 Chapter 7 Article A of the Town Code,
OFFICER:    Sheriff’s Deputies authorized to enforce the Town Code, and the Mayor or his/her
            authorized designee.
            Waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, or consumption of
GARBAGE:    foods; offal or animal matter; wastes from the handling; storage and sale of
            produce; or anything that may decompose, become foul, offensive, unsanitary or
            dangerous to health. Garbage is a nuisance.
            A vehicle that is partially suspended above the ground by jacks, blocks or any
            other devices. A vehicle which has any of the four tires or wheels removed or
INOPERABLE  any discarded, ruined, wrecked or dismantled vehicle including any part(s). Any
VEHICLE:    motor vehicle incapable of immediate operation under its own power safely and in
            concurrence with governing and applicable traffic ordinances and statutes, or
            any motor vehicle not having current license plates lawfully affixed thereto.
            Inoperable vehicles are a nuisance.
            To throw, deposit or allow garbage, rubbish and debris as defined herein, and
LITTER:     all other waste material to remain on land that offends the senses, or creates a
            danger to public health, safety and welfare. Litter is a nuisance.
MOTOR       Any vehicle that is self-propelled by any sort of motor, not to include vehicles
VEHICLE:    moved solely by human power.
            The creation and/or maintenance by any person of any condition or use of real or
            personal property in such a manner as to offend the senses, or to unreasonably
            interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property of another, or which is
NUISANCE:   detrimental to the property of another, or which causes the substantial
            diminution in or degrades the value of another’s property by permitting any
            condition to exist which results in substantial annoyance, inconvenience or
            injury to the public, in whole or part as more fully described in section
            4-1-3 Specific Nuisances.
OPEN PIT(S) Any open or uncovered cellar, cellar door, pit, hole, trench, pool, unmounted
OR          tire, or container, etc. where water is allowed to accumulate and become a
CONTAINER   breeding ground or harborage for mosquitoes or other insects. An open pit or
(S):        container is a danger to public health, safety and welfare and is a nuisance.
            Any individual(s), firm, association, partnership, corporation, limited
PERSON:     liability company, or other form of business entity, or any other type of
            entity, public or private.
PREMISES:   Any lot, building, parcel of land or portion of land, public or private.
PROPERTY:   Any real property within the Town limits that is not a street or highway.
            Any person owning, occupying, or in charge or control of any property or
RESPONSIBLE premises, including but not limited to the owner, occupant, agent, lessee,
PARTY:      contractor, or any other person having control over the manner in which premises
            or property is maintained.
            All discarded materials, or materials lying about or placed in plain view,
            including, but in no way confined or limited to paper, wood, glass, metal and
RUBBISH:    cloth products, weeds or grass, yard trimmings, tree branches, bedding,
            crockery, building materials, leaves, ashes and solid wastes resulting from
            industrial and manufacturing process. Rubbish is a nuisance.
            All weeds, including but not limited to Foxtail weeds, tall grass and rank,
            troublesome and harmful vegetation growing on any premises outside of the
            traveled portion of any street or alley within the Town that exceeds a height of
WEEDS AND   twelve (12) inches are considered a nuisance. Weeds shall include, but not be
TALL GRASS: limited to, such plants as may be so designated by the Campbell County Weed &
            Pest Board. All landscaping on any lot or premises must be maintained in a neat
            and orderly condition consistent with community standards. Weeds and tall grass
            are a nuisance. (Ord. 2021-03, 10-25-2021)
 
4-1-3: SPECIFIC NUISANCES:
   A.   No nuisance may be maintained as a non-conforming use or allowed to
continue as a “grandfathered” activity, and it shall be the continuous duty of
each Responsible Party(ies) associated with any Premises to ensure that there
are no nuisances on the Premises.
   B.   Nuisances include, but are not limited to, those defined as such in
section
4-1-2, as well as the following specific examples:
      1.   It is unlawful for any Responsible Party to place, store, discard,
throw or deposit any open pit or container, item or article on any property or
premises within the Town that will catch and maintain water from any source
which creates a breeding ground or harborage for mosquitoes and/or other
insects. Items such as tires, buckets, bottles, or pans may not be stored
outside of an enclosed building or approved structure for longer than seventy-
two (72) hours and must be stored in a manner to prevent the collection and
stagnation of water. The above actions are a danger to public health, safety
and welfare.
      2.   It is unlawful for any Responsible Party to store, place, discard or
deposit any appliances, including but not limited to: stoves, dishwashers,
refrigerators, clothes dryers, washing machines, or any airtight container(s)
outside for longer than twenty-four (24) hours. Improperly stored appliances
are a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
      3.   It is unlawful for any Responsible Party to cause or permit the
pooling, ponding or depositing of sewage or human excrement anywhere in the
Town, except through a Town approved waste system. Depositing of sewage or
human excrement is a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
      4.   It is unlawful for any Responsible Party to permit the accumulation
of any debris on any construction or demolition site at any time before, during
or after the construction or demolition of a project. The Responsible Party
shall maintain on the site a proper container to control construction debris
generated on the site. Construction/demolition material must be stored in a
manner to prevent it from becoming wind-blown.
      5.   It is unlawful for any Responsible Party to allow or maintain piles
of dirt, debris, wood, firewood, construction or demolition materials on the
property in a condition that attracts rodents, skunks or other vermin.
      6.   It is unlawful for any Responsible Party to allow on the property
any condition that interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage
any public street, sidewalk, ditch or drainage, without a lawful permit.
      7.   It is unlawful for any Responsible Party to allow any partially
dismantled, unlicensed/inoperable, wrecked, junked or discarded motor vehicle
(s), or other similar material or objects to remain on the property longer than
fourteen (14) days except in an enclosed building or an appropriately zoned
storage lot.
         a.   A person may store or maintain one partially dismantled or
unlicensed/inoperable vehicle with a commercially manufactured fitted car cover
in good condition. Tarps do not constitute commercially manufactured fitted car
covers.
         b.   If the fitted cover begins to deteriorate or is removed, the
cover must be replaced within five (5) days or the vehicle must be licensed/
removed.
      8.   It is unlawful for any Responsible Party to cause, allow or permit
the accumulation of debris, garbage, litter or rubbish on their property.
      9.   Weeds and tall grass are a nuisance under this section and must be
removed by each and all Responsible Party(ies). (Ord. 2021-03, 10-25-2021)
4-1-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to enforce this
chapter.
   B.   Violations:
      1.   In addition to other penalties or remedies, the Enforcement Officer
is authorized to serve notice of violation upon the Responsible Party to remove
all items deemed a nuisance from the property. Such notice may instead be
posted at the property. The Responsible Party shall have fourteen (14) days
after notice to abate the nuisance, or three (3) days if the nuisance
constitutes a clear and present danger to public health, safety and welfare.
      2.   The Responsible Party shall remove the nuisance in compliance with
the provisions of this Chapter within the allotted time given in the notice. It
is unlawful for the Responsible Party, after receiving notice of violation, to
remove a nuisance to another private or public property within Town limits
where storage is not permitted.
      3.   The deadline to remove the nuisance may be extended by the
Enforcement Officer if the Enforcement Officer, in his or her sole discretion,
deems the extension necessary to remove the nuisance. An extension under this
section does not relieve the Responsible Party’s obligation to remove the
nuisance. Failure to remove the nuisance after an extension under this section
will subject the person to abatement procedures and/or citation.
      4.   The Enforcement Officer shall have the authority, but not the
obligation, to abate the nuisance fourteen (14) days after the Responsible
Party is served with notice of a violation, or such notice is posted at the
property. Any authorized employee of the Town or contractor hired by the Town
shall be authorized to enter the property to abate the nuisance. The Town shall
charge the actual cost of abatement to the Responsible Party, plus an
administrative fee equal to fifty percent (50%) of the total cost of each
abatement. Any costs incurred in the abatement that remain unpaid forty-five
(45) days from the date of the billing shall include attorney’s fees and costs
incurred by the Town in collection. Only the Enforcement Officer may remove any
notices posted at the property. Each Responsible Party is prohibited from
obtaining any permits from the Town until the cost of the abatement is paid in
full.
      5.   In addition to, or instead of, the above remedies, a Responsible
Party in violation of this chapter may be cited into the Municipal Court and
charged with maintaining a nuisance, in violation of section 4-1-3 of this
code. If such violation involves weeds or tall grass such violation may also be
enforced pursuant to Chapter Two of Title Four, but no single violation
involving weeds or tall grass may be enforced pursuant to both Chapters. (Ord.
2021-03, 10-25-2021)
4-1-5: INTERFERENCE WITH THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
Any person interfering with the Enforcement Officer in the performance of his/
her duties shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2021-03, 10-25-2021)
4-1-6: PENALTIES:
Any Responsible Party or any other Person violating any provision of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, together with restitution for any costs incurred by the
Town in enforcing this chapter, including attorney’s fees and costs incurred in
attempted collection. Each day of non-compliance with any provision of this
chapter shall constitute a separate offense, and may be charged, prosecuted,
and fined as a separate offense. The imposition of penalties and restitution
shall not bar institution of appropriate legal action or other proceedings by
the town to restrain, correct, or abate violations of this chapter, nor shall
the institution of such legal action or proceedings be deemed a bar to the
imposition of fines and restitution. (Ord. 2021-03, 10-25-2021)
CHAPTER 2
WEED AND TALL GRASS CONTROL
SECTION:
4-2-1: Weed And Tall Grass Compliance Program
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Duty To Mow Or Otherwise Destroy And Remove
4-2-4: Enforcement
4-2-5: Interference With The Enforcement Officer
4-2-6: Penalties
4-2-1: WEED AND TALL GRASS COMPLIANCE PROGRAM:
The Weed and Tall Grass Compliance Program is intended to promote, protect and
improve the health, safety and welfare of all citizens. Every Owner, Occupant,
Person, Responsible Person, or Contractor, (“Responsible Party”) is responsible
for maintaining all premises under their control or responsibility, including
any adjacent publicly owned right-of-way, in a clean, sanitary and orderly
condition at all times. No weeds or tall grass, as defined below, shall be
permitted at any time. Weeds and tall grass pose an immediate danger to public
health, safety, and welfare. Immediate abatement is or may be necessary to
prevent uncontrolled spread of weeds and tall grass because it has the ability
to seed quickly and provide a harborage for rodents and insects and are a fire
risk. (Ord. 2021-04 10-25-2021)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
 
            Repair, replace, remove, destroy, eliminate, or otherwise remedy a condition to
ABATE:      an extent determined necessary, by the Town, to protect, restore or maintain
            public health, safety and welfare.
            Anyone with authority to enforce this chapter, including but not limited to: the
ENFORCEMENT enforcement officer pursuant to Title 1 Chapter 7 Article A of the Town Code,
OFFICER:    Sheriff’s Deputies authorized to enforce the Town Code, and the Mayor or his/her
            authorized designee.
PERSON:     Any individual(s), firm, association, partnership, corporation or any entity,
            public or private.
PREMISES:   Any lot, building, parcel of land or portion of land, public or private.
PROPERTY:   Any real property within the Town limits that is not a street or highway.
            Any person owning, occupying, or in charge or control of any property or
RESPONSIBLE premises, including but not limited to the owner, occupant, agent, lessee,
PARTY(IES): contractor, or any other person having control over the manner in which premises
            or property is maintained.
            All weeds, including but not limited to Foxtail weeds, tall grass and rank,
            troublesome and harmful vegetation growing on any premises outside of the
WEEDS AND   traveled portion of any street or alley within the Town that exceeds a height of
TALL GRASS: twelve (12) inches. Weeds shall include, but not be limited to, such plants as
            may be so designated by the Campbell County Weed & Pest Board. All landscaping
            on any lot or premises must be maintained in a neat and orderly condition
            consistent with community standards. (Ord. 2021-04 10-25-2021)
 
4-2-3: DUTY TO MOW OR OTHERWISE DESTROY AND REMOVE:
It shall be the continuous duty of each and all Responsible Party(ies)
associated with any Premises to mow or otherwise destroy and remove all weeds
and tall grass located on the premises and located between the Premises’
property line and any immediately adjacent street or alley. (Ord. 2021-04 10-
25-2021)
4-2-4: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The Enforcement Officer shall have the authority to enforce this
chapter.
   B.   Violations:
      1.   In addition to other penalties or remedies, the Enforcement Officer
is authorized to serve notice of violation upon the Responsible Party to mow or
otherwise destroy and remove all weeds and tall grass from the property. Such
notice may instead be posted at the property. The Responsible Party shall have
fourteen (14) days after notice to do so, or three (3) days if the conditions
constitute a clear and present danger to public health, safety and welfare.
      2.   The Responsible Party shall mow or otherwise destroy and remove all
weeds and tall grass in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter within
the allotted time given in the notice.
      3.   The deadline to mow or otherwise destroy and remove all weeds and
tall grass may be extended by the Enforcement Officer if the Enforcement
Officer, in his or her sole discretion, deems the extension necessary under the
circumstances. An extension under this section does not relieve the Responsible
Party’s obligation to comply. Failure to comply after an extension under this
section will subject the person to abatement procedures and/or citation.
      4.   The Enforcement Officer shall have the authority, but not the
obligation, to mow or otherwise destroy and remove all weeds and tall grass
fourteen (14) days after the Responsible Party is served with notice of the
violation, or such notice is posted at the property. Any authorized employee of
the Town or contractor hired by the Town shall be authorized to enter the
property to mow or otherwise destroy and remove all weeds and tall grass. The
Town shall charge the actual cost of abatement to the Responsible Party, plus
an administrative fee equal to fifty percent (50%) of the total cost of each
abatement. Any costs incurred in the abatement that remain unpaid forty-five
(45) days from the date of the billing shall include attorney’s fees and costs
incurred in collection. Only the Enforcement Officer may remove any notices
posted at the property. Each Responsible Party is prohibited from obtaining any
permits from the Town until the cost of the abatement is paid in full.
      5.   In addition to, or instead of, the above remedies, a Responsible
Party in violation of this chapter may be cited into the Municipal Court and
charged with failing to control weeds and/or tall grass, in violation of
section
4-2-3 of this code. A violation of this Chapter may be enforced pursuant to
this Chapter or pursuant to Chapter One of Title Four, but no single violation
may be enforced pursuant to both Chapters. (Ord. 2021-04 10-25-2021)
4-2-5: INTERFERENCE WITH THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
Any person interfering with the Enforcement Officer in the performance of his/
her duties shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2021-04 10-25-2021)
4-2-6: PENALTIES:
Any Responsible Party or any other Person violating any provision of this
chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, together with restitution for any costs incurred by the
Town in enforcing this chapter, including attorney’s fees and costs incurred in
attempted collection. Each day of non-compliance with any provision of this
chapter shall constitute a separate offense, and may be charged, prosecuted,
and fined as a separate offense. The imposition of penalties and restitution
shall not bar institution of appropriate legal action or other proceedings by
the town to restrain, correct, or abate violations of this chapter, nor shall
the institution of such legal action or proceedings be deemed a bar to the
imposition of fines and restitution. (Ord. 2021-04 10-25-2021)
CHAPTER 3
SMOKING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Policy
4-3-4: Smoking Restricted By Other Laws
4-3-5: Penalty
4-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and welfare
of citizens, who utilize town facilities, by establishing restrictions on the
use of smoking devices in places of employment and facilities of the town.
(Ord. 97-12, 11-24-1997)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions apply:
SMOKE OR SMOKING: The act of burning any tobacco product, weed filler or plant
of any kind in a cigarette, cigar, pipe, water pipe or any other device.
SMOKING INSTRUMENT: Any cigarette, cigar, pipe, or other smoking device.
TOWN FACILITIES: Any enclosed building or structure that is owned by the town,
which includes but is not limited to, the town hall, the multipurpose building,
the town maintenance building, and the municipal golf course club house. (Ord.
97-12, 11-24-1997)
4-3-3: POLICY:
   A.   Prohibited: No one can smoke or carry any lighted smoking instrument in
any town facility.
   B.   Violation: Anyone persisting in smoking contrary to the terms of this
chapter, after an oral or written request or warning to cease smoking from any
person, shall be deemed to be in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 97-12, 11-24-
1997)
4-3-4: SMOKING RESTRICTED BY OTHER LAWS:
Nothing herein shall be interpreted so as to permit smoking where it is
otherwise restricted by law. (Ord. 97-12, 11-24-1997)
4-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense, one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for the second offense within a five (5) year period of time, and two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for the third offense within a five (5) year period of time.
(Ord. 97-12, 11-24-1997)
TITLE 5
LAW ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 1
LAW ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Official Status To County Employees
5-1-2: Employee/Employer Relationship
5-1-1: OFFICIAL STATUS TO COUNTY EMPLOYEES:
For the sole purpose of giving official status to their acts when performing
municipal functions within the scope of an agreement for law enforcement
services between Campbell County, Wyoming, the Campbell County sheriff and the
town of Wright, Wyoming, dated August 19, 1985, every county officer or
employee engaged in providing general law enforcement services to the town
shall be considered an employee of the town. (Ord. 85-11, 9-9-1985)
5-1-2: EMPLOYEE/EMPLOYER RELATIONSHIP:
Nothing herein shall be construed as creating an employee/employer relationship
between the town and any county officer or employee. All persons employed by
the sheriff and providing general law enforcement to the town shall be county
officers or employees, and they shall not have any benefit status or rights of
town employees. (Ord. 85-11, 9-9-1985)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Altering Landmarks
5-2-2: Breach Of The Peace
5-2-3: Criminal Trespass
5-2-4: Property Destruction And Defacement
5-2-5: Fighting In Public
5-2-6: Interference With Peace Officer
5-2-7: Littering
5-2-8: Petit Larceny
5-2-9: Receiving Stolen Property
5-2-10: Reckless Endangerment
5-2-11: Simple Assault; Battery
5-2-12: Shoplifting
5-2-13: Penalty
5-2-1: ALTERING LANDMARKS:
   A.   Offense Defined: A person is guilty of altering landmarks if, with
intent to destroy or deface the mark on a monument, landmark or bearing tree
designating the corner or boundary of a tract of land, he knowingly:
      1.   Displaces the monument or landmark;
      2.   Defaces or alters the mark; or
      3.   Breaks, cuts down or removes the monument, landmark or bearing tree.
(Ord. 2000-17, 11-13-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
   B.   Penalty: Altering landmarks is a misdemeanor punishable as provided in
section
5-2-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-17, 11-13-2000, eff. 1-1-2001; amd. 2007
Code)
5-2-2: BREACH OF THE PEACE:
   A.   Offense Defined: A person commits breach of the peace if he disturbs
the peace of a community or its inhabitants by unreasonably loud noise or music
or by using threatening, abusive or obscene language or violent actions with
knowledge or probable cause to believe he will disturb the peace. (Ord. 2000-
12, 11-13-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
   B.   Penalty: Breach of the peace is a misdemeanor punishable as provided in
section
5-2-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-12, 11-13-2000, eff. 1-1-2001; amd. 2007
Code)
5-2-3: CRIMINAL TRESPASS:
   A.   Elements: A person is guilty of criminal trespass if he enters or
remains on or in the land or premises of another person knowing he is not
authorized to do so, or after being notified to depart or to not trespass.
   B.   Notice: For the purposes of this section, notice is given by:
      1.   Personal communication to the person by the owner, occupant or his
agent, or by a law enforcement officer; or
      2.   Posting of signs reasonably likely to come to the attention of
intruders. (Ord. 2005-08, 9-22-2005)
   C.   Penalty: Criminal trespass is a misdemeanor punishable as provided in
section
5-2-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-08, 9-22-2005; amd. 2007 Code)
5-2-4: PROPERTY DESTRUCTION AND DEFACEMENT:
   A.   Offense Defined: A person is guilty of property destruction and
defacement if he knowingly defaces, injures or destroys property of another
without the owner's consent. (Ord. 2000-16, 11-13-2000)
   B.   Penalty: Property destruction and defacement is a misdemeanor
punishable as provided in section
5-2-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-16, 11-13-2000, eff. 1-1-2001; amd. 2007
Code)
5-2-5: FIGHTING IN PUBLIC:
A person commits a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
5-2-13 of this chapter, if, by agreement, he fights with one or more persons in
public. (Ord. 2000-15, 11-13-2000, eff. 1-1-2001; amd. 2007 Code)
5-2-6: INTERFERENCE WITH PEACE OFFICER:
A person commits a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
5-2-13 of this chapter if he knowingly obstructs, impedes or interferes with or
resists arrest by a peace officer while engaged in the lawful performance of
his official duties. (Ord. 2000-18, 11-13-2000, eff. 1-1-2001; amd. 2007 Code)
5-2-7: LITTERING:
   A.   Prohibited: A person is guilty of littering if he or she:
      1.   Places, throws, scatters or deposits garbage, debris, refuse or
waste material, objects or substances, including abandoned or junk vehicles
upon the property of another. Operators of motor vehicles are responsible under
this section for the disposition or ejection of garbage, debris or other
material from the vehicle while the vehicle is being operated upon roads,
streets or alleys within the borders of the town.
      2.   Places any object or material into a trash receptacle, such as a
dumpster, trash can, or the like, without the permission of the owner or
provider of such trash receptacle.
      3.   Places any object or material into a designated recycle receptacle
which is not recyclable and properly sorted.
      4.   Encourages, assists, or enables another person in doing any of the
foregoing.
   B.   Exceptions: This section does not apply to:
      1.   Discharges which are regulated, controlled or limited by air, land,
or water quality laws or regulations.
      2.   Use of a trash receptacle which has been provided for the
classification of person using the trash receptacle. By way of example, and not
of limitation:
         a.   A trash receptacle provided at the visitor center is for visitors
traveling through the Wright area, and persons involved with the operation of
the visitor center for waste material generated in conjunction with the
operation of the visitor center.
         b.   A trash receptacle provided at the emergency services building is
for the occupants of that building for waste material generated in conjunction
with the operations conducted at that location.
         c.   A trash receptacle provided at the multipurpose building and/or
the golf course is for persons who have been authorized to use that building,
and for waste material generated in conjunction with their use of the building,
as well as for persons using the golf course, and for waste material generated
in conjunction with the operation of the golf course.
   C.   Penalty: Littering is a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
5-2-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-05, 12-10-2012)
5-2-8: PETIT LARCENY:
Any person who unlawfully steals, takes and carries, leads or drives away the
personal goods of another, of the value of which is any sum less than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), is guilty of petit larceny. (Ord. 2005-12, 9-22-
2005)
5-2-9: RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY:
Any person who buys, receives, conceals or disposes of property within the
limits of the town, which he knows, believes or has reasonable cause to believe
was obtained in violation of law, the value of which is any sum less than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), is guilty of receiving stolen property. (Ord.
2005-12, 9-22-2005)
5-2-10: RECKLESS ENDANGERMENT:
   A.   Offense Defined:
      1.   A person is guilty of reckless endangering if he recklessly engages
in conduct which places another person in danger of death or serious bodily
injury.
      2.   Any person who knowingly points a firearm at or in the direction of
another, whether or not the person believes the firearm is loaded, is guilty of
reckless endangering unless reasonably necessary in defense of his person,
property or abode or to prevent serious bodily injury to another. (Ord. 2000-
14, 11-13-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
   B.   Penalty: Reckless endangering is a misdemeanor punishable as provided
in section
5-2-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-14, 11-13-2000, eff. 1-1-2001; amd. 2007
Code)
5-2-11: SIMPLE ASSAULT; BATTERY:
   A.   Simple Assault:
      1.   Defined: A person is guilty of simple assault if, having the present
ability to do so, he unlawfully attempts to cause bodily injury to another.
(Ord. 2000-13, 11-13-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
      2.   Penalty: Simple assault is a misdemeanor punishable as provided in
section
5-2-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-13, 11-13-2000, eff. 1-1-2001; amd. 2007
Code)
   B.   Battery:
      1.   Offense Defined: A person is guilty of battery if he unlawfully
touches another in a rude, insolent or angry manner or intentionally, knowingly
or recklessly causes bodily injury to another. (Ord. 2000-13, 11-13-2000, eff.
1-1-2001)
      2.   Penalty: Battery is a misdemeanor punishable as provided in section
5-2-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-13, 11-13-2000, eff. 1-1-2001; amd. 2007
Code)
5-2-12: SHOPLIFTING:
Any person who wilfully conceals or wilfully takes possession of any goods
offered for sale by a wholesale or retail store or other mercantile
establishment, without the knowledge or consent of the owner thereof and with
intent to convert the goods to his own use without paying the purchase price
therefor, the value of which is any sum less than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), is guilty of shoplifting. (Ord. 2005-12, 9-22-2005)
5-2-13: PENALTY:
The offenses above described in this chapter are misdemeanors, and each
violation, upon conviction thereof, is punishable by a fine of not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (2007 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Short Title
5-3-2: Authority
5-3-3: Purpose
5-3-4: Definitions
5-3-5: Keeping Of Livestock, Animals, And Potbellied Pigs
5-3-6: Dog And Cat Licenses
5-3-7: Kennels And Catteries
5-3-8: Domestic Fowl
5-3-9: Wild Animals
5-3-10: Dangerous Or Vicious Animals
5-3-11: Restraint
5-3-12: Animal Care
5-3-13: Cruelty To Animals
5-3-14: Animal Nuisances
5-3-15: Animals In Heat
5-3-16: Animal Bites
5-3-17: Rabies
5-3-18: Impoundment
5-3-19: Destruction Of Animals
5-3-20: Dead Animals
5-3-21: Killing Of Sheep, Livestock Or Other Animals
5-3-22: Breaking Into Animal Control Center
5-3-23: Turning Animals Loose
5-3-24: Enforcement
5-3-25: Penalties
5-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the WRIGHT ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2001-
8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to and in accordance with the authority vested
in the town by Wyoming Statutes subsections 15-1-103(xvi), (xix) and (xli).
(Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the town and hereby provide animal control herein. (Ord.
2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ANIMAL: Any nonhuman living creature, domestic or wild.
ANIMAL CONTROL CENTER: Any premises or facility operated by a humane society,
private agency or organization, municipal or county agency or its authorized
agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals held under the
authority of local, state, or federal law.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Any person duly authorized by state, county, or local
authorities to enforce this chapter.
AT LARGE: Any animal shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the property
of its owner or custodian and not under the control of a responsible person.
ATTACK: For the purposes of identifying and regulating "dangerous" dogs, means
aggressive physical contact initiated by the dog.
CATTERY: A residence or other property where more than four (4) cats are
maintained.
CIRCUS: Any nonresident variety show which features animal acts.
CONTROL: Control shall have the same meaning as "restraint" as defined herein.
CUSTODIAN: Any person temporarily owning, keeping, or harboring any animal.
Custodian shall include any person having the temporary care, custody, or
control of any animal. If not otherwise set out, "custodian" and "owner" shall
be synonymous for the purposes of this chapter.
DANGEROUS DOG OR CAT: A. A dog or cat that, without justification, attacks a
person or domestic animal causing physical injury or death, or behaves in a
manner that a reasonable person would believe poses an unjustified imminent
threat of serious injury or death to one or more persons or domestic animals. A
dog's breed shall not be considered in determining whether or not it is
"dangerous." Further,
   B.   No dog may be declared "dangerous":
1. If the dog was protecting or defending a person within the immediate
vicinity of the dog from an attack or assault;
2. If at the time the person was committing a crime or offense upon the
property of the owner or custodian of the dog;
3. If the person was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or in
the past had teased, tormented, abused or assaulted the dog;
4. If the dog was attacked or menaced by the domestic animal, or the domestic
animal was on the property of the owner or custodian of the dog;
5. If the dog was responding to pain or injury, or protecting itself, its
kennel or its offspring;
6. If the person or domestic animal was disturbing the dog's natural functions
such as sleeping or eating;
7. Neither growling nor barking, nor both, shall alone constitute grounds upon
which to find a dog to be "dangerous."
DOMESTIC FOWL: Includes, but is not limited to, chickens, doves, ducks, geese,
guinea fowl, pea fowl, peacock, pigeon, turkey, or any other domestic fowl.
EXPOSURE TO RABIES: Any animal has been exposed to rabies within the meaning of
this chapter if it has been bitten by or exposed to any animal known to be or
suspected of being infected with rabies.
KENNEL: A residence or other property where more than four (4) dogs are
maintained.
LICENSING AUTHORITY: Town of Wright.
LIVESTOCK: Includes, but is not limited to, buffalo, cattle, chinchillas,
domestic fowl, donkeys, goats, horses, llamas, mules, rabbits, sheep, and
swine.
OWNER: Any person permanently owning, keeping, or harboring any animal. Owner
shall include any person having the permanent care, custody, or control of any
animal. If not otherwise set out, "owner" and "custodian" shall be synonymous
for the purposes of this chapter.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, company, corporation, or other entity.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any animal or animals which:
   A.   Molests a passerby or passing vehicles;
   B.   Attacks other animals;
   C.   Trespasses on public grounds;
   D.   Is repeatedly at large;
   E.   Damages private or public property; and/or
   F.   Barks, whines, howls, or makes any other noise in an excessive,
continuous, or untimely manner.
RABBITRY: Any place where more than ten (10) rabbits are kept, except any place
for the slaughtering of rabbits for which a permit has been obtained.
RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY: Town of Wright and its duly appointed agents.
RESPONSIBLE PERSON: Any person competent to fully control an animal so that the
animal is physically secured by the person and obedient to that person's
commands.
RESTRAINT: Any animal secured by a leash or lead of not more than fifteen feet
(15') in length or under the control of a responsible person and obedient to
that person's commands or within the real property limits of its owner.
SERIOUS INJURY: For purposes of identifying and regulating "dangerous" dogs,
serious injury means any physical injury consisting of broken bones or a
permanently disfiguring laceration requiring either multiple stitches or
cosmetic surgery.
STERILIZED ANIMAL: Any animal which has undergone surgery to prevent
reproduction whose owner or custodian can provide suitable proof of such
surgery.
TORTURE: Every act, omission, or neglect whereby unnecessary unjustifiable pain
or suffering of an animal is caused or permitted.
VACCINATION AGAINST RABIES: The inoculation of any animal with a rabies vaccine
licensed by the United States department of agriculture and normally recognized
to have a restraining efficiency for a period of at least twenty four (24)
months for any animal.
VETERINARY HOSPITAL: Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for the boarding of animals or the diagnosis and treatment of
diseases and injuries of animals.
VICIOUS ANIMAL: Shall include, but not be limited to, those animals that are a
public nuisance and have a history of acting in a manner which makes them a
public nuisance.
WILD ANIMAL OR EXOTIC PET: Any nondomestic animal, including, but not limited
to, amphibians, antelope, aquatic animals, birds of prey, bobcats, coyotes,
deer, elk, ferrets, fish, fox, insects, raccoons, reptiles, rodents, skunks,
tarantulas, and wolves. A wild animal shall also include any animals that are
only part wild animal. (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-5: KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK, ANIMALS AND POTBELLIED PIGS:
   A.   Where Allowed: Animals and livestock may be kept and maintained only in
those areas of the town which are properly zoned for such use and numbers.
   B.   Pigs: Except as provided in subsection A of this section, no
Vietnamese, Chinese, or miniature potbellied pigs or any other pigs may be kept
in areas that are not zoned for livestock purposes. The minimum penalty for a
person violating this subsection shall be a fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00) in addition to penalty for any other violations of this or other
ordinances or laws.
   C.   Rabbitry: It is unlawful to maintain or establish or to cause or permit
to be maintained or established, any rabbitry except in areas that are property
zoned for such use in which the rabbits are kept at least one hundred feet
(100') from any adjacent lot.
   D.   Violation: Any person keeping any such animal in a part of the town not
zoned for such animals shall immediately remove such animal to a properly zoned
section of town or to outside the town limits. Any person who fails to remove
any pig or livestock shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter. Each day
or part of a day which the pig or livestock remains upon the premises shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter and be subject to a separate
fine for each day the party remains in violation of the chapter. (Ord. 2001-8,
9-24-2001)
5-3-6: DOG AND CAT LICENSES:
Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having custody of any dog or cat four
(4) months of age or older must obtain a license as provided herein:
   A.   License Required; Exception: Application for a license must be made
within twenty (20) days after obtaining a dog or cat from the age of four (4)
months and older, except that this requirement shall not apply to a nonresident
keeping a dog or cat within the town for not longer than thirty (30) days.
   B.   Annual License Fees: Applicable license fees shall be as follows:
      1.   For each sterilized dog or cat, two dollars ($2.00); and,
      2.   For each unsterilized dog or cat, four dollars ($4.00).
   C.   Issuance Of Tag: Upon acceptance of the license application and fee,
the licensing authority shall issue a durable tag or identification collar
stamped with an identifying number and the year of issuance. Tags should be
designed so that they may be conveniently fastened or riveted to the animal's
collar or harness. The animal must wear the identification tag on its collar at
all times when off the premises of the owner.
   D.   Record: The licensing authority shall maintain a record of the
identifying numbers of all tags issued and shall make this record available to
the public.
   E.   Term Of License: The licensing period shall be January 1 to December 31
of each year. The licensing of dogs and cats shall be valid for one year.
   F.   Duplicate License: A duplicate license may be obtained upon payment of
a two dollar ($2.00) replacement fee upon proof of license record.
   G.   Use Of License: No person may use any license for any dog or cat other
than the dog or cat for which it was issued.
   H.   Failure To Obtain License; Penalty: Persons who fail to obtain a
license as required within the time period specified in this section, shall be
subject to a minimum fine of twenty dollars ($20.00) for the first offense,
forty dollars ($40.00) for the second offense within a one year period, and
seventy five dollars ($75.00) for a third offense with in a one year period of
time. (Ord. 2004-08, 6-14-2004)
5-3-7: KENNELS AND CATTERIES:
   A.   Allowed In Areas Properly Zoned: Kennels and catteries operated as
businesses are allowed in town only in areas properly zoned for this type of
business; provided, that more than four (4) dogs or cats of the same litter may
be maintained on the premises until the litter attains the age of one year.
   B.   Annual Fee: The annual fee for these facilities is:
      1.   For each kennel, cattery or pet shop, thirty dollars ($30.00). No
fee is required of any veterinary hospital, humane society or municipal animal
control facility.
      2.   For zoological gardens and animal acts covering all animals, fifty
dollars ($50.00).
   C.   Inspections: It is a condition of issuance of a kennel or cattery
permit that the appropriate town officials are permitted to inspect all animals
and the premises where animals are kept. Such inspections shall be upon
reasonable notice to the owner. If permission for an inspection is refused, the
permit shall be revoked. (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-8: DOMESTIC FOWL:
No domestic fowl shall be permitted within the town with the exception of those
areas where allowed by any applicable zoning ordinance. Any fowl within the
town is a public nuisance. An owner of fowl who allows fowl to be within the
town is responsible for the public nuisance and is in violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-9: WILD ANIMALS:
It is unlawful to keep or permit to be kept any wild animal except small cage
birds, aquatic, amphibian, nonpoisonous reptilian animals, small rodents such
as hamster, guinea pigs, or gerbils, and any other animal normally found in pet
stores and homes within the town. Zoological animals, theatrical exhibits,
circuses, legally incorporated educational institutions, and private or
governmental research laboratories are exempt from this section. (Ord. 2001-8,
9-24-2001)
5-3-10: DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   No person shall keep a dangerous or vicious dog, cross animal, or any
animal that manifests a disposition to bite persons, without having the animal
or dog secured and muzzled. Proof of the fact that the animal or dog has bitten
or attacked any person at any place where a person is legally entitled to be is
evidence that the animal or dog is vicious within the meaning of this section
even if the animal or dog has not previously manifested vicious behavior. (Ord.
2010-04, 3-22-2010)
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to allow a dog to chase, attack, kill or
otherwise harass any other domestic animal, wild animal or exotic pet. Failure
of the owner or responsible party to properly secure the dog is prima facie
evidence the person allowed the dog's actions.
   C.   Upon the conviction of a violation of this section, if it appears to
the court that the animal is still living, the court may, in addition to
punishment of the owner, order the animal control officer to forthwith cause
such animal or dog to be destroyed, or relocated. (Ord. 2006-5, 10-10-2006)
5-3-11: RESTRAINT:
   A.   At Large:
      1.   Prohibited: Owners or custodians shall prevent their animals from
being upon the premises of another person, or from being at large without the
permission of the owner of the premises.
      2.   Penalty: The minimum penalty for an animal at large shall be as
follows:
         a.   Unlicensed: Unlicensed dog or cat at large, seventy five dollars
($75.00) for the first offense, one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second
offense within one year, and one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for a third
offense within one year.
         b.   Licensed: Licensed dog or cat at large, thirty dollars ($30.00)
for first offense, fifty dollars ($50.00) for a second offense within one year,
and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a third offense within one year.
   B.   Defecation/Urination:
      1.   Prohibited: Owners or custodians of animals shall prevent their
animals from defecating, urinating, or otherwise injuring property of another
person.
      2.   Penalty: Violation of this subsection shall be subject to a minimum
fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) per violation.
   C.   Three Violations Within Six Months: Any owner or custodian convicted
three (3) times of violating this section within six (6) months shall surrender
the animal to the animal control officer, at which time the animal will be
disposed of either by destroying the animal or placing it in another home.
   D.   Removal Of Animal By Property Owner: Any person finding any animal upon
his property to his injury or annoyance may take up same and remove it to any
private or public animal shelter or pound that will take possession of it.
Provided, however, that if the name and address of the owner or custodian of
such animal is known to, or can be conveniently ascertained by the finding
person, he shall notify by mail or otherwise such owner or custodian of the
action taken if the action is other than delivery to the animal control
officer. (Ord. 2004-08, 6-14-2004)
5-3-12: ANIMAL CARE:
No owner shall fail to provide his animals with sufficient, good, wholesome
food and water, proper shelter and protection from the weather, veterinary care
when needed to prevent suffering, and humane care and treatment.
   A.   Chain: If a shelter with a chain is used as primary enclosure for an
animal kept outdoors, the chain used shall be so placed or attached that it
cannot become entangled with the chains of other animals or any other objects.
Such chains shall be at least three (3) times the length of the animal as
measured from the tip of its nose to the base of its tail and shall allow the
animal convenient access to shelter.
   B.   Food: Animals shall be fed at least once each day except as otherwise
might be required to provide adequate veterinary care. The food shall be free
from contamination, wholesome, palatable, and of sufficient quantity and
nutritive value to meet the normal daily requirements for the condition and
size of the animal.
   C.   Excreta: Excreta shall be removed from primary enclosures as often as
necessary to prevent contamination and to reduce disease hazards and odors.
   D.   Animal Struck By Motor Vehicle: Any person who, as the operator of a
motor vehicle, strikes a domestic animal shall stop at once and attempt to
locate the animal's owner; in the event the owner cannot be ascertained and
located, such operator shall at once report the accident to the appropriate law
enforcement agency. (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-13: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   A.   Cruelty Prohibited: No owner shall fail to provide his animals with
sufficient, good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection
from the weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, and humane
care and treatment. No person shall beat, cruelly ill treat, torment, overload,
overwork, tease, or otherwise abuse or molest any animal or cause or permit any
dogfight, cockfight, bullfight, or other combat between animals. No person
shall override, drive when overloaded, torture or torment an animal or deprive
an animal of necessary sustenance or carry an animal in a manner that poses
undue risk of injury or death. For purposes of this chapter, "torture",
"torment" or "cruelty" means every act, omission or neglect whereby the wilful
and malicious infliction of pain or suffering is caused, permitted or allowed
to continue when there is a reasonable remedy or relief. Violation of this
section shall be punishable by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   B.   Maiming Or Poisoning Animals: No person shall wilfully kill, maim, or
disfigure any animal except as affirmatively provided in this chapter or
administer poison to, or cause to be ingested any foreign object by any such
animal or expose any poisonous substance with the intent that it shall be taken
by any such animal except by pests of public health importance. This section
does not limit the actions of a veterinarian, health officer, police officer or
animal control officer when the officer determines the existence of a public
safety danger. (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-14: ANIMAL NUISANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep an animal that is a public
nuisance. Upon the conviction of a violation of this section, if it appears to
the court that the animal is still living, the court may, in addition to
punishment of the owner, order the animal control officer to forthwith cause
such animal or dog to be destroyed, or relocated. (Ord. 2006-5, 10-10-2006)
5-3-15: ANIMALS IN HEAT:
Every female animal in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure
in such a manner that the female animal cannot have contact with another animal
except for planned breeding. (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-16: ANIMAL BITES:
   A.   Duties Of Animal Control Officer:
      1.   In the event an animal bites a person, it shall be impounded in the
animal control center for a period of at least fifteen (15) days after the
attack, to determine whether the animal has any disease that may be
communicated to humans. An animal may be held until ordered to be released by
the municipal court if circumstances require impoundment for the safety of the
community. An animal may be released prior to fifteen (15) days if the animal's
owner, or custodian, presents a valid rabies vaccination certificate showing
the animal has been vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian. The
owner or custodian of the animal may impound the animal at a veterinary
hospital, at his or her own cost. If the animal is impounded at the animal
control center, the owner or custodian of the animal shall pay the cost of
impoundment, quarantine, and testing. If after the end of the minimum fifteen
(15) day period, the animal exhibits no symptoms of rabies, the animal may be
returned to the owner by the animal control officer or veterinarian. If the
animal is impounded at the animal control center, the animal control officer,
upon payment of all accrued charges, shall return the animal to the owner. If
the owner has not been found, the animal shall be disposed of after the minimum
fifteen (15) day period. In any case, the appropriate health officials will be
notified of the animal's condition at the end of the impoundment. (Ord. 2010-
04, 3-22-2010)
      2.   In the event an animal has bitten a person and is impounded in the
animal control center or the veterinary hospital, such animal shall be kept in
a separate cage alone. (Ord. 2006-5, 10-10-2006)
   B.   Duty Of Animal Control Agency When Biting Animal Cannot Be Captured: No
person shall kill any animal suspected of being rabid until after the animal
has been quarantined, as provided by subsection A of this section, and a
licensed veterinarian has made the diagnosis of rabies. If a veterinarian
diagnoses rabies in an animal quarantined, then the animal shall be humanely
destroyed and the head of such animal sent to a laboratory for pathological
examination and confirmation of the diagnosis. If the suspected animal is so
vicious and/or wild that it cannot be captured, and the police officer or
animal control officer reasonably believes that capture is unlikely, the animal
may be killed with gunshot not aimed at the head of the animal. When dead, the
animal's head is to be severed from its body and the head sent to the state
laboratory for examination. (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-17: RABIES:
   A.   Vaccination Required: All dogs four (4) months of age and older must be
vaccinated against rabies. All cats from four (4) months of age and older must
be vaccinated against rabies.
   B.   Renewal: Rabies vaccination must be renewed every two (2) years on both
cats and dogs.
   C.   Certificate: A valid rabies certificate shall be issued listing the
owner's name, address, telephone number, date of vaccination, type of rabies
vaccine administered, rabies vaccination tag number, manufacturer's serial
number of vaccine, tag number, and description of dog, including its age,
breed, sex, and name. A licensed veterinarian must sign it.
   D.   Presentation To Licensing Authority: A valid rabies certificate must be
presented at the time of registration to the licensing authority.
   E.   Animal Suspected Of Being Rabid: Any animal suspected of or being rabid
shall be reported to the animal control officer, a law enforcement officer, or
the county health authorities. If it becomes necessary to destroy such animal,
it shall be disposed of in such a manner as to preserve head structure.
   F.   Failure To Vaccinate: Persons who fail to vaccinate any cat or dog
against rabies as required may be subject to a minimum fine of thirty dollars
($30.00). (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-18: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Entry Upon Private Property: Any law enforcement officer or duly
appointed person may enter upon private property to capture any animal found
running at large thereon when said animal is not the property of the owner of
the land. (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
   B.   Impoundment Generally:
      1.   Animal control officers, sheriff's deputies and police officers may
impound animals in the animal control center pursuant to this chapter if they
determine such impoundment to be in the best interest of the animal or
community. If an animal is licensed, the animal control officer shall attempt
to notify the owner. If the owner does not reclaim the animal within twenty
four (24) hours of actual notification, the animal may be placed for adoption
or be humanely destroyed. If the owner cannot be notified, a licensed animal
shall be kept at the animal control center for a period of five (5) days after
which time the animal may be placed for adoption or may be humanely destroyed.
All unlicensed animals shall be held for a period of three (3) days after which
time animals not claimed by their owners may be placed for adoption or humanely
destroyed. The town may charge animal owners reasonable costs associated with
the care and medical treatment of any animal impounded at the animal control
center.
      2.   Any impounded animal that is suffering from distemper or other
serious disease or is maimed and suffering from injury will be humanely
destroyed before the period has elapsed, subject to the provisions of section
5-3-17 of this chapter regarding rabies. Any animal in need of veterinary care
shall be released to the care of the veterinarian upon written request of the
owner, if such owner can be found.
      3.   Any animal impounded pursuant to a violation of section
5-3-13 of this chapter shall be released only upon an order of the court. The
owner of the animal shall pay for costs of all care and medical treatment
associated with the impoundment of such animals. (Ord. 2006-5, 10-10-2006)
   C.   Reclamation: Any owner reclaiming an animal must pay a redemption fee
of twenty five dollars ($25.00), plus a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per day for
each day the animal has been impounded. (Ord. 2006-5, 10-10-2006)
5-3-19: DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Liability For Death: Should any dog, cat, or any other animal taken up
die while in the possession of the person taking it up, the licensing authority
and its agents shall not be liable for the loss unless its death was the result
of mistreatment or wilful neglect.
   B.   Destruction Of Diseased Animals: Any appointed officer of the licensing
authority may lawfully destroy or cause to be destroyed any animal in his
charge when, in the judgment of such officer, such animal appears to be
injured, disabled, diseased past recovering, or contagious toward other animals
or humans, if the owner of such animal cannot be located. This section shall be
subject to the provisions regarding impoundment and rabies set out elsewhere in
this chapter.
   C.   Requested Destruction:
      1.   Request Of Owner: If any owner requests that the animal control
officer destroy his or her animal, the same shall be humanely destroyed, and
under no circumstances shall it be sold or given to any person.
      2.   Fee: A fee for such services shall be designated by the licensing
authority and shall be set at not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      3.   Sign Release: Owners must sign a release to the town.
      4.   Holding Period: All animals turned in by their owners that are no
longer wanted need not be held for any length of time prior to destruction.
(Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-20: DEAD ANIMALS:
   A.   Responsibility Of Owner Or Property Occupant: It is the responsibility
of owners and property occupants to remove and/or dispose of the carcass of a
dead animal from their property so as not to present a potential danger to the
public health. Any owner or property occupant not removing and/or properly
disposing of the carcass of a dead animal within twenty four (24) hours from
his property or any property upon which the carcass rests, shall be guilty of a
violation of this chapter.
   B.   Duty Of Animal Control Officer: It is the duty of the animal control
officer to remove from streets, alleys, and public property all dead animals
that have not been otherwise removed. The animal control officer shall notify
the owner of any dead animal if the owner can be identified and located. If the
dead animal is not removed within twenty four (24) hours by its owner or if the
owner cannot be identified or located, it shall be the duty of the animal
control officer to remove from any property all such dead animals.
   C.   Request For Removal: If an owner requests the animal control officer to
remove and dispose of a dead animal, then the animal control officer shall do
so.
   D.   Disposal: Any dead animal removed by the animal control officer shall
be properly disposed of at any appropriate facility.
   E.   Animals Not Belonging To Occupant: When requested by the proper
occupant of any private property, the animal control officer will remove dead
animals, which are not the occupant's animals.
   F.   Costs Of Removal: The animal control officer shall record the expenses
incurred in removal and disposal of any dead animal, including, but not limited
to, the animal control officer's time, mileage, and any fees incurred. The
owner shall be liable to the town for the amount of monies expended by the town
in this regard. This shall be in addition to any fine imposed upon the owner.
The animal control officer shall notify the owner of such expenses. The owner
shall have fifteen (15) days to reimburse the town for such expenses. Failure
to pay these expenses by the owner shall be a violation of this chapter in
addition to any other violation of this section. (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-21: KILLING OF SHEEP, LIVESTOCK OR OTHER ANIMALS:
   A.   Liability For Damages:
      1.   Animals Owned By Same Person: The owner of any animal shall be
liable for any damages which may accrue to any person by reason of such animal
killing, wounding, worrying, or chasing any sheep, livestock, or any other
domestic animals belonging to such person, firm, or corporation, and such
damage may be recovered in any court having jurisdiction of the amount claimed.
      2.   Two Or More Animals Owned By Different Persons: If two (2) or more
animals owned by different persons shall kill, wound, chase, or worry any
sheep, livestock, or domestic animal, such persons shall be jointly and
severally liable for all damage done by such animals.
   B.   Harboring, Taken And Held As Owner: Any persons who shall harbor about
his or her premises an animal for the period of twenty (20) days shall be taken
and held as the owner and shall be liable for all damages that such animal or
animals shall commit.
   C.   Minimum Fine: The minimum fine for a violation of this section shall be
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-22: BREAKING INTO ANIMAL CONTROL CENTER:
It is unlawful to break into the animal control center or turn loose or
otherwise release any animal impounded therein or to hinder, obstruct, or
prevent the animal control officer from impounding any animal liable to be
impounded. (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-23: TURNING ANIMALS LOOSE:
   A.   Prohibited: No animals shall be purposely or negligently turned loose
within the town with the exception of wild animals when the owner or custodian
has written permission from a Wyoming game and fish department official to do
so.
   B.   Liability For Damages: Persons violating this section shall be liable
and responsible for any damages done by any animals turned loose, including any
damages to the town or any person who has suffered any injury, including
property damage, because of the animal(s) being turned loose. This liability
shall be in addition to any fine imposed for violation of this chapter.
   C.   Penalty: Violation of this section is subject to a minimum fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-24: ENFORCEMENT:
The civil and criminal provision of this chapter shall be enforced by those
persons or agencies designated by municipal, county, or state authority. It
shall be a violation of this chapter to interfere with any officer in the
performance of his or her duties. (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-2001)
5-3-25: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation: Except as otherwise provided, any person violating any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) (if the
minimum fine is not set out elsewhere in this chapter for the violation of a
particular section) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). If any
violation be continuing, each day's violation shall be deemed a separate
violation. The court, in making its determination of what penalty, shall take
into account the particular offense and its severity in nature and any prior
violations of this chapter by the owner or animal.
   B.   Repeat Violation: Any owner convicted (including forfeits of fines) of
violating this chapter three (3) times within a six (6) month span (including
impoundment, citations, or fines) shall surrender the animal(s) to the animal
control officer, at which time the animal(s) shall be disposed of either by
destroying said animal(s) or placing it in another home. (Ord. 2001-8, 9-24-
2001)
CHAPTER 4
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Curfew Imposed
5-4-3: Exceptions
5-4-4: Determination Of Enforcement Action
5-4-5: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
KNOWINGLY: Includes knowledge which a parent should be reasonably expected to
have concerning the whereabouts of the minor in the adult's custody.
LOITER OR LOITERING: Remaining idle, in essentially one location, and shall
include the concepts of spending time idly, to be dilatory, to linger, to stay,
to saunter, to delay, to stand around, and shall also include the colloquial
expression "hanging around".
PERSON OR PERSONS: Any person and shall not be limited to include parent or
parents, legal guardian or legal guardians, but shall include any other person
having the care or custody of a child. (Ord. 97-10, 8-25-1997)
5-4-2: CURFEW IMPOSED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to
loiter, walk, run or ride, or in any way be in or about any street, avenue,
highway, road, sidewalk, curb, gutter, parking lot, alley, vacant lot, park,
playground, yard, building, place of amusement, or eating place, whether public
or private, without the consent or permission of the owner or occupant thereof,
during the hours beginning at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. Friday night through Sunday morning, and beginning at ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. to five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on Sunday night through Thursday night
unless the juvenile is accompanied by a parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 97-10,
8-25-1997)
5-4-3: EXCEPTIONS:
No person shall be charged with a violation of section
5-4-2 of this chapter or arrested therefor, if such person was:
   A.   Not loitering;
   B.   In a parked, standing or moving vehicle while accompanied by a parent
or legal guardian;
   C.   In a motor vehicle in interstate travel;
   D.   Engaged in any employment, school, religious activity, or going to or
returning from any such activity, or going to or from any other activities of
any kind, which are supervised or directed by a parent or adult person over the
age of twenty one (21) years;
   E.   Returning from, via a direct and uninterrupted route, without detour or
stop, an event or activity expressly sanctioned by the parent or legal
guardian;
   F.   When attending or traveling directly to or from an organized activity
involving the exercise of first amendment rights of free speech, freedom of
assembly or free exercise of religion;
   G.   Married or an emancipated minor; or
   H.   Involved in a life or property threatening emergency. (Ord. 97-10, 8-
25-1997)
5-4-4: DETERMINATION OF ENFORCEMENT ACTION:
Before taking any enforcement action under section
5-4-2 of this chapter, a police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age
and reason for being where the person is. The officer shall not issue a
citation or make an arrest under this chapter unless the officer reasonably
believes that an offense has occurred, and that based upon any response and
other circumstances, no defense under section
5-4-3 of this chapter is present. (Ord. 97-10, 8-25-1997)
5-4-5: PENALTY:
A violation of section
5-4-2 of this chapter is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 97-10, 8-25-1997; amd. 2007 Code)
CHAPTER 5
DISTRIBUTION OF ADVERTISEMENTS AND NEWSPAPERS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Signs Prohibiting Distribution
5-5-2: Previous Distribution Not Removed; Vacant Property
5-5-3: Method Of Distribution
5-5-4: Posted Premises
5-5-5: Penalty
5-5-1: SIGNS PROHIBITING DISTRIBUTION:
No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed any advertisement or any
unauthorized newspaper to any business or residence whenever a sign approved
and distributed by the sheriff of Campbell County, Wyoming, acting as police
chief or the chief of police or his designated representative prohibiting such
distribution as conspicuously posted on or near the entrance or front door to
such premises. (Ord. 86-9, 11-10-1986)
5-5-2: PREVIOUS DISTRIBUTION NOT REMOVED; VACANT PROPERTY:
No person shall distribute any advertisement, unauthorized newspaper or
campaign material to any residence or business in the town where it is or
should be apparent to a reasonable person that any previous day's distribution
of any such material has not been removed and/or that the property is vacant.
(Ord. 86-9, 11-10-1986)
5-5-3: METHOD OF DISTRIBUTION:
No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed any advertisement or
campaign material to any business or residence in the town, except as follows:
   A.   By placing the same in a receptacle, clip or other device designed or
intended to receive advertising matter when such receptacle, clip or other
devise is erected in a conspicuous place near the front door or front entrance
or near the mailbox of any such property;
   B.   If no such receptacle, clip or other devise shall have been erected,
then by placing the same on porch or vestibule of the house or building of said
property; provided, that such matter is wrapped, tied or lock folded or is
placed within the outer door or in the door jam or door handles; or
   C.   By handing the same from person to person. (Ord. 86-9, 11-10-1986)
5-5-4: POSTED PREMISES:
No person shall distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast any
advertisement or newspaper upon any premises if requested by anyone thereon not
to do so or if there is placed on such premises, in a conspicuous position near
the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words, "No Trespassing", "No Peddlers
or Agents", "No Advertisement", "No Unsolicited Newspapers" or any other
similar notice indicating in any manner that the occupants of such premises do
not desire to be molested or to have their right of privacy disturbed or to
have such handbills left upon such premises. (Ord. 86-9, 11-10-1986)
5-5-5: PENALTY:
Any distributor violating any provisions of this chapter may be fined up to the
sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00). If any violation be continuing, each and
every day's violation shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 86-9, 11-10-
1986)
CHAPTER 6
HUNTING
SECTION:
5-6-1: Limitations
5-6-2: Penalty
5-6-1: LIMITATIONS:
   A.   No hunting is allowed within the limits of the town, except as provided
in this section.
   B.   This limitation shall not restrict or impair the ability and authority
of any law enforcement officer or town official, when acting in the course and
scope of his or her official duties, to do or engage in any of the acts which
are otherwise prohibited by this limitation, when reasonably necessary or
appropriate in the course and scope of those duties, and which are consistent
with promoting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the town.
(Ord. 2010-09, 12-27-2010)
5-6-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating section
5-6-1 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
not more than the general penalty stated in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2010-09, 12-27-2010)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
UNIFORM ACT REGULATING TRAFFIC ON HIGHWAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Statute Adopted
6-1-2: Statute Incorporated By Reference
6-1-3: Copy On File
6-1-4: Uniform Bail And Forfeiture Schedules
6-1-5: Penalty
6-1-1: STATUTE ADOPTED:
The following sections of the uniform act regulating traffic on highways,
Wyoming Statutes sections 31-5-101 through 31-5-1601 are hereby adopted under
the authority of Wyoming Statutes section 15-1-119 and are incorporated herein
by this reference as part of this section as fully as if completely set forth
herein:
   A.   Sections 31-5-101 to 31-5-232 inclusive, sections 31-5-236 and 31-5-
237;
   B.   Sections 31-5-301 to 31-5-970 inclusive;
   C.   Sections 31-5-1102 to 31-5-1601 inclusive. (Ord. 2010-08, 9-27-2010)
6-1-2: STATUTE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
The following sections of the Wyoming Statutes are hereby adopted and are
incorporated herein by this reference as part of this section as fully as if
completely set forth herein:
   A.   Section 31-4-101, sections 31-4-103 to 31-4-104 inclusive;
   B.   Sections 31-7-101, 31-7-102, 31-7-106 to 31-7-110 inclusive, 31-7-116,
31-7-117, 31-7-119, 31-7-133 to 31-7-136 inclusive;
   C.   Section 6-3-204;
   D.   Section 35-10-401. (Ord. 2003-06, 1-26-2004)
6-1-3: COPY ON FILE:
A copy of the uniform act regulating traffic on highways is on file in the
office of the town clerk-treasurer and is available for public inspection
during normal business hours. (Ord. 2003-06, 1-26-2004)
6-1-4: UNIFORM BAIL AND FORFEITURE SCHEDULES:
The most current uniform bail and forfeiture schedules as promulgated for the
above referenced statutes by the Wyoming supreme court as appendix I to rule
3.1 WRCrP, of which is made a part hereof as if fully set forth herein are
hereby adopted as the penalties upon conviction and for forfeiture, bond, and
bail purposes. A copy of said schedule is available at the Wright town hall.
(Ord. 2003-06, 1-26-2004; amd. 2007 Code)
6-1-5: PENALTY:
If penalties are not set forth in the uniform bail and forfeiture schedules for
specific statutes, then the penalty for violation of this chapter shall be as
set forth in the applicable statute. However, if no penalty is set forth in the
statute, then the penalty shall be as provided in section
5-2-13 of this code per violation. (Ord. 2003-06, 1-26-2004; amd. 2007 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING
SECTION:
6-2-1: No Parking Zone
6-2-2: Restricted On Street Parking
6-2-1: NO PARKING ZONE:
   A.   Designated: No person shall park any automobiles, vehicles, or trailers
of any kind upon any of the following streets:
Bison Avenue
Hay Creek Road
Latigo Drive
Ranchero
Reno Drive
Sagebluff Drive
Wright Boulevard
The full length of all such streets shall hereafter be no parking zones.
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any violation of this section shall be a
misdemeanor, and is punishable as follows:
      1.   First Violation: There shall be imposed a fine of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for a first violation of this section.
      2.   Second Violation: There shall be imposed a fine of seventy five
dollars ($75.00) for a second violation of this section.
      3.   Third And/Or Subsequent Violation: There shall be imposed a fine of
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for a third and/or any subsequent violation
of this section.
   C.   Application: The owner of an automobile, vehicle, or trailer which is
parked in violation of this section may be cited under this section, as well as
the operator of the automobile or vehicle or the person who parked the trailer.
It shall not be necessary to cite the operator in order to cite the owner.
   D.   Towing: Any automobile, vehicle, or trailer which is parked in
violation of this section may be towed, at the owner's and/or operator's
expense, and the cost of such towing and any subsequent and related costs, such
as storage or any other cost arising in conjunction with towing, shall be
assessed by the court against the owner and/or operator of the automobile,
vehicle or trailer as restitution in any prosecution under this section, in
addition to imposing an appropriate fine, if such costs have not already been
paid and satisfied by the owner and/or operator.
   E.   Snow Emergencies: The provisions of title 7, chapter 2 of this code are
not affected by this section, and a person may be cited and fined pursuant to
this section as well as any applicable provision of title 7, chapter 2 of this
code, if a snow emergency has been declared at any time when an automobile,
vehicle, or trailer is unlawfully parked. (Ord. 2012-04, 12-10-2012)
6-2-2: RESTRICTED ON STREET PARKING:
   A.   Time Limitation:
      1.   Except as is authorized in Title 11, Chapter 3 of the town code,
with respect to any vehicle or trailer of any kind which has a gross vehicle
weight rating (GVW) of 26,000 pounds or more, such vehicle or trailer may not
be parked along any public street within the town, with the exception that for
a period not to exceed twenty-four (24) hours such on-street parking is allowed
only on Reatta Drive or those portions of Latigo Drive located to the West of
Wright Boulevard, provided it is parked in such a manner that it does not
obstruct traffic or driveways. Under no circumstances whatsoever may a semi-
trailer or other similar trailer be disconnected from the truck and parked
along a public street. At all times such a trailer must be properly attached to
the truck. As used in this subsection "trailer" includes, but is not
necessarily limited to, semitrailers, house trailers, and pole trailers, as
defined in Section 31-5-102 of the Wyoming Statutes, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      2.   With respect to any vehicle which has a gross vehicle weight rating
(GVW) of less than 26,000 pounds, no person shall park any such automobile,
trailer of any kind, or vehicle of any kind upon any street in the town for a
period in excess of seventy-two (72) hours.
   B.   Penalty; Violation: Any violation of this section shall be a
misdemeanor, and is punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this town code.
(Ord. 2001-7, 6-25-2001; amd. Ord. 2022-04, 12-2-2022)
CHAPTER 3
SCHOOL CROSSING GUARDS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Purpose; Authority
6-3-2: Distinctive Vest Or Arm Band; Stop Paddle
6-3-3: Responsibility For Selection, Employment, Training And Supervision
6-3-4: Authority To Stop Traffic
6-3-5: Failure Or Refusal To Comply
6-3-6: Penalty
6-3-1: PURPOSE; AUTHORITY:
To maintain the orderly movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic consistent
with the safety of children attending school in the town, the Campbell County
school district may employ and use adults and students, hereinafter known as
school crossing guards. School crossing guards shall be authorized flagmen and
shall have the authority of flagmen when in the course of their duties. (Ord.
96-5, 3-11-1996)
6-3-2: DISTINCTIVE VEST OR ARM BAND; STOP PADDLE:
School crossing guards shall wear a distinctive vest, arm band or other
clothing clearly different from uniforms worn by law enforcement officers, so
that they can be easily recognized by the public. They may carry stop paddles
with "stop" on one or both sides for the purpose of signaling traffic to stop.
(Ord. 96-5, 3-11-1996)
6-3-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR SELECTION, EMPLOYMENT, TRAINING AND SUPERVISION:
The Campbell County school district is responsible for the selection,
employment, training and supervision of school crossing guards. (Ord. 96-5, 3-
11-1996)
6-3-4: AUTHORITY TO STOP TRAFFIC:
School crossing guards are authorized to stop traffic at locations where
crosswalks are painted upon town streets to permit school children to cross
those same streets. (Ord. 96-5, 3-11-1996)
6-3-5: FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO COMPLY:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any school crossing guards issued pursuant to the terms of this
chapter. (Ord. 96-5, 3-11-1996)
6-3-6: PENALTY:
The penalty for a violation of this chapter shall be:
   First offense   $ 50.00
   Second offense   100.00
   Third offense   250.00
(Ord. 96-5, 3-11-1996)
CHAPTER 4
GREENWAYS, SIDEWALKS, WALKWAYS, AND BICYCLE PATHS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definition
6-4-2: Prohibition; Exceptions
6-4-3: Permit
6-4-4: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITION:
"Greenway" shall be defined as any property owned by the town and which is
zoned RC recreation and conservation district under the town zoning ordinance 1
or amendments thereto. (Ord. 2003-05, 1-26-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this code.
6-4-2: PROHIBITION; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to operate a motorized vehicle, motorcycle, go-cart, three
(3) wheel all terrain vehicle, four (4) wheel all terrain vehicle, moped,
snowmobile and other motorized or self-propelled vehicles upon the greenways,
sidewalks, walkways and bicycle pathways located within the town, with the
exception of any motorized or self-propelled vehicle operated by handicapped
persons only, other motorized or self-propelled vehicle adapted for and
operated by handicapped persons with a valid permit issued by the town, and
maintenance vehicles owned by the town and operated by town employees on
official town business. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-27-2006)
6-4-3: PERMIT:
Upon a showing that a motorized or self-propelled vehicle is reasonably
necessary for mobility of a handicapped person, the town shall issue a permit
for the use of the vehicle upon the greenways, sidewalks, walkways and bicycle
pathways located within the town. The permit shall be valid for one year and
shall include a description of the vehicle, the serial number if available and
the name of the authorized user. The permit shall be renewable upon a showing
of continued necessity. There shall be no cost for such permit. The permits
shall be issued by the town clerk-treasurer and shall be recorded in the town
records. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-27-2006)
6-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall be subject to a fine of seventy five
dollars ($75.00) for a first offense, one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for a
second offense, and two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a third offense
within a five (5) year period. (Ord. 2003-05, 1-26-2004)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
6-5-1: Proper Lookout
6-5-2: Speed Or Acceleration Contest Or Exhibition On Public Ways
6-5-3: Compression Brakes Prohibited
6-5-1: PROPER LOOKOUT:
   A.   Definitions:
    PROPER LOOKOUT: Maintaining a proper lookout means observing and watching
the roadway, traffic in the area, and other surrounding circumstances as is
reasonable and prudent for the safe operation of that motor vehicle, having due
regard for parked vehicles, the speed of other vehicles, the amount of traffic
present at the time and the condition of the roadway.
   B.   Prohibited Activities: It shall be unlawful for any person driving a
motor vehicle within the town of Wright to fail to maintain a proper lookout.
   C.   Penalties: Any person who violates this section shall upon conviction
be fined up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2006-7, 12-11-2006)
6-5-2: SPEED OR ACCELERATION CONTEST OR EXHIBITION ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   No person shall engage in any motor vehicle speed or acceleration
contest, or exhibition of speed or acceleration on any public way without
approval of such use by the governing body in charge of said public way, or
approval of the owner thereof. No person shall aid or abet in any such motor
vehicle speed or acceleration contest or exhibition on any public way, without
approval of such use by the governing body in charge of said public way, or
approval of the owner thereof.
   B.   No person shall for the purpose of facilitating or aiding or as an
incident to any motor vehicle speed or acceleration contest upon a public way,
in any manner obstruct or place or assist in placing any barricade or
obstruction upon any public way without approval of such use by the governing
body in charge of said public way, or approval of the owner thereof.
   C.   For purposes of this section, the term "public way" shall mean and
include any property which is owned or maintained by any governmental entity,
whether or not such property is used for purposes of transportation, and shall
include, but not be limited to, streets, alleys, parking lots, or vacant lands,
together with any privately owned parking lot or street which is associated
with any commercial business.
   D.   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2010-07, 9-27-2010)
6-5-3: COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall operate or use any vehicle engine compression brake
within the corporate limits of the Town of Wright.
   B.   For the purposes of this Section "engine compression brake" means and
includes, but is not limited to, an engine retarding brake, dynamic brake,
"Jake" brake, or any other engine retarding or braking device or system that
results in excessive, loud, unusual, or explosive noise from such vehicle.
   C.   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2019-09, 8-26-2019)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC WORKS STANDARDS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Adoption
7-1-1: ADOPTION:
The town hereby adopts that certain publication known and designated as the
fourth edition of the Wyoming public works standard specifications as the
public works standard specifications of the town. Any contract for the
construction of any public works project, whether public or private within the
town, shall incorporate, by reference or otherwise, this chapter or the
requirement that the contract, bid specifications and construction are, and
shall remain, consistent with the fourth edition of the Wyoming public works
standard specifications. (Ord. 2001-14, 1-28-2002)
CHAPTER 2
SNOW REMOVAL
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Designation Of Level I, II, or III Snow Emergency
7-2-3: Effective Period Of Level I, II, or III Snow Emergency
7-2-4: Snow Emergency Routes
7-2-5: Emergency Snow Route Procedures
7-2-6: Parking Restrictions On Non-Snow Emergency Routes
7-2-7: Snow Route Signing
7-2-8: Removal Of Parked Vehicles
7-2-9: Interference With Snow Removal Operations
7-2-10: Penalties
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have their defined meanings and their regularly
understood meanings for the purposes of this chapter:
 
         The legal owner or one of the legal owners of the vehicle. The owner
OWNER:   also includes any person who is operating or last operated, drove, or
         parked the vehicle.
         Includes all licensed and unlicensed automobiles, pickups, trucks,
VEHICLE: tractors, recreational vehicles, campers, trailers, snowmobiles or any
         other apparatus parked or stored upon any public street. (Ord. 96-4,
         8-26-1996; amd. 2007 Code; Ord. 2023-01, 3-27-2023)
 
7-2-2: DESIGNATION OF LEVEL I, II, OR III SNOW EMERGENCY:
   A.   Conditions For Declaring Level I, II, or III Snow Emergency:
      1.   Accumulation Of Two Inches Of Snow: A Level I, II, or III snow
emergency shall be declared when the mayor or public works superintendent or
his designee finds there is an accumulation of two inches (2") of snow with
one, or both, of the following conditions:
         a.   Additional snow actually falling or anticipated as forecast by
the national weather service in the next forty-eight (48) hour period.
         b.   Winds actually blowing or gusting or anticipated to do so by the
national weather service with a velocity of twenty-five (25) miles per hour or
more in the next forty-eight (48) hour period.
      2.   Weather Conditions Jeopardize Public Safety: If, in the opinion of
the mayor or the public works superintendent or his designee, weather
conditions will jeopardize public safety, a Level I, II, or III snow emergency
may be declared at any time.
   B.   Snow Emergency Levels:
      1.   LEVEL I: A Level I snow emergency does not restrict travel; however,
citizens should expect adverse road conditions, including but not limited to,
icy roads, reduced visibility, and blowing and drifting snow. No person shall
park or allow to remain parked any vehicle on any portion of a snow emergency
route. During a Level I snow emergency all Town facilities remain open for
business.
      2.   LEVEL II: A Level II snow emergency advises against non-emergency
travel in the Town of Wright. Citizens driving during a Level II snow emergency
may encounter roads which are impassable; and will likely interfere with snow
and storm damage removal as well as emergency services. No person shall park or
allow to remain parked any vehicle on any street. Town facilities may be closed
at the discretion of the Mayor and or the Public Works Director during a Level
II snow emergency. Although Town facilities may be closed, it is the
responsibility of each citizen to determine whether their employer is open for
business.
      3.   Level III: A Level III snow emergency results in the closing of
streets to vehicular traffic and forbidding non-emergency driving. In the event
of such a declaration, it shall be unlawful for anyone to drive on the streets
of the town except in an emergency. No person shall park or allow to remain
parked any vehicle on any street. All Town facilities are closed for business
during a Level III snow emergency. (Ord. 98-7, 4-27-1998; amd. Ord. 2023-01; 3-
27-2023)
7-2-3: EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF LEVEL I, II, OR III SNOW EMERGENCY:
   A.   Beginning Of Period: The provisions of this chapter shall be in effect
two (2) hours after a public announcement is posted on the town’s website or by
town personnel on at least one social media platform. However, if the
declaration is made between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and five
o’clock (5:00) A.M., the provisions of this chapter shall not be in effect
until seven o’clock (7:00) A.M.
   B.   End Of Period: Provisions shall no longer be in effect when the mayor
or the public works superintendent or his designee deems such procedures are no
longer necessary and makes a public announcement, or as to a given street when
the street has been plowed and snow is no longer accumulating either by falling
or by blowing. (Ord. 96-4, 8-26-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-01; 3-27-2023)
7-2-4: SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES:
The following streets are hereby declared to be snow emergency routes for the
purpose of this chapter:
   Hay Creek Road
   Wright Boulevard
   Bison Avenue
   Ranchero
   Reno Drive
   Latigo Drive
   Sagebluff Drive (Ord. 96-4, 8-26-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-01; 3-27-2023)
7-2-5: EMERGENCY SNOW ROUTE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Clearing Of Routes: Designated snow routes will be the first streets
cleared in any snow storm.
   B.   Parking:
      1.   Prohibited: While the prohibition is in effect, no person shall park
or allow to remain parked any vehicle on any portion of a snow emergency route
to which it applies. However, nothing in this section shall be construed to
permit parking at any time or place where it is forbidden by any other
provision of law.
      2.   Interference With Or Restriction Of Traffic Flow: While the
prohibition is in effect, no person shall park or allow to remain parked any
vehicle on any portion of any other street so as to allow the vehicle to
interfere with or restrict the free vehicular traffic flow on the street.
   C.   Measures Taken By Mayor, Public Works Superintendent Or His Designee:
When a Level I, II, or III snow emergency is declared by the mayor, public
works superintendent or his designee the following measures will be taken:
      1.   Removal Of Vehicles In Violation: Any vehicle in violation of this
chapter may be removed or caused to be removed by a law enforcement officer or
town employee designated to do so by the mayor. Removal or towing may be done
by town personnel or by commercial towing contractors, consistent with the
provision of section
7-2-8 of this chapter.
      2.   Owner Responsibility: The owner of a vehicle shall be fully
responsible for determining existing weather conditions and for complying with
emergency snow route procedures and any other procedures of this chapter. A
vehicle owner shall have the duty to remove his vehicle immediately from any
emergency snow route. (Ord. 96-4, 8-26-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-01; 3-27-2023)
7-2-6: PARKING RESTRICTIONS ON NON-SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES:
In addition to the restrictions set forth in sections
7-2-2 through
7-2-5 of this chapter, from October 1 until May 1 of each year, parking on non-
snow emergency routes shall be limited to the odd numbered sides of the street
on odd numbered days and even numbered sides of the street on even numbered
days to facilitate clearing the streets of snow. For purposes of this chapter,
days shall be considered to be a twenty-four (24) hour period beginning at ten
o’clock (10:00) A.M., and the day’s number shall be the day of the month on
which the twenty-four (24) hour period begins. In the event of a Level II or
Level III snow emergency, the provisions of section
7-2-2(B)(2) and (3) shall control, and no parking on the street will be allowed
during such snow emergencies. (Ord. 2003-07, 1-26-2004; amd. Ord. 2023-01; 3-
27-2023)
7-2-7: SNOW ROUTE SIGNING:
Signs shall be erected as soon as practicable and maintained along all snow
routes indicating the status of these streets. (Ord. 96-4, 8-26-1996; amd. Ord.
2023-01; 3-27-2023)
7-2-8: REMOVAL OF PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Owner’s Duty To Remove: It shall be the duty of all persons owning
vehicles parked or stored upon any public street to remove such vehicle from
the street immediately when it becomes evident that snow plowing or removal
operations may isolate, cover, or otherwise restrict the movement of such
vehicle or when the vehicle(s) parked upon the town street hinders the snow
plowing and/or snow removal efforts of the town, or when such vehicle restricts
the free vehicular traffic flow on the streets.
   B.   Written Warning; Citation: Whenever the town public works
superintendent or his designate finds there is an accumulation of snow or ice
sufficient that a level I, II, or III snow emergency is declared or that the
parking or storage of a vehicle hinders the snow plowing, sanding or removal
efforts of the town, the superintendent or his designee shall be and is hereby
empowered to give a written warning or a citation for violation of this
chapter. The superintendent’s designate may be any town employee who is
responsible for snow plowing, sanding or removal efforts of the town, and may
also be the town’s Enforcement Officer, or any law enforcement officer. The
owner shall have the duty to remove the vehicle so as to comply with this
chapter.
   C.   Unable To Contact Owner: In the event town personnel cannot contact the
owner of the vehicle, then the town personnel shall place a warning or citation
upon the vehicle in a secure and visible place. In this event, the owner shall
have the same duty to remove the vehicle as set forth in other sections of this
chapter, and the town personnel shall have the same authority to remove the
vehicle as is otherwise set forth in this chapter.
   D.   Failure To Remove: If the owner does not remove the vehicle within
fourteen (14) hours after the beginning of a snow storm, the owner may be
issued a citation.
   E.   Removal By Town; Notice Of Removal: Whenever an officer or town
official removes or has removed a vehicle from a street as is authorized in
this chapter and the officer or official knows or is able to ascertain the name
and address of the owner thereof, such officer or official shall immediately
give or cause to be given notice, in writing, to such owner/operator of the
fact of such removal and the reasons therefor and of the place to which such
vehicle has been moved. In the event any such vehicle is stored in a public
garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to the proprietor of such garage.
   F.   Unable To Ascertain Ownership: Whenever an officer or official removes
or has removed a vehicle from a street under this section and does not know and
is not able to ascertain the name of the owner, or for any reason is unable to
give notice to the owner as herein before provided, and, in the event the
vehicle is not returned to the owner within a period of three (3) days from its
removal, then and in that event, the officer or official shall immediately send
or cause to be sent a written report of such removal by mail to the state
department whose duty it is to register motor vehicles, and shall file a copy
of such notice with the proprietor of any public garage in which the removed
vehicle is stored. The notice shall state the reasons for such removal, and the
name of the garage or place where the vehicle is stored.
   G.   Redemption Of Vehicle; Fees: No person shall recover any vehicle
removed in accordance with this section except as provided herein. Before the
owner of such vehicle shall be allowed to recover it from the place where it
has been placed or impounded, he shall present to the town official, officer,
or town clerk-treasurer evidence of his identity and right to possession of the
vehicle and shall sign a receipt for its return. The owner of such vehicle
shall show to the town official, officer, or town clerk-treasurer evidence that
he or she has paid to any private towing company the fees for towing such
vehicle. The owner of such vehicle shall also show to the town official,
officer, or town clerk-treasurer evidence that he or she has paid the
proprietor of any public garage to which the vehicle was towed the fees charged
by the garage proprietor. A reasonable fee for towing, storing, or garaging a
vehicle shall be charged by the town, in the event the town tows, stores or
garages a vehicle. These fees must be paid prior to the owner receiving any
vehicle. These fees shall not be credited toward any fine to be paid by the
person violating this chapter.
   H.   Record Of Vehicles Removed: It shall be the duty of the town official,
officer, or town clerk-treasurer to keep a record of each vehicle removed in
accordance with this section. The record shall include a description of the
vehicle, its license number, the date and time of its removal, where it was
removed from, its location, the name and address of its owner and the last
operator, if known, its final disposition, and the parking violation involved.
   I.   Supplemental Provisions: This section shall be supplemental to any
other provisions of law granting town officials, officers, or the town clerk-
treasurer authority to remove a vehicle.
   J.   Prima Facie Evidence: In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle
parked or left in a place or in a condition in violation of any provision of
this chapter, proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was
parked or left in violation of a provision of this chapter, together with proof
that the defendant named in the complaint was at the time the registered owner
or the operator of such vehicle, shall constitute prima facie evidence that the
defendant was the person who parked or left the vehicle in violation of this
chapter.
   K.   Responsibility For Damages: The town shall not be responsible for any
damage to any vehicle towed and/or stored as a result of a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 96-4, 8-26-1996; amd. Ord. 2023-01, 3-27-2023)
7-2-9: INTERFERENCE WITH SNOW REMOVAL OPERATIONS:
When any individuals are engaged in, or any vehicles or equipment being used by
or on behalf of the Town is engaged in snow removal activities on any street,
whether or not a snow emergency has been declared, and are stopped, or are
moving at less than the posted speed limit on or within three (3) feet of a
roadway, the driver of every other vehicle shall slow down and yield the right
of way to such snow removal vehicle or equipment, and shall come to a complete
stop at a safe distance away if appropriate under the circumstances. Under no
circumstances shall any person interfere with or harass Town personnel or
private contractors who are engaged in such snow removal activities. Under no
circumstances shall any other driver attempt to pass or go around vehicles or
equipment engaged in snow removal activities, unless directed to do so by the
operators of such vehicles and equipment, or by a law enforcement officer.
(Ord. 2023-01, 3-27-2023)
7-2-10: PENALTIES:
   A.   Misdemeanor:
      1.   A violation of subsection
7-2-2(B) or of section
7-2-9 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, and any person convicted of such
a violation shall be fined in an amount not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
      2.   Any violation of this chapter, other than as provided in subsection
(A)(1) of this section, shall be a misdemeanor and any person convicted of a
violation thereof shall be fined a minimum of:
 
First violation within any twelve-month   $50.00
period:
Second violation within any twelve-month  $150.00
period:
Third and following violations within any not less than $250.00 nor more than
twelve-month period:                      $750.00.
 
   B.   Forfeiture Of Bond: A person cited for violation of this chapter may
forfeit bond or pay the fine prior to the person’s arraignment on the citation
in lieu of appearing in court; provided, however, the person issuing the
citation may make it “Must Appear,” in which case the person cited must appear
in Court on the citation.
   C.   Costs Of Removal of Vehicles: Persons cited for violations of this
chapter shall, in addition to any fine, also be responsible for the costs of
removal of any vehicle, provided the conditions of announcement of section
7-2-3 of this chapter have been met. (Ord. 98-7, 4-27-1998; amd. Ord. 2023-01,
3-27-2023)
CHAPTER 3
STREET SIGNS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Signs Indicating Street Names
7-3-1: SIGNS INDICATING STREET NAMES:
   A.   Required: All streets, public and private, within the corporate limits
of the town upon which a residential, commercial or industrial use is located
shall be identified by a name and shall have the street name posted
conspicuously at all intersections with other streets.
   B.   Design And Construction: Such signs shall be designed and constructed
to comply with section 2D-39 of the 1988 edition of the manual of uniform
traffic control devices. (Ord. 2000-06, 5-8-2000)
CHAPTER 4
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Excavation Permit
7-4-3: Display Of Permit
7-4-4: Performance Of Work
7-4-5: Regulations For Protection Of Existing Improvements
7-4-6: Completion Of Work By Town
7-4-7: Routing And Control Of Traffic; Closing Of Streets; Barrier And Warning
Lights Around Excavation
7-4-8: Closure Of Streets
7-4-9: Penalty
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and
their derivations shall have the meanings given in this section:
APPLICANT: Any person making written application to the town for an excavation
permit hereunder.
CONTRACTOR: Any person who has been granted and has in full force and effect an
excavation permit issued hereunder.
EXCAVATION WORK: The excavation and other work permitted under an excavation
permit and required to be performed under this chapter, and where a trencher,
backhoe, boring machine, jackhammer, cable plow, or any other methods or
equipment are used to do such work.
STREET: Any street, highway, paved alley, avenue, or other public way or public
grounds including sidewalks, owned by the town. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986)
7-4-2: EXCAVATION PERMIT:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to dig up, break,
excavate, tunnel, undermine, or in any manner, break up any street or to make
or cause to be made any excavation in or under the surface of any street; or to
place, deposit, or leave upon any street any dirt or other excavated material
obstructing or tending to interfere with the free use of the street unless such
person shall first have obtained an excavation permit therefor from the town as
herein provided. Town maintenance personnel, when performing work for the town,
are not required to obtain a permit, nor are they required to have a class A
contractor's license or a deposit.
   B.   Application: No excavation permit shall be issued unless a written
application for the issuance of an excavation permit is submitted to the town.
Before a permit may be issued, the application shall state the name and address
of the applicant, the nature, location, and purpose of the excavation, the date
of the commencement of the work and approximate completion date. The contractor
shall maintain minimum clearance from gas, water, telephone, or other
facilities so such utilities will not be damaged or existing services
interfered with. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986)
   C.   Bond; Insurance:
      1.   Bond, Irrevocable Letter Of Credit, Or Cash Deposit: Before any
person shall do any work within the town limits as permitted by this chapter, a
five thousand dollar ($5,000.00) corporate surety bond or an irrevocable letter
of credit in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or a certified
check or cash deposit in an amount equal to the estimated construction charges
must be filed with the town to guarantee the faithful performance of the
provisions set forth in this chapter, with a minimum of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00).
      2.   Insurance: No permit shall be issued unless and until the applicant
therefor has filed a certificate of insurance evidencing the fact that the
applicant has purchased and has in effect an insurance policy by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the state of Wyoming, providing for public
liability coverage in the sum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for
each person and an aggregate sum of a minimum of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for more than one person on account of any one accident, and one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) property damage on account of any one
accident, to protect the applicant and the town from any liability, expense,
cost, damage, and any liability of any kind or character whatsoever, resulting
from or which may arise as a result of said applicant's opening any street
under a permit issued hereunder or which may in any way be connected therewith
or relating thereto. The insurance policy shall be continuous until cancelled.
The town shall receive ten (10) days' notice by registered mail, in advance of
such cancellation. The town shall be named as a named insured on said policy.
(Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986; amd. 2007 Code)
   D.   Permit Fees: A fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) shall be charged by the
town for the issuance of a required excavation permit.
   E.   Emergency Procedure: In the event of an emergency arising whereby
excavation is made and no permit has been issued, then the person doing the
excavation shall, as soon as possible, report same to the town, no later than
the next working day. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986)
7-4-3: DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
At all times while the work is in progress the permittee shall keep at the work
site the original permit for said work. The permittee shall, upon the request
of any town maintenance department employee or law enforcement officer, exhibit
said permit. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986)
7-4-4: PERFORMANCE OF WORK:
All work performed pursuant to the issuance of an excavation permit shall be
done as follows:
   A.   Safe Manner: All work shall be performed in a safe manner.
   B.   Pavement Cuts: All pavement cuts for permanent repair shall be made in
a neat and workmanlike manner with the edge of the cut vertical and any
necessary corners shall be at right angles. No random breaks or cuts will be
permitted.
   C.   Surplus Construction Materials And Debris: Upon completion of the work,
the contractor shall remove all surplus construction materials and debris
resulting from the work, leaving the entire site free, clean, and in a safe and
passable condition within forty eight (48) hours. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986)
   D.   Replacement Of Curb, Gutter And Sidewalk: The contractor shall be
responsible for the removal and replacement of the concrete curb, gutter, and
sidewalk and arrangements to replace the same shall be made within forty eight
(48) hours after backfilling is complete. Replacement work shall be completed
within thirty (30) days, weather permitting. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986, amd. 2007
Code)
   E.   Excavation, Backfilling And Restoring: All excavation, backfilling, and
resurfacing work shall be performed by the contractor or his agent. Upon
completion of the work, the contractor shall give immediate notice to the town
that such work has been completed. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986)
   F.   Damage To Underground Facilities: The contractor shall assume the
responsibility for any damage to underground facilities caused by all
construction activities. The permittee is responsible for contacting "One Call
Of Wyoming" before doing any excavation. Damages to underground utilities are
covered by Wyoming Statutes sections 37-12-301 through 37-12-304. (Ord. 86-10,
11-10-1986, amd. 2007 Code)
   G.   Unpaved Road Surface: Any unpaved road surface shall be restored by
placing a minimum of eight inches (8") of stabilized gravel on the surface of
the excavation. Such stabilized gravel shall be equal to material meeting
Wyoming highway department specification grade W base course.
   H.   Concrete Or Bituminous Street Surfacing: All replacement concrete or
bituminous street surfacing, concrete curbs or curbs and gutters, sidewalks,
etc., shall be constructed in accordance with the current standards for such
construction as used by the town on its construction projects and such special
requirements established by the town.
   I.   Topsoil And Sod: All topsoil and sod removed by the contractor shall be
restored as near as possible to original or suitable condition.
   J.   Excavated Materials Piled Separately; Removal Of Deleterious Materials:
When making excavations, the various materials excavated shall be piled
separately. All concrete and bituminous materials, any soils which cannot be
properly compacted, and all other deleterious materials shall be removed from
the construction site and be disposed of at a site obtained by the contractor.
   K.   Backfill Materials:
      1.   All materials used for backfilling shall be compatible so as to
assure stability of the backfilled area. No snow or ice will be permitted in
the backfill. No frozen lumps or stones exceeding three inches (3") in greatest
dimension will be permitted within twelve inches (12") of pipe, conduit, or
cable, or within eighteen inches (18") of the street surfaces. No stones,
frozen lumps, and items exceeding six inches (6") in greatest dimension will be
permitted in the backfill.
      2.   All backfill material within twenty four inches (24") of a roadway
surface must be a clean sand, gravel, or sand/gravel mixture. If approved by
the town, a slurry cement mixture may be used. If on site material is
unacceptable, it shall be removed from the site and replaced. If a slurry
cement mixture is used, it will be capped with a road subbase material
compatible with the original roadway condition.
      3.   All backfill shall be thoroughly compacted to ninety percent (90%)
modified proctor utilizing compaction methods suitable for the type of backfill
being placed and meeting the town specifications for minimum density.
   L.   Guarantee: As a condition of the permit, the contractor shall guarantee
his work for a period of one year. If settlement occurs at the site of the
excavation, or the excavation causes an adjacent area to settle at any time
within one year from the date of final completion of the original restoration,
the contractor shall be responsible for repairing such settled area in
accordance with the directions of the town. In addition, the contractor shall
be responsible for reimbursing the town for any expenses incurred in the
placement of warning devices and barricades for the protection of traffic
because of such settlement. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986)
7-4-5: REGULATIONS FOR PROTECTION OF EXISTING IMPROVEMENTS:
The contractor holding the permit for a project shall be responsible for the
protection, repair, or replacement of all improvements which exist within the
limits of the construction area. For the purposes of this section, the term
"improvements" shall include, but shall not be limited to, water lines,
sanitary and storm sewer lines, street lighting, traffic signal systems,
traffic signs, topsoil, sod, trees, public utility lines and systems, and
street improvements including subgrade, base, pavement or other surfacing,
curbs, gutter, medians, sidewalks, and all of the various appurtenances of
these improvements.
   A.   Protection Of Existing Improvements: Before commencing any excavation,
the contractor shall determine what improvements exist within the limits of the
construction area and shall make detailed arrangements with the owners thereof
for the protection or replacement of such improvements.
   B.   Installation Of Pipes: Installation of pipes under town arterial
streets shall be done by jacking or boring, whenever possible. When installing
pipes by jacking or boring extreme care shall be exercised.
   C.   Sheeting: Sheeting may be required by the town in any excavation where,
in his opinion, damage to existing utilities may occur.
   D.   Surfaced Roadway: The excavation of materials from any surfaced roadway
shall be accomplished either by hand or by the use of equipment. Where any
piece of equipment is used, adequate provisions shall be employed to assure
that those portions of the street surface which are not to be removed will not
be damaged. This shall be accomplished with the use of protective planking,
pads, or other methods meeting the approval of the town. In the event any
portion of the street is damaged as a result of the contractor's operations, he
shall be responsible for the repair or replacement thereof in accordance with
the direction of the town. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986)
7-4-6: COMPLETION OF WORK BY TOWN:
All work covered under this chapter shall be pursued expeditiously until
completion, in order to avoid unnecessary inconvenience to traffic, to
pedestrians, and for the protection of other public interests. The contractor
shall state in his application for permit, the time which he estimates will be
required to complete the work. Upon review of the application, the town shall
have the right to amend the time requested and issue the permit so as to allow
the minimum amount of time which the town determines will reasonably be
required for such work. The time allowed for completion shall be extended as
necessary if it is found that it is not possible to complete the work within
the time allowed.
   A.   Work Not Being Accomplished Expeditiously, Ceased Or Abandoned: In the
event that the work is not being accomplished expeditiously in accordance with
the time period set forth in the permit, or if work on an excavation has ceased
or is abandoned without due cause, the town may, after six (6) hours' written
notice to the holder of the permit of the town's intention to do so, have town
forces correct said work, backfill the excavation and effect all restoration as
required by this chapter.
   B.   Settlement Of Excavation: In the event settlement of an excavation
occurs within one year of the date of final restoration and the contractor is
notified of such settlement, he shall accomplish the required restoration or
repair within the time limit specified by the town. Thereafter, if said work
has not been accomplished, the town may have town forces accomplish the work
required.
   C.   Costs: In the event town forces accomplish work in accordance with
either subsection A or B of this section, the entire cost of such work,
including any materials used therefor, shall be paid to the town by the holder
of the permit, upon demand. If payment is not made within thirty (30) days of
the demand, no additional permits shall be issued to said contractor until
payment has been made by the contractor or by his bonding company. In addition,
the town may proceed to collect any of said costs due and owing in any manner
allowed by law, including a reasonable attorney fee. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986)
7-4-7: ROUTING AND CONTROL OF TRAFFIC; CLOSING OF STREETS; BARRIER AND WARNING
LIGHTS AROUND EXCAVATION:
   A.   Maintenance Of Traffic Conditions: The contractor shall take
appropriate measures to assure that, during the performance of the excavation
work, traffic conditions shall be maintained, as nearly normal as practicable,
at all times. The contractor shall route and control traffic pursuant to the
uniform traffic control devices manual which has been adopted by the town and
is on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986;
amd. Ord. 87-1, 2-9-1987)
   B.   Permit Required For Street Closure: The contractor shall obtain a
permit from the town for any closure of any street or portion thereof as
provided for in this section. Along with the permit application, the contractor
shall provide a sketch showing traffic routing and traffic control devices to
be used. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986; amd. 2007 Code)
   C.   Power To Permit: The town may permit the closing of streets to all
traffic for a period of time prescribed by it, if, in its opinion, it is
necessary.
   D.   Notice Required: If any public way will be completely obstructed for a
period of more than two (2) hours, the permittee shall notify the appropriate
law enforcement agency, medical clinic, schools, and area news media of the
type of obstruction and the length of time the public way will be obstructed.
(Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986)
   E.   Public Utilities: If any public utility will be out of service for more
than thirty (30) minutes, the permittee shall notify the appropriate persons or
agencies who will be affected. (Ord. 87-6, 9-14-1987)
   F.   Newly Paved, Repaved Or Reconstructed Streets: Excavation permits will
not be issued for a period of two (2) years on streets that have been newly
paved, repaved, or reconstructed. The only exception is in the case of an
emergency declared by the town. When additional underground service utilities
are needed on a new street, the permittee will be required to tunnel or bore
the new street in order to provide said services.
   G.   Permit May Cover Multiple Excavations: One permit may cover more than
one excavation provided that one contractor is involved, the work is performed
as a continuous operation and the work is in one general location. (Ord. 86-10,
11-10-1986)
7-4-8: CLOSURE OF STREETS:
   A.   Definition: For the purposes of this section, "utilities" means all
pipes, sewers, conduits, cables, valves, lines, wires, manholes, poles, and all
appurtenances thereto lawfully placed in, on, or under said street and used in
connection with the storage, or conveyance of water, sewage, electronic,
telephonic, or telegraphic communications, electric energy, oil, gas, or other
substances.
   B.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person except officers
and employees of the town to close any street, or any portion thereof, for the
purpose of performing any work on utilities without first obtaining a permit
for such closure from the town. In the case of an emergency, a permit will be
obtained the next working day.
   C.   Application: Any person desiring to close such street or portion
thereof shall make application to the town at least forty eight (48) hours in
advance of the proposed closure. The application shall include a sketch showing
traffic routing, placement and type of traffic control devices to be used, and
shall include a statement of the reason for the work and the time during which
the work is to be performed.
   D.   Approval/Denial: Within twenty four (24) hours of receiving the
application, the town shall approve a permit or deny the application. The town
shall deny the application only if the proposed closure will create a serious
risk to the safety of the public using said street, or in the event said person
has closed said street or portion thereof pursuant to a valid excavation permit
issued to him in conformance with section
7-4-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 86-10, 11-10-1986)
7-4-9: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; provided, that the imposition of any such fine shall not
bar the institution of appropriate legal action or proceedings by the
municipality to restrain, correct or append the violation nor shall the
institution of such legal actions or proceedings be deemed a bar to the
imposition of such fine. Each day any violation of this chapter continues shall
constitute a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to
prevent the town or other appropriate authority from prosecuting such lawful or
equitable action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 86-
10, 11-10-1986; amd. 2007 Code)
CHAPTER 5
WRIGHT FISHPOND PARK
SECTION:
7-5-1: Prohibited Acts
7-5-2: Restriction On Parking
7-5-3: Penalty
7-5-1: PROHIBITED ACTS:
Swimming, wading and boating are prohibited in the Wright fishpond park. (Ord.
93-11, 7-12-1993)
7-5-2: RESTRICTION ON PARKING:
No person shall park any vehicle in the Wright fishpond park for more than ten
(10) hours. (Ord. 93-11, 7-12-1993)
7-5-3: PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Any person convicted of violating this chapter shall be fined:
      1.   First Offense: Fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense.
      2.   Second Offense: One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the second
offense; and
      3.   Third And Subsequent Offenses: Seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for the third offense and the same thereafter for each further offense along
with court costs.
   B.   Forfeiture Of Bond: Persons cited for violating this chapter may
forfeit the appropriate bond amount, as per the schedule set forth in
subsection A of this section, and forego court appearance and related court
costs. (Ord. 93-11, 7-12-1993)
CHAPTER 6
MASTER STREET PLAN
SECTION:
7-6-1: Authority
7-6-2: Classification Of Roadways And Right Of Way Widths
7-6-3: Roadway Standards
7-6-4: Official Map
7-6-1: AUTHORITY:
The state statutes enable the town to adopt a major street plan and use the
authority of the plan to acquire rights of way for needed major roadways. This
plan is developed within the guidelines of the Wyoming Statutes, sections 15-1-
508 through 15-1-512, and will be implementable under those statutes and the
Wright subdivision regulations. (Ord. 2005-15, 10-24-2005)
7-6-2: CLASSIFICATION OF ROADWAYS AND RIGHT OF WAY WIDTHS:
All streets and thoroughfares shall be classified and platted according to the
following table. Increased widths may be required by the town engineer where
streets are to serve adjoining commercial or industrial property or where
probable traffic conditions warrant. (Ord. 2005-15, 10-24-2005)
Classification                                        R/W Width
Arterial street                                       100 feet
Major collector streets                               80 feet
Minor collector streets                               60 feet
Local streets, commercial and industrial areas        60 feet
Local streets, high and low density residential areas 60 feet
Cul-de-sacs                                           60 foot radius
Alleys                                                20 feet
 
(Ord. 2005-15, 10-24-2005; amd. Ord. 2008-4, 6-9-2008)
7-6-3: ROADWAY STANDARDS:
   A.   New roadways constructed within the town shall be designed and
constructed to the following standards: (Ord. 2005-15, 10-24-2005)
   ROADWAY STANDARDS FOR NEW DEVELOPMENT IN WRIGHT
 Arterial Major Collector Minor Collector Cul-De-Sac
                          Or Local Street
                 Arterial        Major Collector   Minor Collector   Cul-De-Sac
                                                   Or Local Street
Right of way     100 ft.         80 ft.            60 ft.            60 ft.
Number of lanes  4               2                 2                 –
Turning lanes    Continuous left At major          None              –
                 turn            intersection
Pavement width   48 ft., plus 16
exclusive of     ft. median/turn 36 ft., variable  29 ft.            –
curb and gutter  lane
Surface
treatment or     Asphalt or      Asphalt or        Asphalt or        –
pavement type (4 concrete        concrete          concrete
in. minimum)
Average daily    Minimum of
traffic expected 10,000          Maximum of 10,000 Maximum of 3,000  –
on street
On street        None            Yes               Varies            –
parking
Drainage         2.5 ft. barrier 2.5 ft. barrier   2.5 ft. barrier   –
                 curb and gutter curb and gutter   curb and gutter
Sidewalk width   6 ft.           6 ft.             5 ft.             –
(minimum)
Geometric design 40 mph          35 mph            30 mph            –
speed
Stopping sight   450 ft.
distance on      desirable       275 ft.           200 ft.           –
vertical curves  350 ft. minimum
Minimum
horizontal curve 750 ft.         750 ft.           300 ft.           –
radius
Maximum gradient 7%              8%                8%                –
Minimum gradient The minimum profile gradient for all streets shall  –
                 be 0.5%
 
(Ord. 2005-15, 10-24-2005; amd. Ord. 2008-4, 6-9-2008)
   B.   Additional standards may be defined within the subdivision ordinance
and shall also apply to new roadway development within the town. In case of a
discrepancy between standards defined in the master street plan and the
subdivision ordinance, the master street plan shall prevail. (Ord. 2005-15, 10-
24-2005)
7-6-4: OFFICIAL MAP:
The map attached to ordinance 2005-15, labeled exhibit 1, represents the
official map of the master street plan, which indicates the functional
classification of roadways within the town and designates collectors, both
existing and proposed. The locations indicated shall be considered binding to
the extent allowed by appropriate design standards. (Ord. 2005-15, 10-24-2005)
TITLE 8
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
OUTDOOR FIRES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Permission Required
8-1-2: Rules For Burning
8-1-3: Hot Ashes, Cinders, Smoldering Coals, Or Greasy Or Oily Substances
8-1-4: Penalty
8-1-1: PERMISSION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to burn, kindle or maintain the burning of any
"refuse", "rubbish", "grass", "weeds" or any other combustible material within
the town limits without first obtaining written or verbal permission to do so
from the fire chief, fire warden or fire coordinator. The fire chief, fire
warden or fire coordinator may, in his discretion, view or not view the
material to be burned before granting permission to burn. The fire chief, fire
warden or fire coordinator may prohibit any or all bonfires and outdoor rubbish
fires when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires
hazardous. (Ord. 96-7, 5-13-1996)
8-1-2: RULES FOR BURNING:
Any person obtaining permission to burn hereunder shall abide by the following
rules for burning:
   A.   Distance From Structure: No person shall burn, kindle or maintain any
bonfire or rubbish fire or authorize such fire to be kindled or maintained on
any private or public lands unless the location is not less than fifty feet
(50') from any structure and adequate provisions are made to prevent the fire
from spreading to within fifty feet (50') of any structure.
   B.   Attendance Of Open Fires: Bonfires and rubbish fires shall be
continually attended by a competent adult until such fire is extinguished. This
person shall have a garden hose connected to the water supply, or other fire
extinguishing equipment readily available for use. (Ord. 96-7, 5-13-1996)
8-1-3: HOT ASHES, CINDERS, SMOLDERING COALS, OR GREASY OR OILY SUBSTANCES:
No person shall deposit hot ashes, cinders, smoldering coals, or greasy or oily
substances, which may ignite spontaneously, into any combustible receptacle or
place the same within ten feet (10') of any combustible material, except on
metal or other noncombustible floor, or on the ground outside the buildings, or
placed on noncombustible stand and, in such case, shall be kept at least two
feet (2') away from any combustible walls or partitions or exterior window
opening. (Ord. 96-7, 5-13-1996; amd. 2007 Code)
8-1-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 96-7, 5-13-1996)
CHAPTER 2
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Prohibited
8-2-2: Exceptions
8-2-3: Special Use Permit
8-2-4: Total Ban
8-2-5: Penalty
8-2-1: PROHIBITED:
Except as provided in sections
8-2-2 and
8-2-3 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge,
explode, or fire, or cause to be discharged, exploded or fired, within the town
of Wright, any firecracker, roman candle, skyrocket, torpedo, or other
combustible fireworks or other like explosive or pyrotechnic device. (Ord.
2006-08, 2-12-2007)
8-2-2: EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Except when prohibited pursuant to section
8-2-4 of this chapter, the prohibition in section
8-2-1 of this chapter shall not apply between the hours of one minute after
twelve o'clock (12:01) P.M., and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. June 22 to July 3
of any year, nor shall it apply between the hours of one minute after twelve
o'clock (12:01) P.M. and eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. July 4 of any
year.
   B.   The town council, in its discretion, may from time to time establish
other temporary dates and times when the prohibition in section
8-2-1 of this chapter is suspended, and during which the use of fireworks is
allowed. Such additional dates and times may thereafter be established or
changed by the town council, and such action shall be memorialized in the
minutes of the meeting in which such action was taken, in order to become
effective. Any action taken pursuant to this subsection may be later terminated
pursuant to section
8-2-4 of this chapter.
   C.   The dates and times set forth in subsection A of this section may be
changed by the town council, and memorialized in the minutes of the meeting in
which such action was taken, in order to become effective. Any action taken
pursuant to this subsection may be later terminated pursuant to section
8-2-4 of this chapter.
   D.   If any action is taken pursuant to subsection B or C of this section, a
public notice of that action, reciting the dates and times during which
fireworks are allowed, shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
within Wright, Wyoming, once each week for two (2) consecutive weeks.
   E.   Notwithstanding the exceptions enumerated above, it shall be a
violation of this chapter for any person to use or possess any fireworks which
are prohibited by any laws of the state of Wyoming or the United States Of
America. (Ord. 2013-03, 5-28-2013)
8-2-3: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The town council, in its discretion, may permit the discharging of fireworks by
any person, corporation, association, society, or club to be used at a special
celebration as may be approved by the mayor and the town council. Any person,
corporation, association, society or club desiring to obtain such authorization
must first apply in writing to the town council for a special use permit under
this section, and such application may be denied, granted, or granted in part
and denied in part, in the discretion of the town council. The town council, in
its discretion, may further impose any limitations it deems appropriate on the
discharge of fireworks authorized pursuant to the special use permit. The town
council, in its discretion, may later modify or rescind any special use permit
which was previously issued. The special use permit must be kept at the
location at which fireworks are being discharged for as long as fireworks are
being discharged, and fireworks may only be discharged in strict conformity
with the terms of the permit. If the application for a special use permit is
denied, fireworks may not be discharged at all. Any special use permit issued
pursuant to this section may be later terminated pursuant to section
8-2-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 2013-03, 5-28-2013)
8-2-4: TOTAL BAN:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the governing body may, in their discretion,
institute a total ban of fireworks at any time based upon the fire conditions,
fire prevention capabilities, and all other factors concerning the possibility
of a fire hazard because of fire conditions. In making this determination, the
mayor and council shall consider the recommendations of the Campbell County
fire department and consider any similar actions taken by the Campbell County
commissioners. (Ord. 2006-08, 2-12-2007)
8-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person found to be in violation of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (Ord. 2006-08, 2-12-2007)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Adoption
9-1-2: Amendments
9-1-3: Building Permit Fees
9-1-4: Copy On File
9-1-1: ADOPTION:
The Town of Wright, Wyoming, hereby adopts that certain publication known and
designated as the 2018 edition of the International Building Code, including
appendix chapters C, E, H, I and J, as the Building Code for the Town of
Wright, Wyoming, for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of
all property, buildings and structures by providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and
the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use
and the demolition of such structures as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Building Code
on file in the Office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Wright and
hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
9-1-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2019-04, 7-29-2019)
9-1-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1 Insert town of Wright as the name of the jurisdiction.
Section 105.2 Item 1 under Building: is hereby amended to read as follows:
      1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses, and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed
200 square feet.
Section 1612.3 Delete the entire section.
Section 1802.2.2 is hereby amended to add the following exception:
Soil tests shall not be required for group U structures.
Section 1805 is hereby amended to add the following two exceptions:
      1.   A one story detached wood or metal frame building to be used as a
private garage, not for human occupancy and not to exceed 1500 square feet, may
be constructed with an approved monolithic foundation which is not required to
extend below the frost line. Use and character shall conform to the
requirements of a group U occupancy. Monolithic shall mean that the footer and
slab are poured as one continuous pour.
      2.   Commercial buildings not used for human occupancy and used only for
moderate hazard storage of combustible materials that are not classified as a
group H occupancy may be constructed with a monolithic foundation which is not
required to extend below the frost line, provided that the foundation is
designed and stamped by a Wyoming professional engineer. Monolithic shall mean
that the footer and slab are poured as one continuous pour.
Section 3410.2 Insert "the date of adoption of this ordinance" as the date
required in this section.
(Ord. 2009-08, 8-10-2009)
9-1-3: BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
Building permit fees are hereby established as follows:
   A.   Plan Review Fees, Permit Fees And Reinspection Fees:
      1.   Plan Review Fees:
 
Plans are required for one and two-family dwellings No charge for plan reviews
First Commercial Plan review including Commercial
Master Plans and additional plan review required by
changes, additions, or revisions to approved plans,  
and all dwellings larger than one and two-family
dwellings:
 1st review                                        $100.00
 2nd review                                        200.00
 3rd review                                        1,125.00
 4th and any additional reviews                    1,500.00 each
 
      2.   Building Permit Fees: The fee for each building permit including
additions shall be as set forth in the following schedule:
 
Building Square Feet Fee
   0 - 500        $30.00
   500 - 1,000    60.00
   1,000 - 2,000  100.00
   2,000 - 5,000  150.00
   Over 5,000     $150.00 + $0.04 per sq. ft.
 
Type Permit Fee
Type                                       Permit Fee
Signs (includes LED, not video)            $30.00
Miscellaneous residential includes         20.00
remodels, damage, repair or residing
Miscellaneous commercial includes remodels
up to 500 sq. ft., for larger projects     30.00
permits are based on the above chart
Storage building/garage                    Fee is calculated according to the
                                           building square feet table above
Deck                                       $ 20.00
Fences over 6 ft. high                     10.00
Retaining walls (greater than 4 ft. high,  20.00
require engineered drawings)
Fire sprinkler systems - Fire Department   30.00
performs the plan check and inspections
Grading Plan review fee and grading permit 60.00
fee
Building demolition permits                60.00
Cell and other towers                      100.00
Antenna co-locates                         100.00
Temporary job trailers                     30.00
 
 
Type                                          Square Foot Fee    Permit Fee
Re-roof shingles and shakes (over 100 sq. ft.                    
requires permit):
 Residential                                                   $10.00
 Commercial                                  $0.005 per sq. ft.
 
 
                             Foundation Permit Fee
Foundation only              $40.00
Foundation only - plumbing   40.00
Foundation only - electrical 40.00
Foundation only - mechanical 40.00
 
A building permit must be obtained to finish a basement; however, a building
permit fee will be waived. Because the building square footage is charged in
original plans and plumbing, and mechanical work is usually roughed-in in
unfinished basements, permits are required to finish the plumbing and
mechanical but there is no charge for those permits, unless there are special
circumstances. For example, if the basement floor must be opened to install new
plumbing drain lines or if a new hot water heater or a furnace is installed
then a permit and fee will be required. A standard electrical permit is
required with the standard fee for the addition of new electrical circuits as
well as for electrical wiring and new outlets to finish a basement. Standard
inspections from the Building Division will still be conducted and work must be
in compliance with the code enforced by the Town of Wright.
      3.   Reinspection Fees: The first two (2) inspections for all work are
free of charge. A sixty dollar ($60.00) fee will be assessed for each
subsequent reinspection of the same type of work which is found to be incorrect
after the second inspection. The reinspection fee must be paid to the Town of
Wright before each reinspection can be scheduled.
      4.   Disaster Permits: Permits for repairs to a building or structure as
the result of a natural disaster or accident as determined and approved by the
building official shall be free of charge.
   B.   Electrical Permit Fees:
      1.   The fee for an electrical permit shall be computed in accordance
with the following schedule. Fees are payable at the time of issuance of the
electrical permit. The minimum fee for the issuance of an electrical permit is
ten dollars ($10.00).
      2.   Electrical repair, temporary construction electrical service, MH and
RV hook-up, (not on a privately-owned lot), services, change services, basement
finish, additions, alterations, or repairs - circuits or sub-feeder (including
circuit feed for sub- feeders) on either primary or secondary services are
computed separately.
 
Capacity                                             Fee
0 - 60 amp capacity                                  $10.00
61 - 100 amp capacity                                12.00
101 - 200 amp capacity                               13.00
Each additional 100 amp capacity or fraction thereof 4.00
For each sub-panel                                   5.00
 
      3.   Residential and commercial electrical fees:
         a.   The maximum fee for single family residences on a privately-
owned lot, as outlined by the International Residential Code, including, MHs,
townhouses and patio houses is:
 
Capacity               Fee
0 - 100 amp capacity   $40.00
101 - 200 amp capacity 50.00
 
         b.   The maximum fee for commercial building is:
Capacity Fee
Capacity                                                               Fee
For commercial building including apartment buildings single phase      
service:
 0 - 100 amp capacity                                                 $40.00
 100 - 200 amp capacity                                               50.00
 Each additional 100 amp capacity or fraction thereof                 10.00
 For each sub-panel                                                   5.00
For commercial building including apartment buildings 3-phase service:  
 0 - 100 amp capacity                                                 50.00
 100 - 200 amp capacity                                               60.00
 Each additional 100 amp capacity or fraction thereof                 12.00
 For each sub-panel                                                   5.00
 
         c.   The maximum fee for a new mobile home park is ten dollars
($10.00) for each space for the first forty (40) spaces and five dollars
($5.00) per each additional space.
      4.   In addition to the foregoing a charge is made for special
installations as follows in addition to a base charge of ten dollars ($10.00):
         a.   Each street lighting standard: One dollar ($1.00).
         b.   Each traffic signal standard: Two dollars ($2.00).
         c.   Each lighted sign: Ten dollars ($10.00).
      5.   Demolition of building - disconnect power service line: Ten dollars
($10.00).
   C.   Plumbing, Mechanical And Gas Pipefitting Permit Fees:
1. Plumbing permit fees:                     
 Minimum permit fee                        $10.00
  For each plumbing fixture or trap or set
 of fixtures on 1 trap (including water,   2.00
  drainage piping, and backflow protection
  therefor)
 For each water heater                     10.00
  For each industrial waste pre-treatment
  grease or sand-oil interceptor, including
 its trap and vent, excepting kitchen type 10.00
  grease, interceptors functioning as
  fixture traps
 For installation, alteration or repair of 10.00
  water line
 For each lawn sprinkler system and        5.00
  associated backflow protection devices
 For water softeners or treatment systems  10.00
 Plumbing repair (any type)                10.00
 Sewer line installation and/or repair     10.00
 Residential plumbing (new single-family   30.00
  construction) - interior
 Demolition of building - cap off plumbing 10.00
  at street
2. Mechanical permit fees unit fee           
schedule:
  Residential - new HVAC (includes up to 2  $30.00
  heating units, A/C unit, vents, ducts,    $15.00 per unit for each additional
  bath fans, dryer vents, and fireplaces)   unit
 Residential - replacement:                 
  Installation of a furnace, woodstove or $15.00 per unit
    heating unit
  Installation of an air conditioning or  15.00 per unit
    cooling unit
  Installation of a boiler unit           15.00 per unit
  Miscellaneous                           15.00 per unit
 Commercial new or replacement:             
  Installation of a furnace, wood/coal    20.00 per unit
    stove, or heating unit
  Installation of an air conditioning     20.00 per unit
    window unit or cooling unit
  Installation of a boiler unit           20.00 per unit
  Installation of a grease hood or        20.00 per unit
    exhaust hood
    New construction or alteration of a     75.00 flat fee
    commercial building HVAC (heating unit, $20.00 per unit for each additional
    venting, ducts, air conditioning unit,  unit
    grease hood, bathroom fan, dryer vent)
  Miscellaneous (major items not          $20.00 per unit
    specified above)
3. Gas pipefitting permit fees:              
 For each gas piping system of 1 to 4      10.00
  outlets
 For each gas piping system of 5 or more   15.00
  per outlet
 
(Ord. 2019-03, 6-24-2019)
9-1-4: COPY ON FILE:
Said Building Code shall at all times be on file in the Office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Wright, Wyoming, and shall be open to inspection
by the public at such reasonable times as the Office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer is open. (Ord. 2009-08, 8-10-2009)
CHAPTER 2
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Adoption
9-2-2: Amendments
9-2-3: Copy On File
9-2-1: ADOPTION:
The Town of Wright, Wyoming hereby adopts that certain publication known and
designated as the 2018 edition of the International Mechanical Code as the
Mechanical Code for the Town of Wright, Wyoming, for regulating and governing
the design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation,
alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or
maintenance of mechanical systems as herein provided in the Town of Wright;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor. (Ord.
2019-07, 7-29-2019)
9-2-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1 Insert: Town of Wright as the name of the jurisdiction.
Section 106.5.2 Insert: $10.00 flat fee for all mechanical permits.
Section 106.5.3 Delete entire section.
Sections 108.4 and 108.5 The penalty provisions of these sections shall be as
provided by section
1-4-1 of the town code.
(Ord. 2009-11, 8-10-2009)
9-2-3: COPY ON FILE:
Said Mechanical Code shall at all times be on file in the Office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Wright, Wyoming, and shall be open to inspection
by the public at such reasonable times as the Office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer is open. (Ord. 2009-11, 8-10-2009)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Adoption
9-3-2: Amendments
9-3-3: Copy On File
9-3-1: ADOPTION:
The Town of Wright, Wyoming hereby adopts that certain publication known and
designated as the 2018 edition of the International Plumbing Code as the
Plumbing Code for the Town of Wright, Wyoming, for regulating and governing the
design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation, alteration,
repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of
plumbing systems in the Town of Wright; and providing for the issuance of
permits, and collection of fees therefor. (Ord. 2019-05, 7-29-2019)
9-3-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1 Insert: Town of Wright as the name of the jurisdiction.
Section 106.2 Insert: $10.00 flat fee for all plumbing permits.
Section 106.6.3 Delete entire section.
Sections 108.4 and 108.5 The penalty provisions of these sections shall be as
provided by section
1-4-1 of the town code.
Section 305.6.1 Insert: 36 inches in both locations specifying minimum depths.
Section 904.1 Insert: 12 inches in both locations specifying a vent termination
height.
(Ord. 2009-10, 8-10-2009)
9-3-3: COPY ON FILE:
Said Plumbing Code shall at all times be on file in the Office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Wright, Wyoming, and shall be open to inspection
by the public at such reasonable times as the Office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer is open. (Ord. 2009-10, 8-10-2009)
CHAPTER 4
UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Adoption
9-4-2: Amendments
9-4-3: Copy On File
9-4-1: ADOPTION:
The town hereby adopts that certain publication known and designated as the
uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings, 1988 edition. (Ord. 90-
1, 2-12-1990)
9-4-2: AMENDMENTS:
    CHAPTER 2. ENFORCEMENT
Section 205 shall be amended as follows:
Sec. 205(c). The board of appeals as defined in section 205(a) shall consist of
five (5) members. The five (5) members shall not be required to be qualified by
experience and training to pass upon matters pertaining to building
construction. Two (2) members shall be appointed by the town council from its
membership which are in office at the time an appeal is taken. Two (2) members
shall be appointed by the town council from the town planning and zoning
commission from the members of that commission at the time an appeal is taken.
One member shall be mutually agreed upon and selected with the consent of the
town council and the property owner.
   (Ord. 91-1, 3-25-1991)
Section 206. It shall be unlawful to use, abandon, repair, demolish, reclaim,
remove, tear down, or maintain any building, structure, or property in
violation of any provision of this chapter, or amendment thereof. Any person,
whether as owner, lessee, occupant or otherwise, who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, or any amendment thereof, or who interferes in any
manner with any person in the performance of a right duly granted or imposed
upon him by the provisions of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined up to $750.00 per offense.
   (Ord. 91-5, 8-6-1991)
   CHAPTER 3. DEFINITIONS
Section 302 shall be amended with the addition to the present sections of the
following:
      19.   Whenever any portion or full residential building or structure is
removed from its foundation or basement, where such removal results in an
unoccupied lot, without first having complied with the provisions of this code
regarding building removal.
   CHAPTER 4. NOTICES AND ORDERS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL
Section 401(b)3 shall be amended as follows:
Section 401(b)(3)(iv). If the building official has determined that the lots
need to be reclaimed, the order shall require: the property to be completely
fenced within 24 hours in such a manner as to reasonably prevent, at the
discretion of the building official, the public from trespassing; and that all
required permits and surety bonds for reclamation be obtained within five days
from the date of the order; and that reclamation be completed within such time
as the building official shall determine is reasonable.
   CHAPTER 10. BUILDING REMOVAL
Section 1001 et seq., shall be added to this code to state:
Section 1001.
(a) A permit to remove any portion or all of any residential structure or
building from its foundation or basement shall be obtained and the provisions
of this section 1001 et seq., adhered to prior to any removal of such
residential structures or buildings;
   (Ord. 91-1, 3-25-1991)
(b) A surety bond, letter of credit, escrow account, or cash (hereinafter
referred to as surety) in the amount of twice the highest bid plus 10% of twice
the highest bid per structure shall be obtained by any party seeking to remove
such portion or full residential structure or building as a condition precedent
to obtaining any such removal permit. Any party seeking such removal shall
obtain at least two bids as described in this chapter from qualified bidders
who are licensed to contract with the town of Wright. The highest of these bids
shall be used to determine the amount of surety; ...
   (Ord. 92-2, 2-24-1992)
      1.   The town of Wright shall be named as an insured under the surety
bond or surety referred to in section 1001(b);
      2.   The surety bond or surety referred to in section 1001(b) shall
insure that the residential lot from which the structure or building is to be
removed shall be reclaimed to specifications set forth in this act.
      3.   The surety bond or surety referred to in section 101(b) shall be
payable in cash upon demand to the town of Wright.
      4.   Any letter of credit, or escrow account referred to in section 1001
(b) shall be established in Campbell County, Wyoming.
         c.   Upon satisfactory completion of the application, the building
official shall grant or deny approval to proceed within 10 days. Should such
application approval be granted, the party applying shall proceed to obtain the
surety bond or surety. Upon said application approval and the party showing
written proof of having obtained the surety bond or surety to the building
official, the permit shall be granted.
   (Ord. 91-3, 6-28-1991)
(d) Any party desiring to obtain a permit authorizing removal of a residential
structure or building shall make application to the building official, through
the town clerk-treasurer's office, on forms available at the town clerk-
treasurer's office.
Section 1002. Upon completion of all acts necessary with regard to reclamation
of a residential lot and upon inspection and approval of the building official,
the person removing any building or structure shall be released, by the
building official, in writing, from all further duties and liabilities for the
reclamation of a lot under this act.
Section 1003. (a) Any party desiring to remove portions or all of any
residential structure of building and who has obtained the proper permit from
the building official and complied with all of its conditions precedent shall
have the following duties and obligations to reclaim the lot:
      1.   Any part of the property which has a foundation, basement, or other
concrete appurtenances, excluding any public curbs or sidewalks, shall be
fenced in such a manner as to reasonably prevent, in the discretion of the
building official, the public from trespassing.
(i) Should any removal and reclamation be able to be completely finished within
72 hours of commencement of the removal, the remover may request this provision
be waived by the building official.
(ii) In any request pursuant to section. 1003(a)1(i) of this code, the building
official shall have complete discretion to grant or deny the request.
(iii) If a request pursuant to section 1003(a)1(i) is granted, the removal and
reclamation must be completed within 72 hours of commencement of removal or the
fencing provisions herein must be complied with.
      2.   Any other appendages to the property which, in the discretion of the
building official, constitute a potential danger to trespassing public shall be
fenced in the same manner as mentioned in the section 1003(a)1.
      3.   All fences mentioned herein shall be in place within 24 hours of the
actual physical removal of the structure or building.
(i) Should complete removal be delayed, once begun, due to climatic or other
emergency reasons, fencing shall be accomplished, at the discretion of the
building official, within 72 hours of commencement of removal.
      4.   All reclamation work shall be completed within thirty (30) days of
removal of any structure or building.
(i) The building official may, in his discretion, grant an extension to the
thirty (30) day completion date should climatic or other emergency reasons be
present.
      5.   All manmade and unnatural materials and structures including, but
not limited to, concrete foundations, basements, driveways, and walkways from
the former structure to any street or public sidewalk adjoining the curb shall
be fully removed.
      6.   All other debris, to the satisfaction of the building official,
shall be removed from the lot.
      7.   At the discretion of the building official, all such concrete,
manmade and unnatural materials, structures, and debris may be required to be
disposed of properly at a legal disposal site. Proof of proper disposal shall
be shown to the building inspector, should he require such disposal, prior to
his approval and release.
      8.   The party removing the building or structure shall be responsible
for contacting all utilities including, but not limited to, electricity, gas,
cable television, telephone, water, and sewage prior to beginning any
operations to remove the structure or reclaim the lot, for any digging or shut
off directions or permissions necessary from said utilities.
      9.   All water shall be shut off at and all pipes removed to the curb
stops. All sewer lines shall be removed to the lot line and properly capped and
sealed to prevent surface water from entering.
      10.   All other utilities shall be safely capped and marked at the
property line or as close thereto as permission from the applicable utility
will allow.
      11.   All damage done to any public or private utility shall be the cost
and responsibility of the remover, owner, and/or contractors, and the remover,
owner and/or contractors shall provide a written release of liability for any
damages done, costs incurred, and all charges from all utilities to the
building official prior to receiving release from said official.
      12.   All unnatural depressions or holes left after removal of all
manmade and unnatural materials, structures, and debris shall be filled with
clean fill dirt and compacted to the building official's satisfaction.
(i) No concrete, wood, metal, toxic, or other waste product other than clean
fill dirt shall be used to fill any holes or depressions.
      13.   Subsequent to the lot being cleaned and all holes and depressions
filled and compacted, the lot shall be reseeded to native grasses as approved
by the building official.
(Ord. 91-1, 3-25-1991)
9-4-3: COPY ON FILE:
The uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings shall at all times be
on file in the office of the town clerk-treasurer and shall be open to public
inspection at such reasonable times as the office of the town clerk-treasurer
is open. (Ord. 90-1, 2-12-1990)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Adoption
9-5-2: Amendments
9-5-3: Copy On File
9-5-1: ADOPTION:
The Town of Wright, Wyoming hereby adopts that certain publication known and
designated as the 2018 edition of the International Residential Code as the
Residential Code for the Town of Wright, Wyoming, for regulating and governing
the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair,
equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-family
dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more than three
(3) stories in height with separate means of egress in the Town of Wright,
Wyoming; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor.
(Ord. 2019-08, 7-29-2019)
9-5-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section R101.1 Insert town of Wright as the name of the jurisdiction.
Table R301.2(1) Insert:
Ground snow load                 25 psf
Wind speed                       90 mph, exposure C
Seismic design category          C
Weathering                       Severe
Frost line depth                 42 inches
Termite                          Slight to moderate
Decay                            None to slight
Winter design temperature        -8 degrees
Ice shield underlayment required Yes
Flood hazards                    October 28, 2002
Air freezing index               1900
Mean annual temperature          45
 
Section P2603.6.1 Insert 36 inches in both locations specifying minimum depth.
Section P3103.1 Insert 12 inches in both locations specifying a vent
termination height.
(Ord. 2009-09, 8-10-2009)
9-5-3: COPY ON FILE:
Said Residential Code shall at all times be on file in the Office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Wright, Wyoming, and shall be open to inspection
by the public at such reasonable times as the Office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer is open. (Ord. 2009-09, 8-10-2009)
CHAPTER 6
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Adoption
9-6-2: Amendments
9-6-3: Copy On File
9-6-1: ADOPTION:
The Town of Wright, Wyoming hereby adopts that certain publication known and
designated as the 2018 edition of the International Fuel Gas Code as the Fuel
Gas Code for the Town of Wright, Wyoming, for regulating and governing fuel gas
systems and gas fired appliances in the Town of Wright, Wyoming; and providing
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor. (Ord. 2019-06, 7-
29-2019)
9-6-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1 Insert: Town of Wright as the name of the jurisdiction.
Section 106.5.2 Insert: $10.00 flat fee for all fuel gas mechanical permits.
Section 106.5.3 Delete entire section.
Sections 108.4 and 108.5 The penalty provisions of these sections shall be as
provided by section
1-4-1 of the town code.
(Ord. 2009-12, 8-10-2009)
9-6-3: COPY ON FILE:
Said Fuel Gas Code shall at all times be on file in the Office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer of the Town of Wright, Wyoming, and shall be open to inspection
by the public at such reasonable times as the Office of the Town Clerk-
Treasurer is open. (Ord. 2009-12, 8-10-2009)
CHAPTER 7
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
9-7-1: Adoption
9-7-2: Amendments
9-7-1: ADOPTION:
A certain document on file in the office of the clerk-treasurer of the town of
Wright, being marked and designated as the international fire code, 2006
edition, including appendix chapters B, C, D, E, F, and G as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the fire code of the
town of Wright, in the state of Wyoming, regulating and governing the
safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from
the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices,
and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings
and premises. Also regulation of the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, conversion, occupancy, use, height and
area of all buildings and structures within the town of Wright and each and all
such regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the
international fire code, 2006 edition, as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said fire code on file in the office of the
clerk-treasurer of the town of Wright are hereby referred to, adopted, and made
a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-7-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-5, 6-9-2008)
9-7-2: AMENDMENTS:
The following sections are hereby revised:
101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of the town of
Wright, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
(1)   Section 108.1 of the international fire code is amended to read as
follows:
108.1 Board Of Appeals. Appeals will be heard by the board of adjustments. The
board of adjustments will be appointed by the mayor, with consent of the
governing body in accordance with title 15-1-605 of the Wyoming state statutes.
The board of adjustments will consist of 2 members from the planning & zoning
commission, 2 members from the town council, and 1 citizen from within the
jurisdictional boundaries of the town of Wright, Wyoming.
Section 108.3 of the international fire code is repealed.
(2)   Section 109.3 Violation Penalties of the international fire code is
amended to read as follows:
109.3 Violation Penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this code
or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall
erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit
or certificate used under provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than five-hundred ($500.00)
dollars, or by imprisonment not exceeding (6) months. Each day that a violation
continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
(3)   Section 111.4 Failure To Comply of the international fire code is amended
to read as follows:
111.4 Failure To Comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
of not less than one hundred ($100.00) dollars or more than seven-hundred &
fifty ($750.00) dollars.
(4)   Section 401.3.2 Alarm Activations General of the international fire code
is added to read as follows:
401.3.2.1 Central Stations. Central stations shall immediately notify the
Campbell County sheriff's office dispatch, for dispatch of the fire department,
of alarm signals initiated by any fire alarm, fire extinguishing system, or
equipment. Supervisory signals shall be relayed to the Campbell County
sheriff's office dispatch for dispatch of the fire department. The fire
department must be notified by faxed or electronic report of all trouble
signals which exist for greater than a single 6 hour time period. Campbell
County sheriff's office dispatch, for the fire department, shall be contacted
prior to notification of the subscriber.
(5)   Section 506.1 Key Boxes of the international fire code is amended to read
as follows:
506.1 Key boxes shall be provided for fire department entry for all commercial
occupancies. The key boxes shall be installed on all new businesses before
occupancy is granted. Any existing businesses that obtained a permit to do any
work or change of use or occupancy shall be required to install a key box
before the work can be completed and signed off and occupancy resumed. The key
box shall be located within 10 feet of the front doors, a minimum of (6) six
feet above the ground level and not to exceed (7) seven feet in height unless
approved in writing by the fire code official. The fire department has the
ordering forms for the key boxes. The key box shall be of an approved type and
shall contain keys to gain necessary access as required by the fire code
official.
(6)   Section 508.5.5 Clear Space Around Hydrants of the international fire
code is amended to read as follows:
508.5.5 A 4-foot clear space shall be maintained around the circumference of
fire hydrants except as otherwise required or approved.
(7)   Section 901.4.5 Clearances of the international fire code is added to
read as follows:
901.4.5 Clearances. Fire protection equipment shall not be obstructed,
concealed. A minimum of (8) eight inches on each side and a clear access width
of (3) three feet shall be maintained in-front of fire protection systems.
Specific equipment referenced is as follows but not limited to, fire sprinkler
control valves, risers, hose stations, standpipes, and fire alarm control
panels.
(Ord. 2008-5, 6-9-2008)
TITLE 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Authority
10-1-3: Purpose
10-1-4: Jurisdiction
10-1-5: Inconsistency
10-1-6: Severability
10-1-7: Saving Clause
10-1-8: Amendment
10-1-9: Application And Exemption
10-1-10: Resubdivision Of Land
10-1-11: Minor Plats
10-1-12: Simple Resubdivision
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
These regulations shall be known as and may be cited as the SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS OF THE TOWN OF WRIGHT, WYOMING. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted pursuant to and in accordance with the authority vested
in the town council by Wyoming Statutes sections 15-1-501 through 15-1-512, and
sections 34-12-101 through 34-12-115. (Ord. 2002-2, 4-8-2002)
10-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of these regulations is to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the community. The overall objective of these regulations is
to consider land subdivision plats as part of a plan for the orderly, efficient
and economical development of the land within the town jurisdiction. The
following provisions shall guide the planning and zoning commission in
formulating its decisions:
   A.   Proposed streets shall compose a convenient and efficient traffic
circulation system, properly related to the proposals of adopted transportation
plans. Streets shall be of such width, grade and location to accommodate
prospective traffic, provide adequate light and air, and provide access by
service and emergency vehicles.
   B.   Land of suitable location, size and character for all easements, rights
of way or public services shall be shown on the subdivision plat wherever
appropriate.
   C.   Land subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used safely
for building purposes without danger to health and welfare from flooding, fire,
contamination, erosion, and other menace.
   D.   The development of any subdivision should avoid unnecessary
environmental degradation; pollution of air, streams, ponds and so on; and be
in harmony with the natural environment.
   E.   Protect and conserve the value of land and buildings throughout the
town and minimize conflicts among the uses of land and buildings.
   F.   Provide for adequate water, sewage, schools, parks, playgrounds,
recreation and other public requirements, facilities and open space needs as
will accommodate the anticipated rate of development.
   G.   Establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land; and ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land to provide adequate records for land titles.
   H.   Avoid excessive expenditure of public funds for the provision of public
services. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-1-4: JURISDICTION:
These regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of land within the
jurisdictional area of the town and an area within and up to one mile from the
town limits, pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 34-12-103. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-
1993)
10-1-5: INCONSISTENCY:
These regulations supplement all other laws, regulations, ordinances or
resolutions. The more restrictive requirements shall apply where they are at
variance with other laws, regulations, ordinances or resolutions. (Ord. 93-9,
6-14-1993)
10-1-6: SEVERABILITY:
The invalidity of any provision of these regulations shall not invalidate any
other part thereof which is not itself invalid. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-1-7: SAVING CLAUSE:
These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing, about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, nor
shall they be construed as waiving any right of the town under any section or
provision existing at the time of adoption hereof, or as vacating or annulling
any rights obtained by any person, firm, or corporation, by lawful action of
the town except as shall be expressly provided for in these regulations. (Ord.
93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-1-8: AMENDMENT:
For the purpose of providing for the public health, safety, and general
welfare, the planning and zoning commission may recommend to the town council
proposed modifications and revisions of these subdivision regulations. Public
hearings on all proposed amendments shall be held in the manner prescribed by
law, after which the town council shall approve, amend or override the planning
and zoning commission recommendations. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-1-9: APPLICATION AND EXEMPTION:
   A.   These regulations shall apply to all of the lands within the boundaries
of the town as they shall from time to time be amended. All county subdivision
plats submitted for approval of the town within an area up to one mile from the
corporate limits of the town pursuant to Wyoming Statutes section 34-12-103
shall comply with these regulations in the same manner as a subdivision laid
out within the town. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
   B.   Approval Required: Every owner or proprietor of any tract or parcel of
land who shall hereafter subdivide or resubdivide his land into two (2) or more
parts for the immediate or future purpose of sale, lease, building development
or redevelopment for any residential, recreational, industrial, commercial,
public or other use, shall submit a subdivision plat or plats in accordance
with these regulations. No person shall commence the physical layout or
construction on the ground of a subdivision without first obtaining the
approval of the town council, in the form of an approved subdivision plat.
(Ord. 2000-9, 7-24-2000)
   C.   Existing Subdivision Plats: None of the provisions of these regulations
shall be construed to require replatting in any case in which subdivision plats
have been made and legally recorded, pursuant to any regulations previously in
force; and all plats heretofore filed for record and not subsequently vacated
are hereby declared valid, notwithstanding the fact that the procedures or the
manner and form of acknowledgement may have been different than those
prescribed by these regulations.
   D.   Exemptions: Unless the method of the sale of land is adopted for the
purpose of evading these regulations, these regulations shall not apply to:
      1.   The subdivision of land for the sale of cemetery lots;
      2.   The sale of land by or to the state of Wyoming or any political
subdivision thereof;
      3.   Railroad rights of way; and
      4.   Any designated lot of any already recorded subdivision, if the lot
is not being altered in any way for the sale. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-1-10: RESUBDIVISION OF LAND:
Any change in an approved or recorded subdivision plat, if such change affects
any street layout shown on such plat, or area reserved thereon for public use,
or any lot line, or if it affects any map or plan legally approved prior to the
adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions, such change shall be
approved by the planning and zoning commission by the same procedures, rules
and regulations as for a subdivision, except as provided under section
10-1-11 of this chapter. The subdivision shall be identified as the
"RESUBDIVISION OF ____________" in the title. (Ord. 2004-02, 3-8-2004)
10-1-11: MINOR PLATS:
After consultation with the administrative official of the planning and zoning
commission, a subdivider may proceed directly to the filing of an application
for approval of a final plat if no streets, water lines, sewer lines, drainage
improvements or other public improvements are to be dedicated or vacated for
either a new subdivision consisting of five (5) lots or less, or for a
resubdivision of any size. (Ord. 2002-2, 4-8-2002)
10-1-12: SIMPLE RESUBDIVISION:
Individual lots within any zoning district may be split by a simple
resubdivision. A simple resubdivision provides for an adequate public record of
division in a less complicated process than a major or minor subdivision. (Ord.
2008-08, 4-27-2009)
   A.   Review And Approval: Review and approval of simple resubdivision
applications shall be completed by the administrative official of the planning
and zoning commission.
   B.   Eligibility:
      1.   Eligibility of lots for the simple resubdivision process shall be
determined in a preapplication conference of the administrative official and
the owner or owner's representative.
      2.   Eligibility requirements are: (Ord. 2004-02, 3-8-2004)
         a.   Both lots after the split must meet the standards for size within
that zoning district. (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
         b.   No changes or additions to existing streets, alleys, or easements
are required or proposed.
         c.   The proposed resubdivision shall not result in any property
without direct access to a dedicated street.
         d.   The proposed resubdivision shall not result in any property
without direct access to all existing utilities.
         e.   Each lot or parcel resulting from the resubdivision shall be
served by its own water and sewer service tap.
   C.   Improvements, Reservations And Design: Simple resubdivisions shall be
subject to all the requirements of chapter 6 of this title, except that the
depth to front dimension ratio requirement may be waived by the administrative
official. (Ord. 2004-02, 3-8-2004)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Usage And Application
10-2-2: General Definitions
10-2-1: USAGE AND APPLICATION:
For the purpose of these regulations, certain numbers, abbreviations, terms,
and words used in this title shall be used, interpreted, and defined as set
forth in this section.
   A.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual.
   B.   The word "shall" is a mandatory requirement, the word "may" is a
permissive requirement, and the word "should" is a preferred requirement.
   C.   The words "used" or "occupies" include the words "intended", "designed"
or "arranged" to be used or occupied.
   D.   The word "lot" includes the words "plot" or "parcel".
   E.   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in the
present tense include the future tense; words in the plural number include the
singular; the word "herein" means in this title; the word "regulations" means
these regulations.
   F.   A "building" includes a "structure", a "building" or "structure"
includes any part thereof. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-2-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
In administering this title, the following definitions shall apply:
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL: Any department, employee, or advisory elected or
appointed body which is authorized to administer any provision of the zoning
ordinance, this title, and if delegated, any provision of any housing or
building regulation or any other land use control regulation of the town.
ALLEY: A minor way dedicated to the public and designed or used primarily for
vehicular service access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting
on a street.
ANNEXATION: The act of making a tract of land part of the town.
BLOCK: A parcel of land intended for urban development, entirely surrounded by
public streets, other platted lands, natural barriers, railroads or highways.
BUILDING PERMIT: An official authorization by the building official for the
town to build a structure under the provisions of the adopted building codes of
the town.
COUNCIL: The Wright town council.
COUNTY: Campbell County, Wyoming.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one end connected to a through public street and
the other end terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
DRAINAGE EASEMENT: A land area designated on a plat or other recorded
instrument set aside to accommodate the calculated and approved flow or storage
of storm waters and to be kept free of all structures and impediments.
EASEMENT: A designated area or a tract, block, or lot of land which the owner
has set aside for the use of others particularly public utilities or drainage.
ENCUMBRANCE: A mortgage or other lien of record securing or evidencing
indebtedness and affecting land to be subdivided, including liens for labor and
materials. Taxes and assessments are not encumbrances unless they are
delinquent.
ENGINEER: A professional engineer licensed in the state of Wyoming.
FRONTAGE: That side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily
regarded as the front of the lot, but it shall not be considered as the
internal side of a corner lot.
GRADE: The inclination from the horizontal of a road, utility, land, etc., and
is expressed by stating the vertical rise or fall as a percent of the
horizontal distance.
IMPROVEMENTS: Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, water
lines, sewer lines, storm drains, streetlights, flood control and drainage
facilities, utility lines, landscaping, and other related matters normally
associated with the development of raw land into building sites.
LOCAL STREET: See definition of Street Classifications.
LOT AREA: The amount of surface land contained within the property lines of a
lot, including the land within easements on the lot, but excluding any land
within the street right of way or public open spaces.
LOT IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other object,
or improvement of the land on which they are situated, constituting a physical
betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of
the county recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
LOT OR PARCEL: A portion of land in a subdivision or plat of land, separated
from other lots or portions of land by description as on a subdivision or
record of survey map or by metes and bounds for the purpose of sale, lease, or
separate use.
MAJOR STREET: See definition of Street, Major.
MARGINAL ACCESS STREET: See definition of Street, Marginal Access.
MASTER PLAN: A comprehensive plan for development of the town of Wright
prepared and adopted by the planning and zoning commission, pursuant to state
law, and including any part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment
to such plan, or parts thereof.
MASTER STREET PLAN: See definition of Official Map.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: Any development which is intended to be utilized
primarily for placement of two (2) or more mobile homes on individual lots
either for sale or lease.
MONUMENTS: Permanent concrete or metal markers used to establish definitely all
lines of the plat of a subdivision, including all lot corners, boundary line
corners, and points of change in street alignment.
OFF SITE: Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the same ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
OFFICIAL MAP: The map established by the town council pursuant to law showing
the streets, highways, and parks, laid out, adopted and established by law, and
any amendments or additions thereto adopted by the town council of additions
thereto resulting from the approval of subdivision plats by the planning and
zoning commission and the subsequent filing of such approved plats.
OPEN SPACE: An area open to the sky which may be on the same lot with a
building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental features,
swimming pools, tennis courts, any other recreational facilities that the
planning and zoning commission deems permissible. Streets, structures for
habitation, and the like shall not be included.
ORDINANCE: Any legislative action, however denominated, of the town council
which has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any ordinance.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, firm, or firms, corporation or
corporations, or any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided under these
regulations.
PERIMETER STREET: Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
PERMIT TO CONSTRUCT: Authorization by the town engineer to commence
construction of subdivision improvements according to approved plans and
specifications.
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION: The Wright planning and zoning commission
established in accordance with law.
PLAT, FINAL: The final map, drawing or chart upon which the subdivider's plan
of subdivision is presented to the planning and zoning commission for approval,
and which, if approved, will be submitted to the county clerk for recording.
PLAT, MINOR: The final map, drawing or drawings described as a final plat in
these regulations upon which the subdivider's plan of subdivision is presented
for any subdivision of five (5) or less lots in which no new streets or other
utilities are dedicated or any existing ones vacated. A minor plat shall not
require the submittal of a preliminary plat or supporting documents for a
preliminary plat. It shall require submittal of all items required for a final
plat as specified herein except those items pertaining to public improvements,
streets or utilities. A minor plat shall include a drainage plan.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: The preliminary drawing or drawings described in these
regulations indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the planning and zoning commission for approval.
PLAT, SKETCH: A planning plat submitted to the planning and zoning commission
for informational purposes and upon which the planning and zoning commission
will provide informal comments upon request prior to submittal of a preliminary
plat.
PROPRIETOR: Any person or firm having equitable interest in land.
PUBLIC FACILITY: Any use of land, whether publicly or privately owned, for
transportation, utilities, or communications, or for the benefit of the general
public, including, but not limited to, libraries, streets, schools, fire or
police stations, county buildings, municipal buildings, recreational centers,
including parks, and cemeteries.
PUBLIC WAY: An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch, easement,
expressway, freeway, highway, land, parkway, right of way, road, sidewalk,
street, subway, tunnel, viaduct, walk, or other way in which the general public
or a public entity has a right, or which is dedicated, whether improved or not.
RESUBDIVISION: Any amendment to an already approved and recorded plat divided
into two (2) or more parcels.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land dedicated for public use for streets, alleys or
roads crossing the real property of another person.
RIGHT OF WAY WIDTH: The distance between property lines measured at right
angles to the centerline of the right of way.
SALE OR SELL: Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any possessory
interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise, intestate
succession, or transfer, or an interest in a subdivision or part thereof,
whether by metes and bounds, deeds, contract, plat, map, lease, devise,
intestate succession, or other written instrument.
SAME OWNERSHIP: Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership, or unincorporated association; or ownership by different
corporation, firms, partnerships, entities, or unincorporated associations, in
which a stockholder, partner, or associate, or a member of his family owns an
interest in each corporation, firm, partnership, entity, or unincorporated
association.
SPECIFICATIONS: The engineering specifications of the town prepared by the town
engineer and/or the Wright water and sewer district for the purpose of
regulating the installation of any public improvement or facility required to
be installed as a condition of approval of the subdivision plat.
STREET: A public right of way which affords primary vehicular traffic or
pedestrian access to abutting properties; includes avenue, boulevard, road,
highway, freeway, parkway, thoroughfare, and viaduct; but shall not include an
alley for the purposes of this title.
STREET CLASSIFICATIONS:
Arterial Street: A major street or highway with fast or heavy traffic of
considerable continuity and used primarily as a traffic artery for
intercommunications among large areas.
Collector Street: A street collecting traffic from local streets, and
connecting the same with a major street, or another collector street.
Local Street Or Minor Street: A street exclusively or primarily providing
access to abutting properties.
STREET LINE: The dividing line between the street and the lot, also known as
right of way line.
STREET, MAJOR: A road intended to move through traffic to and from such major
attractors as central business districts, regional shopping centers, colleges
and/or universities, major industrial areas, and similar traffic between
neighborhoods.
STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS: A local or collector street, parallel and adjacent to
an arterial street providing access to abutting properties and protection from
arterial streets (also called frontage road).
STREET ROADWAY WIDTH: The distance between the curb faces measured at right
angles to the centerline of the street.
STREET WIDTH: The distance between street right of way lines measured at right
angles to the centerline of the street.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person who lays out any subdivision or parts thereof, either
for the account of the subdivider or others.
SUBDIVISION: The division of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more
parts for immediate or future sale or building development; including the term
"resubdivision".
SUBDIVISION PLAT: The final map or drawing, described in these regulations, on
which the subdivider's plan for subdivision is presented to the planning and
zoning commission and town council for approval and which, if approved, may be
submitted to the county clerk or recorder of deeds for filing.
SURVEYOR: A land surveyor licensed to practice in Wyoming.
THROUGH LOT: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one
street. Through lots abutting two (2) streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots.
UNIT: A portion of a subdivision selected for development as one of a series of
stages.
VARIANCE: A variance is a modification of the strict terms of the relevant
regulations where such modifications will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the
result of the action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations
would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
VICINITY MAP: A drawing located on the plat which sets forth, by dimensions or
other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision or use to other
nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities and services within
the town and/or county in order to better locate and orient the area in
question.
WALKWAY: A dedicated public way for pedestrian use only, whether along the side
of a road or not.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The duly adopted zoning ordinance of the town of Wright 1 .
(Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993; amd. Ord. 2000-09, 7-24-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Administrative Official
10-3-2: Conditions
10-3-3: Appeals
10-3-4: Variances
10-3-5: Vacation
10-3-6: Enforcement, Violation And Penalty
10-3-7: Administrative Liability
10-3-8: Forms, Checklists, Application And Fee Schedule
10-3-1: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL:
   A.   Administration Of Regulations: These regulations shall be administered
by the administrative official to the planning and zoning commission (hereafter
administrative official).
   B.   Clerk-Treasurer's Office To Receive Documents, Plats, Fees And Other
Items: For the purposes of administrative processing, all documents, plats,
fees and other items required by this title shall be received in the office of
the town clerk-treasurer.
   C.   Rules, Schedules Or Deadlines: In order to provide for the smooth
process and approval of subdivisions, the administrative official may, from
time to time, promulgate such rules, schedules or deadlines as are required to
facilitate adequate review and processing of subdivisions. Such rules,
schedules and deadlines shall be approved by the planning and zoning commission
and be attached to and made a part of all application materials. (Ord. 93-9, 6-
14-1993)
10-3-2: CONDITIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: The subdivider shall comply with conditions
determined by the planning and zoning commission and approved by the council
for design, dedication, improvement, and restrictive use of the land so as to
conform to the physical and economical development of the town and to the
safety and general welfare of the future lot owners in the subdivision and of
the community at large.
   B.   Petition For Annexation Required: The town shall not extend utilities
and services and shall not approve any proposed subdivision of land which, by
itself, or as a part of a larger tract, is contiguous to or completely
surrounded by the boundaries of the town, unless the preliminary plat submitted
to the town council is accompanied by a properly acknowledged petition for
annexation to the town and a separate application for zoning. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-
1993)
   C.   County Approval Required: Pursuant to the provisions of Wyoming
Statutes section 18-5-308, when any part of a subdivision lies outside of, but
within one mile of, the town, that subdivision shall be approved by the town
council before it is finally approved by the Campbell County board of county
commissioners. Such approval shall be by the same procedure as any subdivision
within the town, except that final council approval shall be by resolution,
authorizing the mayor to sign the plat. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993; amd. 2007 Code)
   D.   Compliance With Zoning: Every plat shall conform to the existing zoning
ordinance applicable at the time of proposed final approval, except that any
plat which has received preliminary approval shall be exempt from any
subsequent amendments to the zoning ordinance rendering the plat nonconforming
as to bulk or use; provided, that final approval is obtained within a three (3)
year period. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
   E.   Waiver Of Regulations: When a subdivision lies wholly outside of the
town limits, but within one mile of the town limits, the planning and zoning
commission shall have the authority to waive any requirement of these
subdivision regulations. The planning and zoning commission may do so if it, in
its sole discretion, finds that a particular requirement: 1) is unduly
burdensome on the developer; 2) that the waiver of the requirement will not be
detrimental to the public safety, health and welfare, or injurious to other
property; and 3) that the waiver is necessary for reasonable development of the
property in question. (Ord. 97-14, 12-8-1997)
10-3-3: APPEALS:
   A.   Who May Appeal: Any subdivider or landowner aggrieved by the action of
the planning and zoning commission or the administrative official in their
administration of these regulations may request a hearing before the board of
adjustment.
   B.   Request For Appeal: The request shall be in writing, shall be submitted
within thirty (30) days of the action or decision appealed from and shall state
the specific relief which the subdivider or landowner seeks.
   C.   Hearing: Within thirty (30) days of the receipt of such a request, the
board of adjustment shall hold a hearing to determine the proper disposition of
the matter.
   D.   Hearing Officer: The board of adjustment may appoint a hearing officer
to hear the facts of the appeal and make a recommendation to the board of
adjustment.
   E.   Matters Considered: At the hearing, consideration shall be given not
only to the subdivider's appeal, but also to the written or verbal comments of
the commission, agency or person appealed from.
   F.   Board Of Adjustment Action: The board of adjustment shall either
reaffirm or modify the decision in the record of its hearing. The subdivider or
landowner may then proceed with the subdivision of his land, based upon the
decision of the board of adjustment.
   G.   Decision Binding: This decision shall be binding upon all agencies and
administrative personnel of the town as well as the subdivider or landowner.
   H.   Appeal To District Court: All such decisions of the board of
adjustments may be appealed to the district court for Campbell County, Wyoming,
and shall be governed by the Wyoming administrative procedures act. (Ord. 2002-
2, 4-8-2002)
10-3-4: VARIANCES:
   A.   Power To Approve: Where the planning and zoning commission finds that
extraordinary hardships or practical difficulties may result from strict
compliance with these regulations or the purposes of these regulations may be
served to a greater extent by an alternative proposal, it may approve variances
to these subdivision regulations so that substantial justice may be done and
the public interest secured, if such variance does not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of this title.
   B.   Criteria For Approval: The planning and zoning commission shall not
approve variances unless it finds, based upon the evidence presented to it in
each specific case, that all the following conditions apply:
      1.   The subdivider is proceeding in good faith;
      2.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property;
      3.   The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought and are not applicable
generally to other property in the area;
      4.   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of this title is carried out;
      5.   The variance is necessary for reasonable development of the property
in question and will alleviate a clearly demonstrable hardship;
      6.   The variance will not nullify the intent or purpose of this title
nor those of any adopted plan or zoning ordinance of the town; and
      7.   Any variance granted shall constitute the minimum adjustment
necessary to alleviate the hardship.
   C.   Request For Variance: A request for a variance may be submitted only
after the planning and zoning commission has formally reviewed the preliminary
plat and has either: 1) recommended disapproval because the plat does not
conform to this title, or 2) conditionally approved the plat specifying those
amendments which must appear on the final plat in order for it to be approved.
The subdivider may then seek relief from the specific provisions of this title
with which he cannot comply. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
   D.   Action Taken On Request: All requests for variances shall be submitted,
in writing, to the administrative official and shall be referred to the
planning and zoning commission for action at a regular meeting not more than
forty five (45) days from the date of submittal. In granting a variance, the
planning and zoning commission may impose such conditions as will ensure
substantial compliance with the objectives and standards of these regulations.
The findings and action on each variance, and any conditions imposed, shall be
recorded in the minutes of the planning and zoning commission and a copy
thereof provided to the town council. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993; amd. 2007 Code)
   E.   Incorporation In Final Plat: If the subdivision variance is granted by
the planning and zoning commission, the subdivider may incorporate the
provisions of the variance into the final plat to be submitted to the planning
and zoning commission and to the council for approval. In its review of the
final plat, the planning and zoning commission shall be bound by the decision
regarding the variance and shall review and approve the final plat with the
variance, if the plat in all other respects conforms to the preliminary plat
and any other conditions imposed by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord.
93-9, 6-14-1993)
   F.   Appeal: Appeal from the decision of the planning and zoning commission
may be made to the board of adjustment under provisions of section
10-3-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993; amd. 2007 Code)
10-3-5: VACATION:
   A.   Written Request:
      1.   Submittal: Any plat may be vacated by the owners or proprietors
thereof at any time before sale of any lots, or before the subdivider has made
substantial improvements in the subdivision, by submitting a copy of the plat
to the planning and zoning commission, along with a written request for the
vacation. In cases where lots have been sold, the written request shall be by
all of the owners of lots within the plat.
      2.   Recommendation Of Planning And Zoning Commission; Action Of Council:
The planning and zoning commission shall make a recommendation on the vacation
to the town council and the council shall approve or disapprove the vacation.
      3.   Recording Instrument: The recording of an instrument vacating the
plat shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the recording of the
original plat and to divest all public rights in the streets, alleys, commons
and public grounds laid out or described in such a plat.
   B.   Streets, Alleys And Utility Easements: Streets, alleys and utility
easements platted and laid out under the provisions of this title, or laid out
under any prior law of the state of Wyoming regulating plats, may be altered or
vacated in the manner provided by Wyoming Statutes for the alteration or
discontinuance of highways. Such alterations or vacations shall require a
public hearing by the planning and zoning commission and town council at which
any person or corporation affected by the vacation may comment. Such vacation
shall be accomplished by ordinance.
   C.   Plats: Any part of a plat may be vacated provided such vacating does
not abridge or destroy any of the rights and privileges of other proprietors in
said plat; and provided, further, that nothing contained in this section shall
authorize the closing or obstruction of any public highways laid out according
to law. The request for vacation shall be made by all of the owners of lots
within that portion of the overall plat sought to be vacated.
   D.   Vacated Streets, Alleys And Other Public Grounds: When any streets,
alleys and other public grounds are vacated, the area vacated shall be assigned
to all lots or parcels adjacent to the public area being vacated in equal
proportions.
   E.   Action By County Clerk: The county clerk shall write in plain, legible
letters across that part of said plat so vacated, the word "vacated" and also
make a reference on the same to the book and page in which the said instrument
of vacation is recorded. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-3-6: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   A.   Complaint, Investigation And Legal Action: Upon complaint from any
resident of the town or town official of a violation of this title, the
administrative official shall refer the matter to the town attorney for
investigation and legal action.
   B.   Nonconforming Sale, Transfer, Barter Or Lease: Any person or agent
acting on the behalf of another person who offers for sale, transfers, sells,
barters or leases any land without first complying with this title is guilty of
a misdemeanor.
   C.   Misdemeanor: Upon conviction of a violation of this title, the person
violating said regulations shall be fined in accordance with town ordinances
regarding misdemeanors 1 . Each day of violation constitutes a new offense.
   D.   Additional Remedies: Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken
by law or in equity to prevent any violation of this title, to prevent unlawful
construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct, or abate a violation,
to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, and these
remedies shall be in addition to the penalties described above.
   E.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be issued for the
construction of any building or structure located on a lot, plot or tract sold
in violation of the provisions of this title. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-4-1 of this code.
10-3-7: ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY:
The town shall hold harmless the planning and zoning commission, town agencies
and officials, and their official agents and representatives when acting in
good faith and without malice, from all personal liability for any damage that
may accrue to any person or property, as a result of any act required by this
title, or for the omission of any act on the part of the agency or official, or
their authorized agents, in the discharge of their duties hereunder. Any suit
brought against the aforementioned persons or agencies of the town because of
any such act or omission in the carrying out of the provisions of this title
shall be defended by the town through final determination of such proceedings.
(Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-3-8: FORMS, CHECKLISTS, APPLICATIONS AND FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Promulgation By Administrative Official: The administrative official
shall, from time to time, promulgate such forms, checklists, applications and
fee schedules as are necessary to provide for the smooth processing of
subdivisions and upon approval of the planning and zoning commission, such
supplementary documents shall be placed in a subdivisions master form file and
be made available upon request to the public. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993; amd. 2007
Code)
   B.   Copies Available: The administrative official shall, at all times, have
copies of these regulations and any supporting forms, checklists, applications
and fee schedules available to the public in the office of the town clerk-
treasurer or other designated town office. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
CHAPTER 4
APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND APPROVAL PROCESS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Preapplication Conference
10-4-2: Sketch Plat
10-4-3: Preliminary Plat
10-4-4: Final Plat
10-4-5: Approval By Town Council
10-4-6: Signing And Recording Of Subdivision Plat
10-4-7: Simple Resubdivision
10-4-1: PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE:
   A.   Conference With Administrative Official: Prior to submitting an
application for a subdivision, the subdivider shall contact the administrative
official to determine:
      1.   Procedures of requirements for filing preliminary, final and minor
plats;
      2.   Availability of appropriate utility service;
      3.   Zoning requirements on the property intended for subdivision and;
      4.   Any other requirements or concerns which could arise in the process.
(Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
   B.   Conference Scheduled: If the administrative official feels that a
preapplication conference would be advisable, such a conference, along with
submission of a sketch plat, will be scheduled at a regular meeting of the
planning and zoning commission not more than forty five (45) days from the date
of submittal. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993; amd. 2007 Code)
   C.   Action Of Planning And Zoning Commission: No action is required of the
planning and zoning commission at this conference other than to offer informal
comments on the proposed development. No preapplication conference will be
scheduled without submission of a sketch plat. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-4-2: SKETCH PLAT:
Prior to the submission of a preliminary plat, as prescribed by these
regulations, the subdivider or his agent should prepare and submit a sketch
plat and eight (8) copies to the administrative official. The administrative
official shall forward the sketch plat to the planning and zoning commission
and other appropriate agencies and departments. The purpose of the sketch plat
is to resolve any major points of disagreement before the expenses are incurred
in the development of a preliminary plat. No action is required of the planning
and zoning commission nor of any official or agency other than to offer
appropriate comments on the sketch plat. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-4-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Application: The applicant shall file, in duplicate, an application for
approval of a preliminary plat. The application shall:
      1.   Form: Be made on a form available at the office of the
administrative official. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
      2.   Number Of Copies: Be accompanied by a minimum of ten (10) copies of
the preliminary plat prepared to all specifications listed in chapter 5 of this
title. The preliminary plat shall show all land which the applicant proposes to
subdivide and all land immediately adjacent and within one hundred feet (100')
from said land, and include the name and addresses of the owners. (Ord. 2002-2,
4-8-2002)
      3.   Drainage Plan: Be accompanied by two (2) copies of a preliminary
drainage plan prepared by a professional engineer knowledgeable in the field of
storm drainage and who is licensed to practice in the state of Wyoming.
      4.   Water And Sewer Plan: Be accompanied by two (2) copies of a
preliminary water and sewer plan together with supporting engineering analysis
verifying the adequacy of existing and/or proposed sewer and water facilities
and systems in the area, prepared by an professional engineer licensed in
Wyoming.
      5.   Review Fee: Be accompanied by a preliminary plat review fee as
prescribed by resolution of the town council.
      6.   Checklist: Include a completed preliminary plat checklist on the
standard form provided by the town. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
   B.   Copies Furnished Agencies For Review And Comment: The administrative
official shall, within three (3) working days, furnish each of the following
agencies and offices with a copy of the preliminary plat for review and
comment:
      1.   Town engineer;
      2.   Town attorney;
      3.   Wright sewer and water district;
      4.   Electric power company;
      5.   Gas company;
      6.   Cable TV company;
      7.   County clerk's office;
      8.   File;
      9.   Other agencies or public offices affected by the proposed
subdivision. (Ord. 2002-2, 4-8-2002)
   C.   Review By Planning And Zoning Commission:
      1.   Written Reports From Agencies: Before taking any formal action, the
administrative official shall provide a written report from each of the above
enumerated agencies and offices from whom comments are received.
      2.   Consideration And Determination: The planning and zoning commission
shall consider and determine whether the information and data shown on the
preliminary plat and the associated documents indicate that the proposed
subdivision will be consistent with and promote the planning objectives set
forth in this title and the policies and requirements for development set forth
in the ordinances of the town.
      3.   Commission Action: After considering such written reports, and after
considering any objections from the agencies listed, the planning and zoning
commission shall determine that the preliminary plat either be approved,
conditionally approved, or disapproved.
      4.   Written Decision: A copy of the written decision of the planning and
zoning commission concerning the plat shall be provided within thirty (30) days
after the preliminary plat and all other required information has been
submitted to the administrative official.
      5.   Additional Time For Review: However, in the event that the planning
and zoning commission requires additional time for review, they shall notify
the subdivider, in writing, of the extended time period required, which shall
not exceed forty five (45) days from the date of submittal.
   D.   Public Hearing; Conditional Approval, Approval, Or Disapproval: The
preliminary plat and all pertinent data shall be reviewed by the planning and
zoning commission and it shall hold a public hearing to hear testimony and
arguments in favor of or in objection to the plat from any individual, firm,
agency or official. Conditional approval may be given in instances where only
minor deficiencies are present. In other cases, the preliminary plat shall be
approved, unless, in the judgment of the planning and zoning commission, the
subdivision proposed by the preliminary plat would in one or more respects
violate the spirit or letter of these regulations or of any applicable law or
ordinance, or unless the preliminary plat and the associated information is
lacking or inaccurate so as to make a decision on the substantive issues
difficult or impossible.
   E.   Term Of Approval: The approval of a preliminary plat shall be effective
for a period of one year; at the end of which time, final approval on the
subdivision must have been obtained from the planning and zoning commission,
although the final plat need not yet be signed and filed with the county clerk.
Any plat not receiving final approval within the period of time set forth
herein, shall be null and void, and the developer shall be required to resubmit
a new plat for preliminary approval, subject to all new zoning restrictions and
subdivision regulations. In the event the final plat covers only a portion of
the territory covered by the preliminary plat, such approval of the preliminary
plat shall be automatically renewed for an additional one year period following
the approval of each final plat. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-4-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Application For Final Plat: Following the approval of the preliminary
plat, the applicant, if he wishes to proceed with the subdivision, shall file
with the administrative official an application for final approval of a
subdivision plat. The application shall:
      1.   Form: Be made on forms available at the office of the administrative
official; (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
      2.   Number Of Copies: Be accompanied by a minimum of ten (10) copies of
the final plat as described in chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 2002-2, 4-8-2002)
      3.   Compliance With Preliminary Plat: Comply in all respects with the
preliminary plat, as approved, except that the final plat may constitute only a
portion of the territory covered by the preliminary plat. If the final plat
does not conform to the approved preliminary plat, the subdivider shall
document the changes and the planning and zoning commission chairman will
decide if the change is substantial enough to warrant another preliminary plat
review by the commission.
      4.   Opinion Of Probable Improvement Costs: Be accompanied by a detailed
opinion of probable cost for all the subdivision improvement costs, said
opinion to be prepared by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the
state of Wyoming.
      5.   Review Fee: Be accompanied by a final plat review fee as may be
prescribed by resolution of the town council. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
      6.   Adequate Access: Provide evidence satisfactory to the planning and
zoning commission that adequate access has been provided and that all proposed
streets, alleys and roadways within the subdivision conform to the minimum
standards adopted by the town council. (Ord. 2002-2, 4-8-2002)
      7.   Binding Easements: If the subdivider proposes to utilize adjoining
property for water lines, drainage, sewer lines, power lines or other
utilities, the subdivider shall provide copies of binding easements of not less
than fifteen feet (15') in width for each of the proposed facilities from each
property owner over whose land such services shall extend and shall provide a
minimum access roadway right of way of sixty feet (60') to the subdivision for
all public ways.
      8.   Adequate Financial Resources: Provide evidence satisfactory to the
planning and zoning commission that the subdivider has adequate financial
resources to develop and complete any facility proposed or represented to be
the responsibility of the subdivider, including, but not limited to, water
systems, sewage systems, drainage systems, streets and roadways.
      9.   Satisfactory Evidence: Provide evidence satisfactory to the town
attorney that:
         a.   Free Of Encumbrances: The subdivided land is free of all
encumbrances, and that the person who offers any part of the subdivision for
sale or who solicits and offers for the purchase thereof, directly or through
agents, can convey merchantable title, subject only to noted reservations or
restrictions of record, but free of encumbrances and subject only to a
proportionate share of real property taxes or assessments charged or assessed
for the year in which any such sale may be legally effected; or
         b.   Binding Arrangements: Binding arrangements have been made by the
person who offers any part of the subdivision for sale, directly or through an
agent, to assure purchasers of any part of the subdivision that upon full
payment of the purchase price, a deed can and will be delivered conveying
merchantable title subject only to noted reservations or restrictions of record
and free of encumbrances not specifically assumed by the purchaser, subject
only to a proportionate share of such taxes and assessments thereon as may be
levied or assessed for the year in which such sale may be legally effected.
      10.   Verification From Town Engineer: Provide verification from the town
engineer that the construction plans, the final plat and the final drainage
reports have been reviewed and approved and that the proposed sewage collection
system and water distribution system together with all transmission and
treatment facilities meet with town, state and federal standards.
      11.   Other Information: Be accompanied by any other information
consistent with this title and the town council's published rules and
regulations which the council deems pertinent or relevant to the evaluation of
the application.
   B.   Review:
      1.   Completeness And Conformance: After receipt of the final plat and
all supporting documents, the administrative official shall review the
submittal for completeness and for conformance with the approved preliminary
plat and all requirements of this title.
      2.   Transmittal To Other Agencies: The administrative official shall
refer copies of the final plat and appropriate supporting documents to and seek
comments from the same agencies and officials from whom approval is required in
section
10-4-3 of this chapter.
      3.   Documentation Complete: Provided the final plat and all supporting
documents are complete and in accord with the provisions of this title and
requirements made by the planning and zoning commission, the final plat shall
be scheduled to be considered at a regular meeting of the planning and zoning
commission within forty five (45) days after all documents have been filed.
      4.   Documentation Incomplete: In the event all documents are not
complete and approvable, the administrative official to the planning and zoning
commission may extend the review time period, but in no case will the final
plat be scheduled to be considered by the commission later than sixty (60) days
from the date of filing.
      5.   Notice To Applicant: Notice, in writing, shall be given the
applicant of any incomplete or unapprovable documents.
      6.   Recommendations And Comments Of Reviewing Agencies: The
recommendation and comments of the reviewing agencies concerning the plat
submittals shall be made to the planning and zoning commission, in writing, at
least seven (7) days prior to the scheduled planning and zoning commission
meeting, and a copy of the same shall be sent to the applicant.
   C.   Public Hearing: At the planning and zoning commission meeting, the
planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing and give an
opportunity to any interested person or official to comment upon the plat.
After due deliberation, the planning and zoning commission shall approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the application. In its final action, the
planning and zoning commission shall stipulate in detail any conditions to
which the approval is subject or reasons for disapproval. One copy of the final
subdivision plat shall be returned to the subdivider with the date of approval,
conditional approval or disapproval noted thereon, and the reasons therefor
accompanying the plat. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
   D.   Final Review: Subsequent to the action by the planning and zoning
commission, a copy of the subdivision plat on reproducible Mylar and one copy
of the subdivision plat on paper shall be submitted to the administrative
office of the planning and zoning commission for final review. No final
approval shall be endorsed on the plat until a review has indicated that all
requirements of the commission's action have been met. (Ord. 2002-2, 4-8-2002)
   E.   Vested Rights: No vested rights shall accrue to any plat by reason of
preliminary or final approval until the actual signing of the plat by the
mayor. All requirements, conditions, or regulations adopted by the town council
applicable to the subdivision or on all subdivisions generally shall be deemed
a condition for any subdivision prior to the time of the signing of the final
plat by the mayor. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-4-5: APPROVAL BY TOWN COUNCIL:
The town council shall approve or disapprove the subdivision application and
issue a ruling within forty five (45) days after receiving a report from the
planning and zoning commission. Approval of the final subdivision plat shall be
by ordinance. Minor plats and minor replats as defined in section
10-1-11 of this title shall be approved by resolution of the town council.
(Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-4-6: SIGNING AND RECORDING OF SUBDIVISION PLAT:
   A.   Mayor's Endorsement: The mayor shall endorse approval of the plat after
the assurances have been approved by the town council, and all the conditions
of the planning and zoning commission's action have been satisfied. (Ord. 93-9,
6-14-1993)
   B.   Signed Copy Returned To Applicant: The mayor will sign one reproducible
Mylar of the subdivision plat subject to subsection A of this section. One copy
of the signed and recorded original will be returned to the applicant. (Ord.
2002-2, 4-8-2002)
   C.   Filing With County: It shall be the responsibility of the
administrative official to file the plat with the county clerk's office within
thirty (30) days of the date of signature. Simultaneously with the filing of
the plat, the administrative official to the planning and zoning commission
shall record such legal documents as shall be required to be recorded by the
town attorney. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-4-7: SIMPLE RESUBDIVISION:
   A.   Application: Following a preapplication conference of the
administrative official and the owner or owner's representative to determine
eligibility for a simple resubdivision, application may be made by submission
of a record of survey plat to the administrative official. Said plat shall be
prepared according to the requirements of section
10-5-10 of this title.
   B.   Review: The administrative official shall review the application within
fifteen (15) days of receipt. Request for changes, information, or further
submittals shall be made by written notice to the applicant.
   C.   Approval/Denial: Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of all requested
information and documentation, the administrative official shall approve or
deny the application. Notice of approval or denial shall be made in writing.
Approval shall be further signified by the administrative official's signature
on the record of survey plat. (Ord. 2004-02, 3-8-2004)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIFICATIONS FOR DOCUMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED
SECTION:
10-5-1: Sketch Plat
10-5-2: Preliminary Plat
10-5-3: Final Plat
10-5-4: Preliminary Water And Sewer Plans
10-5-5: Preliminary Drainage Plan
10-5-6: Final Drainage Study
10-5-7: Final Approval Of Water And Sewer Plans
10-5-8: Street Improvements
10-5-9: Other Utilities
10-5-10: Record Of Survey Plat And Monumentation Requirements
10-5-1: SKETCH PLAT:
There are no specific format requirements for a sketch plat, however, it is
suggested that the drawing be done on a twenty four inch by thirty six inch
(24" x 36") sheet, drawn to a scale of approximately one inch equals one
hundred feet (1" = 100') and in a neat, legible format. The drawing should show
proposed street layout, lots, proposed zoning and any other pertinent
information in order to facilitate a thorough, normal review of the project.
(Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-5-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Specifications: The preliminary plat shall be a neat and legible
drawing of one or more sheets measuring twenty four inches by thirty six inches
(24" x 36"). The scale of the map shall not be more than one hundred feet per
inch (100' per 1"). The following items shall be included on the preliminary
plat:
      1.   Name of subdivision, date, label "Preliminary Plat", scale and north
arrow.
      2.   Name, address and phone number of property owner and subdivider, if
other than owner.
      3.   Name, address and phone number of person or firm responsible for
preparation of the plat.
      4.   Names of adjacent subdivisions and streets.
      5.   Boundaries of the tract will be drawn to scale showing all bearings
and distances to the nearest one-hundredth foot (0.01').
      6.   The plat shall show all physical features such as streams, fences
and existing structures.
      7.   Ground contours at two foot (2') intervals for slopes within the
tract between level and ten percent (10%) grade and five foot (5') contours for
slopes within the tract over ten percent (10%) grade. Contours shall be
accurate to within one-half (1/2) contour interval, and elevations shall be
based on coast guard and geodetic survey sea level data. Assumed data shall not
be permitted. USGS quad maps shall not be accepted as evidence for
topographical contours. Topographic contours on all preliminary plats shall
correctly depict existing contours.
      8.   Locations, dimensions and names of existing streets, railroads,
easements, municipal boundaries, or other public properties and significant
features shall be shown within and adjacent to the plat.
      9.   Any proposed public areas.
      10.   A vicinity map at a scale of one inch equals one thousand feet (1"
= 1,000') or larger shall be drawn on or shall accompany the preliminary plat.
It shall show the street and tract lines of all abutting subdivisions, proposed
streets and the outline of acreage parcels of land, within at least one-half
(1/2) mile of the boundary of the proposed subdivision together with the names
and/or numbers of all tracts between it and the nearest existing highways or
thoroughfares. It may also be required to show the proposed land use, highways
or thoroughfares. It may also be required to show the proposed land use and
suggested street layout in any adjoining property under the same ownership.
      11.   Location and right of way widths of proposed streets, alleys and
utility easements laid out according to sound planning principles.
      12.   Approximate radii of streets and points of curvature.
      13.   Layout of proposed parcels of land including approximate dimensions
of lot lines, lot numbers, and building setback lines.
      14.   Street names.
      15.   A statement of the present zoning and proposed use or uses of the
property, as well as proposed zoning classifications.
      16.   The approximate boundaries of areas as determined by a licensed
Wyoming professional engineer, subject to inundation or storm water overflows
from a 100-year storm, and the location, width, and direction of flow of all
watercourses, lakes or any other bodies of water.
      17.   Additional notations and information as may be required for a
thorough review of the plat.
   B.   Complete Submittal: A complete submittal shall also include:
      1.   Payment of the total preliminary plat fee.
      2.   Two (2) copies of preliminary water and sewer plans prepared by a
professional engineer licensed to practice in Wyoming.
      3.   A schedule for installation of proposed improvements and any
proposed phasing of the subdivision.
      4.   Two (2) copies of a soil report including a boring on at least fifty
percent (50%) of all lots in the subdivision, prepared by a professional
engineer licensed to practice in Wyoming.
      5.   A statement describing the development and maintenance of any
private open spaces.
      6.   Two (2) copies of a preliminary drainage and grading plan prepared
by a professional engineer licensed to practice in Wyoming.
      7.   A petition for annexation to the town for any land to be subdivided
which is contiguous to the town, either by itself or as part of a larger tract.
      8.   Locations, dimensions and names of existing streets, railroads,
easements, municipal boundaries, or other public properties and significant
features shall be shown within and adjacent to the plat.
      9.   Any proposed public areas.
      10.   A vicinity map at a scale of one inch equals one thousand feet (1"
= 1,000'), or larger, shall be drawn on or shall accompany the preliminary
plat. It shall show the street and tract lines of all abutting subdivisions,
proposed streets and the outline of acreage parcels of land, within at least
one-half (1/2) mile of the boundary of the proposed subdivision together with
the names and/or numbers of all tracts between it and the nearest existing
highways or thoroughfares. It may also be required to show the proposed land
use, highways or thoroughfares. It may also be required to show the proposed
land use and suggested street layout in any adjoining property under the same
ownership.
      11.   Location and right of way widths of proposed streets, alleys and
utility easements laid out according to sound planning principles.
      12.   Approximate radii of streets and points of curvature.
      13.   Layout of proposed parcels of land including approximate dimensions
of lot lines, lot numbers, and building setback lines.
      14.   Street names.
      15.   A statement of the present zoning and proposed use or uses of the
property, as well as proposed zoning classifications.
      16.   The approximate boundaries of areas as determined by a licensed
Wyoming professional engineer, subject to inundation or storm water overflows
from a 100-year storm, and the location, width, and direction of flow of all
watercourses, lakes or any other bodies of water.
      17.   Additional notations and information as may be required for a
thorough review of the plat.
   C.   Number Of Copies: Preliminary plats shall be submitted in seventeen
(17) blue line copies and one sepia Mylar reproducible along with support
materials.
   D.   Additional Documentation: A complete submittal shall also include:
      1.   Payment of the total preliminary plat fee.
      2.   Two (2) copies of preliminary water and sewer plans prepared by a
professional engineer licensed to practice in Wyoming.
      3.   A schedule for installation of proposed improvements and any
proposed phasing of the subdivision.
      4.   Two (2) copies of a soil report including a boring on at least fifty
percent (50%) of all lots in the subdivision, prepared by a professional
engineer licensed to practice in Wyoming.
      5.   A statement describing the development and maintenance of any
private open spaces.
      6.   Two (2) copies of a preliminary drainage and grading plan prepared
by a professional engineer licensed to practice in Wyoming.
      7.   A petition for annexation to the town for any land to be subdivided
which is contiguous to the town, either by itself or as part of a larger tract.
      8.   An application for appropriate zoning for the subdivided area if the
existing zoning does not allow the type of use proposed.
      9.   The names and addresses of all contiguous property owners
immediately adjacent to the boundary of the proposed subdivision.
      10.   Two (2) copies of the completed preliminary plat application on
standard forms provided.
      11.   Two (2) copies of the completed preliminary plat checklist on
standard forms provided.
   E.   Commission Action: No preliminary plat shall be scheduled for planning
and zoning commission action until a complete preliminary plat submittal has
been submitted to the town clerk-treasurer.
   F.   Scheduling: Scheduling shall be subject to deadlines promulgated by the
administrative official. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993; amd. Ord. 2002-2, 4-8-2002)
10-5-3: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Specifications: The final plat shall be accurately and legibly prepared
in black, waterproof ink upon one or more sheets of Mylar film measuring twenty
four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"). A marginal line shall be drawn
completely around each sheet leaving an entirely blank margin of two inches
(2") on the left side and one-half inch (1/2") on all other sides. All
signatures shall be in black, waterproof ink. The scale of the map shall be not
more than one hundred feet per inch (100' per 1"). The particular number of the
sheet and the total number of sheets and the relations of each adjoining sheet
shall be clearly shown by a small key map on each sheet. The following items
shall be included on the final plat:
      1.   Name of subdivision or portion thereof, date, label "Final Plat",
written and graphic scale, north arrow. The title of each sheet of said final
plat shall consist of the approved name of the subdivision conspicuously placed
on the sheet. A subtitle in smaller lettering shall indicate the quarter
section, township and range in which the subdivision is located and/or a
statement that the subdivision is a resubdivision of a specifically named
subdivision. Plats filed for the purpose of showing as acreage, land previously
subdivided into parcels or lots or blocks, shall be designated with an
appropriate approved title.
      2.   An accurate and complete boundary survey shall be made of the land
to be subdivided. A traverse of the exterior boundaries of the tract, and of
each block, when computed from field measurements on the ground, must close
within a limit of one foot (1') to ten thousand feet (10,000') in perimeter.
The closure ratio shall be shown on the plat. The boundary of the subdivision
shall be clearly indicated on the final plat. All lines shown on the plat which
do not constitute a part of the subdivision shall be dashed. Any area enclosed
by the subdivision, but not a part thereof, shall be labeled "NOT A PART OF
THIS SUBDIVISION'.
      3.   The final plat shall show all survey and mathematical information
and data necessary to locate all monuments and to locate and retrace any and
all interior and exterior boundary lines appearing thereon including bearings
and distances of straight lines, and radii, lengths, tangent distances and
deflection for all circular curves. Where, under unusual circumstances, curves
other than circular are used, the final plat must indicate type of curve and
pertinent data.
      4.   All lots and parcels offered for dedication for any purpose shall be
particularly delineated and designated with all dimensions, boundaries, and
courses clearly shown and defined in every case. Parcels offered for dedication
other than for streets or easements shall be designated by letter or number.
Sufficient linear, angular and curve data shall be shown to determine readily
the bearing and length of the boundary lines of every lot and parcel which is a
part thereof. All lots, and wherever practicable, larger parcels, in their
entirety, shall be shown on one sheet. Ditto marks shall not be used for lot
dimensions. All lots shall be numbered systematically.
      5.   The plat shall show the right of way lines and monument lines of
each street, and the width of any portion being dedicated, and widths of any
existing dedications. The widths and locations of adjacent streets, lots and
other properties within fifty feet (50') of the subdivision shall be shown. If
any street in the subdivision is a continuation or approximately a continuation
of an existing street, the conformity or the amount of nonconformity of such
street to such existing streets shall be accurately shown. Whenever the
centerline of a street has been established or recorded, the date shall be
shown on the final plat.
      6.   The side lines of all easements shall be shown by fine dashed lines.
If any easement already of record cannot be definitely located, a statement of
the existence, the nature thereof, and its recorded reference must appear on
the title sheet. Distances and bearings on the side lines of lots which are cut
by an easement must be arrowed or so shown that the plat will indicate clearly
the actual length of the lot lines. The widths of all easements and sufficient
ties thereto to definitely locate the same with respect to the subdivision must
be shown. All easements must be clearly labeled and identified. If an easement
shown on the plat is already of record, its recorded reference must be given.
If an easement is being dedicated by the plat, it shall be set out in the
owner's certificate of dedication and dedicated to the appropriate grantee.
      7.   The plat shall show by a fine continuous line, the high water line
of the 100-year flood. In case the subdivision is adjacent to or contains any
stream, channel, wetland or any body of water, the plat shall also show any
such area by a fine continuous line.
      8.   The final plat shall show fully and describe clearly what stakes,
monuments, and/or other evidence were used to determine the boundaries of the
legal description of the subdivision, where found on the ground. The final plat
shall also show fully and clearly each adjacent corner of each adjoining
subdivision or portion thereof, by lot and block numbers, tract names or
number, and place of record; or by section, township or range; or by other
proper designation. The following required monuments shall be shown on the
final plat:
         a.   The location of all monuments, in relation to a point of
beginning, placed in making the survey, and if any points were reset by ties,
that information shall be stated. The external boundaries of all subdivisions
shall, prior to the recording of any plat thereof, be monumented on the ground
by standard, permanent brass cap monuments solidly embedded in the ground.
Affixed securely to the top of each such monument established shall be the
Wyoming registration number of the land surveyor responsible for the
establishment of said monument. These monuments shall be set at all angle
points, and at the beginning, end and points of change of direction or change
of radius of any curved boundaries. Monuments may be set after acceptance of
the final plat by the town council but prior to recording.
         b.   Concrete and metal monuments of a type approved by the town
engineer shall be placed at intersections of street centerlines and at other
points on street centerlines or monument lines as the town engineer shall
require.
         c.   To ensure accurate resurveys and future adjacent platting, ties
to at least two (2) section corners and/or quarter section corners shall be
shown on the final plat.
      9.   The final plat shall contain a certificate signed and acknowledged
by all parties having any record title interest in the land subdivided,
consenting to the preparation and recording of said plat; provided however,
that the signatures of parties owning the following types of interests may be
omitted if their names and the nature of their interests are set forth on the
plat:
         a.   Rights of way, easements, or other interests, none of which can
ripen into a fee;
         b.   Rights of way, easements or reversions, which by reason of
changed conditions or long disuse appear to be no longer of potential use or
value and which signatures it is impossible or impractical to obtain. In this
case, a reasonable statement of the circumstances preventing the procurement of
the signature shall be provided.
      10.   A certificate shall be signed and sealed by a land surveyor
licensed in the state of Wyoming, stating that he is responsible for the survey
and that the final plat accurately depicts the subdivision or development and
the survey. A statement by the land surveyor explaining how bearings were
determined shall be included on the plat. The signature of such surveyor shall
be accompanied by his registration number and stamp. The certificate of the
land surveyor shall read as follows:
I,                                     , do hereby certify that I am a Land
Surveyor, licensed under the laws of the State of Wyoming, that this plat is a
true, correct and complete plat of (Subdivision Name), as laid out, platted,
dedicated and shown hereon, that such plat was made from an accurate survey of
said property by me and under my supervision and correctly shows the location
and dimensions of the lots, easements and streets of said subdivision as the
same are staked upon the ground in compliance with Town of Wright regulations
governing the subdivision of land.
                                            
         Land Surveyor
         No.                        
      11.   The title sheet shall contain such other affidavits, certificates,
acknowledgements, endorsements, and notarial seals as are required by law and
by these regulations as well as a certificate, signed and acknowledged as
above, offering for dedication all parcels of land shown on the final plat and
intended for any public dedication, except those parcels other than streets
which are intended for the exclusive use of the lot owners in the subdivision,
their licensees, visitors, and tenants. These acknowledgements shall read as
follows:
Know all men by these presents that the undersigned (official name of
subdivider), being the owner, proprietor or parties of interest in the land
shown on this plat, do hereby certify.
That the foregoing plat designated as (name of subdivision or addition), is
located in (Section, Township, Range, City, County, State), and is more
particularly described as follows:
   (Insert full, legal description)
and contains an area of                     acres, more or less, and
That this subdivision, as it is described and as it appears on this plat, is
made with the free consent and in accordance with the desires of the
undersigned owner(s) and proprietor(s); and that this is a correct plat of the
area as it is divided into lots, blocks, streets and easements.
That the undersigned owner(s) of the land shown and described on this plat does
(do) hereby dedicate to the Town of Wright and its licensees for perpetual
public use, all streets, alleys, easements and other public lands within the
boundary lines of the plat, as indicated, and not already otherwise dedicated
for public use.
Utility easements, as designated on this plat, are hereby dedicated to the Town
of Wright and its licensees for perpetual public use, for the purpose of
installing, repairing, reinstalling, replacing and maintaining sewers, water
lines, gas lines, electric lines, telephone lines, cable TV lines and other
forms and types of public utilities now or hereafter generally utilized by the
public.
(On plats containing drainage easements, add:)
Drainage easements, as designated on this plat, are hereby dedicated to the
Town of Wright and its licensees for public use, to accommodate the flow or
storage of storm waters and shall be kept free of all structures or other
impediments.
(Individuals, where applicable, should add:)
All rights under and by virtue of the homestead exemption laws of the State of
Wyoming are hereby waived and released.
Executed this         day of            , 20   , A.D., by:
                                                       
            (designation of interest: owner,
                mortgagee, etc.)
STATE OF WYOMING    )
       ) ss.
CAMPBELL COUNTY )
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this       day of
             , 20   , A.D., by                                          as a
free and voluntary act and deed.
Witness my hand and official seal.
                                                     
                  Notary Public
My Commission Expires:                         
   (On plats containing mortgagees, add:)
The Undersigned (name of mortgagee) hereinafter MORTGAGEE, holds a mortgage in
and to the property embraced by this subdivision plat, which mortgage was filed
with the Clerk of Campbell County and Ex Officio Recorder of Deeds at Book     
of photos, at Page       . MORTGAGEE, by his signature on this plat, consents
to the dedications made herein and specifically releases all streets, alleys,
parks, easements, open spaces and other areas dedicated to the Town of Wright
for public use, as listed and described on this plat from the aforementioned
mortgage.
      12.   The certificate of approval of the town engineer shall read as
follows:
Data on this plat approved this       day of 20   , by the Town Engineer of
Wright, Wyoming.
                                                    
   Town Engineer   License No.
      13.   The certificate of the town of Wright planning and zoning
commission shall read as follows:
This plat approved by the town of Wright Planning and Zoning Commission this
      day of          , 20  , A.D.
                                   
                  Chairman
                                        
                  Secretary
      14.   The certificate of acceptance and approval by the town council of
Wright shall read as follows:
Approved by the Town Council of the Town of Wright, Wyoming, this day       of
             , 20   , A.D.
                                           
   Attest:          Mayor
                                    
   Town Clerk
      15.   The certificate for recording by the county clerk and recorder
shall read as follows:
This plat was filed for record in the Office of the Clerk and Recorder at
          o'clock   .M., 20  , and is duly recorded in Book       , Page
        .
                                             
                  County Clerk
      16.   When the plat of a subdivision or a resubdivision intends to vacate
an existing easement, the location of the easement shall be shown on the plat
with a notation that it is being vacated by the plat. In the case of a
resubdivision of an existing subdivision or portion of a subdivision, the
following declaration shall appear above the mayor's signature or below the
title:
   DECLARATION VACATING PREVIOUS PLATTING
This plat is the resubdivision of (subdivision or portion of subdivision being
resubdivided), as recorded in Book       of Plats, Page      , of the records
of the Campbell County Clerk. All earlier plats or portions thereof,
encompassed by the boundaries of this plat are hereby vacated.
      17.   The title sheet shall contain a vicinity map drawn to an
appropriate scale showing the following features surrounding the subdivision
for a distance of at least one-half (1/2) mile from all sides of the
subdivision.
         a.   Outlines of all recorded plats with names, recorded dates and
recorded dates and recorded book and page.
         b.   Major streets and highways with names.
         c.   Important watercourses.
         d.   Town limits line, if appropriate, and boundary lines of public or
quasi-public lands.
         e.   Unsubdivided areas.
         f.   Scale and north arrow. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-5-4: PRELIMINARY WATER AND SEWER PLANS:
The preliminary water and sewer plan shall be a neat and legible drawing of one
or more sheets. The scale of the map shall be not more that one hundred feet
per inch (100' per 1") and may be prepared on a reproducible copy of the
preliminary plat. The following items shall be included on the preliminary
water and sewer plan:
   A.   Name of subdivision, date, label "Preliminary Water and Sewer Plan",
scale and north arrow.
   B.   Name, address and phone number of engineer or firm responsible for
preparation of the plan.
   C.   Boundaries of the tract will be drawn to scale.
   D.   The plat shall show all physical features such as streams, wooded
areas, fences and existing structures. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
   E.   The contours at two foot (2') intervals for slopes within the tract
between level and five percent (5%) grade and five foot (5') contours for
slopes within the tract over five foot (5') contours for predominate ground
slopes within the tract over five percent (5%) grade. Contours shall be
accurate to within one-half (1/2) contour interval and elevations shall be
based on coast and geodetic survey sea level data. Assumed data shall not be
permitted. USGS quad maps shall not be accepted as evidence for topographic
contours. (Ord, 93-9, 6-14-1993; amd. 2007 Code)
   F.   Locations, dimensions and names of existing railroads, easements,
municipal boundaries or other public properties and significant features shall
be shown within and adjacent to the plat.
   G.   Location and right of way widths of existing and proposed streets,
alleys, and utility easements.
   H.   Radii of streets and points of curvature.
   I.   Layout of proposed parcels of land including approximate dimensions of
lot lines and lot numbers.
   J.   Alignment of proposed sanitary sewage collection system together with
any outfall sewers. Manhole locations shall be shown with approximate invert
and rim elevations indicated. The diameter, approximate length of approximate
slope of each sewer main shall be indicated.
   K.   Alignment of proposed water distribution system together with any
extensions of existing water mains necessary to provide an adequate water
supply to the subdivision. Pipe diameters shall be indicated as well as the
locations of proposed water valves.
   L.   Locations of proposed fire hydrants.
   M.   Additional notations and information as may be required. (Ord. 93-9, 6-
14-1993)
10-5-5: PRELIMINARY DRAINAGE PLAN:
   A.   Specifications: The preliminary drainage plan shall be a neat and
legible drawing of one or more sheets. The scale of the map shall be not more
than one hundred feet per inch (100' per 1") and may be prepared on a
reproducible copy of the preliminary plat. The following items shall be
included on the preliminary drainage plan.
      1.   Name of subdivision, date, label "Preliminary Drainage Plan", scale
and north arrow.
      2.   Name, address and phone number of engineer or engineering firm
responsible for preparation of the plan.
      3.   The plan shall show all physical features such as streams, fences
and existing structures. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
      4.   The contours at two foot (2') intervals for predominate ground
slopes within the tract between level and five percent (5%) grade and five foot
(5') contours for predominate ground slopes within the tract over five percent
(5%) grade. Contours shall be accurate to within one-half (1/2) contour
interval and elevations shall be based on coast and geodetic survey sea level
data. Assumed data shall not be permitted, USGS quad maps shall not be accepted
as evidence for topographic contours. Topographic contours on all preliminary
drainage plans shall correctly depict land contours. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993;
amd. 2007 Code)
      5.   Locations, dimensions and name of existing streets, railroads,
easements, municipal boundaries or other public properties and significant
features shall be shown within and adjacent to the plat.
      6.   Location and right of way widths of existing and proposed streets,
alleys and utility easements laid out according to sound planning principles.
      7.   Any proposed public areas.
      8.   Layout of proposed parcels of land including approximate dimensions
of lot lines and lot numbers.
      9.   The approximate boundaries of areas as determined by a qualified
drainage engineer, subject to inundations or storm water overflows from a 100-
year storm, and the location, width, and direction of flow of all watercourses,
lakes, or wetlands.
      10.   Approximate grades of streets.
      11.   Existing drainage facilities and structures, including existing
roadside ditches, drainageways, gutter flow directions, culverts, etc., shall
also be included to facilitate review and approval of the drainage plans.
      12.   Overall drainage area boundary and drainage subarea boundaries.
      13.   Proposed type of curb and gutter and gutter flow directions,
including valley gutters.
      14.   Proposed piping and open drainageways, including proposed inlets,
manholes, culverts and other appurtenances.
      15.   Proposed outfall point for runoff from the study area.
      16.   Routing and accumulative flows at various critical points for the
major storm runoff.
      17.   Critical minimum finished floor elevations for protection from
major storm runoff.
   B.   Preliminary Drainage Study And Report: A written preliminary drainage
study and report on eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") size
paper shall be submitted along with drainage plan. The information listed
below, if not shown on the drawings, shall be included in the report:
      1.   Runoff calculations and method of analysis for both the 10-year
storm and 100-year storm, submitted in tabular form.
      2.   Open channel flow calculations.
      3.   Storm sewer and storm inlet flow calculations for initial storm
runoff and major storm runoff.
      4.   Street capacities and flow calculations at critical street sections
for initial storm runoff and major storm runoff.
      5.   Summation of all design variables used and design assumptions made.
      6.   Soil classification reports and depth of underground water table
throughout the study area.
      7.   The boundary and designation of all tributary drainage areas and the
area of each in acres.
      8.   The designation and location of each design point referred to in the
calculations.
      9.   The reference source and a copy of all other nomographs or design
aids used in the calculations. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-5-6: FINAL DRAINAGE STUDY:
The final drainage study and report shall be prepared for submittal to the town
engineer at the time when improvement plans are submitted for review. The study
and report shall provide the same items specified for the "Preliminary Drainage
Plan" except that all calculations, maps, and charts shall reflect the final
design for all improvements. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-5-7: FINAL APPROVAL OF WATER AND SEWER PLANS:
   A.   Final Water And Sewer System Design: Prior to the submission of the
final plat, the subdivider shall submit four (4) copies of the final water and
sewer system design to the administrative official. The plans shall be
submitted for approval by the Wright water and sewer district engineer. Prior
to final approval, the subdivider shall make any required changes in the plans
and submit a final draft for use by the water and sewer district.
   B.   Signature Of Professional Engineer Required: All construction drawings
and designs shall be signed by a professional engineer licensed to practice in
Wyoming.
   C.   Compliance With Department Of Environmental Quality Standards And
Regulations: Water and sewer design shall meet all standards and regulations of
the state department of environmental quality and the developer shall submit an
approved permit to construct to the town from DEQ as evidence of approval for
the construction plans.
   D.   Copy Of Permit To Construct: A copy of the permit to construct from the
Wright water and sewer district engineer shall be submitted along with other
final plat submittals as evidence of approval from the Wright water and sewer
district engineer to the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-5-8: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Final Plan And Profile Construction Drawings And Design: Prior to the
submission of the final plat, the subdivider shall submit four (4) copies of
the final plan and profile construction drawings and design to the
administrative official. The plans shall be submitted for approval by the town
engineer. Prior to final approval, the subdivider shall make any required
changes in the plans and submit a final draft to the town.
   B.   Signature Of Professional Engineer Required: All construction drawings
and designs shall be signed by a professional engineer licensed to practice in
Wyoming.
   C.   Compliance With Town Standards And Specifications: Plans shall comply
with town standards and specifications and show all typical cross sections,
dimensions and specifications of roads, subgrade, base, curb, gutter and
sidewalk and other proposed construction.
   D.   Copy Of Permit To Construct: A copy of the approved permit to construct
from the town engineer shall be submitted along with other final plat
submittals as evidence of approval from the town engineer to the planning and
zoning commission. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-5-9: OTHER UTILITIES:
The subdivider shall submit evidence of any required approval from any private
utilities including, but not limited to, electric, gas, cable TV or other
utility services for any proposed improvements intended to serve the
subdivision as part of the final plat submittal. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-5-10: RECORD OF SURVEY PLAT AND MONUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Specifications: Records of survey to be recorded shall be legibly
drawn, printed or reproduced with permanent ink, and shall be eight and one-
half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11") or eight and one-half inches by
fourteen inches (81/2" x 14"). Records of survey to be filed shall be legibly
drawn, printed or reproduced with permanent ink and shall meet the requirements
of Wyoming Statutes section 33-29-139.
   B.   Signed Reproducible Copy: One signed reproducible copy of a stable base
shall be submitted.
   C.   Multiple Sheets: Whenever more than one sheet must be used to
accurately portray the land divided or property boundaries realigned, each
sheet must show the number of that sheet, and the total number of sheets
included. All certifications shall be shown or referenced on one sheet.
   D.   Information On Face: The record of survey shall show or contain on its
face, or on separate sheets referenced on its face, the following information:
      1.   A title block including the township, range, principal meridian,
county, and state of the surveyed land. Space shall be provided on the record
of survey for the clerk and recorder's filing information. A record of survey
shall bear the title "RECORD OF SURVEY, RESUBDIVISION OF           " in the
title;
      2.   North arrow;
      3.   Scale or scale bar;
      4.   All monuments found, set, reset, replaced or removed describing
their kind, size, location and giving other data related thereto;
      5.   The location of any corners of sections or divisions of sections
pertinent to the survey;
      6.   The true bearings, distances, and curve data of all perimeter
boundary lines shall be indicated;
      7.   Data on all curves sufficient to enable the reestablishment of the
curves on the ground;
      8.   Lengths of all lines shown to at least one-tenth of a foot (0.1')
and all angles and bearings shown to at least the nearest minute;
      9.   All lots or parcels created by the survey, designated as per
subsection
10-6-5D8 of this title, and the dimensions and area or each lots or parcel
(Excepted parcels shall be marked "Not a part"); and
      10.   The certificate of the registered land surveyor responsible for the
survey as per the requirements of subsection
10-5-3A10 of this chapter.
   E.   Platted Lot Splits: Platted lot splits shall include the following
additional information:
      1.   The location of all structures, utilities, easements, alleys, and
access roads or streets on all parcels, if any;
      2.   Location and dimensions of the lot to be split;
      3.   Proper monumentation; and
      4.   Other pertinent information as may be requested by the
administrative official.
   F.   Required Signatures: Record of survey shall be signed by the owner(s)
and the administrative official. All signatures shall be made in black drawing
ink.
      1.   Survey plat description of the perimeter of the proposed subdivision
including ties to existing section monuments of record and description of
monuments.
   G.   Permanent Reference Monuments:
      1.   Permanent reference monuments shall be set on the external boundary
of the subdivision and for all lot and block corners.
      2.   Subdivision boundary control and monumentation shall, unless
otherwise modified herein, comply with the most recent applicable portions of
the guidelines for the professional practice of land surveying as published by
the Wyoming association of consulting engineers and surveyors. Accuracy of
surveys shall be such that closures better than one part in ten thousand (1:
10,000) are obtained for the perimeter. (Ord. 2004-02, 3-8-2004)
CHAPTER 6
IMPROVEMENTS, RESERVATIONS AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: General Design Of Improvements
10-6-2: Required Improvements
10-6-3: Unsuitability For Development
10-6-4: Street And Alley Development Standards
10-6-5: Layout Of Lots, Blocks And Tracts
10-6-6: Connection To Sewer And Water Mandatory
10-6-7: Dedication Of Public Land
10-6-8: Reservation For School Sites
10-6-9: Mobile Home Subdivisions
10-6-1: GENERAL DESIGN OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Additional Requirements: In addition to the general requirements of
this title, all subdivision plats hereafter approved in the town shall also
conform to the following laws, rules, regulations and standards:
      1.   The general policies and land use recommendations of the Wright
comprehensive plan;
      2.   Any officially adopted master plans for streets, water, sewer,
drainage and parks of the town;
      3.   The Wright zoning ordinance 1 ;
      4.   Any applicable laws, statutes, regulations or standards adopted by
the state of Wyoming or any of its departments having jurisdiction over the
matter;
      5.   Rules, regulations or standards promulgated by the town engineer and
adopted by the town council;
      6.   Rules, regulations or standards promulgated by the Wright water and
sewer district and;
      7.   Any rules, regulations or standards adopted by any other agency,
board, commission or official of the town so empowered.
   B.   Plat Approval Withheld: Plat approval may be withheld by the town
council if the subdivision is not in conformity with any item listed under
subsection A of this section. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this code.
10-6-2: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Improvements Required: The owner of any land to be platted as a
subdivision shall, at his own expense, install the following improvements,
according to the specifications of the town of and the Wright water and sewer
district:
      1.   Water distribution system including laterals to the property line of
each lot;
      2.   Sewage disposal system including laterals to the property line of
each lot;
      3.   Drainage structures, storm sewers and other drainage facilities;
(Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
      4.   Concrete curbs, gutters and sidewalks, except in the R-3 rural
residential district; (Ord. 2002-2, 4-8-2002)
      5.   Asphalt or concrete paved streets and alleys; no recycled asphalt
shall be used;
      6.   Fire hydrants;
      7.   Street name signs;
      8.   Fencing where required;
      9.   Streetlights;
      10.   Other improvements as may be required by the planning and zoning
commission.
   B.   Required Utilities: The subdivider shall, at his own expense, cause the
installation of the following public utilities to be made available to each lot
and parcel within the subdivision:
      1.   Electrical distribution system including electrical lines for
streetlights;
      2.   Telephone communication system;
      3.   Gas distribution system;
      4.   Cable television system.
   C.   Underground Installations Required; Exception: All public utilities,
including services, shall be installed underground except that electrical
distribution systems may be installed on overhead utility poles in certain
cases of industrial and commercial developments, if approved by the electrical
utility. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-6-3: UNSUITABILITY FOR DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Mitigation Of Problems: Land which the planning and zoning commission
finds to be unsuitable for subdivision or development due to flooding, improper
drainage, steep slopes, rock formations, adverse earth formations or
topography, utility easements, or other features which will reasonably be
harmful to the safety, health, and general welfare of the present or future
inhabitants of the subdivision or its surrounding areas, shall not be platted
for development, unless adequate methods are formulated by the developer and
approved by the planning and zoning commission, upon recommendation of the town
engineer, to mitigate the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions.
   B.   Use Reserved: Such land shall be set aside and reserved for uses which
do not increase the danger from the hazards enumerated in subsection A of this
section. Such reservations shall be in the form of permanent easements,
dedications or other suitable legal mechanism such that their boundaries, when
platted, would not be within the buildable area for any habitable structure.
(Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-6-4: STREET AND ALLEY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Conformance With Master Street Plan: Major streets shall conform to the
width designated on the master street plan 1  wherever a subdivision falls in
an area for which a master street plan has been adopted. For territory where
such a street plan has not been completed at the time the preliminary plat is
submitted to the planning and zoning commission, major streets shall be
provided as required by the planning and zoning commission, based upon
recommendations from the town engineer.
   B.   Dedication As Public Streets: Streets and alleys shall be dedicated to
the town as public streets.
   C.   Arrangement Of Streets: The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions
shall make provision for the continuation of the existing streets in adjoining
areas (or their proper protection where adjoining land is not subdivided)
insofar as such may be deemed necessary by the planning and zoning commission
for public requirements. The street arrangement must be such as to cause no
unnecessary hardship to owners of adjoining property when they plat their own
land and seek to provide for convenient access to it.
   D.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall approach arterial or collector
streets at an angle of not less than eighty degrees (80°).
   E.   Minimum Widths: All streets and thoroughfares shall be platted
according to the following minimum standards. Increased widths may be required
where streets are to serve adjoining commercial or industrial property or where
probable traffic conditions warrant: (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
   ClassificatiRight Of Way
                  Width (Feet)
   Classification                                  Right Of Way
                                                      Width (Feet)
                                                      
Arterial street                                       100
Major collector streets                               80
Minor collector streets                               60
Local streets, commercial and industrial areas        60
Local streets, high and low density residential areas 60
Cul-de-sacs                                           60
Alleys                                                20
 
(Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993; amd. Ord. 2008-4, 6-9-2008)
   F.   Design Standards: In general the following design standards shall be
applied to all street layouts:
      1.   Each subdivision shall provide two (2) separate accessways to an
approved collector street.
      2.   Local, residential streets shall be planned to discourage through
traffic within a residential subdivision. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
      3.   Cul-de-sacs shall be no longer than five hundred feet (500') from
the center of the turnaround to the centerline of the last intersecting street
which is not a cul-de-sac. All cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum back of curb
radius of fifty feet (50') with a right of way (ROW) radius of sixty feet (60')
which connects to the street right of way (ROW) by a reverse curve of seventy
five feet (75'). (Ord. 2008-4, 6-9-2008)
      4.   If a street jogs at an intersecting street and does not continue in
a straight alignment, the centerline offset of the two (2) parts of the street
approaching the intersecting street shall be not less than one hundred fifty
feet (150').
      5.   Platting shall be accomplished in such a way that local streets and
driveways access directly onto arterial streets as little as possible.
      6.   No more than two (2) streets shall intersect at one point.
      7.   Paved alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial
districts, unless definite alternate provisions are made for service access.
      8.   Where a residential subdivision abuts a major highway, a railroad
right of way, or a limited access freeway, a frontage road may be required.
      9.   Dead end streets are prohibited, except where they may be necessary
to provide future access to adjacent, undeveloped property. In that event,
temporary turnarounds may be required on the dead end street until the adjacent
property is developed, and the street is extended. All temporary turnarounds
shall meet the minimum radius and dimensions of a permanent cul-de-sac.
      10.   Unless design conditions require larger radii, the minimum
centerline radius shall be:
 
Arterial streets              750 feet
Primary collector streets     750 feet
Residential collector streets 450 feet
Local residential streets     300 feet
Other local streets           300 feet
 
      11.   A tangent of at least one hundred feet (100') shall be provided
between any reverse curves.
      12.   All changes in street grades shall be connected by vertical curves.
Vertical curves shall be designed according to well established engineering
criteria.
      13.   The maximum grade for streets shall be as follows:
 
Freeways          As designed
Arterial streets  7 percent
Collector streets 8 percent
Local streets     8 percent
 
   (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 6 of this code.
10-6-5: LAYOUT OF LOTS, BLOCKS AND TRACTS:
   A.   Lot And Block Arrangement: The lot and block arrangement shall be such
that there will be no foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or
other conditions, in securing building permits to build on all lots in
compliance with the zoning ordinance and health regulations or in providing
driveway access to buildings on such lots from an approved street.
   B.   Lot Dimensions: Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards
of title 11 of this code. Where lots are more than double the minimum required
area for the zoning district, the planning and zoning commission may require
that such lots be arranged so as to allow further subdivision and the opening
of future streets where they would be necessary to serve such potential lots,
in compliance with title 11 of this code and this title.
   C.   Numbering Of Blocks And Lots: Subdivisions shall consist of, in
addition to public ways, an integrated and logical arrangement of tracts,
blocks and lots. All blocks and all lots within each block shall be
consecutively numbered. Numbering of blocks and lots in later phases of a
phased subdivision shall continue the sequence established in earlier phases.
   D.   Individual Lots: The following standards shall apply to individual
lots: (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
      1.   The depth to front ratio of lots shall not exceed two and one- half
to one (2.5:1). For irregular shaped lots, the minimum lot width must be
achieved at the front yard setback line. (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
      2.   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation shall be
appropriate for the type of development contemplated.
      3.   Corner lots and lots with streets on three (3) sides for residential
use shall have extra width to allow for a proper setback from all streets.
      4.   Double frontage lots shall be avoided, except where these lots back
upon a major street. Where this is the case, access to those lots from the
major street shall be prohibited.
      5.   Every platted lot shall have access to an officially dedicated
street or road.
      6.   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles to straight
street lines or radial to curved street lines.
      7.   Lots shall be designed and graded such that tops of foundations of
structures to be built on the lots can be reasonably located at least eighteen
inches (18") above the top of the adjoining curb.
      8.   Whenever a plat is resubdivided, the newly created lots shall be
numbered to avoid duplication of any original lot numbers. A letter may be used
in conjunction with a number, for example lot "2A".
   E.   Block Standards: Blocks shall generally meet the following standards:
      1.   The maximum length of blocks, generally, shall be one thousand three
hundred feet (1,300') and the minimum length of blocks shall be five hundred
feet (500').
      2.   The width of blocks shall be sufficient to allow two (2) tiers of
lots or as otherwise approved by the planning and zoning commission because of
design, terrain or other unusual conditions.
      3.   Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be designed
specifically for such purposes with adequate space set aside for off street
parking and delivery facilities.
   F.   Tracts: A tract is a land area, usually larger in size than a typical
lot, set aside for a special use or not otherwise included within the normal
subdivision pattern of blocks and lots. Tracts shall bear a letter designation,
such as tract "A". Letter designations of tracts shall be sequential and shall
not duplicate designations of tracts in earlier phases of a phased subdivision.
(Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-6-6: CONNECTION TO SEWER AND WATER MANDATORY:
All commercial, industrial and residential development shall be required to
make provision for connection to the town water and sewer system. Where
impractical due to terrain, this requirement may be temporarily waived only by
the approval of the water and sewer board. Any alternative method of providing
water and sewer service shall be designed by a professional engineer licensed
to practice in Wyoming and approved by the town building official through
issuance of a permit to construct. (Ord. 2002-2, 4-8-2002)
10-6-7: DEDICATION OF PUBLIC LAND:
   A.   Lands Dedication By Warranty Deed Or Fees In Lieu: Any subdivision or
resubdivision platted after the effective date hereof, lands shall be dedicated
and deeded by warranty deed to the town or fees in lieu thereof shall be paid
to the town, in order that adequate open spaces and sites for public use may be
properly located and preserved as the town develops, and in order that the cost
of providing additional public sites and facilities may be most equitably
apportioned on the basis of the additional need created by individual
subdivision development.
   B.   Resubdivisions: Resubdivisions of land shall be assessed for public
land dedication on the same basis as in new subdivisions; however, any legally
occupied dwelling unit existing on the site at the time the development
proposal is submitted for review shall not be included in the public land
dedication requirement. In the case of resubdivisions where public land was
previously dedicated, public land dedication, fees in lieu of park land and/or
any combination thereof shall be based only on the net potential increase of
dwelling units created by the resubdivision development.
   C.   Considered In Design: Consideration shall be given to the adequate
provision and location of such public sites and facilities in the design of the
subdivision.
   D.   Residentially Zones Areas: In residentially zoned areas, the amount of
land to be dedicated shall be computed by calculating from the plat,
determining the maximum number of dwelling units which could be allowed in the
subdivision based on the proposed zoning and number of lots. The number of
allowable dwelling units shall be multiplied by three (3) persons per dwelling
unit to determine the potential population of the area. One acre of land shall
be dedicated for each one hundred (100) persons, as determined in this manner.
   E.   Adaptable For Public Use: Any land dedicated to meet the requirements
of this section shall be reasonably adaptable for the public use for which it
is intended and shall be at a location convenient to the people to be served.
When the area designated by the owner is not suitable, or if the site is not
consistent with the town parks plan, the planning and zoning commission may
request that an alternate parcel be dedicated.
   F.   Payment Of Fee In Lieu: In the event that the application of these
standards would result in sites too small to be usable, or if the town council
determines that suitable public sites cannot properly be located in the area
covered by the plat, then payment of a fee in lieu of the land dedication shall
be required.
   G.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee shall be the current, fair market
value of the acreage required, determined by averaging the estimated value of
all of the acreage in the subdivision after it is developed. This value shall
be set by the town immediately prior to the filing of the final plat by the
subdivider and shall be based upon the value of the improved and developed
land.
   H.   Appraisal Board: If the value of such land cannot be determined
satisfactorily by the town and the subdivider, an appraisal board consisting of
one appraiser selected by the town at its own expense, one selected by the
property owner at his own expense and a third selected by the other two (2)
appraisers at town expense shall determine the value by means of an average
value established by the three (3) appraisals.
   I.   Private Open Space For Park And Recreational Purposes Credited Against
Land Dedication Requirement: Where private open space for park and recreational
purposes is provided in a proposed subdivision, such areas may be credited
against the requirement for a land dedication; provided, that the town council
finds that:
      1.   The public interest is adequately served by this arrangement;
      2.   The land is reasonably suitable for the park, recreation or open
space use proposed;
      3.   Adequate written assurances are submitted that the open space will
be developed in a timely fashion for the open space, park or recreational
activity for which the land is intended;
      4.   The long term preservation of the open space and its operation and
maintenance are provided for in a written agreement, a copy of which shall be
recorded with the plat; and
      5.   A public park, recreation or open space function, other than that
proposed by the subdivider, is not needed in the area. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-6-8: RESERVATION FOR SCHOOL SITES:
   A.   School Site Requirement: Where it is determined that land is required
for school sites, the school district shall so advise the subdivider of the
school site requirements and the same shall be incorporated on the preliminary
plat prior to its consideration by the planning and zoning commission.
   B.   Offer To Sell To School District: The subdivider, at the time of filing
the final plat with the planning and zoning commission, must offer to sell at
fair market price to the school district, within one year immediately following
the recording of the final plat, any land so designated for school sites.
   C.   Unpurchased Sites: If any such proposed school sites have not been
purchased by the school district within one year after the recording of the
final plat, such areas may be subdivided into lots and blocks in accordance
with the requirements of this title. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-6-9: MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of the community. Mobile homes, because of the
manner of their construction and assembly (including heating, plumbing, and
electrical systems), like other finished products having concealed vital parts,
may present hazards to the health, life and safety of persons and to the safety
of property unless properly manufactured. Inspection of the construction of
mobile homes frequently cannot satisfactorily be performed after the unit has
been manufactured. Further, mobile home subdivisions may present hazards to the
health and safety of persons and to the safety of property unless they are
properly planned, constructed, and maintained. It is the policy of the town to:
      1.   Provide protection to the public against possible hazards arising
from mobile home construction;
      2.   Provide protection to the public against unsafe and unhealthful
conditions in mobile home subdivisions, and to assure to those who live in such
developments a reasonably safe, sanitary, and decent environment;
      3.   Protect and conserve the value of land and buildings nearby;
      4.   Provide for adequate water, sewage, recreation and other
requirements, facilities and open space needs; and
      5.   Establish reasonable standards of design for mobile home
developments in order to further the orderly layout and use of land within the
town.
   B.   Compliance With Zoning: Mobile home subdivisions shall be established
only in accordance with all of the provisions of this title and title 11 of
this code.
   C.   Enlarging, Altering Or Expanding Preexisting Mobile Home Parks Or
Subdivisions: Developers of new mobile subdivisions or owners of mobile home
parks or subdivisions in existence prior to the effective date hereof who wish
to enlarge, alter or expand shall conform to the following standards in
providing improvements:
      1.   Mobile home subdivisions may only be served by dedicated streets.
Dedicated streets shall be constructed to the standards required by this title
for public streets.
      2.   Each mobile home lot shall have direct access to a public street
system which serves the mobile home subdivision.
      3.   Adequate, all weather walkways shall be provided to serve each
mobile home lot in the mobile home subdivision.
      4.   Mobile home subdivisions shall be graded and well drained and with
adequate ground cover in open areas to prevent wind and water erosion of soil.
      5.   Provision shall be made for adequate night lighting for the entire
mobile home subdivision. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
      6.   Mobile home subdivisions shall provide on site fire hydrants. Where
fire hydrants are installed, water mains shall be a minimum of six inches (6")
in diameter. Hydrants shall be located along streets readily accessible for
fire department use, and located within five hundred feet (500') of all mobile
home lots. Hydrant hose coupling threads shall be national standard threads.
Designated fire lanes and access to fire hydrants shall be open at all times.
(Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
      7.   Utilities: Utility hookups shall be provided for each mobile home
unit in the mobile home subdivision. These utilities shall include water,
sewer, gas, electricity and telephone. (Ord. 2002-2, 4-8-2002)
      8.   Water distribution system including laterals to each mobile home lot
with an individually metered water service connection.
      9.   Sewage disposal system including laterals and connecting facilities
to each mobile home lot.
      10.   Drainage structures, storm sewers and other drainage facilities.
      11.   Fencing where required by the planning and zoning commission.
      12.   General storage areas, in addition to auto parking requirements,
for accessory vehicles such as campers and boats. The minimum area required for
general storage shall be three hundred (300) square feet for each mobile home
lot. No accessory vehicles shall be parked or allowed on individual mobile home
lots. The storage areas required by this subsection, shall be in addition to
those required for off street parking.
      13.   Refuse storage area either on each individual mobile home lot or in
common refuse storage areas each serving no more than fifteen (15) mobile home
lots, and so located so that no mobile home lot is more than one hundred feet
(100') from a common storage area. A common refuse storage area base shall be a
four inch (4") concrete slab and shall be enclosed by walls or screens and have
a means or method of raising any individual refuse containers off the ground at
least eight inches (8").
   D.   Standards For Individual Lots In New Mobile Home Subdivision:
Individual lots in new mobile home subdivisions shall be developed to the
following standards:
      1.   The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties in positioning the mobile homes on the lots and providing driveway
access to the off street parking from the roadway.
      2.   Each lot shall be supplied with a minimum ten foot (10') wide paved
driveway and two (2) paved automobile parking spaces. Parking spaces shall
measure not less than eight feet six inches by eighteen feet (8'6" x 18').
      3.   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a minimum ten foot by
fifteen foot (10' x 15') patio pad composed of concrete, brick, concrete block
or other hard surface material and a hard surface walkway, not less than two
feet (2') wide, from the patio to the roadway. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
      4.   All mobile home subdivisions shall provide for the skirting of all
mobile homes within their development. The skirting shall be done so that it is
compatible with the mobile home unit materials and it shall be of a finished
nature. Unmortared concrete blocks or hay or straw bales shall not be allowed.
Composition building board and raw wood shall not be used as skirting unless
finished with a weatherproof material. (Ord. 2002-2, 4-8-2002)
      5.   Each mobile home shall be provided with a separate platted lot,
which meets the following minimum standards: (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
            MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION
 
Minimum area          6,300 square feet
Minimum width         60    feet
Minimum depth         105   feet
Minimum side setback  10    feet
Minimum front setback 15    feet
Minimum rear setback  10    feet
 
      6.   All mobile homes shall be supplied with a method or means of tying
down the individual unit to provide stability against high winds and adverse
weather conditions. If the manufacturer does not supply the unit with proper
tie downs or a proper tie down plan, prepared by the manufacturer's engineer,
the following shall be used:
Diagonal tie down strap spacing for single section and multisection homes from
the department of economic development, housing and urban development (HUD)
standards for wind zone one:
            CLASSIFIED SOIL
 
Width Of Unit Pier Minimum Height Strap
                                  Maximum Spacing
12 feet       12 inches           10 feet
14 feet       12 inches           12 feet
16 feet       12 inches           12 feet
 
The maximum distance to the first tie down strap at each end of the home shall
be two feet (2').
Maximum strap angle from horizontal must not exceed forty degrees (40°).
Anchors shall be installed just inside the skirting line.
Anchors shall be of a type capable of resisting a minimum allowable working
load of three thousand one hundred fifty (3,150) pounds in the direction of the
tie, plus a fifty percent (50%) overload (4,725 pounds) without failure.
If maximum strap angle from horizontal exceeds forty degrees (40°) but not more
than fifty degrees (50°), the building official will determine the number of
straps using the HUD standards.
If soil is unclassified, the anchors shall be spaced at an interval of no more
than four feet (4') apart, and be a minimum thirty inch (30") double four inch
(4") helix anchor with a twelve inch (12") stabilizing plate with the same
working load as above. (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
      7.   All yard areas and other open spaces not otherwise paved or occupied
by structures shall be sodded and/or landscaped and shall be so maintained.
   E.   Platted Under Same Requirements And Process As Other Subdivisions: All
mobile home subdivisions shall be platted under the same requirements and
process required as any other subdivision covered by this title, and shall
comply in the same manner with all regulations herein. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
CHAPTER 7
ASSURANCES FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Completion Of Improvements
10-7-2: Form Of Assurances
10-7-3: Subdivision Contract
10-7-4: Warranty Of Improvements
10-7-5: Acceptance Of Improvements And Release Or Reduction Of Improvement
Guarantee
10-7-6: Observation Of Construction
10-7-7: Issuance Of Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
10-7-1: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Guarantee Required: All improvements required in these regulations
shall be guaranteed. If the subdivision plat is to be recorded in the records
of the county clerk prior to acceptance by the town council of all required
public improvements, appropriate financial security guaranteeing the proper and
timely completion of such improvements shall be provided by the subdivider.
   B.   Amount Of Guarantee: Financial security shall be provided for not less
than one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the improvements based on an
opinion of probable cost provided by the subdivider's engineer and approved by
the town engineer.
   C.   Approval By Town Attorney: The financial security shall be approved by
the town attorney prior to approval of the final plat by the town council.
(Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
   D.   Security Deposit For Landscaping: All R-2 multi-unit, commercial
general, commercial enhanced, light industrial, and heavy industrial zonings
which have established plats/lots, or R-2 multi-unit which is being constructed
within a commercial general zoning where lot boundaries are established or a
zone lot declaration is used to combine smaller lots into one larger lot shall,
at the time of executing a permit to construct, place in effect a security
deposit into an escrow account, a bond, or an irrevocable letter of credit for
the amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the cost of the required
landscaping as stated in the zoning ordinance of the town of Wright. The
security deposit, bond, or irrevocable letter of credit shall be maintained one
planting season past the earliest planting season from final construction of
the project at which time if the landscaping has not been completed, the
security deposit, bond, or irrevocable letter of credit will be used to
complete the landscaping requirements per the zoning ordinance of the town of
Wright. (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
10-7-2: FORM OF ASSURANCES:
   A.   Methods To Provide Assurance: The following methods may be used to
provide assurances of completion for subdivision improvements:
      1.   Irrevocable letter of credit from a bank or other financial
institution.
      2.   Performance bond.
      3.   Property escrow. Value of real property or securities so used shall
be established by a qualified appraiser.
      4.   Third party trust agreement for real property contained within the
subdivision.
      5.   Any combination of the above satisfactory to the town attorney.
   B.   Alternate Procedure: As an alternate procedure, at the request of the
subdivider, the town council may direct the mayor to withhold final approval
and recording of the plat to allow the subdivider time to install required
improvements. When this method is used in lieu of the guarantees enumerated
under subsection A of this section, it shall be accompanied by an executed
unrecorded plat contract provided in standard form by the town and approved by
the town attorney. The contract shall require completion and acceptance of all
required improvements within twenty four (24) months from the date the final
plat was conditionally approved by the town council. The term of the contract
may be extended for additional twelve (12) month intervals upon approval of the
town council. When the completed improvements are inspected and approved by the
town engineer, the plat may be recorded and the sale of lots may proceed.
   C.   Default By Subdivider: In the event of default by the subdivider, the
town council may proceed with any required action of law or equity, exercise of
guarantees, repeal of the plat or any other action deemed appropriate to
provide for or prevent harm to the public or unnecessary expenditure of public
funds in the matter of any proposed or approved subdivision. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-
1993)
10-7-3: SUBDIVISION CONTRACT:
Any subdivider providing for financial security as enumerated under subsection
10-7-2A of this chapter shall also provide an executed subdivision improvement
contract in standard form approved by the town attorney providing for
completion and acceptance of all required improvements within twenty four (24)
months from the date of approval of the final plat by the town council. The
contract shall provide for release of financial security only after acceptance
of public improvements by the town council upon recommendation of the town
engineer. Such an agreement may be extended in twelve (12) month intervals by
formal approval of the town council. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-7-4: WARRANTY OF IMPROVEMENTS:
The subdivider shall warrant all improvements for a period of one year from the
date of acceptance by the town council. Any failure, defect or deficiency
during the one year period of warranty shall be corrected to the satisfaction
of the town engineer at the subdivider's sole expense. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
10-7-5: ACCEPTANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS AND RELEASE OR REDUCTION OF IMPROVEMENT
GUARANTEE:
   A.   Written Request For Dedication: Upon completion of the public
improvements, the subdivider shall file with the town council a written request
dedicating said improvements to the town together with a statement stipulating
the following:
      1.   The subdivider knows of no defects from any cause in the
improvements; and
      2.   The improvements are free and clear of any encumbrance or lien and
the costs of installation have been paid.
   B.   Statement By Town Engineer: Upon request by the subdivider, the town
engineer shall, after making final inspection, file with the town council a
statement either certifying that the improvements have been completed and are
in compliance with appropriate specifications and requirements or listing the
defects and deficiencies in the improvements.
   C.   Acceptance By Town: If the town engineer has certified that the
contracted improvements are complete and free from defect, then upon receipt of
the other statements and agreements detailed above, the town council shall
accept the dedication of those improvements. The town council may accept the
dedication of any portion of the required improvements; provided, that all
statements and agreements specified above have been received for that portion
of the improvements.
   D.   Reduction Of Improvement Guarantee: An improvement guarantee may be
reduced upon actual dedication of public improvements and then only to the
ratio that the public improvement dedicated bears to the total public
improvements for the plat. In no event shall a guarantee be reduced below
twenty five percent (25%) of the original amount.
   E.   Record Drawings: Three (3) sets of record drawings shall be filed with
the town as a condition of acceptance of any improvements. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-
1993)
10-7-6: OBSERVATION OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Retention Of Licensed Engineer To Observe Installation: The subdivider
is responsible for retaining a licensed engineer to observe the installation of
improvements and state to the town that the work is completed in accordance
with the plans and specifications. The engineer may have qualified technicians
work under his supervision. Daily observation reports must be kept and copies
turned in to the town engineer once per week.
   B.   Record Drawings: After construction is complete, the subdivider's
engineer shall provide the subdivider with three (3) sets of record drawings
which show all features of improvements as well as utility conflicts including
gas and telephone service. All sheets shall be stamped or visibly marked
"record drawings" and be signed by the subdivider's engineer. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-
1993)
10-7-7: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Building Permits: Building permits may only be issued by the town
building official after all monumentation and staking has been completed and
sewer and water improvements and subdivision grading is completed. The
subdivider's engineer shall provide curb elevations for all lots prior to
issuance of any foundation permit.
   B.   Certificate Of Occupancy: No certificate of occupancy for any building
in the subdivision shall be issued prior to the completion of the improvements
and dedication of same to the town as required in the final subdivision plat
approval; except that, in the event of winter freeze occurring prior to the
placement of the final pavement on the adjacent street surface, a certificate
of occupancy may be issued provided the town engineer has certified that the
following improvements serving the subject property have been completed and
accepted:
      1.   Sewage collection system;
      2.   Water distribution system;
      3.   Storm drainage facilities;
      4.   Curbs, gutters and sidewalks;
      5.   Fire hydrants;
      6.   Final street and lot grading;
      7.   Aggregate base course;
      8.   Asphaltic prime coat.
   C.   Adequate Vehicular Access Prior To Issuance: The extent of street
improvement shall be adequate for vehicular access by the prospective occupant
and by police and fire equipment, prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit.
   D.   Approval Of Temporary Street Surface: Approval of a temporary street
surface shall not relieve the subdivider of the responsibility to complete all
improvements within the time specified in the subdivision improvement contract
in section
10-7-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 93-9, 6-14-1993)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Authority
11-1-2: Short Title
11-1-3: Purpose
11-1-4: Applicability
11-1-1: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted in accordance with the authority vested in the town
council by Wyoming Statutes sections 15-1-601 through 15-1-611. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001)
11-1-2: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the WRIGHT ZONING
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-1-3: PURPOSE:
This title has been prepared to encourage an orderly development pattern within
the town of Wright. The Wright zoning ordinance represents an important
planning tool that will be used by the town to help implement the Wright master
plan. The Wright master plan that was adopted by the Wright town council on
January 25, 1999, contains a more general community vision for future land uses
within the town. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-1-4: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Applicability: This title shall apply to all private and public lands
within the corporate limits of the town. All land use development projects will
be subject to the required land use development review and approval process
outlined in chapter 4 of this title.
   B.   Existing Land Uses, Buildings And Structures: Existing land uses,
buildings, and structures authorized by the town before the enactment of this
title will be considered legal land uses even if such uses are contrary to the
current zoning ordinance.
   C.   Restrictive Covenants Or Agreements: Restrictive covenants or
agreements associated with land subdivisions or other land sales will not
supersede this title. Further, the town will not use this title as a tool for
enforcing private restrictive covenants or agreements. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-
2001)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: General Definitions
11-2-1: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A detached building on a lot, parcel of land, or zone lot
which is used to support the primary use of a principal building.
ACCESSORY USE: A secondary use of a lot, parcel of land, or zone lot which is
normally incidental to the primary use of the property.
ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein,
for any form of consideration, image producing devices are maintained to show
images, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by
the depicting or describing of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas."
ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial
establishment which devotes more than thirty percent (30%) of its stock in
trade or of its interior floor space to or more than thirty percent (30%) of
its advertising expenditures to the promotion of the sale, rental or viewing,
for any form of consideration, any one or more of the following:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions, slides, or
other visual representations which are characterized by the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas";
or
   B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with "specified sexual activities".
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
   A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration and
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmission, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas", and has a sign visible from the
public right of way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions; or
   B.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for
a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours.
ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similarly commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or seminude, either in live performances or in any type of photographic
reproduction, which are characterized by the exposure of "specified anatomical
areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE: An individual appointed by the town council to
enforce the most recent building, plumbing and mechanical construction codes
and the zoning ordinance.
BUILDING: Any structure that has one or more walls and/or a roof.
BUILDING LINE: A line established for setback determination and coincident with
either the outermost part of a building wall or a line on the roof twenty four
inches (24") from the edge of the roof, whichever is closest to the property
line on the respective side of the building.
BUILDING OFFICER: A representative appointed by the town council to enforce the
most recent building, plumbing and mechanical construction codes and the zoning
ordinance.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building, which represents the primary use of a
property.
CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN: An illustration of a general land use development concept
for one or more parcels of land which provides an identified map scale,
identifies the boundaries of project development site, and locates all proposed
buildings and other land uses, vehicular parking areas and access to the
project development site, utility distribution systems, and primary site
development features.
DRIVEWAY: A private road connecting a house, garage, or other building with the
street.
DWELLING, MULTI-UNIT: A residential building occupied by two (2) or more
families or households living independently of each other.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A residential structure such as a site built home,
manufactured home, modular home, or factory built home, which is physically
arranged to create an independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by
one family or one household. The structure is characterized by separate
facilities for wastewater disposal, cooking and sleeping.
ESCORT: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
ESCORT AGENCY: A person or business or association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee or other consideration.
ESTABLISHMENT: Includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   C.   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
FACTORY BUILT HOME: Any residential dwelling that is wholly, or in substantial
part, made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for
installation or assembly on a building site. Factory built homes shall include,
but not be limited to, manufactured homes, modular homes, and mobile homes.
FAMILY: A family is any number of persons related by blood or marriage who
reside in a single-family dwelling or multi-unit dwelling.
FARM ANIMALS: Farm animals include, but are not limited to, cattle, chickens,
donkeys, ducks, geese, guinea fowl, goats, horses, llamas, mules, peafowl,
peacocks, poultry, sheep, and turkeys.
FULL TIME EMPLOYEES: Full time employees are those working forty (40) hours or
more per week.
GOVERNING BODY: The Wright town council.
GRADE: The average finished ground elevation around a building.
HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS: The vertical distance from the average finished ground
elevation around a building to the highest point of a building's roof surface.
HOTEL: Any building containing six (6) or more guestrooms used to provide short
term overnight accommodations, which are rented, for usually less than thirty
(30) days. This facility may also include commercial food preparation and
dining facilities, as well as other on site amenities.
HOUSEHOLD: A group of persons living together in one single- family dwelling or
multi-unit dwelling that does not include more than two (2) persons who are not
related by blood or marriage.
INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE: A triangular portion of the land at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
commercial or multi-family driveway used by more than one living unit, in which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection. The boundary of any
sight triangle shall be defined by the centerlines of the two (2) adjacent,
intersecting roadways and by a line connecting two (2) points, seventy five
feet (75') from the center of the intersecting roadways and located on their
centerlines. Sight triangles at the intersections of streets and alleys,
commercial driveways or common, multi-family driveways shall be measured in the
same manner, except that the corners shall be sixty feet (60') from the center
of the intersection. The vertical measurement of the unobstructed area within
any sight triangle shall be measured three feet (3') above the closest,
adjoining pavement within the triangle to ten feet (10') above that point.
Where no sidewalk exists, this point shall be measured from the closest point
on the top of the adjoining curb within the triangle. Where no curb or sidewalk
exists, it shall be measured on the closest point along the edge of the
adjoining, paved roadway within the triangle. If, in the opinion of the town
engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or lot grade
exists which requires additional regulation of a particular intersection to
ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may establish a maximum,
safe height for obstructions in any sight triangle which is different than
these standards, and which is based on the town engineer's recommendation. (See
appendix A attached to ordinance 2001-05.)
LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Includes: The use, in compliance with an approved landscaping plan, of
vegetation and durable inorganic materials such as those identified below, to
enhance the visual attractiveness of a site and improve erosion control. For
the purposes of satisfying this title, landscaping shall include, but not be
limited to, one or more of the following:
      1. Formal turf areas (grass lawns);
      2. Trees, shrubs, bushes, or other plantings;
      3. Inorganic ground cover, consisting of natural or manmade decorative
rock, bark chips, crushed stone, or lava consisting of pieces a minimum of one
inch (1") in size laid a minimum of two inches (2") in depth and installed over
a minimum six (6) mil thick screen type material designed by the manufacturer
to prevent weed infiltration;
      4. Decorative lighting (standard street lighting or lighting used
primarily for security purposes is not considered decorative);
      5. Benches, tables, fountains, planters, kiosks and public transit
shelters, waterfalls, and manmade streams;
      6. Decorative fences or retaining walls (i.e., landscaping timbers,
brick, flagstone, etc.);
      7. Ponds, including detention and retention ponds;
   B.   Artificial Exterior Landscaping; Inorganic Ground Cover: No artificial
trees, shrubs, bushes, hedges, flowers, or grass may be used for exterior
landscaping unless approved by the planning and zoning commission. Inorganic
ground cover shall be limited to no more than fifty percent (50%) of the total
landscaped area of any one lot.
   C.   Maintenance: All landscaped areas shall be kept neat, clean, and
uncluttered. Dead, dying, diseased or pest infested plants or materials shall
be considered as a failure to maintain the required landscaping areas.
   D.   Parking Or Storage; Adjacent Unimproved Areas: Landscaped areas may not
be used for parking or for the storage or display of materials, supplies, or
merchandise. Adjacent, unimproved town right of way areas may be landscaped to
satisfy landscaping area requirements, on approval of the town engineer.
LANDSCAPING PLAN: A drawing of the area to be landscaped, prepared to a scale
of one inch equals ten feet (1" = 10'), or a multiple thereof to a maximum of
one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), that must include:
   A.   North arrow, scale, and date of preparation;
   B.   Address and location of land;
   C.   Location and width of all interior and adjoining roads, highways,
rights of way, and easements;
   D.   Property lines;
   E.   Location, type, size, and quantity of proposed plant and/or other
landscaping materials;
   F.   Location of all buildings, parking areas, fences, and other manmade or
other significant features.
LOT: A parcel of land within the town which may be vacant, occupied by a
building or group of buildings, contain utility systems, and/or accessory
buildings.
LOT AREA: The total land area contained within the legal property boundaries of
a lot.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A single-family dwelling, which:
   A.   Is partially or entirely manufactured in an off site factory facility;
and
   B.   Is certified pursuant to the national manufactured housing construction
and safety standards act of 1974, 42 USC section 5401 et seq., as amended; and
   C.   Conforms to the current manufactured home and safety standards outlined
in the current regulations of the U.S. department of housing and urban
development (HUD) (24 CFR chapter XX, part 3280).
MEMBERSHIP CLUB: A private group of persons organized in association with a
national, state, and local nonprofit organization.
MOBILE HOME: A single-family dwelling that does not meet the definition of a
"manufactured home" of this section, and has the following characteristics:
   A.   It is designed for long or short term occupancy; and
   B.   It contains sleeping accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower
bath, and kitchen facilities; and
   C.   It contains plumbing and electrical connections to local utility
systems; and
   D.   It is designed to be transported after fabrication, on its own wheels,
a flatbed truck or other trailers, or on detachable wheels; and
   E.   It arrives at the building site where it is to be occupied as a
complete unit and is ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental
unpacking and assembly operations, installed on foundation supports or jacks,
underpinned, and connected to utilities.
MODULAR HOME: A residential dwelling constructed in a factory in accordance
with the most recent building, plumbing and mechanical construction codes that
have been adopted by the town other than the national manufactured home
construction and safety standards act and the current regulations of the U.S.
department of housing and urban development (24 CFR, chapter XX, part 3280).
MOTEL: Any building containing six (6) or more guestrooms used to provide short
term overnight accommodations, which are rented, for usually less than thirty
(30) days. This facility may also include commercial food preparation and
dining facilities, as well as other on site amenities.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: An existing or proposed structure which, on the
effective date hereof, or subsequent amendments, does not comply with the
provision of this title for the district where a building is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A legal use of land, which on the effective date hereof, or
subsequent amendments, does not conform to the permitted uses established for
the district where an existing or proposed land use is located.
NUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person who appears seminude, in a state of
nudity, or who displays "specified anatomical areas" and is provided to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. "Nude
model studio" shall not include a proprietary school licensed by the state of
Wyoming or a college, junior college or university supported entirely or in
part by public taxation; a private college or university which maintains and
operates educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation, or in a
structure:
   A.   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or seminude person is available for
viewing; and
   B.   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll at
least three (3) days in advance of the class; and
   C.   Where no more than one nude or seminude model is on the premises at any
one time.
NUDITY OR STATE OF NUDITY: The state of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a fully opaque
covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
OCCUPIED: The use of a developed property for one or more purposes.
PERMANENT FOUNDATION: A system of supports, including piers, either partially
or entirely below grade, which is:
   A.   Capable of transferring all design loads imposed by or upon the
structure into soil or bedrock without failure;
   B.   Placed at an adequate depth below grade to prevent frost damage, but
not less than forty two inches (42");
   C.   Constructed of concrete, metal, treated lumber or wood, or grouted
masonry; and
   D.   In accordance with manufacturer specifications and applicable sections
of the most recent building construction code that have been adopted by the
town.
PERMITTED USES: Those uses which are permitted in a zoning district, but must
be approved by the planning and zoning commission through a submitted request
for review.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A development of one or more parcels of land that is
under unified control and is planned and developed as a whole in a single
development operation or a programmed series of development stages. This
development approach integrates site development considerations for proposed
land uses, vehicular access, parking and circulation, supporting utility
systems, landscaping, site constraints and development opportunities, and
zoning requirements.
PLOT PLAN: An illustration depicting a proposed land use which is not prepared
to a defined map scale, identifies the general location of the project site,
project development site boundaries, locates the proposed vehicular access to
the project development site, as well as identifies and locates proposed land
uses.
PROJECT STIPULATIONS: Potential requirements, which may accompany decisions by
the planning and zoning commission and town council concerning proposed land,
use amendments, variances, or zone changes.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): A vehicular type portable structure without
permanent foundation, which can be towed, hauled, or driven and primarily
designed as temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel
use and including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, pop up
campers, camping trailers, and self-propelled motor homes, but shall not
include "mobile homes" as defined in this section. The removal of the wheels or
any similar transporting device, permanently fixing the structure to the
ground, or otherwise rendering the structure immobile and preventing its ready
removal will disqualify the structure as an RV under this definition.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK: A tract of land upon which one or more
recreational vehicles or tent sites are located, established or maintained for
occupancy by the general public. RV parks may not be occupied by mobile homes
or any other structures except as an accessory building.
ROOF: The uppermost element of a structure or portion of a structure,
consisting of a system designed or intended to provide weather and/or sun
protection and to resist loads.
SEMINUDE OR IN A SEMINUDE CONDITION: A state of dress in which clothing covers
no more than the genitals, pubic region and areola of the female breast, as
well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the utility easement or ROW
easement and the nearest front, side or rear of building. In the absence of an
easement then the lot or property line is used.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED ESTABLISHMENT: An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater,
escort agency, or nude model studio.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered; or
   B.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following:
   A.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
   C.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsection A or B of this definition.
STREET: A public or private transportation facility, which affords public
access to adjacent properties and/or other parts of the community.
STRUCTURE: A new, extended, expanded, or renovated building constructed on a
property.
TRAILER HOUSE: See definition of Mobile Home.
USE: The purpose for which land or building is utilized.
VEHICULAR PARKING AREA: An off street area containing a paved surface
designated parking stalls, and appropriate signage for the parking of motor
vehicles.
WALL: A vertical element of a structure with a horizontal length to thickness
ratio greater than three (3) and height to thickness ratio greater than one.
YARD; FRONT, SIDE, OR REAR: Required open space area on an occupied lot, which
is defined via minimum setback requirements from property lines.
ZONE LOT: A single parcel of contiguous land occupied, or intended to be
occupied, by structures and uses as permitted by this title, together with the
open spaces required by this title. All zone lots shall abut a public street or
in an officially approved way.
ZONING DISTRICT: A land use zoning designation for selected geographical areas
within the town of Wright. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2001-10, 9-24-
2001; Ord. 2001-11, 11-12-2001; Ord. 2005-04, 5-23-2005; Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-
2009)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Established
11-3-2: Zoning Map
11-3-3: District Regulations
11-3-1: ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the provisions of this title, the municipality is divided
into the following zoning districts:
R-1E   Enhanced residential district
R-1    Single-family residential district
R-2    Multi-unit residential district
R-3    Rural residential district
R-4    Single-family manufactured home district
TH     Temporary housing district
CG     General commercial district
C-E(1) Enhanced commercial district
LI     Light industrial district
HI     Heavy industrial district
CF     Community facility district
PF     Public facilities district
RC     Recreation and conservation district
 
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004; Ord. 2005-05, 7-11-
2005)
11-3-2: ZONING MAP:
The location and boundaries of zoning districts are reflected on the Wright
zoning map. Appendix B attached to ordinance 2001-05 represents the zoning
district boundaries established at the time of ordinance adoption. Current
zoning boundaries, which may reflect subsequent amendments to the Wright zoning
map, are maintained in digital form via the Wright geographical information
system (Wright GIS). Appendix B attached to ordinance 2001-05 and the current
zoning boundaries maintained in the Wright GIS are part of this title. (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3-3: DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Land Uses: The following articles outline the type of land uses
permitted within various zoning districts established under section
11-3-1 of this chapter. Permitted land uses are also subject to various
requirements such as the type of allowable structures, setbacks, building
height, signage, fencing and vehicular parking. Except as otherwise provided in
this title, no land, building or premises shall be used, designated, or
intended to be used for any purpose other than those included among the uses
hereinafter listed as permitted in the district in which such land, building or
premises is located.
   B.   Detailed Plan Review: Prior to the issuance of a building permit, some
permitted uses also require a more detailed plan review by the commission to
ensure that specific project issues are adequately addressed by the owner of a
development project. In some cases, stipulations may be attached to a building
permit to address the specific concerns of the planning and zoning commission.
   C.   Nonconforming Land Uses: In each zoning district, nonconforming uses
are not authorized without prior approval of the commission. The approval of
nonconforming land uses may be obtained through the commission's issuance of a
variance or special use permit to an authorized applicant. (Ord. 2001-5, 6-11-
2001)
ARTICLE A. R-1E ENHANCED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3A-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3A-2: Permitted Uses
11-3A-3: Residential Building Standards
11-3A-4: Other Uses Authorized By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3A-5: Minimum Lot Area
11-3A-6: Minimum Setbacks
11-3A-7: Maximum Building Height
11-3A-8: Maximum Area Of Accessory Buildings
11-3A-9: Parking
11-3A-10: Fencing
11-3A-11: Accessory Uses
11-3A-12: Authorized Signs
11-3A-13: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3A-14: Minimum Lot Width
11-3A-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The R-1E enhanced residential district is intended to enhance the quality of
residential land uses in areas that are immediately adjacent to recreation and
conservation district areas and/or undeveloped lands that represent important
areas visible to the public. The purpose of these regulations is to establish
more stringent residential development standards that will help ensure that
future residential development in these areas will not diminish the
attractiveness of adjoining recreation and conservation areas, as well as
important vistas within the town. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3A-2: PERMITTED USES:
One individual family or household will primarily occupy single-family dwelling
units. However, owners may provide room and board for up to two (2) persons,
provided no separate kitchen is provided.
Public parks, playgrounds, trails, bikeways and other public recreational
facilities.
Single-family dwelling units representing various types of residential
structures such as site built homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes.
Structures supporting community utility systems. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3A-3: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING STANDARDS:
   A.   Construction Of Site Built And Modular Homes: The construction of site
built and modular homes will conform to the most recent building, plumbing, and
mechanical construction codes that have been adopted by the town.
   B.   Construction Of Manufactured Homes: The construction of manufactured
homes will conform to the national manufactured housing construction and safety
standards act of 1974 (42 USC 5401 et seq.) and all subsequent amendments, as
well as manufactured home construction and safety standards outlined in the
current regulations of the U.S. department of housing and urban development (24
CFR, chapter XX, part 3280).
   C.   Criteria To Ensure Compatibility Within Residential Neighborhoods: All
types of homes will also be subject to the following criteria to ensure
compatibility within residential neighborhoods and to enhance the
attractiveness of these residential areas to adjoining recreation and
conservation district areas:
      1.   Foundation: Structures will be attached to a permanent, full
perimeter foundation that supports, at the least, all enclosed areas of the
dwelling unit and extends below the frost depth as determined by the building
official.
      2.   Width; Total Floor Area: Structures will have a minimum width of
twenty four feet (24') and contain a minimum total floor area of eight hundred
(800) square feet. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      3.   Wind Load: Structures will be able to resist a wind load of ninety
(90) miles per hour. (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
      4.   Snow Load: Structures will be able to support a snow load of thirty
(30) pounds per square foot.
      5.   Pitched Roof: Structures will have a pitched roof, with a roof slope
of not less than a four inch (4") rise for each twelve inches (12") of
horizontal run.
      6.   Roof Overhang: Structures will have a roof overhang that extends not
less than sixteen inches (16") from exterior walls (not including rain
gutters). (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      7.   Roof Covering Material: Roof covering material shall be asbestos
cement shingles, asphalt or asphalt composite shingles that meet either ASTM D-
3462 or ASTM D-22 standards, clay or concrete tiles, copper sheeting, other
metals having a manufactured applied baked enamel or epoxy finish, slate
shingles, wood shakes or wood shingles. (Ord. 2003-03, 6-10-2003)
      8.   Siding Material: Siding material will consist of wood or wood
products, stucco, brick, rock, lap steel, or lap aluminum. One or a combination
of these materials will be used to cover the exterior of the housing unit.
      9.   Floors: Floors constructed with wood or wood product joists or
subflooring shall have a minimum eighteen inch (18") clearance between any wood
or wood product and the ground unless the wood is an approved wood of natural
resistance to decay or treated wood. An unobstructed access opening will be
provided for all such underfloor areas. Access openings that penetrate the
floor will be allowed only if installed by the original manufacturer or builder
of the dwelling unit. Access openings that penetrate the lower perimeter of the
dwelling unit will be at least twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36").
      10.   Transportation Devices: All tongues, towing devices, wheels, and
undercarriage supports used for initial transportation of modular or
manufactured homes will be removed from the dwelling unit and out of public
view within thirty (30) days of delivery to the site.
      11.   Walls Facing Street: Walls facing the street must have a minimum of
ten percent (10%) of the wall area as openings, doors or windows or a
combination. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-07, 6-14-2004)
   D.   Plan Review Required: All buildings in the enhanced residential
district will require a plan review by the town staff, or its representative,
prior to the issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3A-4: OTHER USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Other uses authorized by special use permit or variance are any nonconforming
uses which are approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001)
11-3A-5: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
No lots in the enhanced residential district will be less than seven thousand
(7,000) square feet. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3A-6: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard Setbacks: Primary residential structure will be set back
twenty five feet (2') from front property line. Detached accessory buildings
will not be located beyond the front line of any primary residential structure.
   B.   Side Yards Setbacks: Primary residential structures and detached
accessory structures will be set back not less than eight feet (8') from side
property lines.
   C.   Rear Yard Setbacks: Primary residential structures will be set back not
less than seven feet (7') from the rear property line. Detached accessory
structures will be located not less than three feet (3') from the rear property
line.
   D.   Deviations: Any deviations from setback requirements will require a
plan review and approval of a variance.
   E.   Accessory Building: Accessory buildings of less than two hundred (200)
square feet in area and less than ten feet (10') maximum height and of a
portable construction type with no portion of the structural system or
foundation extending below ground level shall be exempt from the minimum side
yard and rear yard setback requirements.
   F.   Encroachments: Unroofed and unwalled porches, decks, patios, balconies,
or exterior stairways may project no more than eight feet (8') into the
required front setback area and four feet (4') into any required side yard
setback area. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   G.   Private Yard Fences And Landscaping Features:
      1.   Authority To Allow; Indemnification: The building official shall be
authorized to allow residential property owners to place private yard fences
and landscaping features, as might otherwise be permissible under this title,
within those portions of the rights of way fronting on their residential
property, but no closer than five feet (5') from the back of the curb, and that
all such property owners be advised and made aware that said rights of way are
town property and that the town shall not be responsible for damage to any such
improvements as a result of town actions and shall be held harmless by the
property owner, as acknowledged by the property owner's signature.
      2.   Preexisting Fences And Other Features: Fences and other landscaping
features that, prior to the adoption hereof, have been placed closer to the
back of the curb than the designated five feet (5') shall be allowed to remain
in place until such time as they must be removed to allow the town to conduct
regular street maintenance or other prescribed duties, or are otherwise removed
by the landowner for any purpose. Should such removal occur, any replacement
fence or landscaping feature shall then be placed no closer than five feet (5')
from the back of the curb and that all such removal and replacement shall be
done at the landowner's sole expense. (Ord. 2005-04, 5-23-2005)
11-3A-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
Primary residential structures will be thirty five feet (35') or less in
height. The height of detached accessory structures will be twenty feet (20')
or less. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3A-8: MAXIMUM AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
The total aggregate area occupied by all accessory buildings will not exceed
one thousand (1,000) square feet. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3A-9: PARKING:
   A.   Paved Off Street Parking: A minimum of four hundred (400) square feet
of paved off street parking will be provided for each single-family dwelling
unit. The paved parking area will extend from the edge of pavement of any
municipal street to the designated off street parking area.
   B.   Recreation Vehicles And Travel Trailers: Recreational vehicles (RVs)
and travel trailers (8 x 32 feet or smaller) may be parked in front yards on a
paved, gravel, or scoria surface.
   C.   Commercial Vehicles: Parking of any commercial vehicle, which has a
gross vehicle weight (GVW) of greater than twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds
is prohibited along any public street that adjoins an enhanced residential
district, except for the following:
      1.   Vehicles loading or unloading passengers, materials, and
merchandise.
      2.   Vehicles engaged in performing a service activity on the adjacent
residential lot or parcel of land.
      3.   Vehicles used in association with construction or maintenance
activities in the immediate vicinity.
   D.   Unlicensed Or Inoperable Vehicle: No more than one unlicensed or
inoperable vehicle will be permitted on any residential lot or zone lot. (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3A-10: FENCING:
   A.   Front Building Line And Property Line: Fences shall be no more than
four feet (4') high between the front building line and front property line.
   B.   Side Or Rear Property Lines: Fences shall be no more than six feet (6')
high if located along side or rear property lines.
   C.   Electric And Barbed Wire Fencing: Electric and barbed wire fencing is
prohibited. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3A-11: ACCESSORY USES:
Child daycare facilities operated by the occupants of a single-family residence
and not more than two (2) nonhousehold employees.
Home occupations operated by the occupants of a single-family residence and not
more than two (2) nonhousehold employees. However, such enterprises will
generate limited vehicular traffic and vehicular parking along residential
streets, as well as limited noise within residential neighborhoods.
Personal storage buildings such as pole barns, garages, workshops and
toolsheds. These uses will only be permitted on the same lot with a primary
residential structure, or on an adjacent zone lot for structures. (Ord. 2001-
05, 6-11-2001)
11-3A-12: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   Nameplate: One unlighted nameplate or sign for each single- family
dwelling which indicates the name of the building occupant and/or home
occupation taking place within the dwelling unit. The total area of each
authorized nameplate or sign will not exceed two (2) square feet.
   B.   Home Occupation Signs: Home occupation signs must be attached to the
dwelling unit and be parallel with the wall to which it is attached.
   C.   For Rent Or For Sale Signs: Any unlighted sign or signs not exceeding a
total area of twelve (12) square feet which indicate the availability of
single-family dwelling unit rentals or the sale of the property where the signs
are located.
   D.   Directional Signs: Directional signs, not exceeding one-half (1/2)
square foot in area.
   E.   Election Signs: Freestanding election signs not exceeding sixteen (16)
square feet may be temporarily placed in residential areas but must be removed
by the landowner or occupants of a property within seven (7) days after the
election date.
   F.   Yard Sale, Garage Sale Or Other Similar Signs: Freestanding yard sale,
garage sale or other similar signs, which do not exceed sixteen (16) square
feet, may temporarily be placed in residential areas. However, the landowner of
occupants of a property must remove these signs within twenty four (24) hours
after the event has occurred. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3A-13: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   Required At Intersections: A sight triangle shall be maintained at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
pavement line of a commercial or a common, residential driveway in which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
   B.   Single Obstruction: A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches
(24") in width, shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle. A
single tree of any diameter, whose vegetation does not extend into the
required, unobstructed areas, shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   Open Mesh Fences: Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles;
provided, that they comply with all other requirements as established by town
regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Unusual Conditions Requiring Additional Regulation: If, in the opinion
of the town engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or
lot grade exists which requires additional regulation of a particular
intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may
establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any sight triangle which is
different than these standards and is based on the town engineer's
recommendation. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for the definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
11-3A-14: MINIMUM LOT WIDTH:
Minimum lot width will be seventy feet (70'). (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
ARTICLE B. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3B-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3B-2: Permitted Uses
11-3B-3: Residential Building Standards
11-3B-4: Other Uses Authorized By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3B-5: Minimum Setbacks
11-3B-6: Maximum Building Height
11-3B-7: Maximum Area Of Accessory Buildings
11-3B-8: Parking
11-3B-9: Fencing
11-3B-10: Accessory Uses
11-3B-11: Authorized Signs
11-3B-12: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3B-13: Minimum Lot Width
11-3B-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The R-1 single-family residential district designation is intended to encourage
the development and maintenance of low density residential areas. These
regulations are intended to provide a diverse and compatible housing stock,
limit the density of the resident population, provide adequate open space
around buildings and accessory structures, provide accessibility to community
utility systems and community open space areas, as well as encourage a safe and
attractive living environment for community residents. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-
2001)
11-3B-2: PERMITTED USES:
One individual family or household will primarily occupy single-family dwelling
units. However, owners may provide room and board for up to two (2) persons,
provided no separate kitchen is provided.
Public parks, playgrounds, trails, bikeways and other public recreational
facilities.
Single-family dwelling units representing various types of residential
structures such as site built homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes.
Structures supporting community utility systems. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3B-3: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING STANDARDS:
   A.   Construction Of Site Built Homes: The construction of site built homes
will conform to residential construction standards outlined in the most recent
building, plumbing, and mechanical construction codes that have been adopted by
the town.
   B.   Construction Of Manufactured Homes: The construction of manufactured
homes will conform to the national manufactured housing construction and safety
standards act of 1974 (42 USC 5401 et seq.) and all subsequent amendments, as
well as manufactured home construction and safety standards outlined in the
current regulations of the U.S. department of housing and urban development (24
CFR, chapter XX, part 3280). All manufactured homes will also be subject to the
following criteria to ensure compatibility with residential neighborhoods:
      1.   Foundation: Structures will be attached to a permanent foundation in
accordance with manufacturer's specifications.
      2.   Width; Total Floor Area: Structures will have a minimum width of
twenty four feet (24') and contain a minimum total floor area of eight hundred
(800) square feet. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      3.   Wind Load: Structures will be able to resist a wind load of ninety
(90) miles per hour. (Ord. 2010-04, 3-22-2010)
      4.   Snow Load: Structures will be able to support a snow load of thirty
(30) pounds per square foot. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      5.   Pitched Roof: Structures will have a pitched roof with a slope of
not less than a four inch (4") rise for each twelve inches (12") of horizontal
run. (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
      6.   Roof Overhang: Structures will have a roof overhang that extends not
less than eight inches (8") from exterior walls.
      7.   Siding Material: Siding material will consist of wood or wood
products, stucco, brick, rock, lap steel, lap aluminum or lap vinyl. One or a
combination of these materials will be used to cover the exterior of the
housing unit.
      8.   Lower Perimeter: The lower perimeter of the dwelling unit shall be
fully enclosed from the lower edge of the dwelling unit to the ground. The
material used to enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling shall be either
masonry or the same siding material as on the dwelling proper. Siding material
shall be horizontal or vertical consistent with the siding of the dwelling
proper. Any material used to enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling unit
shall be able to withstand the effects of wind, soil, decay, termites, and
prevents the entry of rodents.
      9.   Lower Perimeter Access Door: An unobstructed access door will be
provided along the lower perimeter. The size of the access door will be at
least twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36").
      10.   Attachments, Additions, Alterations Or Modifications: No
attachments, additions, alterations or modifications to the exterior walls of a
manufactured home are allowed except those approved by the manufacturer for the
specific unit. All other additions, porches, decks, garages or other add on
attachments must be freestanding and self-supporting with no structural
reliance on the manufactured unit itself.
      11.   Transportation Devices: All tongues, towing devices, wheels, and
undercarriage supports used solely for initial transportation of the home will
be removed from the unit within thirty (30) days of delivery to the site. (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      12.   Underfloor Areas: Structures will contain underfloor areas that are
ventilated by an approved mechanical means, or by openings into the underfloor
area walls. Specific requirements are outlined in the current edition of the
IBC. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. 2007 Code)
      13.   Prohibited: No unit shall be placed on a residential lot more than
one year following the date of manufacture that has never been previously
installed or occupied at any other site or location.
   C.   Construction Of Modular Homes: Modular homes will be constructed in a
factory in accordance with the most recent building codes that have been
adopted by the town, or a current residential construction code other than the
national manufactured home construction and safety standards and the current
regulations of the U.S. department of housing and urban development (24 CFR,
chapter XX, part 3280). All modular homes will also be subject to the following
criteria to ensure compatibility with residential neighborhoods:
      1.   Width; Area: Is at least twenty four feet (24') wide and contains at
least eight hundred (800) square feet;
      2.   Foundation: Is installed on a permanent foundation that conforms to
the most recent building construction codes that have been adopted by the town;
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      3.   Pitched Roof: Has a pitched roof with a slope of not less than a
four inch (4") rise for each twelve inches (12") of horizontal run; (Ord. 2008-
08, 4-27-2009)
      4.   Roof Overhang: Has a roof overhang that extends not less than eight
inches (8") from exterior walls;
      5.   Siding Material: Siding will consist of wood or wood products,
stucco, brick, rock, lap steel, lap aluminum or lap vinyl. One or a combination
of these materials will be used to cover the exterior of the housing unit;
      6.   Lower Perimeter: The lower perimeter of the dwelling unit shall be
fully enclosed from the lower edge of the dwelling unit to the ground. The
material used to enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling shall be either
masonry or the same siding material as on the dwelling proper. Siding material
shall be horizontal or vertical consistent with the siding of the dwelling
proper. Any material used to enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling unit
shall be able to withstand the effects of wind, soil, decay, termites and
prevents the entry of rodents;
      7.   Lower Perimeter Access Door: An unobstructed access door will be
provided along the lower perimeter. The size of the access door will be at
least twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36");
      8.   Transportation Devices: All tongues, towing devices, wheels, and
undercarriage supports used solely for initial transportation of the modular
home shall be removed from the unit, and out of public view within thirty (30)
days of delivery to the site.
   D.   Walls Facing Streets: Walls facing the street must have a minimum of
ten percent (10%) of the wall area as openings, doors or windows or a
combination.
   E.   Plan Review Required: All buildings in the low density residential
district will require a plan review by the town staff, or its representative,
prior to the issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3B-4: OTHER USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Other uses authorized by special use permit or variance are any nonconforming
uses which are approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001)
11-3B-5: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard Setbacks: Primary residential structure will be set back
twenty five feet (25') from front property line. Detached accessory buildings
will not be located beyond the front line of any primary residential structure.
Both street frontages of corner lots shall be considered front yards.
   B.   Side Yard Setbacks: Primary residential structures and detached
accessory structures will be set back not less than eight feet (8') from side
property lines.
   C.   Rear Yard Setbacks: Primary residential structures will be set back not
less than seven feet (7') from the rear property line. Detached accessory
structures will be located not less than three feet (3') from the rear property
line.
   D.   Deviations: Any deviations from setback requirements will require a
plan review and approval of a variance.
   E.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings of less than two hundred (200)
square feet in area and less than ten feet (10') maximum height and of a
portable construction type with no portion of the structural system or
foundation extending below ground level shall be exempt from the minimum side
yard and rear yard setback requirements.
   F.   Encroachments: Unroofed and unwalled porches, decks, patios, balconies,
or exterior stairways may project no more than eight feet (8') into the
required front setback area and four feet (4') into any required side yard
setback area. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   G.   Private Yard Fences And Landscaping Features:
      1.   Authority To Allow; Indemnification: The building official shall be
authorized to allow residential property owners to place private yard fences
and landscaping features, as might otherwise be permissible under this title,
within those portions of the rights of way fronting on their residential
property, but no closer than five feet (5') from the back of the curb, and that
all such property owners be advised and made aware that said rights of way are
town property and that the town shall not be responsible for damage to any such
improvements as a result of town actions and shall be held harmless by the
property owner, as acknowledged by the property owner's signature.
      2.   Preexisting Fences And Other Features: Fences and other landscaping
features that, prior to the adoption hereof, have been placed closer to the
back of the curb than the designated five feet (5') shall be allowed to remain
in place until such time as they must be removed to allow the town to conduct
regular street maintenance or other prescribed duties, or are otherwise removed
by the landowner for any purpose. Should such removal occur, any replacement
fence or landscaping feature shall then be placed no closer than five feet (5')
from the back of the curb and that all such removal and replacement shall be
done at the landowner's sole expense. (Ord. 2005-04, 5-23-2005)
11-3B-6: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
Primary residential structures will be thirty five feet (35') or less in
height. The height of detached accessory structures will be twenty feet (20')
or less. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3B-7: MAXIMUM AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
The total area of all accessory buildings may not exceed one thousand (1,000)
square feet. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3B-8: PARKING:
   A.   Paved Off Street Parking: A minimum of four hundred (400) square feet
of paved off street parking will be provided for each single-family dwelling
unit. The paved parking area will extend from the edge of pavement of any
municipal street.
   B.   Recreational Vehicles And Travel Trailers: Recreational vehicles (RVs)
and travel trailers (8 x 32 feet or smaller) may be parked in front yards on a
paved, gravel, or scoria surface.
   C.   Parking Prohibited; Exception: Parking of any vehicle which has a gross
vehicle weight (GVW) of greater than twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds, is
prohibited along any public street that adjoins an R-1 district, except for the
following:
      1.   Vehicles loading or unloading passengers, materials, and
merchandise.
      2.   Vehicles engaged in performing a service activity on the adjacent
residential lot or parcel of land.
      3.   Vehicles used in association with construction or maintenance
activities in the immediate vicinity.
   D.   Unlicensed Or Inoperable Vehicles: No more than one unlicensed or
inoperable vehicle will be permitted on any residential lot or zone lot. (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3B-9: FENCING:
   A.   Front Building Line And Property Line: Fences shall be no more than
four feet (4') high between the front building line and front property line.
   B.   Side Or Rear Property Lines: Fences shall be no more than six feet (6')
high if located along side or rear property lines.
   C.   Electric And Barbed Wire: Electric and barbed wire fencing is
prohibited. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3B-10: ACCESSORY USES:
Child daycare facilities operated by the occupants of a single-family residence
and not more than two (2) nonhousehold employees.
Home occupations operated by the occupants of a single-family residence and not
more than two (2) nonhousehold employees. However, such enterprises will
generate limited vehicular traffic and vehicular parking along residential
streets, as well as limited noise within residential neighborhoods.
Personal storage buildings such as pole barns, garages, workshops and
toolsheds. These uses will only be permitted on the same lot with a primary
residential structure, or on an adjacent zone lot for structures. (Ord. 2001-
05, 6-11-2001)
11-3B-11: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   Nameplate: One unlighted nameplate or sign for each single- family
dwelling, which indicates the name of the building occupant and/or home
occupation taking place within the dwelling unit. The total area of each
authorized nameplate or sign will not exceed two (2) square feet.
   B.   Home Occupation: Home occupation signs must be attached to the dwelling
unit and be parallel with the wall to which it is attached.
   C.   For Rent Or For Sale Signs: Any unlighted sign or signs not exceeding a
total area of twelve (12) square feet which indicate the availability of
single-family dwelling unit rentals or the sale of the property where the signs
are located.
   D.   Directional Signs: Directional signs, not exceeding one-half (1/2)
square foot in area.
   E.   Election Signs: Freestanding election signs not exceeding sixteen (16)
square feet may be temporarily placed in residential areas but must be removed
by the landowner or occupants of a property within seven (7) days after the
election date.
   F.   Yard Sale, Garage Sale Or Other Similar Signs: Freestanding yard sale,
garage sale or other similar signs, which do not exceed sixteen (16) square
feet, may temporarily be placed in residential areas. However, the landowner or
occupants of a property must remove these signs within twenty four (24) hours
after the event has occurred. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3B-12: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   Required At Intersections: A sight triangle shall be maintained at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
pavement line of a commercial or a common, multi-family driveway in which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
   B.   Single Obstruction: A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches
(24") in width, shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle,
except a single tree of any diameter whose vegetation does not extend into the
required, unobstructed area, shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   Open Mesh Fences: Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles;
provided, that they comply with all other requirements as established by town
regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Unusual Conditions Requiring Additional Regulation: If, in the opinion
of the town engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or
lot grade exists which requires additional regulation of a particular
intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may
establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any sight triangle which is
different than these standards and which is based on the town engineer's
recommendation. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
11-3B-13: MINIMUM LOT WIDTH:
Minimum lot width will be seventy feet (70'). (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
ARTICLE C. R-2 MULTI-UNIT RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3C-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3C-2: Permitted Uses
11-3C-3: Residential Building Standards
11-3C-4: Other Uses Authorized By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3C-5: Landscaping Requirements
11-3C-6: Minimum Lot Area
11-3C-7: Minimum Lot Width
11-3C-8: Minimum Setbacks
11-3C-9: Maximum Building Height
11-3C-10: Maximum Area Of Accessory Buildings
11-3C-11: Required Open Space
11-3C-12: Parking
11-3C-13: Fencing
11-3C-14: Accessory Uses
11-3C-15: Authorized Signs
11-3C-16: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3C-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The R-2 multi-unit residential district is intended to provide and encourage
the development of duplexes, townhouses, apartments and other multi-unit
residential facilities, which can serve both transient and long term residents.
The R-2 multi-unit residential district regulations are intended to provide
adequate vehicular parking, setbacks, landscaping and/or other screening to
ensure its compatibility with adjoining single-family residential districts, as
well as accessibility to community utility systems and community open space
areas. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Any use permitted under R-1 single-family residential district zoning.
Community centers.
Daycare (family daycare home, group daycare home or group daycare center, with
appropriate state license).
Foster homes or group foster homes, with appropriate state license.
One individual family or individual household will primarily occupy each
dwelling unit. However, owners may provide room and board for up to two (2)
persons provided no separate kitchen is provided.
Public parks, playgrounds, trails, bikeways and other public recreational
facilities.
Residential duplexes, apartment units, townhouses or multi-unit complexes that
include site built homes, manufactured homes and modular homes.
Senior housing and assisted care facilities.
Structures supporting community utility systems. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-3: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING STANDARDS:
   A.   The construction of site built dwelling units or multi-unit complexes
will conform to the residential construction standards outlined in the most
recent building, plumbing, and mechanical construction codes that have been
adopted by the town of Wright.
   B.   The construction of manufactured homes will conform to the national
manufactured housing construction and safety standards act of 1974 (42 USC
section 5401 et seq.) and all subsequent amendments, as well as manufactured
home construction and safety standards outlined in the current regulations of
the U.S. department of housing and urban development (24 CFR, chapter XX, part
3280). All manufactured homes will also be subject to the following criteria to
ensure compatibility with residential neighborhoods:
      1.   Structures will be attached to a permanent foundation in accordance
with manufacturer's specifications.
      2.   Structures will have a minimum width of twenty four feet (24') and
contain a minimum total floor area of eight hundred (800) square feet. (Ord.
2007-04, 6-11-2007)
      3.   Structures will be able to resist a wind load of ninety (90) miles
per hour. (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
      4.   Structures will be able to support a snow load of thirty (30) pounds
per square foot. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
      5.   Structures will have a pitched roof with a slope of not less than a
four inch (4") rise for each twelve inches (12") of horizontal run. (Ord. 2008-
08, 4-27-2009)
      6.   Structure will have a roof overhang that extends not less than eight
inches (8") from exterior walls.
      7.   Siding material will consist of wood or wood products, stucco,
brick, rock, lap steel, lap aluminum or lap vinyl. One or a combination of
these materials will be used to cover the exterior of the housing unit.
      8.   The lower perimeter of the dwelling unit shall be fully enclosed
from the lower edge of the dwelling unit to the ground. The material used to
enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling shall be either masonry or the same
siding material as on the dwelling proper. Siding material shall be horizontal
or vertical consistent with the siding of the dwelling proper. Any material
used to enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling unit shall be able to
withstand the effects of wind, soil, decay, termites, and prevent the entry of
rodents.
      9.   An unobstructed access door will be provided along the lower
perimeter. The size of the access door will be at least twenty four inches by
thirty six inches (24" x 36").
      10.   No attachments, additions, alterations or modifications to the
exterior walls of a manufactured home are allowed except those approved by the
manufacturer for the specific unit. All other additions, porches, decks, garage
or other add on attachments must be freestanding and self-supporting with no
structural reliance on the manufactured unit itself.
      11.   All tongues, towing devices, wheels, and undercarriage support used
solely for initial transportation of the home will be removed from the unit
within thirty (30) days of delivery to the site.
      12.   Structures will contain underfloor areas that are ventilated by an
approved mechanical means, or by openings into the underfloor area walls.
Specific requirements are outlined in the most recent building construction
codes that have been adopted by the town of Wright.
      13.   No unit shall be placed on a residential lot more than one year
following the date of manufacture or has never been previously installed or
occupied at any other site or location.
   C.   The construction of modular homes or multi-unit complexes will be
constructed in a factory in accordance with the most recent building
construction codes that have been adopted by the town of Wright, or a current
residential construction code other than the national manufactured home
construction and safety standards and the current regulations of the U.S.
department of housing and urban development (24 CFR, chapter XX, part 3280).
All modular homes will also be subject to the following criteria to ensure
compatibility with residential neighborhoods:
      1.   Is at least twenty four feet (24') wide and contains at least eight
hundred (800) square feet; and
      2.   Is installed on a permanent foundation that conforms to the most
recent building construction codes that have been adopted by the town of
Wright; and (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
      3.   Has a pitched roof with a slope of not less than a four inch (4")
rise for each twelve inches (12") of horizontal run; and (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-
2009)
      4.   Has a roof overhang that extends not less than eight inches (8")
from exterior walls; and
      5.   Siding will consist of wood or wood products, stucco, brick, rock,
lap steel, lap aluminum or lap vinyl. One or a combination of these materials
will be used to cover the exterior of the housing unit; and
      6.   The lower perimeter of the dwelling unit shall be fully enclosed
from the lower edge of the dwelling unit to the ground. The material used to
enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling shall be either masonry or the same
siding material as on the dwelling proper. Siding material shall be horizontal
or vertical consistent with the siding of the dwelling proper. Any material
used to enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling unit shall be able to
withstand the effects of wind, soil, decay, termites and prevent the entry of
rodents; and
      7.   An unobstructed access door will be provided along the lower
perimeter. The size of the access door will be at least twenty four inches by
thirty six inches (24" x 36"); and
      8.   All tongues, towing devices, wheels, and undercarriage support used
solely for initial transportation of the modular home shall be removed from the
unit, and out of public view within thirty (30) days of delivery to the site.
   D.   All buildings in the multi-unit residential district will require a
plan review by town of Wright staff, or its representative, prior to the
issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-4: OTHER USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Any nonconforming use, which is approved by the Wright planning and zoning
commission. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
At least five percent (5%) of each multi-unit residential lot will be
landscaped and maintained to increase compatibility with adjoining land uses,
increase the attractiveness of the residential site or complex, and enhance the
general aesthetics of the community. This requirement may be done within any
portion of the site. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-6: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
Six thousand (6,000) square feet, plus one thousand five hundred (1,500) square
feet for each dwelling unit in a multiple-family and condominium dwelling in
excess of four (4) dwelling units. The minimum area of a zone lot for
townhouses shall be three thousand (3,000) square feet per unit. Living units
in boarding and/or rooming houses and dormitories shall not be construed to be
dwelling units for the purposes of this requirement. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-7: MINIMUM LOT WIDTH:
Fifty feet (50') at the front setback line. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-8: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard: Fifteen feet (15') for principal structures; fifteen feet
(15') for detached accessory buildings except that no such structure shall
project beyond the front line of any principal structure. Both street frontages
of corner lots shall be considered front yards.
   B.   Side Yard: Ten feet (10') for principal structures; three feet (3') for
detached accessory structures.
   C.   Rear Yard: Five feet (5') for principal structures; three feet (3') for
detached accessory structures.
   D.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings of less than two hundred (200)
square feet in area and less than ten feet (10') maximum height and of a
portable construction type with no portion of the structural system or
foundation extending below ground level shall be exempt from the minimum side
yard and rear yard setback requirements.
   E.   Encroachments: Roofed and unwalled porches, decks, patios, balconies,
or exterior stairways may project no more than eight feet (8') into the
required front setback area and four feet (4') into any required side yard
setback area.
   F.   Private Yard Fences And Landscaping Features:
      1.   The building official shall be authorized to allow residential
property owners to place private yard fences and landscaping features, as might
otherwise be permissible under this zoning ordinance, within those portions of
the rights of way fronting on their residential property, but no closer than
five feet (5') from the back of the curb, and that all such property owners be
advised and made aware that said rights of way are town property and that the
town shall not be responsible for damage to any such improvements as a result
of town actions and shall be held harmless by the property owner, as
acknowledged by the property owner's signature.
      2.   Fences and other landscaping features that, prior to the adoption
hereof, have been placed closer to the back of the curb than the designated
five feet (5') shall be allowed to remain in place until such time as they must
be removed to allow the town to conduct regular street maintenance or other
prescribed duties, or are otherwise removed by the landowner for any purpose.
Should such removal occur, any replacement fence or landscaping feature shall
then be placed no closer than five feet (5') from the back of the curb and that
all such removal and replacement shall be done at the landowner's sole expense.
(Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-9: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
Forty five feet (45') for principal structures; twenty five feet (25') for
detached accessory structures. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-10: MAXIMUM AREA OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
The total area of all accessory buildings may not exceed one thousand (1,000)
square feet. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-11: REQUIRED OPEN SPACE:
   A.   Zone lots occupied by single-family dwellings shall maintain fifty
percent (50%) of the zone lot as free and unobstructed open space.
   B.   Zone lots occupied by multiple-family dwellings shall maintain five
hundred (500) square feet of free and unobstructed open space for each dwelling
unit.
   C.   Zone lots occupied by a boarding or rooming house shall maintain five
hundred (500) square feet of free and unobstructed open space for each sleeping
room.
   D.   Area devoted to off street parking shall not be counted as free and
unobstructed open space. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-12: PARKING:
   A.   Parking requirements will be met through the construction and use of
centralized vehicular parking areas, driveways associated with each dwelling
unit, and/or private garages. The paved parking area and/or driveways will
extend from the edge of pavement of any municipal street.
   B.   Recreational vehicles (RVs) and travel trailers (8 x 32 feet or
smaller) may be parked on front yards on a paved, gravel, or scoria surface.
   C.   Two (2) designated parking spaces will be required for each dwelling
unit.
   D.   Additional parking spaces within a centralized parking area may be
provided to park recreational vehicles (RVs) and travel trailers. These parking
spaces will not be longer than eight feet by thirty two feet (8' x 32').
   E.   Parking of any vehicle, which has a gross vehicle weight (GVW) of
greater than twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds, is prohibited along any
public street that adjoins an R-2 district, except for the following:
      1.   Vehicles loading or unloading passengers, materials, and
merchandise.
      2.   Vehicles engaged in performing a service activity on the adjacent
residential lot or parcel of land.
      3.   Vehicles used in association with construction or maintenance
activities in the immediate vicinity.
   F.   No more than one unlicensed or inoperable vehicle will be permitted on
any residential lot or zone lot. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-13: FENCING:
   A.   Not more than four feet (4') high between the front building line and
front property line.
   B.   Not more than six feet (6') high if located along side or rear property
lines.
   C.   Electric and barbed wire fencing is prohibited. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-
2007)
11-3C-14: ACCESSORY USES:
Any of which complies with all of the following conditions may be operated as
an accessory use to a permitted use:
Does not include residential occupancy.
Does not include structures or structural features inconsistent with the
permitted use.
Home occupations operated by the occupants of a single- family residence and
not more than two (2) nonhousehold employees. However, such enterprises will
generate limited vehicular traffic and vehicular parking along residential
streets, as well as limited noise within residential neighborhoods.
If in a separate, detached structure from a permitted use, the gross floor area
devoted to the accessory use shall not exceed the gross floor area of the
permitted use.
If operated wholly or partly within the structure containing the permitted use,
the gross floor area utilized by the accessory use shall not exceed thirty
percent (30%) of the gross floor use of the permitted use.
Is clearly incidental and customary to and commonly associated with the
operation of the permitted use.
Is operated and maintained under the same ownership and on the same zone lot as
the permitted use.
Personal storage buildings such as workshops and toolsheds. These uses will
only be permitted on the same lot with a primary residential structure, or on
an adjacent zone lot for structures. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-15: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   One unlighted identification sign not exceeding sixty (60) square feet
in area for multi-unit residential buildings used for the housing of four (4)
or more families or households.
   B.   The identification sign for multi-unit residential buildings shall not
exceed six feet (6') in height or twelve feet (12') in length.
   C.   One unlighted nameplate or sign for each multi-unit dwelling unit which
indicates the name of the building occupant and/or home occupation taking place
within the dwelling unit. The total area of each authorized nameplate or sign
will not exceed two (2) square feet.
   D.   Nameplate or home occupation signs must be attached to the dwelling
unit and be parallel with the wall to which it is attached.
   E.   Any unlighted sign, or a combination of signs, not exceeding a total
area of twelve (12) square feet which indicate the availability of multi-unit
dwelling rentals or the sale of the property where the signs are located.
   F.   Directional signs, not exceeding 0.5 square foot in area.
   G.   Freestanding election signs not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet may
be temporarily placed in residential areas but must be removed by the landowner
or occupants of a property within seven (7) days after the election date.
   H.   Freestanding yard sale, garage sale or other similar signs, which do
not exceed sixteen (16) square feet, may temporarily be placed in residential
areas. However, the landowner or occupants of a property must remove these
signs within twenty four (24) hours after the event has occurred. (Ord. 2007-
04, 6-11-2007)
11-3C-16: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   A sight triangle shall be maintained at the intersection of two (2)
streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a pavement line of a commercial
or a common, multi-family driveway in which nothing shall hereafter be erected,
placed or planted which would obstruct the view of motorists entering or
leaving the intersection.
   B.   A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches (24") in width,
shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle, except a single tree
of any diameter whose vegetation does not extend into the required unobstructed
area shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   If, in the opinion of the town engineer, an unusual condition of
topography, street grade and/or lot grade exists which requires additional
regulation of a particular intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the
zoning administrator may establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any
sight triangle which is different than these standards and which is based on
the town engineer's recommendation.
   D.   Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles provided that they
comply with all other requirements as established by town regulations and
ordinances. (Ord. 2007-04, 6-11-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
ARTICLE D. R-3 RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3D-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3D-2: Permitted Uses
11-3D-3: Residential Building Standards
11-3D-4: Other Uses Authorized By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3D-5: Minimum Lot Area
11-3D-6: Minimum Setbacks
11-3D-7: Maximum Building Height
11-3D-8: Parking
11-3D-9: Fencing
11-3D-10: Accessory Uses
11-3D-11: Authorized Signs
11-3D-12: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3D-13: Uses Permitted On Review
11-3D-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The R-3 rural residential district is intended to accommodate single-family
dwellings in lower density rural areas and some limited agricultural uses.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3D-2: PERMITTED USES:
Property and buildings in the rural residential district shall be used for the
following purposes:
   Community centers.
   Greenhouses.
One individual family or household will primarily occupy single-family dwelling
units. However, owners may provide room and board for up to two (2) persons,
provided no separate kitchen is provided.
Public parks, playgrounds, trails, bikeways and other public recreational
facilities.
Single-family dwelling units including site built homes, manufactured homes,
and modular homes. Only one residence per lot shall be allowed.
Structures supporting community utility systems.
Transportation and utility easements, alleys and rights of way.
Veterinary clinic, including observation pens. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3D-3: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING STANDARDS:
   A.   Construction Of Site Built Residential Dwelling Units: The construction
of site built residential dwelling units will conform to the residential
construction standards outlined in the most recent building, plumbing, and
mechanical construction codes that have been adopted by the town 1 .
   B.   Construction Of Manufactured Homes: The construction of manufactured
homes will conform to the national manufactured housing construction and safety
standards act of 1974 (42 USC 5401 et seq.) and all subsequent amendments, as
well as manufactured home construction and safety standards outlined in the
current regulations of the U.S. department of housing and urban development (24
CFR, chapter XX, part 3280). In addition, all manufactured homes will also be
subject to the following criteria to ensure compatibility with residential
neighborhoods: (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      1.   Foundation: Structures will be attached to a permanent foundation in
accordance with manufacturer's specifications. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd.
2007 Code)
      2.   Width; Floor Area: Structures will have a minimum width of twenty
four feet (24') and contain a minimum total floor area of eight hundred (800)
square feet. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      3.   Wind Load: Structures will be able to resist a wind load of ninety
(90) miles per hour. (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
      4.   Snow Load: Structures will be able to support a snow load of thirty
(30) pounds per square foot. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      5.   Pitched Roof: Structures will have a pitched roof with a roof slope
of not less than a four inch (4") rise for each twelve inches (12") of
horizontal run. (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
      6.   Roof Overhang: Structure will have a roof overhang that extends not
less than eight inches (8") from exterior walls.
      7.   Siding Material: Siding material will consist of wood or wood
products, stucco, brick, rock, lap steel, lap aluminum or lap vinyl. One or a
combination of these materials will be used to cover the exterior of the
housing unit.
      8.   Lower Perimeter: The lower perimeter of the dwelling unit shall be
fully enclosed from the lower edge of the dwelling unit to the ground. The
material used to enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling shall be either
masonry or the same siding material as on the dwelling proper. Siding material
shall be horizontal or vertical consistent with the siding of the dwelling
proper. Any material used to enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling unit
shall be able to withstand the effects of wind, soil, decay, termites and
prevent the entry of rodents.
      9.   Lower Perimeter Access Door: An unobstructed access door will be
provided along the lower perimeter. The size of the access door will be at
least twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36").
      10.   Attachments, Additions, Alterations Or Modifications: No
attachments, additions, alterations or modifications to the exterior walls of a
manufactured home are allowed except those approved by the manufacturer for the
specific unit. All other additions, porches, decks, garages or other add on
attachments must be freestanding and self-supporting with no structural
reliance on the manufactured unit itself.
      11.   Transportation Devices: All tongues, towing devices, wheels, and
undercarriage supports used solely for initial transportation of the home will
be removed from the unit within thirty (30) days of delivery to the site. (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      12.   Underfloor Areas: Structures will contain underfloor areas that are
ventilated by an approved mechanical means, or by openings into the underfloor
area walls. Specific requirements are outlined in the most current building
construction codes that have been adopted by the town.
      13.   Prohibited: No unit shall be placed on a residential lot more than
one year following the date of manufacture that has never been previously
installed or occupied at any other site or location. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001;
amd. 2007 Code)
   C.   Construction Of Modular Homes: Modular homes will be constructed in a
factory in accordance with the most recent building construction codes that
have been adopted by the town or a current residential construction code other
than the national manufactured home construction and safety standards and the
current regulations of the U.S. department of housing and urban development (24
CFR, chapter XX, part 3280). All modular homes will also be subject to the
following criteria to ensure compatibility with residential neighborhoods:
      1.   Width; Area: Is at least twenty four feet (24') wide and contains at
least eight hundred (800) square feet.
      2.   Foundation: Is installed on a permanent foundation that conforms to
the most recent building construction codes that have been adopted by the town.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      3.   Pitched Roof: Has a pitched roof with a slope of not less than a
four inch (4") rise for each twelve inches (12") of horizontal run. (Ord. 2008-
08, 4-27-2009)
      4.   Roof Overhang: Has a roof overhang that extends not less than eight
inches (8") from exterior walls.
      5.   Siding Material: Siding will consist of wood or wood products,
stucco, brick, rock, lap steel, lap aluminum or lap vinyl. One or a combination
of these materials will be used to cover the exterior of the housing unit.
      6.   Lower Perimeter: The lower perimeter of the dwelling unit shall be
fully enclosed from the lower edge of the dwelling unit to the ground. The
material used to enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling shall be either
masonry or the same siding material as on the dwelling proper. Siding material
shall be horizontal or vertical consistent with the siding of the dwelling
proper. Any material used to enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling unit
shall be able to withstand the effects of wind, soil, decay, termites and
prevent the entry of rodents.
      7.   Lower Perimeter Access Door: An unobstructed access door will be
provided along the lower perimeter. The size of the access door will be at
least twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36").
      8.   Transportation Devices: All tongues, towing devices, wheels, and
undercarriage supports used solely for initial transportation of the modular
home shall be removed from the unit and out of public view within thirty (30)
days of delivery to the site.
   D.   Plan Review Required: All buildings in the rural residential district
will require a plan review by town staff, or its representative, prior to the
issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
11-3D-4: OTHER USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Other uses authorized by special use permit or variance are any nonconforming
uses which are approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001)
11-3D-5: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
The minimum lot area shall be two and one-half (21/2) acres, except block 5,
lots 1, 2, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of Latigo Hills subdivision filing no. 1; and block
1, lots 2, 3, 4 and 5 of Paintbrush Hills subdivision filing no. 1. (Ord. 2001-
05, 6-11-2001)
11-3D-6: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard Setbacks: Twenty five feet (25') for principal structures;
twenty five feet (25') for detached accessory buildings except that no such
structure shall project beyond the front line of any principal structure. Both
street frontages of corner lots shall be considered front yards.
   B.   Side Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10') for principal structures; ten feet
(10') for detached accessory structures.
   C.   Rear Yard Setbacks: Twenty feet (20') for principal structures; ten
feet (10') for detached accessory structures.
   D.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings of less than two hundred (200)
square feet in area and less than ten feet (10') maximum height and of a
portable construction type with no portion of the structural system or
foundation extending below ground level shall be exempt from the minimum side
yard and rear yard setback requirements. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   E.   Private Yard Fences And Landscaping Features:
      1.   Authority To Allow; Indemnification: The building official shall be
authorized to allow residential property owners to place private yard fences
and landscaping features, as might otherwise be permissible under this title,
within those portions of the rights of way fronting on their residential
property, but no closer than five feet (5') from the back of the curb, and that
all such property owners be advised and made aware that said rights of way are
town property and that the town shall not be responsible for damage to any such
improvements as a result of town actions and shall be held harmless by the
property owner, as acknowledged by the property owner's signature.
      2.   Preexisting Fences And Other Features: Fences and other landscaping
features that, prior to the adoption hereof, have been placed closer to the
back of the curb than the designated five feet 5') shall be allowed to remain
in place until such time as they must be removed to allow the town to conduct
regular street maintenance or other prescribed duties, or are otherwise removed
by the landowner for any purpose. Should such removal occur, any replacement
fence or landscaping feature shall then be placed no closer than five feet (5')
from the back of the curb and that all such removal and replacement shall be
done at the landowner's sole expense. (Ord. 2005-04, 5-23-2005)
11-3D-7: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
The maximum building height shall be thirty five feet (35') for principal
structures; twenty five feet (25') for detached accessory structures. (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3D-8: PARKING:
   A.   Paved Off Street Parking: A minimum of four hundred (400) square feet
of off street parking area surfaced with material which is equivalent to or
better than the surfacing material of the abutting street, road or alley will
be provided for each single-family dwelling unit.
   B.   Recreational Vehicles And Travel Trailers:
      1.   Recreational vehicles (RVs) and travel trailers (8 x 32 feet or
smaller) may be parked on front yards on a paved, gravel, or scoria surface.
      2.   RVs and travel trailers may also be parked on side and rear yards
without underlying paved, gravel, or scoria surface.
   C.   Parking Prohibited; Exceptions: Parking of any vehicle, which has a
gross vehicle weight (GVW) of greater than twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds,
is prohibited along any public street that adjoins an R-3 district, except for
the following:
      1.   Vehicles loading or unloading passengers, materials, and
merchandise.
      2.   Vehicles engaged in performing a service activity on the adjacent
residential lot or parcel of land.
      3.   Vehicles used in association with construction or maintenance
activities in the immediate vicinity.
   D.   Unlicensed Or Inoperable Vehicles: No more than one unlicensed or
inoperable vehicle will be permitted on any residential lot or zoned lot. (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3D-9: FENCING:
   A.   Barbed Wire: A fence made of steel, concrete or sound wooden posts and
five (5) strands of barbed wire not more than fifteen inches (15") or less than
ten inches (10") apart, or four (4) strands of barbed wire with a wooden rail
on top. Wooden posts shall be at least four inches (4") in diameter. Posts
shall be set firmly in the ground at least twenty inches (20") deep, at no
greater distance apart than sixteen and one-half feet (161/2') between the
posts or thirty three feet (33') with at least two (2) iron or wooden stays
between the posts. Stays shall be placed equal distance apart from themselves
and the post on either side. Barbed wire is not allowed on lots less than two
and one-half (21/2) acres. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. 2007 Code)
   B.   Post And Board Fence: A post and board fence made of sound posts not
less than four inches (4") in diameter set substantially in the ground not more
than ten feet (10') apart, with three (3) boards sold as one inch (1") lumber
eight inches (8") wide, not more than eight inches (8") apart, or four (4)
boards sold as one inch (1") lumber six inches (6") wide, not more than eight
inches (8") apart, securely fastened with nails or otherwise.
   C.   Pole Fence: A four (4) pole fence with round poles not less than two
inches (2") in diameter at the small end, with either upright or leaning posts
not more than sixteen feet (16') apart, and securely fastened with nails,
wires, or otherwise.
   D.   All Other Fences: All other fences made and constructed of boards,
rails, poles, stones, hedge plants or other material which, upon evidence is
declared to be as strong and as well calculated to protect enclosures, and is
as effective for resisting breaching stock as those described in subsections A,
B, and C of this section, shall be considered a lawful fence. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-
11-2001)
   E.   Fence Enclosing Hay Corral: Any fence enclosing any hay corral situated
outside of any field or pasture enclosed by a lawful fence, shall be at least
six feet (6') high, constructed of boards, poles, or wire. The posts shall not
be more than eight feet (8') apart and set twenty four inches (24") in the
ground. If the fence is constructed of barbed wire, there shall be at least
seven (7) strands of wire and all wires shall be kept properly stretched. Any
fence, better than the above described fence, is a lawful fence. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001; amd. 2007 Code)
11-3D-10: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses and buildings provided such uses are incidental to the principal
use and do not include any activity commonly conducted as a business except as
mentioned in this section. Any accessory buildings shall be located on the same
lot with the principal building.
Child daycare facilities operated by the occupants of a single-family residence
and not more than two (2) nonhousehold employees.
Farm Animals: One animal unit per acre, but not more than ten (10) animal
units. "One animal unit" is defined as one cow-calf; one horse; five (5) sheep,
llamas, goats; eight (8) ostriches or emu; or twenty (20) chickens, rabbits, or
geese.
Home occupations operated by the occupants of a single-family residence and not
more than two (2) nonhousehold employees. However, such enterprises will
generate limited vehicular traffic and vehicular parking along residential
streets, as well as limited noise within residential neighborhoods.
Personal storage buildings such as pole barns, garages, workshop and toolsheds.
However, these uses will only be permitted on the same lot with a primary
residential structure, or on an adjacent zone lot for structures. (Ord. 2001-
05, 6-11-2001)
11-3D-11: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   Nameplate: One unlighted nameplate or sign for each single-family
dwelling, which indicates the name of the building occupant and/or home
occupation, taking place within the dwelling unit. The total area of each
authorized nameplate or sign will not exceed two (2) square feet.
   B.   Home Occupation Signs: Home occupation signs must be attached to the
dwelling unit and be parallel with the wall to which it is attached.
   C.   For Rent Or For Sale Signs: Any unlighted sign or signs not exceeding a
total area of twelve (12) square feet which indicate the availability of
single-family dwelling unit rentals, or the sale of the property where the
signs are located.
   D.   Directional Signs: Directional signs, not exceeding one-half (1/2)
square foot in area.
   E.   Election Signs: Freestanding election signs not exceeding sixteen (16)
square feet may be temporarily placed in residential areas but must be removed
by the landowner or occupants of a property within seven (7) days after the
election date.
   F.   Yard Sale, Garage Sale Or Other Similar Signs: Freestanding yard sale,
garage sale or other similar signs, which do not exceed sixteen (16) square
feet, may temporarily be placed in residential areas. However, the landowner or
occupants of a property must remove these signs within twenty four (24) hours
after the event has occurred. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3D-12: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   Required At Intersections: A sight triangle shall be maintained at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
pavement line of a commercial or a common, multi-family driveway in which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
   B.   Single Obstruction: A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches
(24") in width, shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle,
except a single tree of any diameter whose vegetation does not extend into the
required unobstructed area shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   Open Mesh Fences: Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles;
provided, that they comply with all other requirements as established by town
regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Unusual Conditions Requiring Additional Regulation: If, in the opinion
of the town engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or
lot grade exists which requires additional regulation of a particular
intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may
establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any sight triangle which is
different than these standards and which is based on the town engineer's
recommendation. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
11-3D-13: USES PERMITTED ON REVIEW:
The following uses normally required to provide the basic elements of an
attractive residential area may be permitted on review by the town planning and
zoning commission with approval by the town council:
Any use, which complies, with all of the following conditions may be operated
as an accessory use to a permitted use:
   A.   It is clearly incidental to and commonly associated with the operation
of the permitted use.
   B.   Is operated under the same ownership and on the same property as the
permitted use. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
ARTICLE E. R-4 SINGLE-FAMILY MANUFACTURED HOME DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3E-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3E-2: Permitted Uses
11-3E-3: Residential Building Standards
11-3E-4: Other Uses By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3E-5: Minimum Setbacks
11-3E-6: Minimum Building Height
11-3E-7: Maximum Accessory Building Size
11-3E-8: Parking And Storage
11-3E-9: Fencing
11-3E-10: Accessory Uses
11-3E-11: Authorized Signs
11-3E-12: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3E-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The R-4 single-family manufactured home district designation is intended to
encourage the development and maintenance of low density residential areas
allowing manufactured housing that may not be compatible with the requirements
of other zoning districts. These regulations are intended to provide broader
home ownership opportunities, limit the density of the resident population,
provide adequate open space around buildings and accessory structures, provide
accessibility to community utility systems and community open space areas, as
well as encourage a safe and attractive living environment for community
residents. (Ord. 2005-05, 7-11-2005)
11-3E-2: PERMITTED USES:
One individual family or household will primarily occupy single-family dwelling
units, however, owners may provide room and board for up to two (2) persons,
provided no separate kitchen is provided.
Public parks, playgrounds, trails, bikeways and other public recreational
facilities.
Single-family dwelling units representing various types of residential
structures such as site built homes, manufactured homes, and modular homes.
Structures supporting community utility systems. (Ord. 2005-05, 7-11-2005)
11-3E-3: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING STANDARDS:
   A.   Site Built Or Modular Homes: The construction of site built or modular
homes will conform to the residential construction standards outlined in the
most recent building, plumbing, and mechanical construction codes that have
been adopted by the town.
   B.   Manufactured Homes: The construction of manufactured homes will conform
to the national manufactured housing construction and safety standards act of
1974 (42 USC § 5401 et seq.) and all subsequent amendments, as well as
manufactured home construction and safety standards outlined in the current
regulations of the U.S. department of housing and urban development (24 CFR,
chapter XX, part 3280). All manufactured homes will also be subject to the
following criteria to ensure compatibility with residential neighborhoods:
      1.   Lower Perimeter: The lower perimeter of the dwelling unit shall be
fully enclosed (skirted) from the lower edge of the dwelling unit to the
ground. Any material used to enclose the lower perimeter of the dwelling unit
shall be able to withstand the effects of wind, soil, decay, and termites, and
prevent the entry of rodents. No unmortared bricks or concrete blocks, nor hay
or straw bales shall be used to enclose the lower perimeter.
      2.   Lower Perimeter Access Door: An unobstructed access door will be
provided along the lower perimeter. The size of the access door will be at
least twenty four by thirty six inches (24 x 36") and located to provide the
most direct access to the water meter and/or other utilities installed under
the home.
      3.   Attachments, Additions, Alterations Or Modifications To Exterior
Walls: No attachments, additions, alterations or modifications to the exterior
walls of a manufactured home are allowed except those approved by the
manufacturer for the specific unit. All other additions, porches, decks,
garages or other add on attachments must be freestanding and self-supporting
with no structural reliance on the manufactured unit itself.
      4.   Transportation Devices: All tongues, towing devices, wheels, and
undercarriage support used solely for initial transportation of the home will
be removed from the unit within thirty (30) days of delivery to the site.
      5.   Underfloor Areas: Structures will contain underfloor areas that are
ventilated by an approved mechanical means, or by openings into the underfloor
area walls. Specific requirements are outlined in the current edition of the
building code. (Ord. 2005-05, 7-11-2005)
11-3E-4: OTHER USES BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Other uses by special use permit or variance are any nonconforming uses which
are approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2005-05, 7-11-2005)
11-3E-5: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard Setbacks: Primary residential structure will be set back
fifteen feet (15') from front property line. Detached accessory buildings will
not be located beyond the front line of any primary residential structure. Both
street frontages of corner lots shall be considered front yards.
   B.   Side Yard Setbacks: Primary residential structures and detached
accessory structures will be set back not less than eight feet (8') from side
property lines.
   C.   Rear Yard Setbacks: Primary residential structures will be set back not
less than ten feet (10') from the rear property line.
   D.   Accessory Building: Accessory buildings of less than two hundred (200)
square feet in area and less than ten feet (10') maximum height and of a
portable construction type with no portion of the structural system or
foundation extending below ground level shall be exempt from the minimum side
yard and rear yard setback requirements.
   E.   Encroachments: Unroofed and unwalled porches, decks, patios, balconies,
or exterior stairways may project no more than eight feet (8') into the
required front setback area and four feet (4') into any required side yard
setback area. (Ord. 2005-05, 7-11-2005)
11-3E-6: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
Primary residential structures will be thirty five feet (35') or less in
height. The height of detached accessory structures will be twenty feet (20')
or less. (Ord. 2005-05, 7-11-2005)
11-3E-7: MAXIMUM ACCESSORY BUILDING SIZE:
The total area of all accessory buildings may not exceed on thousand (1,000)
square feet. (Ord. 2005-05, 7-11-2005)
11-3E-8: PARKING AND STORAGE:
   A.   Paved Off Street Parking: A minimum of two hundred (200) square feet of
paved off street parking will be provided for each single-family dwelling unit.
The paved parking area will extend from the edge of pavement of any municipal
street.
   B.   Recreational Vehicles: Recreational vehicles (RVs) and travel trailers
(8 x 32 feet or smaller) may be parked on front yards on a paved, gravel, or
scoria surface.
   C.   Gross Weight: Parking of any vehicle which has a gross vehicle weight
(GVW) of greater than twenty six thousand (26,000) pounds is prohibited along
any public street that adjoins an R-4 district, except for the following:
      1.   Vehicles loading or unloading passengers, materials, and
merchandise.
      2.   Vehicles engaged in performing a service activity on the adjacent
residential lot or parcel of land.
      3.   Vehicles used in association with construction or maintenance
activities in the immediate vicinity.
   D.   Unlicensed Or Inoperable Vehicles: No more than one unlicensed or
inoperable vehicle will be permitted on any residential lot or zone lot. (Ord.
2005-05, 7-11-2005)
11-3E-9: FENCING:
   A.   Front Building And Property Line: Fences shall be no more than four
feet (4') high between the front building line and front property line.
   B.   Side Or Rear Property Line: Fences shall be no more than six feet (6')
high if located along side or rear property lines.
   C.   Electric And Barbed Wire: Electric and barbed wire fencing is
prohibited. (Ord. 2005-05, 7-11-2005)
11-3E-10: ACCESSORY USES:
Child daycare facilities operated by the occupants of a single-family residence
and not more than two (2) nonhousehold employees.
Home occupations operated by the occupants of a single-family residence and not
more than two (2) nonhousehold employees. However, such enterprises will
generate limited vehicular traffic and vehicular parking along residential
streets, as well as limited noise within residential neighborhoods.
Personal storage buildings such as pole barns, garages, workshop and toolsheds.
These uses will only be permitted on the same lot with a primary residential
structure. (Ord. 2005-05, 7-11-2005)
11-3E-11: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   Nameplate: One unlighted nameplate or sign for each single-family
dwelling which indicates the name of the building occupant and/or home
occupation taking place within the dwelling unit. The total area of each
authorized nameplate or sign will not exceed two (2) square feet.
   B.   Home Occupation Signs: Home occupation signs must be attached to the
dwelling unit and be parallel with the wall to which it is attached.
   C.   For Rent Or For Sale Signs: Any unlighted sign or signs not exceeding a
total area of twelve (12) square feet which indicate the availability of
single-family dwelling unit rentals or the sale of the property where the signs
are located.
   D.   Directional Signs: Directional signs not exceeding one-half (1/2)
square foot in area.
   E.   Election Signs: Freestanding election signs not exceeding sixteen (16)
square feet may be temporarily placed in residential areas but must be removed
by the landowner or occupants of a property within seven (7) days after the
election date.
   F.   Yard Sale, Garage Sale Or Other Similar Signs: Freestanding yard sale,
garage sale or other similar signs, which do not exceed sixteen (16) square
feet, may temporarily be placed in residential areas. However, the landowner or
occupants of a property must remove these signs within twenty four (24) hours
after the event has occurred. (Ord. 2005-05, 7-11-2005)
11-3E-12: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   Required At Intersections: A sight triangle shall be maintained at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
pavement line of a commercial or a common, multi-family driveway in which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
   B.   Single Obstruction: A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches
(24") in width, shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle,
except a single tree of any diameter whose vegetation does not extend into the
required unobstructed area shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   Open Mesh Fences: Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles;
provided, that they comply with all other requirements as established by town
regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Unusual Conditions Requiring Additional Regulation: If, in the opinion
of the town engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or
lot grade exists which requires additional regulation of a particular
intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may
establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any sight triangle which is
different than these standards and which is based on the town engineer's
recommendation. (Ord. 2005-05, 7-11-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
ARTICLE F. TH TEMPORARY HOUSING DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3F-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3F-2: Permitted Uses
11-3F-3: Recreational Vehicle (RV) Park Standards
11-3E-4: Mobile Home Park Standards
11-3F-5: Residential Building Standards
11-3F-6: Other Uses Authorized By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3F-7: Minimum Lot Area
11-3F-8: Minimum Setbacks
11-3F-9: Maximum Building Height
11-3F-10: Maximum Accessory Building Area
11-3F-11: Parking And Storage
11-3F-12: Fencing
11-3F-13: Accessory Uses
11-3F-14: Authorized Signs
11-3F-15: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3F-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This district is intended to provide affordable residential housing
opportunities for transient and some long term residents living within
authorized mobile home and RV parks. These regulations are also intended to
provide adequate open space around buildings and accessory structures, provide
accessibility to community utility systems and community open space areas, as
well as encourage a safe and attractive living environment for community
residents. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3F-2: PERMITTED USES:
Community center.
One individual family or household will primarily occupy mobile home dwelling
units. However, owners may provide room and board for up to two (2) persons,
provided no separate kitchen is provided.
Public parks, playgrounds, trails, bikeways and other public recreational
facilities.
Recreational vehicle (RV) parks.
Single-family dwelling units representing mobile homes that are installed
within designated mobile home spaces. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3F-3: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK STANDARDS:
A development plan approved by the planning and zoning commission shall be
required for all new RV parks and for expansions of existing RV facilities. For
expansions, the plan shall include the entire site, including existing
facilities. The following development standards shall apply for recreational
vehicle parks:
   A.   Minimum Park Size: One acre.
   B.   Minimum Yards For Structures And Recreation Vehicles: There shall be a
minimum of twenty feet (20') for the front yard, side yards and rear yards of
the park as a whole. Where deemed necessary by the planning and zoning
commission, an adequate visual buffer may be required.
   C.   Unit Spaces:
      1.   Minimum Area: There shall be provided and maintained a separately
designated land area of nine hundred (900) square feet for each unit space.
   D.   Accessory Commercial Uses: Accessory commercial uses shall not exceed
five percent (5%) of the gross park area.
   E.   Common Recreational Area: An adequate playground or other recreational
area shall be provided.
   F.   Service Buildings: Each park shall provide one or more service
buildings that provide:
 
Number  Toilets   Urinals Lavatories Showers   Other
Of Unit Men Women Men     Men Women  Men Women Fixtures
Spaces
1–15  1   2     2       2   2      2   2
16–30 2   3     3       3   3      2   2     Minimum one
31–45 3   4     3       4   4      3   4     utility sink
45–60 4   5     4       5   5      3   5      
61–80 4   6     4       5   5      5   6
 
Notes:
For parks with more than 80 unit spaces, additional facilities shall be
provided as follows:
      1.   Men's toilets, urinals, lavatories and showers - 1 of each per each
20 additional unit spaces; and
      2.   Women's toilets, lavatories and showers - 1 of each per each
additional 15 unit spaces.
   G.   Water Supply: A potable water supply shall be available, not farther
than one hundred feet (100') from any unit space.
   H.   Refuse Disposal: Durable, watertight refuse containers shall be
provided at sanitary waste stations, service buildings and within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of any unit space.
   I.   Sanitary Waste Stations: One station shall be provided for each one
hundred (100) unit spaces, or part thereof, not equipped with individual sewer
connections. A means for washing down the immediate area of the station shall
be provided.
   J.   Parking: A minimum of one parking space shall be provided at each unit
space. Parking spaces and RV pads shall be surfaced with gravel or scoria.
   K.   Streets: All streets shall be of an all weather surface of asphalt or
concrete. The following minimum widths shall be required:
 
One way, with no on street parking 12 feet
One way, with on street parking    20 feet
Two way, with no on street parking 20 feet
Two way, with on street parking    28 feet
 
   L.   Drainage: The RV park shall be located and constructed on a well
drained area, and such premises shall be properly graded so as to prevent the
accumulation of storm or casual water. (Ord. 2001-11, 11-12-2001)
11-3F-4: MOBILE HOME PARK STANDARDS:
   A.   Mobile Home Parks: All owners and/or developers of new mobile home
parks or existing mobile home parks that wish to enlarge, alter or expand shall
comply with the following standards:
      1.   Streets: All streets shall be of an all weather surface of asphalt
or concrete. The following minimum widths shall be required:
 
One way, with no on street parking 12 feet
One way, with on street parking    20 feet
Two way, with no on street parking 20 feet
Two way, with on street parking    28 feet
 
      2.   Access: Each mobile home lot shall have direct access to a public
street system, which serves the mobile home subdivision or mobile home lot.
      3.   Walkways: Adequate, all weather walkways shall be provided to serve
each mobile home lot.
      4.   Graded; Drainage; Ground Cover: Mobile home subdivisions, parks and
lots shall be graded and well drained and have adequate ground cover in open
areas to prevent wind and water erosion of soil.
      5.   Streetlights: Streetlights shall be placed at least every three
hundred feet (300') on each street for each entire mobile home district,
subdivision or park.
      6.   Fire Hydrants: Mobile home subdivisions and parks shall provide on
site fire hydrants. Where fire hydrants are installed, water mains shall be a
minimum of six inches (6") in diameter. Hydrants shall be located along streets
readily accessible for fire department use and located within five hundred feet
(500') of all mobile home lots. Hydrant hose coupling threads shall be national
standard threads. Designated fire lanes and access to fire hydrants shall be
open at all times.
      7.   Utilities: Utility hookups shall be provided for each mobile home
unit in the mobile home subdivision. These utilities shall include water,
sewer, gas, electricity and telephone.
      8.   Water Distribution System: A water distribution system including
laterals to each mobile home lot with an individually metered water service
connection from the town water and sewer district shall be established.
      9.   Sewer Disposal System: A sewage disposal system including laterals
and connecting facilities to each mobile home lot from the town water and sewer
district shall be established.
      10.   Drainage: Drainage structures, storm sewers and other drainage
facilities.
      11.   General Storage: General storage areas, in addition to auto parking
requirements, for accessory vehicles such as campers and boats. The minimum
area required for general storage shall be three hundred (300) square feet for
each mobile home lot. Accessory vehicles shall be subject to other zoning
restrictions set out in this title. The storage areas required by this
subsection shall be in addition to those required for off street parking.
      12.   Refuse Storage Area: Refuse storage area either on each individual
mobile home lot or in common refuse storage areas, each serving no more than
fifteen (15) mobile home lots, and so located so that no mobile home lot is
more than one hundred feet (100') from a common storage area. A common refuse
storage area base shall be a four inch (4") concrete slab and shall be enclosed
by walls or screens and have a means or method of raising any individual refuse
containers off the ground at least eight inches (8").
   B.   Individual Mobile Homes And Mobile Home Lots: Individual mobile homes
and mobile home lots, whether or not in new mobile home subdivisions or parks,
shall be developed to the following standards:
      1.   Access: The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no
foreseeable difficulties in positioning the mobile homes on the lots and
providing driveway access to the off street parking from the roadway.
      2.   Driveway; Parking Spaces: Each lot shall be supplied with a minimum
ten foot (10') wide paved driveway and two (2) paved automobile parking spaces.
Parking spaces shall measure not less than eight feet six inches by eighteen
feet (8'6" x 18').
      3.   Patio Pad: Each mobile home lot shall be provided with a minimum ten
foot by fifteen foot (10' x 15') patio pad composed of concrete, brick,
concrete block or other hard surface material and a hard surface walkway not
less than two feet (2') wide from the patio to the roadway.
      4.   Skirting: Skirting shall be placed around each mobile home. The
skirting shall be equipped with doors or access panels to permit access to
utility connections. Skirting shall be weatherproof, rigid, durable, fire
resistant material and finished in a manner compatible with the appearance of
the mobile home. The skirting must be in place within sixty (60) days after the
mobile home is located on the mobile home space. No unmortared concrete blocks,
hay or straw bales shall be used as skirting. (Ord. 2002-1, 4-22-2002)
11-3F-5: RESIDENTIAL BUILDING STANDARDS:
   A.   Mobile Homes: Each mobile home must:
      1.   Be designed for long or short term occupancy.
      2.   Contain sleeping accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower
bath, and kitchen facilities.
      3.   Contain plumbing and electrical connections to local utility
systems.
      4.   Be designed to be transported after fabrication, on its own wheels,
a flatbed truck or other trailers, or on detachable wheels.
      5.   Arrive at the building site where it is to be occupied as a complete
unit and be ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking and
assembly operations, location on foundation supports or jacks, underpinned, and
connections to utilities.
      6.   Exceed eight feet (8') in width and twenty four feet (24') in
length, excluding towing gear and bumpers.
   B.   Required: Mobile homes must be installed with at least the following:
      1.   Secure blocking for support. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      2.   Anchors shall be of a type capable of resisting a minimum allowable
working load of three thousand one hundred fifty (3,150) pounds in the
direction of the tie, plus a fifty percent (50%) overload (4,725 pounds)
without failure. (Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
      3.   Skirting around the foundation of the housing unit, similar to, if
not identical to, the unit. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3F-6: OTHER USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Other uses authorized by special use permit or variance are any nonconforming
use which are approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-
11-2001)
11-3F-7: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
The minimum lot area shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001)
11-3F-8: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard Setbacks: Fifteen feet (15') for principal structures;
twenty feet (20') for detached accessory buildings except that no such
structure shall project beyond the front line of any principal structure. Both
street frontages of corner lots shall be considered front yards.
   B.   Side Yard Setbacks: Eight feet (8') for principal structures; eight
feet (8') for detached accessory structures.
   C.   Rear Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10') for principal structures; ten feet
(10') for detached accessory structures.
   D.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings of less than two hundred (200)
square feet in area and less than ten feet (10') maximum height and of a
portable construction type with no portion of the structural system or
foundation extending below ground level shall be exempt from the minimum side
yard and rear yard setback requirements. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   E.   Encroachments: Unroofed and unwalled porches, decks, patios, balconies
and exterior stairways may project no more than eight feet (8') into the
required front setback area and four feet (4') into any required yard setback
area.
   F.   Private Yard Fences And Landscaping Features:
      1.   Authority To Allow; Indemnification: The building official shall be
authorized to allow residential property owners to place private yard fences
and landscaping features, as might otherwise be permissible under this title,
within those portions of the rights of way fronting on their residential
property, but no closer than five feet (5') from the back of the curb, and that
all such property owners be advised and made aware that said rights of way are
town property and that the town shall not be responsible for damage to any such
improvements as a result of town actions and shall be held harmless by the
property owner, as acknowledged by the property owner's signature.
      2.   Preexisting Fences And Other Features: Fences and other landscaping
features that, prior to the adoption hereof, have been placed closer to the
back of the curb than the designated five feet (5') shall be allowed to remain
in place until such time as they must be removed to allow the town to conduct
regular street maintenance or other prescribed duties, or are otherwise removed
by the landowner for any purpose. Should such removal occur, any replacement
fence or landscaping feature shall then be placed no closer than five feet (5')
from the back of the curb and that all such removal and replacement shall be
done at the landowner's sole expense. (Ord. 2005-04, 5-23-2005)
11-3F-9: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
The maximum building height shall be thirty five feet (35') for principal
structures; twenty five feet (25') for detached accessory structures. (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3F-10: MAXIMUM ACCESSORY BUILDING AREA:
The total area of all accessory buildings may not exceed one thousand (1,000)
square feet. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3F-11: PARKING AND STORAGE:
   A.   Minimum Off Street Parking: A minimum of two hundred (200) square feet
of off street parking will be provided for each temporary or permanent dwelling
unit. Off street parking area may be made upon a scoria, gravel, or paved
surface, which would represent private driveways, parking spaces, centralized
parking areas, or garages.
   B.   Recreational Vehicles And Travel Trailers:
      1.   Recreational vehicles (RVs) and travel trailers (8 x 32 feet or
smaller) may be parked in front yards on a paved, gravel, or scoria surfaces.
      2.   RVs and travel trailers may also be parked on side and rear yards
without an underlying paved, gravel, or scoria surface.
   C.   Unlicensed Or Inoperable Vehicles: No more than one unlicensed or
inoperable vehicle will be permitted on any residential lot or zoned lot. (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3F-12: FENCING:
   A.   Front Building Line And Property Line: Fences shall be no more than
four feet (4') high between the front building line and front property line.
   B.   Side Or Rear Property Line: Fences shall be no more than six feet (6')
high if located along side or rear property lines.
   C.   Prohibited Fences: Electric and barbed wire fencing is prohibited.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   D.   Exception: Fences used to enclose an RV or mobile home park storage
area shall not be limited in height. Barbed wire is permitted above other
fencing for security. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3F-13: ACCESSORY USES:
Child daycare facilities operated by the occupants of a single-family residence
and not more than two (2) nonhousehold employees.
Home occupations operated by the occupants of a single-family residence and not
more than two (2) nonhousehold employees. However, such enterprises will
generate limited vehicular traffic and vehicular parking along residential
streets, as well as limited noise within residential neighborhoods. (Ord. 2001-
05, 6-11-2001)
11-3F-14: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   Nameplate: One unlighted nameplate or sign for each single-family
dwelling which indicates the name of the building occupant and/or home
occupation taking place within the dwelling unit. The total area of each
authorized nameplate or sign will not exceed two (2) square feet.
   B.   Home Occupation Signs: Home occupation signs must be attached to the
dwelling unit and be parallel with the wall to which it is attached.
   C.   For Rent Or For Sale Signs: Any unlighted sign or signs not exceeding a
total area of twelve (12) square feet which indicate the availability of
single-family dwelling unit rentals, or the sale of the property where the
signs are located.
   D.   Directional Signs: Directional signs, not exceeding one-half (1/2)
square foot in area.
   E.   Election Signs: Freestanding election signs not exceeding sixteen (16)
square feet may be temporarily placed in residential areas but must be removed
by the landowner or occupants of a property with in seven (7) days after the
election date.
   F.   Yard Sale, Garage Sale Or Other Similar Signs: Freestanding yard sale,
garage sale or other similar signs, which do not exceed sixteen (16) square
feet, may temporarily be placed in residential areas. However, the landowner or
occupants of a property must remove these signs within twenty four (24) hours
after the event has occurred. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3F-15: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   Required At Intersections: A sight triangle shall be maintained at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
pavement line of a commercial or a common, multi-family driveway in which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
   B.   Single Obstruction: A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches
(24") in width, shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle,
except a single tree of any diameter whose vegetation does not extend into the
required unobstructed area shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   Open Mesh Fences: Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles;
provided, that they comply with all other requirements as established by town
regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Unusual Conditions Requiring Additional Regulation: If, in the opinion
of the town engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or
lot grade exists which requires additional regulation of a particular
intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may
establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any sight triangle which is
different than these standards and which is based on the town engineer's
recommendation. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
ARTICLE G. C GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3G-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3G-2: Permitted Uses
11-3G-3: Commercial Building Standards
11-3G-4: Other Uses Authorized By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3G-5: Landscaping Requirements
11-3G-6: Minimum Lot Area
11-3G-7: Minimum Setbacks
11-3G-8: Maximum Building Height
11-3G-9: Parking
11-3G-10: Fencing
11-3G-11: Accessory Uses
11-3G-12: Authorized Signs
11-3G-13: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3G-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The C general commercial district is intended to provide and encourage
potential locations for commercial retail facilities, commercial offices, and
other commercial services. The general commercial district regulations are
intended to provide adequate vehicular parking, setbacks, landscaping and/or
other screening to ensure its compatibility with adjoining land uses, as well
as accessibility to community utility systems and community open space areas.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3G-2: PERMITTED USES:
Any use permitted under R-2 multi-unit residential district zoning.
Commercial offices and office complexes.
Commercial recreational facilities such as bowling alleys and theaters.
Commercial retail establishments such as automotive sales centers, automobile
parts stores, computer stores, grocery stores, hardware stores, pharmacies,
shopping centers and malls, and truck stops.
Commercial services such as agricultural feed and supply stores, auto
lubrication services, banks, barber shops and hair salons, boot and shoe repair
shops, building supply centers, funeral homes, medical clinics, photo
processing shops, and print shops.
Eating and drinking establishments including bars, cafes, and restaurants.
Motels, hotels, inns, or lodges.
Service and repair establishments such as auto repair shops.
Veterinary clinics. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2001-10, 9-24-2001)
11-3G-3: COMMERCIAL BUILDING STANDARDS:
All commercial construction will conform to the commercial construction
standards outlined in the most recent building, plumbing, and mechanical
construction codes that have been adopted by the town 1 . (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-
2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
11-3G-4: OTHER USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Other uses authorized by special use permit or variance are any nonconforming
uses which are approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001)
11-3G-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Required: At least five percent (5%) of each commercial site
will be landscaped and maintained to increase compatibility with adjoining land
uses, increase the attractiveness of the site, and enhance the general
aesthetics of the community. This requirement may be done within any portion of
the site. (Ord. 2001-10, 9-24-2001)
   B.   Trash Containers And Utility Boxes: Trash containers and utility boxes
shall be screened from the street and general view by landscaping features.
Designed enclosures are encouraged.
   C.   Time Limitation For Completion: Landscaping and irrigation shall be
completed in the first available planting season, which shall be within nine
(9) months of the date of occupancy.
   D.   Landscaping Plan: A landscaping plan shall be submitted to the building
officer for approval prior to the issuance of a building permit. Any changes to
the plan after it has been approved must likewise be submitted for approval.
(Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3G-6: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
None. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3G-7: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard Setbacks: Twenty five feet (25') for principal structures.
Both street frontages of corner lots shall be considered front yards.
   B.   Side Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10') for principal and accessory
structures.
   C.   Rear Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10') for structures. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-
2001)
   D.   Private Yard Fences And Landscaping Features:
      1.   Authority To Allow; Indemnification: The building official shall be
authorized to allow residential property owners to place private yard fences
and landscaping features, as might otherwise be permissible under this title,
within those portions of the rights of way fronting on their residential
property, but no closer than five feet (5') from the back of the curb, and that
all such property owners be advised and made aware that said rights of way are
town property and that the town shall not be responsible for damage to any such
improvements as a result of town actions and shall be held harmless by the
property owner, as acknowledged by the property owner's signature.
      2.   Preexisting Fences And Other Features: Fences and other landscaping
features that, prior to the adoption hereof, have been placed closer to the
back of the curb than the designated five feet (5') shall be allowed to remain
in place until such time as they must be removed to allow the town to conduct
regular street maintenance or other prescribed duties, or are otherwise removed
by the landowner for any purpose. Should such removal occur, any replacement
fence or landscaping feature shall then be placed no closer than five feet (5')
from the back of the curb and that all such removal and replacement shall be
done at the landowner's sole expense. (Ord. 2005-04, 5-23-2005)
11-3G-8: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
The maximum building height shall be fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-
2001)
11-3G-9: PARKING:
Off street parking areas will consist of designated parking spaces and/or
centralized parking areas within the commercial building site. Designated
parking spaces and/or centralized parking areas will consist of a paved
surface. Off street parking requirements are summarized in the following table.
Municipal subdivision and development standards of the town provide specific
design criteria for the design and construction of designated parking spaces
and centralized parking areas:
   MINIMUM COMMERCIAL OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENT
    Type Of Commercial Standard
    Type Of Commercial Use      Standard
Motel/hotel                         1 parking space per guest room.
                                    1 guest room; 66 percent of total seating
Inns or lodges                      capacity of associated cafe and restaurant
                                    operations.
Medical and veterinary clinics      1 per 300 square feet of floor space.
Commercial offices                  1 per 300 square feet of gross floor space.
Cafes and restaurants (including     
fast food outlets with seating      Number of parking spaces will equal 50
                                    percent of total seating capacity.
Fast food outlets (with no seating) 1 per number of employees for average work
                                    shift.
Retail stores                       1 per 200 square feet of retail floor
                                    space.
Self-storage facilities             1 per every 2,000 square feet of storage
                                    space.
Commercial services                 1 per 300 square feet of gross floor area.
                                    1 per 200 square feet of retail floor
Service and repair establishments   space. No storage or parking of vehicles
                                    that are not a currently licensed.
                                    1 parking space for 25 percent of the total
Commercial recreational facilities  number of customers that can be served at
                                    any given time.
 
Note: Refer to chapter 5 of this title, vehicle parking standards, for further
details.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3G-10: FENCING:
   A.   Front Building Line And Front Property Line: Not more than four feet
(4') high between the front building line and front property line.
   B.   Side Or Rear Property Line: No height restriction.
   C.   Easements: Fencing and walls are prohibited within access, drainage and
utility easements.
   D.   Prohibited Fences: Barbed wire is permitted above other fencing for
security. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3G-11: ACCESSORY USES:
Storage buildings will be permitted with a primary commercial structure on a
commercial lot. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3G-12: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
The following signs are authorized:
   A.   Freestanding Signs: One or more freestanding signs, which may be
unlighted or illuminated, but with no flashing lights, may be used. Scrolling
lights are permitted. Such freestanding signs shall not exceed one hundred
twenty (120) square feet, and not obstruct motorists' views of vehicular,
pedestrian, or bicycle traffic at any highway, road or street intersection.
   B.   On Premises Sign: Any exterior sign display associated with a specific
commercial use will pertain to uses on the zone lot or building where the sign
is located.
   C.   Building Frontage: Two (2) square feet of illuminated or unlighted sign
area is permitted for each lineal foot of commercial building frontage. The
sign will be attached flat against the wall of the building and be parallel
with this horizontal dimension.
   D.   Suspended Signs: The bottom edge of signs suspended from any commercial
building shall not be less than ten feet (10') above the finished grade of the
adjacent sidewalk, walkway, or other pedestrian access to the commercial
building.
   E.   For Lease Or For Sale Signs: Any unlighted sign or signs not exceeding
a total area of twelve (12) square feet which indicate the availability of
commercial facility or commercial space for lease, or the sale of the property,
where the signs are located. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3G-13: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   Required At Intersections: A sight triangle shall be maintained at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
pavement line of a commercial or a common, multi-family driveway in which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
   B.   Single Obstruction: A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches
(24") in width, shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle,
except a single tree of any diameter whose vegetation does not extend into the
required unobstructed area shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   Open Mesh Fences: Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles;
provided, that they comply with all other requirements as established by town
regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Unusual Conditions Requiring Additional Regulations: If, in the opinion
of the town engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or
lot grade exists which requires additional regulation of a particular
intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may
establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any sight triangle which is
different than these standards and which is based on the town engineer's
recommendation. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
ARTICLE H. C-E(1) ENHANCED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3H-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3H-2: Permitted Uses
11-3H-3: Prohibited Uses
11-3H-4: Enhanced Commercial Building Standards
11-3H-5: Other Uses Authorized By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3H-6: Landscaping Requirements
11-3H-7: Minimum Lot Area
11-3H-8: Minimum Setbacks
11-3H-9: Maximum Building Height
11-3H-10: Parking
11-3H-11: Fencing
11-3H-12: Accessory Uses
11-3H-13: Authorized Signs
11-3H-14: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3H-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The C-E(1) enhanced commercial district is intended to provide for a central
business district containing retail stores and business offices. The
regulations are intended to provide for attractive buildings designed and sited
for easy pedestrian and vehicular access. Landscaping is employed for enhanced
aesthetics and screening while still providing adequate parking area. (Ord.
2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3H-2: PERMITTED USES:
Eating and drinking establishments including bars, cafes, and restaurants.
Commercial offices and office complexes.
Commercial recreational facilities such as bowling alleys and theaters.
Commercial retail establishments such as grocery stores, bakeries, hardware
stores, clothing and dry goods stores, general merchandise stores, pet stores,
and pharmacies.
Commercial services such as banks, barber shops and hair salons, dry cleaners,
and medical or other health clinics.
Living quarters, apartments, and/or residences contained within the same
building used to house permitted businesses.
Motels, hotels, inns, or lodges. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3H-3: PROHIBITED USES:
"Adult bookstores", "adult novelty stores", "adult video stores", "adult
motels", "adult cabarets", or "adult theaters" as defined in section
11-2-1 of this title.
Automobile, truck, machinery, or equipment dealerships.
Feed and grain stores.
Lumberyards.
Storage warehouses, yards, or similar facilities.
Veterinary clinics, kennels, catteries, or other businesses requiring the
keeping or boarding of animals, except for retail pet stores. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-
22-2004)
11-3H-4: ENHANCED COMMERCIAL BUILDING STANDARDS:
   A.   Commercial Construction: All commercial construction will conform to
the commercial construction standards outlined in the most recent building,
plumbing, and mechanical construction codes that have been adopted by the town
1 .
   B.   Building Materials: Building materials shall be selected to provide
contrasting colors and textures while providing visual balance and avoiding an
excessive variety of materials. All sides of the building shall include
materials and design elements consistent with those on the front facade. (Ord.
2004-03, 3-22-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
11-3H-5: OTHER USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Other uses authorized by special use permit or variance are any nonconforming
uses which are approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2004-03,
3-22-2004)
11-3H-6: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Required: At least five percent (5%) of each commercial site
will be landscaped and maintained with grasses, shrubs, and/or trees to
increase compatibility with adjoining land uses, increase the attractiveness of
the site, and enhance the general aesthetics of the community. This requirement
may be made within setback areas, designated easements, vehicular parking
areas, or any portion of the site.
   B.   Trash Containers And Utility Boxes: Trash containers and utility boxes
shall be screened from the street and general view by landscaping features.
Designed enclosures are encouraged.
   C.   Time Limitation For Completion: Landscaping and irrigation shall be
completed in the first available planting season, which shall be within nine
(9) months of the date of occupancy.
   D.   Landscaping Plan: A landscaping plan shall be submitted to the building
officer for approval prior to the issuance of a building permit. Any changes to
the plan after it has been approved must likewise be submitted for approval.
(Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3H-7: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
None. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3H-8: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard Setbacks: Twenty five feet (25') for structures. Both street
frontages of corner lots shall be considered front yards.
   B.   Side Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10') for structures.
   C.   Rear Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10') for structures. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-
2004)
   D.   Private Yard Fences And Landscaping Features:
      1.   Authority To Allow; Indemnification: The building official shall be
authorized to allow commercial property owners to place private yard fences and
landscaping features, as might otherwise be permissible under this title,
within those portions of the rights of way fronting on their commercial
property, but no closer than five feet (5') from the back of the curb, and that
all such property owners be advised and made aware that said rights of way are
town property and that the town shall not be responsible for damage to any such
improvements as a result of town actions and shall be held harmless by the
property owner, as acknowledged by the property owner's signature.
      2.   Preexisting Fences And Other Features: Fences and other landscaping
features that, prior to the adoption hereof, have been placed closer to the
back of the curb than the designated five feet (5') shall be allowed to remain
in place until such time as they must be removed to allow the town to conduct
regular street maintenance or other prescribed duties, or are otherwise removed
by the landowner for any purpose. Should such removal occur, any replacement
fence or landscaping feature shall then be placed no closer than five feet (5')
from the back of the curb and that all such removal and replacement shall be
done at the landowner's sole expense. (Ord. 2005-04, 5-23-2005)
11-3H-9: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
Forty feet (40'). (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3H-10: PARKING:
Off street parking areas will consist of designated parking spaces and/or
centralized parking areas located only in the side or rear yards of the zone
lot. Designated parking spaces and/or centralized parking areas will consist of
a paved surface. Off street parking requirements are summarized in the
following table. Municipal subdivision and development standards of the town
provide specific design criteria for the design and construction of designated
parking spaces and centralized parking areas. Parking area requirements for
mixed use properties will be the sum of the requirements for each use:
   MINIMUM COMMERCIAL OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
    Type Of Commercial Standard
    Type Of Commercial Use      Standard
Motel/hotel                         1 parking space per guest room.
                                    1 guest room; 50 percent of total seating
Inns or lodges                      capacity of associated cafe and restaurant
                                    operations.
Medical clinics                     1 per 300 square feet of floor space.
Commercial offices                  1 per 300 square feet of gross floor space.
Cafes and restaurants (including     
fast food outlets with seating)     Number of parking spaces will equal 50
                                    percent of total seating capacity.
Fast food outlets (with no seating) 1 per number of employees for average work
                                    shift.
Retail stores                       1 per 200 square feet of retail floor
                                    space.
Commercial services                 1 per 300 square feet of gross floor area.
                                    1 parking space for 25 percent of the total
Commercial recreational facilities  number of customers that can be served at
                                    any given time.
 
Note: Refer to chapter 5 of this title, vehicle parking standards, for further
details.
(Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3H-11: FENCING:
   A.   Decorative fencing only with primary purpose being screening or
landscaping, not enclosure.
   B.   No height restriction. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3H-12: ACCESSORY USES:
None. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3H-13: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   Freestanding Signs: One or more freestanding signs, which may be
unlighted or illuminated, but with no flashing lights, may be used. Scrolling
lights are permitted. Such freestanding signs shall not exceed one hundred
twenty (120) square feet and not obstruct motorists' views of vehicular,
pedestrian, or bicycle traffic at any highway, road or street intersection.
   B.   On Premises Signs: Any exterior sign display associated with a specific
commercial use will pertain to uses on the zone lot or building where the sign
is located.
   C.   Building Frontage: Two (2) square feet of illuminated or unlighted sign
area is permitted for each lineal foot of commercial building frontage. The
sign will be attached flat against the wall of the building and be parallel
with this horizontal dimension.
   D.   Suspended Signs: The bottom edge of signs suspended from any commercial
building shall not be less than ten feet (10') above the finished grade of the
adjacent sidewalk, walkway, or other pedestrian access to the commercial
building.
   E.   For Lease Or For Sale Signs: Any unlighted sign or signs not exceeding
a total area of twelve (12) square feet which indicate the availability of
commercial facility or commercial space for lease, or the sale of the property,
where the signs are located. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3H-14: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   Required At Intersections: A sight triangle shall be maintained at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
pavement line of a commercial or a common, multi-family driveway in which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
   B.   Single Obstruction: A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches
(24") in width, shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle,
except a single tree of any diameter whose vegetation does not extend into the
required unobstructed area shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   Open Mesh Fences: Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles;
provided, that they comply with all other requirements as established by town
regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Unusual Conditions Requiring Additional Regulation: If, in the opinion
of the town engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or
lot grade exists which requires additional regulation of a particular
intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may
establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any sight triangle which is
different than these standards and which is based on the town engineer's
recommendation. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
ARTICLE I. LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3I-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3I-2: Permitted Uses
11-3I-3: Light Industrial Building Standards
11-3I-4: Other Uses Authorized By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3I-5: Landscaping Requirements
11-3I-6: Minimum Lot Area
11-3I-7: Minimum Setbacks
11-3I-8: Maximum Building Height
11-3I-9: Parking
11-3I-10: Fencing
11-3I-11: Accessory Uses
11-3I-12: Authorized Signs
11-3I-13: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3I-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This district is intended to encourage the development of manufacturing
facilities which produce finished products and/or parts from previously
prepared materials. The light industrial district is also to provide area
within the community for the storage and distribution of finished products, the
storage of heavy equipment, industrial service and repair operations, as well
as laboratory and administrative facilities supporting light industrial
operations. The light industrial district regulations are intended to provide
adequate vehicular parking, setbacks, landscaping and/or other screening to
ensure its compatibility with adjoining land uses, as well as accessibility to
community utility systems and community open space areas. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-
2001)
11-3I-2: PERMITTED USES:
Any use permitted under C general commercial district zoning that is not
residential in nature and enhances the zoning district.
Cabinet, plumbing, welding, and steel fabrication shops.
Construction and maintenance equipment yards.
Industrial laboratories and research centers.
Industrial service and repair operations associated with the coal, oil and gas,
and agricultural industries.
Kennel or cattery.
Light industrial parks.
Lumberyard.
Manufacturing of finished products or parts including processing, fabrication,
assembly, treatment, packaging, incidental storage, as well as wholesale
distribution of such products.
Regional warehouse and distribution facilities.
Self-storage facilities.
Solid waste collection or transfer facilities.
Storage yards for heavy industrial equipment and other industrial materials.
Structures that support community utilities.
Truck terminals. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2001-10, 9-24-2001; Ord.
2003-03, 6-10-2003; Ord. 2008-08, 4-27-2009)
11-3I-3: LIGHT INDUSTRIAL BUILDING STANDARDS:
All light industrial construction will conform to the commercial construction
standards outlined in most recent building, plumbing, and mechanical
construction codes that have been adopted by the town. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-
2001)
11-3I-4: OTHER USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Other uses authorized by special use permit or variance are any nonconforming
uses which are approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001)
11-3I-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Required: At least five percent (5%) of each light industrial
site will be landscaped and maintained to increase the compatibility with
adjoining land uses, increase the attractiveness of the site, and enhance the
general aesthetics of the community. This requirement may be done within any
portion of the site. (Ord. 2001-10, 9-24-2001)
   B.   Time Limitation For Completion: Landscaping and irrigation shall be
completed in the first available planting season, which shall be within nine
(9) months of the date of occupancy.
   C.   Landscaping Plan: A landscaping plan shall be submitted to the building
officer for approval prior to the issuance of a building permit. Any changes to
the plan after it has been approved must likewise be submitted for approval.
(Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3I-6: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
None. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3I-7: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard Setbacks: Twenty five feet (25'). Both street frontages of
corner lots shall be considered front yards.
   B.   Side Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10').
   C.   Rear Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   D.   Private Yard Fences And Landscaping Features:
      1.   Authority To Allow; Indemnification: The building official shall be
authorized to allow industrial property owners to place private yard fences and
landscaping features, as might otherwise be permissible under this title,
within those portions of the rights of way fronting on their industrial
property, but no closer than five feet (5') from the back of the curb, and that
all such property owners be advised and made aware that said rights of way are
town property and that the town shall not be responsible for damage to any such
improvements as a result of town actions and shall be held harmless by the
property owner, as acknowledged by the property owner's signature.
      2.   Preexisting Fences And Other Features: Fences and other landscaping
features that, prior to the adoption hereof, have been placed closer to the
back of the curb than the designated five feet (5') shall be allowed to remain
in place until such time as they must be removed to allow the town to conduct
regular street maintenance or other prescribed duties, or are otherwise removed
by the landowner for any purpose. Should such removal occur, any replacement
fence or landscaping feature shall then be placed no closer than five feet (5')
from the back of the curb and that all such removal and replacement shall be
done at the landowner's sole expense. (Ord. 2005-04, 5-23-2005)
11-3I-8: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
Fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3I-9: PARKING:
Off street parking areas will consist of designated parking spaces and/or
centralized parking areas within the building site. Designated parking spaces
and/or centralized parking areas will consist of a paved surface. Off street
parking requirements are summarized in the following table. Municipal
subdivision and development standards of the town provide specific design
criteria for the design and construction of designated parking spaces and
centralized parking areas:
   MINIMUM LIGHT INDUSTRIAL OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
Type Of Light Industrial Use Standard
Type Of Light Industrial Use      Standard
                                  1 parking space for each 2 persons employed,
Manufacturing                     or intended to be employed, on the largest
                                  work shift.
Warehouse and distribution         
facilities                        1 parking space for every 1,000 square feet
                                  of floor area.
                                  1 parking space for every 1,000 square feet
Laboratories and research centers of floor area, or for each employee,
                                  whichever is greater.
                                   
Kennel, cattery, laboratories     1 parking space every 1,000 square feet of
and research centers              floor area, or for each employee, whichever
                                  is greater.
Construction and maintenance       
equipment yards                   1 parking space for each 2 persons employed.
Cabinet, plumbing, welding, and    
steel fabrication shops           1 parking space every 200 square feet of
                                  retail floor space.
Industrial service and repair      
operations                        1 parking space for each 2 persons employed.
                                  1 parking space for every semitruck and
Truck terminals                   trailer anticipated during peak use of the
                                  truck terminal. 1 automobile parking space
                                  for each 2 persons employed.
Lumberyard                        1 parking space for every 200 square feet of
                                  retail floor space.
Structures that support            
community utilities               1 parking space for every 200 square feet of
                                  retail floor space.
Solid waste collection or          
transfer facilities               1 parking space for each 2 persons employed.
Light industrial parks            1 parking space for each employee or every
                                  1,000 square feet, whichever is more.
Self-storage facilities           10 feet wide around entire perimeter of the
                                  building.
Outdoor vehicle storage           No paving required.
 
Note: Refer to chapter 5 of this title, vehicle parking standards, for further
details.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-03, 6-10-2003; Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-
2004; Ord. 2004-07, 6-14-2004)
11-3I-10: FENCING:
   A.   Front Building Line And Property Line: No height restriction between
the front building line and front property line.
   B.   Side Or Rear Property Line: No height restriction if located along side
or rear property lines.
   C.   Fences And Walls Prohibited: Fencing and walls are prohibited within
access drainage and utility easements.
   D.   Barbed Wire: Barbed wire is permitted above other fencing for security.
(Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3I-11: ACCESSORY USES:
Office and storage buildings directly associated with the operation of a light
industrial complex, facility, or operation is permitted. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-
2001)
11-3I-12: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   Freestanding Signs: One or more freestanding signs, which may be
unlighted or illuminated, but with no flashing lights may be used. Scrolling
lights are permitted. Such freestanding signs shall not exceed one hundred
twenty (120) square feet, and not obstruct motorists' views of vehicular,
pedestrian, or bicycle traffic at any highway, road or street intersection.
   B.   On Premises Signs: Any exterior sign display associated with a specific
commercial use will pertain to uses on the zone lot or building where the sign
is located.
   C.   Building Frontage: Two (2) square feet of illuminated or unlighted sign
area is permitted for each lineal foot of commercial building frontage. The
sign will be attached flat against the wall of the building and be parallel
with this horizontal dimension.
   D.   Suspended Signs: The bottom edge of signs suspended from any commercial
building shall not be less than ten feet (10') above the finished grade of the
adjacent sidewalk, walkway, or other pedestrian access to the commercial
building.
   E.   For Lease Or For Sale Signs: Any unlighted sign or signs not exceeding
a total area of twelve (12) square feet which indicate the availability of
commercial facility or commercial space for lease, or the sale of the property,
where the signs are located. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3I-13: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   Required At Intersections: A sight triangle shall be maintained at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
pavement line of a commercial or a common, multi-family driveway in which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
   B.   Single Obstruction: A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches
(24") in width, shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle,
except a single tree of any diameter whose vegetation does not extend into the
required, unobstructed area, shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   Open Mesh Fences: Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles;
provided, that they comply with all other requirements as established by town
regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Unusual Conditions Requiring Additional Regulations: If, in the opinion
of the town engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or
lot grade exists which requires additional regulation of a particular
intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may
establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any sight triangle which is
different than these standards and which is based on the town engineer's
recommendation. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
ARTICLE J. HI HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3J-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3J-2: Permitted Uses
11-3J-3: Heavy Industrial Building Standards
11-3J-4: Other Uses Authorized By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3J-5: Landscaping Requirements
11-3J-6: Minimum Lot Area
11-3J-7: Minimum Setbacks
11-3J-8: Maximum Building Height
11-3J-9: Parking
11-3J-10: Fencing
11-3J-11: Accessory Uses
11-3J-12: Authorized Signs
11-3J-13: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3J-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The HI heavy industrial district is intended to promote the development of
manufacturing operations which are engaged in the basic processing and
manufacture of materials or products primarily from raw or extracted materials.
The heavy industrial district is also intended to provide area within the
community for operations which store flammable, explosive, or hazardous
materials, or use similar materials for manufacturing processes. The purpose of
the heavy industrial district regulations is to provide adequate vehicular
parking, setbacks, landscaping and/or other screening to ensure its
compatibility with adjoining land uses, as well as accessibility to community
utility systems. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3J-2: PERMITTED USES:
Adult sexually oriented entertainment establishments such as adult arcades,
adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, adult video stores, adult cabarets,
adult motion picture theaters, escort agencies, or nude model studios.
Any use permitted under LI light industrial district zoning.
Concrete batch plants and quarries.
Manufacturing of materials and products primarily extracted from raw materials.
Storage facilities or manufacturing processes using flammable, explosive, or
hazardous materials. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3J-3: HEAVY INDUSTRIAL BUILDING STANDARDS:
All heavy industrial construction will conform to the commercial construction
standards outlined in most recent building, plumbing, and mechanical
construction codes that have been adopted by the town 1 . (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-
2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
11-3J-4: OTHER USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Other uses authorized by special use permit or variance are any nonconforming
uses which are approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001)
11-3J-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Required: At least five percent (5%) of each heavy industrial
site will be landscaped and maintained to increase the compatibility with
adjoining land uses, increase the attractiveness of the site, and enhance the
general aesthetics of the community. This requirement may be done within any
portion of the site. (Ord. 2001-10, 9-24-2001)
   B.   Trash Containers And Utility Boxes: Trash containers and utility boxes
shall be screened from the street and general view by landscaping features.
Designed enclosures are encouraged.
   C.   Time Limitation For Completion: Landscaping and irrigation shall be
completed in the first available planting season, which shall be within nine
(9) months of the date of occupancy.
   D.   Landscaping Plan: A landscaping plan shall be submitted to the building
officer for approval prior to the issuance of a building permit. Any changes to
the plan after it has been approved must likewise be submitted for approval.
(Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3J-6: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
None. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3J-7: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard Setbacks: Twenty five feet (25'). Both street frontages of
corner lots shall be considered front yards.
   B.   Side Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10').
   C.   Rear Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   D.   Private Yard Fences And Landscaping Features:
      1.   Authority To Allow; Indemnification: The building official shall be
authorized to allow heavy industrial district property owners to place private
yard fences and landscaping features, as might otherwise be permissible under
this title, within those portions of the rights of way fronting on their heavy
industrial property, but no closer than five feet (5') from the back of the
curb, and that all such property owners be advised and made aware that said
rights of way are town property and that the town shall not be responsible for
damage to any such improvements as a result of town actions and shall be held
harmless by the property owner, as acknowledged by the property owner's
signature.
      2.   Preexisting Fences And Other Features: Fences and other landscaping
features that, prior to the adoption hereof, have been placed closer to the
back of the curb than the designated five feet (5') shall be allowed to remain
in place until such time as they must be removed to allow the town to conduct
regular street maintenance or other prescribed duties, or are otherwise removed
by the landowner for any purpose. Should such removal occur, any replacement
fence or landscaping feature shall then be placed no closer than five feet (5')
from the back of the curb and that all such removal and replacement shall be
done at the landowner's sole expense. (Ord. 2005-04, 5-23-2005)
11-3J-8: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
Sixty five feet (65'). (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3J-9: PARKING:
Off street parking areas will consist of designated parking spaces and/or
centralized parking areas within the building site. Designated parking spaces
and/or centralized parking areas will consist of a paved surface. Off street
parking requirements are summarized in the following table. Municipal
subdivision and development standards of the town provide specific design
criteria for the design and construction of designated parking spaces and
centralized parking areas:
   MINIMUM HEAVY INDUSTRIAL OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
 
Type Of Heavy Industrial Use   Standard
Manufacturing of materials and  
products primarily extracted   1 parking space for every 2 persons employed, or
from raw materials             intended to be employed, on the largest work
                               shift.
Storage or manufacturing        
processes using flammable or   1 parking space for every 2 persons employed, or
explosive materials            intended to be employed, on the largest work
                               shift.
                                
Concrete batch plants and      1 parking space for every 2 persons employed; 1
quarries                       parking space for every concrete mixing truck
                               regularly stored at batch plants.
                               1 parking space for every 2 persons employed, as
Adult entertainment facilities well as 1 parking space for every 200 square
                               feet of retail floor space.
 
Note: Refer to chapter 5 of this title, vehicle parking standards, for further
details.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3J-10: FENCING:
   A.   Property Line: No height restriction on front, rear or side property
lines.
   B.   Access, Drainage And Utility Easements: Fencing and walls are
prohibited within access, drainage, and utility easements.
   C.   Barbed Wire: Barbed wire is permitted above other fencing for security.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3J-11: ACCESSORY USES:
Office and storage buildings directly associated with the operation of an
industrial complex, facility, or operation is permitted. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-
2001)
11-3J-12: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   Freestanding Signs: One or more freestanding signs, which may be
unlighted or illuminated, but with no flashing lights, may be used. Scrolling
lights are permitted. Such freestanding signs shall not exceed one hundred
twenty (120) square feet, and not obstruct motorists' views of vehicular,
pedestrian, or bicycle traffic at any highway, road or street intersection.
   B.   On Premises Signs: Any exterior sign display associated with a specific
commercial use will pertain to uses on the zone lot or building where the sign
is located.
   C.   Building Frontage: Two (2) square feet of illuminated or unlighted sign
area is permitted for each lineal foot of commercial building frontage. The
sign will be attached flat against the wall of the building and be parallel
with this horizontal dimension.
   D.   Suspended Signs: The bottom edge of signs suspended from any commercial
building shall not be less than ten feet (10') above the finished grade of the
adjacent sidewalk, walkway, or other pedestrian access to the commercial
building.
   E.   For Lease Or For Sale Signs: Any unlighted sign or signs not exceeding
a total area of twelve (12) square feet which indicate the availability of
commercial facility or commercial space for lease, or the sale of the property,
where the signs are located. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3J-13: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   Required At Intersections: A sight triangle shall be maintained at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
pavement line of a commercial or a common, multi-family driveway in which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
   B.   Single Obstruction: A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches
(24") in width, shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle,
except a single tree of any diameter whose vegetation does not extend into the
required unobstructed area shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   Open Mesh Fences: Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles;
provided, that they comply with all other requirements as established by town
regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Unusual Conditions Requiring Additional Regulation: If, in the opinion
of the town engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or
lot grade exists which requires additional regulation of a particular
intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may
establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any sight triangle which is
different than these standards and which is based on the town engineer's
recommendation. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
ARTICLE K. CF COMMUNITY FACILITY DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3K-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3K-2: Permitted Uses
11-3K-3: Community Facility Building Standards
11-3K-4: Other Uses Authorized By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3K-5: Landscaping Requirements
11-3K-6: Minimum Lot Area
11-3K-7: Minimum Setbacks
11-3K-8: Maximum Building Height
11-3K-9: Parking
11-3K-10: Fencing
11-3K-11: Accessory Uses
11-3K-12: Authorized Signs
11-3K-13: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3K-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This district is intended to encourage the development of churches, museums,
private membership clubs, and other uses. The community facility district
regulations are established to ensure the compatibility of these facilities
with adjoining land uses, as well as their accessibility to supporting
community utility systems. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3K-2: PERMITTED USES:
Churches and other places of worship.
Community visitor centers.
Fairgrounds, exposition centers, exhibition halls.
Museums.
Other private recreational or education facilities that are accessible to the
general public.
Private membership club facilities.
Riding and roping clubs. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-
2004)
11-3K-3: COMMUNITY FACILITY BUILDING STANDARDS:
All community facilities construction will conform to the commercial
construction standards outlined in the most recent building, plumbing, and
mechanical construction codes that have been adopted by the town 1 . (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
11-3K-4: OTHER USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Other uses authorized by special use permit or variance are any nonconforming
uses which are approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001)
11-3K-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
At least five percent (5%) of each community facility site will be landscaped
and maintained to increase the compatibility with adjoining land uses, increase
the attractiveness of the site, and enhance the general aesthetics of the
community. This requirement may be done within any portion of the site. (Ord.
2001-10, 9-24-2001)
11-3K-6: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
None. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3K-7: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard Setbacks: Twenty five feet (25'). Both street frontages of
corner lots shall be considered front yards.
   B.   Side Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10').
   C.   Rear Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   D.   Private Yard Fences And Landscaping Features:
      1.   Authority To Allow; Indemnification: The building official shall be
authorized to allow community facilities property owners to place private yard
fences and landscaping features, as might otherwise be permissible under this
title, within those portions of the rights of way fronting on their community
facilities property, but no closer than five feet (5') from the back of the
curb, and that all such property owners be advised and made aware that said
rights of way are town property and that the town shall not be responsible for
damage to any such improvements as a result of town actions and shall be held
harmless by the property owner, as acknowledged by the property owner's
signature.
      2.   Preexisting Fences And Other Features: Fences and other landscaping
features that, prior to the adoption hereof, have been placed closer to the
back of the curb than the designated five feet (5') shall be allowed to remain
in place until such time as they must be removed to allow the town to conduct
regular street maintenance or other prescribed duties, or are otherwise removed
by the landowner for any purpose. Should such removal occur, any replacement
fence or landscaping feature shall then be placed no closer than five feet (5')
from the back of the curb and that all such removal and replacement shall be
done at the landowner's sole expense. (Ord. 2005-4, 5-23-2005)
11-3K-8: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
Fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3K-9: PARKING:
Off street parking areas will consist of designated parking spaces and/or
centralized parking areas within the building site. Designated parking spaces
and/or centralized parking areas will consist of a paved surface. Off street
parking requirements are summarized in the following table. Municipal
subdivision and development standards of the town provide specific design
criteria for the design and construction of designated parking spaces and
centralized parking areas:
   MINIMUM COMMUNITY FACILITY OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
    Type Of Commercial Standard
    Type Of Commercial Use     Standard
Churches and other places of       The number of parking spaces will equal 25
worship                            percent of the seating capacity of the
                                   primary sanctuary of each church.
Community RV parking and           To be determined at the time of
storage facilities                 establishment.
Community visitor centers          1 parking space for every employee, as well
                                   as 10 spaces for visitors.
Fairgrounds, exposition center,    To be determined at the time of
exhibit halls                      establishment.
Museums                            1 parking space for each 2 persons employed.
                                   1 parking space for every 2 persons
Other private or educational       employed. The total
facilities accessible to the       parking spaces for facility users will equal
general public                     50 percent of the peak user capacity.
                                    
                                   1 parking space for every 1.5 persons as
Private membership club facilities rated by the maximum capacity of the
                                   building by the fire code.
Riding and roping clubs            The number of parking spaces will equal 10
                                   percent of the total club membership.
 
Note: Refer to chapter 5 of this title, vehicle parking standards, for further
details.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2003-03, 6-10-2003; Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-
2004)
11-3K-10: FENCING:
   A.   Front Building Line And Property Line: Not more than four feet (4')
high between the front building line and front property line.
   B.   Side Or Rear Property Lines: No height restriction.
   C.   Access, Drainage And Utility Easements: Fencing and walls are
prohibited within access, drainage and utility easements.
   D.   Barbed Wire: Barbed wire is permitted above other fencing for security.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3K-11: ACCESSORY USES:
Fairgrounds and riding and roping clubs shall be allowed the penning and
stabling of farm animals as allowed by written agreement and approval of the
town council.
Office and storage buildings directly associated with the operation of a
community facility or operation is permitted. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3K-12: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   Bulletin Or Activity Board: One unlighted or illuminated bulletin or
activity board, which does not exceed eighteen (18) square feet of area.
   B.   Freestanding Signs: One or more freestanding signs, which may be
unlighted or illuminated, but with no flashing lights, may be used. Scrolling
lights are permitted. Such freestanding signs shall not exceed one hundred
twenty (120) square feet, and not obstruct motorists' views of vehicular,
pedestrian, or bicycle traffic at any highway, road or street intersection.
   C.   On Premises: Any exterior sign display associated with a specific
commercial use will pertain to uses on the zone lot or building where the sign
is located.
   D.   Commercial Building Frontage: Two (2) square feet of illuminated or
unlighted sign area is permitted for each lineal foot of commercial building
frontage. The sign will be attached flat against the wall of the building and
be parallel with this horizontal dimension.
   E.   Suspended Signs: The bottom edge of signs suspended from any commercial
building shall not be less than ten feet (10') above the finished grade of the
adjacent sidewalk, walkway, or other pedestrian access to the commercial
building.
   F.   For Lease Or For Sale Signs: Any unlighted sign or signs not exceeding
a total area of twelve (12) square feet which indicate the availability of
commercial facility or commercial space for lease, or the sale of the property,
where the signs are located. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3K-13: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   Required At Intersections: A sight triangle shall be maintained at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
pavement line of a commercial or a common, multi-family driveway in which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
   B.   Single Obstruction: A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches
(24") in width, shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle,
except a single tree of any diameter whose vegetation does not extend into the
required unobstructed area shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   Open Mesh Fences: Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles;
provided, that they comply with all other requirements as established by town
regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Unusual Conditions Requiring Additional Regulation: If, in the opinion
of the town engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or
lot grade exists which requires additional regulation of a particular
intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may
establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any sight triangle which is
different than these standards and which is based on the town engineer's
recommendation. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
ARTICLE L. PF PUBLIC FACILITIES DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3L-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3L-2: Permitted Uses
11-3L-3: Public Facility Building Standards
11-3L-4: Other Uses Authorized By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3L-5: Landscaping Requirements
11-3L-6: Minimum Lot Area
11-3L-7: Minimum Setbacks
11-3L-8: Maximum Building Height
11-3L-9: Parking
11-3L-10: Fencing
11-3L-11: Accessory Uses
11-3L-12: Authorized Signs
11-3L-13: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3L-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The intent of the PF public facilities district is to provide area for the
development of municipal, state, and federal facilities, quasi-public
utilities, and other publicly owned facilities. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3L-2: PERMITTED USES:
Government administrative facilities.
Operations centers, administrative offices, and facilities supporting quasi-
public utilities.
Public conference centers.
Public cultural facilities.
Public libraries.
Public medical clinics.
Public multi-purpose facilities.
Public recreation centers and recreational facilities.
Public safety facilities for law enforcement, fire protection, and emergency
medical services.
Public schools, educational facilities, and related administrative offices.
Public works centers and base yards.
Solid waste collection and transfer facilities.
Structures supporting regional and community utility systems. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-
11-2001)
11-3L-3: PUBLIC FACILITY BUILDING STANDARDS:
All community facilities construction will conform to the commercial
construction standards outlined in the most recent building, plumbing, and
mechanical construction codes that have been adopted by the town 1 . (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
11-3L-4: OTHER USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Other uses authorized by special use permit or variance are any nonconforming
uses which are approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001)
11-3L-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
At least five percent (5%) of each public facility site will be landscaped and
maintained to increase the compatibility with adjoining land uses, increase the
attractiveness of the site, and enhance the general aesthetics of the
community. This requirement may be done within any portion of the site. (Ord.
2001-10, 9-24-2001)
11-3L-6: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
None. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3L-7: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
   A.   Front Yard Setbacks: Twenty five feet (25'). Both street frontages of
corner lots shall be considered front yards.
   B.   Side Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10').
   C.   Rear Yard Setbacks: Ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   D.   Private Yard Fences And Landscaping Features:
      1.   Authority To Allow; Indemnification: The building official shall be
authorized to allow public facilities property owners to place private yard
fences and landscaping features, as might otherwise be permissible under this
title, within those portions of the rights of way fronting on their public
facilities property, but no closer than five feet (5') from the back of the
curb, and that all such property owners be advised and made aware that said
rights of way are town property and that the town shall not be responsible for
damage to any such improvements as a result of town actions and shall be held
harmless by the property owner, as acknowledged by the property owner's
signature.
      2.   Preexisting Fences And Other Features: Fences and other landscaping
features that, prior to the adoption hereof, have been placed closer to the
back of the curb than the designated five feet (5') shall be allowed to remain
in place until such time as they must be removed to allow the town to conduct
regular street maintenance or other prescribed duties, or are otherwise removed
by the landowner for any purpose. Should such removal occur, any replacement
fence or landscaping feature shall then be placed no closer than five feet (5')
from the back of the curb and that all such removal and replacement shall be
done at the landowner's sole expense. (Ord. 2005-4, 5-23-2005)
11-3L-8: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
Fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3L-9: PARKING:
Off street parking areas will contain designated parking spaces and/or
centralized parking areas within the building site. Designated parking spaces
and/or centralized parking areas will consist of a paved surface. Off street
parking requirements are summarized in the following table. Municipal
subdivision and development standards of the town provide specific design
criteria for the design and construction of designated parking spaces and
centralized parking areas:
   MINIMUM PUBLIC FACILITY OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
    Type Of Public Facility Standard
    Type Of Public Facility Use  Standard
Government administrative facilities 1 parking space per 200 square feet of
                                     floor space.
Public works centers and base yards  1 parking space for each 2 persons
                                     employed.
Public multi-purpose facilities      The number of parking spaces will equal 50
                                     percent of the total seating capacity.
Public safety facilities for law      
enforcement, fire protection, and    To be determined by planning and zoning
emergency medical services           commission staff or building inspector
                                     during project review.
                                      
                                     The number of parking spaces will include
Public schools, educational          1 parking space for each employee, school
facilities, and related              bus parking to accommodate peak bus
administrative offices               traffic, parking spaces for 50 percent of
                                     anticipated school enrollment, and visitor
                                     parking adequate to support events at the
                                     facility.
                                      
Public recreation centers and        The number of parking spaces will equal 50
recreational facilities              percent of the peak number of adult
                                     recreational users during any one period.
                                     1 parking space for each employee, 1
                                     reserved parking space for each
                                     anticipated paramedic van or ambulance
Public medical clinics               serving the facility in one 8-hour period,
                                     2 reserved parking spaces for law
                                     enforcement, 1 parking space for the
                                     maximum number of patients served by the
                                     facility at any given time.
                                     1 parking space for each employee; 1
Public libraries                     parking space for each anticipated
                                     facility user during an anticipated peak
                                     hour of facility use.
Public cultural facilities           The number of parking spaces will equal 50
                                     percent of the total seating capacity.
Public conference facilities         The number of parking spaces will equal 50
                                     percent of the total seating capacity.
                                      
Operations centers, administrative   1 parking space per 200 square feet of
offices, and facilities supporting   floor space for administrative areas and
quasi-public utilities               workshop areas. 2 parking spaces at each
                                     facility, e.g., water storage tank.
                                      
Solid waste collection and transfer  1 parking space for each employee(s)
facilities                           working at solid waste site; 1 parking
                                     space/loading area for incoming trucks
                                     used for collection and transfer.
Structures supporting regional and    
community utility systems            1 parking space for maintenance personnel.
 
Note: Refer to chapter 5 of this title, vehicle parking standards, for further
details.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3L-10: FENCING:
   A.   Front Building Line And Property Line: Not more than four feet (4')
high between the front building line and front property line.
   B.   Side Or Rear Property Lines: No height restriction.
   C.   Easements: Fencing and walls are prohibited within access, drainage and
utility easements.
   D.   Barbed Wire: Barbed wire is permitted above other fencing for security.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3L-11: ACCESSORY USES:
Office and storage buildings directly associated with the operation of a public
facility complex or facility are permitted. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3L-12: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   Bulletin Or Activity Board: One unlighted or illuminated bulletin or
activity board which does not exceed eighteen (18) square feet of area.
   B.   Freestanding Signs: One or more freestanding signs, which may be
unlighted or illuminated but with no flashing lights, may be used. Scrolling
lights are permitted. Such freestanding signs shall not exceed one hundred
twenty (120) square feet, and not obstruct motorists' views of vehicular,
pedestrian, or bicycle traffic at any highway, road or street intersection.
   C.   On Premises: Any exterior sign display associated with a specific
commercial use will pertain to uses on the zone lot or building where the sign
is located.
   D.   Attached To Commercial Building Frontage: Two (2) square feet of
illuminated or unlighted sign area is permitted for each lineal foot of
commercial building frontage. The sign will be attached flat against the wall
of the building and be parallel with this horizontal dimension.
   E.   Suspended Signs: The bottom edge of signs suspended from any commercial
building shall not be less than ten feet (10') above the finished grade of the
adjacent sidewalk, walkway, or other pedestrian access to the commercial
building.
   F.   For Lease Or For Sale Signs: Any unlighted sign or signs not exceeding
a total area of twelve (12) square feet which indicate the availability of
commercial facility or commercial space for lease or the sale of the property
where the signs are located. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-3L-13: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   Required At Intersections: A sight triangle shall be maintained at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
pavement line of a commercial or a common multi-family driveway within which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
   B.   Single Obstruction: A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches
(24") in width, shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle,
except a single tree of any diameter whose vegetation does not extend into the
required unobstructed area shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   Open Mesh Fences: Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles;
provided, that they comply with all other requirements as established by town
regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Unusual Conditions Requiring Additional Regulation: If, in the opinion
of the town engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or
lot grade exists which requires additional regulation of a particular
intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may
establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any sight triangle which is
different than these standards and which is based on the town engineer's
recommendation. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
ARTICLE M. RC RECREATION AND CONSERVATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-3M-1: Intent And Purpose
11-3M-2: Permitted Uses
11-3M-3: Recreation And Conservation Building Standards
11-3M-4: Other Uses Authorized By Special Use Permit Or Variance
11-3M-5: Landscaping Requirements
11-3M-6: Minimum Lot Area
11-3M-7: Minimum Setbacks
11-3M-8: Maximum Building Height
11-3M-9: Accessory Uses
11-3M-10: Authorized Signs
11-3M-11: Intersection Sight Triangle
11-3M-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The RC recreation and conservation district is intended to encourage the
conservation of sensitive environmental areas and enhance the aesthetics of the
community via the provision of open space. The purpose of this district also
includes providing outdoor recreational activities such as walking, biking,
horseback riding, and picnicking. Overnight camping, as well as the use of
motorized vehicles such as four-wheelers and snowmobiles are not envisioned for
these areas. The recreation and conservation district regulations are
established to ensure compatibility with adjoining land uses as well as
accessibility to residential areas. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3M-2: PERMITTED USES:
Fairgrounds, exposition centers, exhibition halls.
Golf courses.
Manmade water features.
Ornamental gardens, trees, shrubs, and other landscaping.
Outdoor public parks, pavilions, outdoor cooking facilities, and recreational
equipment.
Pedestrian, bicycle, equestrian, and cross country ski trails.
Undeveloped lands. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3M-3: RECREATION AND CONSERVATION BUILDING STANDARDS:
All recreation and conservation facilities construction will conform to the
commercial construction standards outlined in the most recent building,
plumbing, and mechanical construction codes that have been adopted by the town
1 . (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
11-3M-4: OTHER USES AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT OR VARIANCE:
Other uses authorized by special use permit or variance are any nonconforming
uses which are approved by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001)
11-3M-5: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
None. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3M-6: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
None. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3M-7: MINIMUM SETBACKS:
The minimum setback for uses in the RC district is:
   A.   Twenty five feet (25') from adjoining land uses in other zoning
districts. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   B.   Private Yard Fences And Landscaping Features:
      1.   Authority To Allow; Indemnification: The building official shall be
authorized to allow recreation and conservation district residential property
owners to place private yard fences and landscaping features, as might
otherwise be permissible under this title, within those portions of the rights
of way fronting on their recreation and conservation district property, but no
closer than five feet (5') from the back of the curb, and that all such
property owners be advised and made aware that said rights of way are town
property and that the town shall not be responsible for damage to any such
improvements as a result of town actions and shall be held harmless by the
property owner, as acknowledged by the property owner's signature.
      2.   Preexisting Fences And Other Features: Fences and other landscaping
features that, prior to the adoption hereof, have been placed closer to the
back of the curb than the designated five feet (5') shall be allowed to remain
in place until such time as they must be removed to allow the town to conduct
regular street maintenance or other prescribed duties, or are otherwise removed
by the landowner for any purpose. Should such removal occur, any replacement
fence or landscaping feature shall then be placed no closer than five feet (5')
from the back of the curb and that all such removal and replacement shall be
done at the landowner's sole expense. (Ord. 2005-4, 5-23-2005)
11-3M-8: MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT:
Twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3M-9: ACCESSORY USES:
Storage buildings directly associated with the operation and maintenance of the
recreation and conservation district are permitted. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3M-10: AUTHORIZED SIGNS:
   A.   Freestanding Signs: One or more freestanding signs, which may be
unlighted or illuminated but with no flashing lights, may be used. Scrolling
lights are permitted. Such freestanding signs shall not exceed one hundred
twenty (120) square feet and not obstruct motorists' views of vehicular,
pedestrian, or bicycle traffic at any highway, road or street intersection.
(Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
   B.   Directional Signs: Directional signs, not exceeding one-half (1/2)
square foot in area. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-3M-11: INTERSECTION SIGHT TRIANGLE 1 :
   A.   Required At Intersections: A sight triangle shall be maintained at the
intersection of two (2) streets, a street and an alley, or a street and a
pavement line of a commercial or a common multi-family driveway in which
nothing shall hereafter be erected, placed or planted which would obstruct the
view of motorists entering or leaving the intersection.
   B.   Single Obstruction: A single obstruction, less than twenty four inches
(24") in width, shall not be considered a violation of the sight triangle,
except a single tree of any diameter whose vegetation does not extend into the
required, unobstructed area, shall also not be considered a violation.
   C.   Open Mesh Fences: Open mesh fences may be erected in sight triangles
provided that they comply with all other requirements as established by town
regulations and ordinances.
   D.   Unusual Conditions Requiring Additional Regulation: If, in the opinion
of the town engineer, an unusual condition of topography, street grade and/or
lot grade exists which requires additional regulation of a particular
intersection to ensure a safe sight distance, the zoning administrator may
establish a maximum safe height of obstructions in any sight triangle which is
different than these standards and which is based on the town engineer's
recommendation. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 11-2-1 of this title for definition of "intersection sight
  triangle".
CHAPTER 4
LAND USE AND BUILDING PERMIT APPROVAL PROCESS
SECTION:
11-4-1: General Development Review And Approval Process
11-4-2: Land Use Plan Amendment Process
11-4-3: Special Use Permit
11-4-4: Planned Unit Development Process
11-4-5: Zone Change Process
11-4-6: Variance Process
11-4-1: GENERAL DEVELOPMENT REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Review Process: The process of reviewing private and public land use
proposals is the method used by the town to:
      1.   Ensure the public health, safety, and welfare of town residents; and
      2.   Evaluate the consistency of proposed land use with the community
land use plan and related development concepts contained in the master plan.
   B.   Issues Considered And Evaluated: The development review process will
generally involve the town's consideration and evaluation of at least the
following issues:
      1.   Consistency of proposed land uses and densities with the community
land use plan and development concepts outlined in the master plan.
      2.   Consistency of proposed land uses to permitted uses, minimum lot
sizes, densities, and accessory uses outlined in this title.
      3.   Potential project stipulations for a land use plan amendment, zone
change, or variance that may be required to ensure the compatibility of the
project with adjacent land uses and protect the health, safety and welfare of
the general public.
      4.   Long term operation and maintenance of multi-use residential
complexes, community facilities, public facilities, and on site amenities.
      5.   Conformance of proposed buildings and structures to required
building setbacks, building heights, and signage limitations outlined in this
title.
      6.   Conformance of proposed buildings and structures to building code
requirements adopted by the town and outlined in this title.
      7.   Conformance of proposed land use to vehicular parking limitations
outlined in this title.
      8.   Connection of primary structures to local utilities.
   C.   Approval And Building Permit Required: No construction, alteration or
expansion of any site, building or structure will be made before receiving
documented approval for all required land use and building permits from the
town. Land use application requirements and building permit requirements are
shown in the following two (2) tables: (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   LAND USE PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS
   TOWN OF WRIGHT
 
                                                                 
            Information               Public                      
            Accompanying              Notice Prior                
Land Use     Application   Public       To Public                   
Permit       Form          Hearing      Hearing      Decision       Appeals
                                                     Process
             Rationale for                           Planning and
             plan                                    zoning
Land use     amendment;    Planning and              commission
plan         proposed      zoning       15 days      makes          Board of
amendment    changes in    commission                recommendation adjustments
             land use plan                           to town
             designations                            council for
                                                     final action
             Plot plan,
             description
Special use  of special    Planning and              Planning and   Board of
permit       use, and      zoning       15 days      zoning         adjustments
             rationale for commission                commission
             allowing the
             special use
             Conceptual
             site plan of
             proposed land
             use                                     Planning and
             development;                            zoning
             proposed                                commission
Planned unit changes in    Planning and              makes          Board of
development  zoning        zoning       15 days      recommendation adjustments
             designations; commission                to town
             legal                                   council for
             property                                final action
             description;
             authorization
             of
             landowner
             Conceptual
             site plan of
             proposed land
             use                                     Planning and
             development;                            zoning
             proposed      Planning and              commission
Zone change  changes in    zoning       15 days      makes          Board of
             zoning        commission                recommendation adjustments
             designations;                           to town
             legal                                   council for
             property                                final action
             description;
             authorization
             of landowner
             Plot plan,
             description   Planning and              Planning and
Variance     and rationale zoning       15 days      zoning         Board of
             for deviation commission                commission     adjustments
             from
             ordinance
 
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
   BUILDING PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
   TOWN OF WRIGHT
 
Type Of    Information      Inspections                  
Permit     Accompanying     Required                    Appeals
           Application Form             Decision
           Plot plan and 2
Building   sets of          Yes         Building officer Board of adjustments
           construction
           drawings
           Plot plan and 2
Plumbing   sets of          Yes         Building officer Board of adjustments
           construction
           drawings
           Plot plan and 2
Mechanical sets of          Yes         Building officer Board of adjustments
           construction
           drawings
 
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   D.   Documented Approval Of Landowner: All completed land use permit
applications, which are submitted to the town, must contain documented approval
of the landowner(s) of the subject property prior to the review of the planning
and zoning commission and approval by the town council. Decisions concerning
applications for land use plan amendments, special use permits, planned unit
developments, zone changes, and variances, which are considered by the planning
and zoning commission and town council, will be transmitted to applicants in
writing. Approvals may contain specific stipulations which modify the original
application. Denials of any application will be accompanied with documentation
of the rationale used by the town council to make its determination. (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. 2007 Code)
   E.   Inspections: Any authorized construction activity will be subject to
various inspections by the town building inspector, or designated
representative, during the construction process.   
   F.   Certificate Of Occupancy: Upon final approval of all construction under
municipal building permits, the town building officer will issue a certificate
of occupancy to the applicant. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-4-2: LAND USE PLAN AMENDMENT PROCESS:
   A.   Initiation: A proposed amendment to the adopted land use plan contained
within the master plan may be initiated by the planning and zoning commission
or other residents of the town.
   B.   Land Use Plan Amendment Form: Applicants must complete a land use plan
amendment form that will request at least the following information:
      1.   Name, address, telephone number, e-mail address, and fax number of
the applicant.
      2.   Proposed changes in land use plan designations.
      3.   Rationale for the proposed land use plan amendment.
      4.   A scaled map illustration depicting the location of the proposed
land use amendment.
   C.   Evaluation By Building Officer: The building officer, or his or her
authorized representative, will evaluate the merits, disadvantages, and
potential impacts of the proposed land use amendment. Subsequently, the
building officer will prepare a documented staff report of his or her findings
and recommendations to the planning and zoning commission.
   D.   Placement On Commission Agenda: The building officer will, as soon as
practical, place the proposed land use amendment upon the agenda of the
planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   E.   Public Hearing; Notice; Public Comments: Before the planning and zoning
commission reaches any decision, it will hold one public hearing at a public
facility within the town. Town residents and the general public will receive at
least fifteen (15) days' notice of the public hearing. Public notice will be
advertised in one newspaper of general circulation throughout Campbell County,
as well as any local publications within the town. Public comments received
during the meeting will be documented for subsequent reference during the land
use plan amendment process. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-
2004)
   F.   Commission Recommendation: Upon consideration of a staff report from
the building officer and public comment, the planning and zoning commission
will make a written recommendation to the town council. The recommendation will
state the rationale for its decision, recommended project stipulations, and
provide any appropriate maps depicting the proposed land use amendments.
   G.   Town Council Review: The town council will review the staff report from
the building officer, public comments, and the recommendation of the planning
and zoning commission. In the course of its review, the town council may hold
an additional public hearing to provide an expanded opportunity for public
comment.
   H.   Approval/Denial: The town council will approve or deny the proposed
land use amendment by ordinance.
   I.   Appeal: Any appeal of the decisions by the planning and zoning
commission will be made to the board of adjustments in accordance with chapter
8 of this title. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-4-3: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the special use permit is to allow the
possibility of some uses other than the listed permitted uses within a zoning
district, and shall be reviewed on a case by case basis. The review process
provides that, although the use is not generally allowed within a particular
zoning district, in certain instances or under certain conditions, the special
use may be determined to be essentially compatible with permitted uses of the
district and may be acceptable.
   B.   Application: Applications for a special use permit shall be made on a
form provided by the building officer that will request at least the following
information: (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      1.   Name, address, telephone number, e-mail address and fax number of
the applicant. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. 2007 Code)
      2.   Affidavit of ownership or permission of the landowner for the
special use.
      3.   Legal description and current zoning of the property on which the
special use is requested.
      4.   A statement of the special use requested.
      5.   A plot plan of the site and buildings where the special use will
occur.
   C.   Review By Building Officer: The building officer, or his or her
authorized representative, will make a review of the proposed special use and
evaluate the merits, disadvantages, and potential impacts of the proposed
special use. Subsequently, the building officer will prepare a documented staff
report of his or her findings and recommendations to the planning and zoning
commission.
   D.   Placement On Commission Agenda: The building officer will, as soon as
practical, place the application for the proposed special use on the agenda of
the planning and zoning commission.
   E.   Required Actions By Building Officer: Before any decision is reached by
the planning and zoning commission, the building officer will:
      1.   Post a copy of the special use permit application upon the property
where the special use is requested. This public notice will be made at least
ten (10) days before the planning and zoning commission considers the special
use application publicly.
      2.   Provide written notice of the application to all adjoining property
owners, as well as the date, time, and place of the planning and zoning
commission's consideration of the request. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   F.   Commission Action: Upon consideration of the staff report from the
building officer and public comments made during a scheduled public hearing of
the special use permit, the planning and zoning commission will make its
decision concerning the special use permit application. Any affirmative
decision may contain specific stipulations or conditions which may modify the
specific special use request. (Ord. 2004-07, 6-14-2004)
   G.   Considerations For Approval: In determining whether to approve or deny
the requested special use, the planning and zoning commission will use and
address the following considerations. No special use permit will be approved
unless the planning and zoning commission finds that all the following
conditions will exist:
      1.   The requested special use will not materially endanger the public
health or safety if located where proposed.
      2.   The requested special use will not substantially injure the value of
adjoining property, or the use is a public necessity.
      3.   The requested special use will otherwise comply with all regulations
and standards applicable within the district.
      4.   The character of the requested special use will be in harmony with
the area in which it is located.
      5.    The character of the requested special use will be consistent with
the master land use plan.
   H.   Notice Of Action: A notice of action of the planning and zoning
commission will be prepared by the building officer and transmitted to the
applicant. The notice of action will state the rationale for approval or
disapproval, and outline any required stipulations or conditions to any
approved special use permit.
   I.   Term Of Permit: The special use for which the permit was issued must
commence within one hundred eighty (180) days of the date of issuance or the
permit shall lapse. Once the permitted special use has begun, the permit shall
remain in force until the cessation of the special use. If the special use is
ceased for a period longer than ninety (90) days, the permit shall lapse.
Lapsed permits cannot be renewed, but a new permit may be issued after a new
application and review process. (Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
11-4-4: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PROCESS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the planned unit development process is to:
      1.   Permit and encourage the creative design of new residential areas
that will vary from residential subdivisions of standard lot sizes and standard
street systems; and
      2.   Permit the creative design of new residential buildings, open space
areas, vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian access, landscaping, as well as
vehicular parking 1  which may vary, in part, from subdivision regulations and
development standards of the town. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   B.   Who May Apply: Owners and/or prospective developers of any lots or
parcels, may make application for a planned unit development in the R-1, R-2,
R-3, R-4 and TH districts. If approved, owners will gain somewhat greater
flexibility in site design and development in exchange for a more detailed site
and building plan review. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2005-04, 5-23-
2005)
   C.   Application Form: Applicants must complete a planned unit development
application form that will request at least the following information:
      1.   Name, address, telephone number, e-mail address, and fax number of
the applicant.
      2.   When the applicant is not the landowner, the applicant will furnish
a written letter from the landowner which authorizes the application and
endorses the proposed project.
      3.   Name, address, and telephone number of the person or company
responsible for preparation of the conceptual site plan which supports the
application.
      4.   Legal description and total land area of the lands incorporated into
the proposed planned unit development.
   D.   Additional Information: Applicants will also provide the following
additional information, which will supplement a completed application form:
      1.   Location map of project site and properties immediately adjacent to
the proposed planned unit development.
      2.   A scaled illustration of the existing properties within the proposed
planned unit development site. This illustration will locate all existing
utility systems, easements, roads and streets, drainage areas and facilities,
existing zoning, existing buildings, and topography (contour lines with a
minimum of 5 foot intervals).
      3.   A conceptual site plan of the proposed land use development concept.
      4.   A schedule for the proposed development project.
      5.   A project narrative describing proposed land uses, proposed site
design and construction criteria, as well as any proposed covenants and
restrictions of record.
   E.   Review By Building Officer: The building officer, or his or her
authorized representative, will make a detailed plan review of the proposed
development project and evaluate the merits, disadvantages, and potential
impacts of the proposed planned unit development. Subsequently, the building
officer will prepare a documented staff report of his or her findings and
recommendations to the planning and zoning commission.
   F.   Placement On Commission Agenda: The building officer will, as soon as
practical, place the proposed planned unit development on the agenda of the
planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   G.   Public Hearing; Notice; Public Comments: Before the planning and zoning
commission reaches any decision, it will hold one public hearing at a public
facility within the town. This public notice will be made at least fifteen (15)
days before the planning and zoning commission considers the zone change
publicly. Public notice will be advertised in one newspaper of general
circulation throughout Campbell County, as well as any local publications
within the town. Public comments received during the meeting will be documented
for subsequent reference during the planned unit development process. (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
   H.   Commission Recommendation: Upon consideration of a staff report from
the building officer and public comment, the planning and zoning commission
will make a written recommendation to the town council. The recommendation will
state the rationale for its decision, recommended project stipulations, and
provide any appropriate maps depicting the proposed planned unit development.
   I.   Council Review: The town council will review the staff report from the
building officer, public comments, and the recommendation of the planning and
zoning commission. In the course of its review, the town council may hold an
additional public hearing to provide an expanded opportunity for public
comment.
   J.   Council Approval/Denial: The town council will approve or deny the
proposed planned unit development project. The approval of any planned unit
development will be made by ordinance.
   K.   Statement Of Covenants And Restrictions: No statement of covenants and
restrictions shall be filed at the Campbell County courthouse until the town
council first approves the planned unit development by ordinance.
   L.   Appeal: Any appeal of the decisions by the planning and zoning
commission or the town council will be made to the board of adjustments in
accordance with chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5 of this title.
11-4-5: ZONE CHANGE PROCESS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the zone change process is to provide
landowners and/or prospective developers with the potential opportunity to
modify zoning district boundaries depicted on the zoning map. This process is
required for those landowners and/or prospective developers who wish to make
uses on one or more lots or land parcels that are inconsistent with the
permitted land uses authorized under existing zoning.
   B.   Who May Apply: Owners and/or prospective developers of any lots or
parcels may make application for a zone change in any zoning district.
   C.   Application Form: Applicants must complete a zone change application
form that will request at least the following information:
      1.   Name, address, telephone number, e-mail address, and fax number of
the applicant.
      2.   When the applicant is not the landowner, the applicant will furnish
a written letter from the landowner which authorizes the application and
endorses the proposed zone change.
      3.   Name, address, and telephone number of the person or company
responsible for preparation of the conceptual site plan supporting the
application.
      4.   Legal description and total land area of the lands proposed for a
zone change.
   D.   Additional Information: Applicants will also provide the following
additional information, which will supplement a completed application form:
      1.   Location map of the lots or land parcels being considered for a zone
change.
      2.   A conceptual site plan of the proposed land use development concept.
      3.   A development schedule for proposed land use.
   E.   Review By Building Officer: The building officer, or his or her
authorized representative, will make a review of the proposed development
project and evaluate the merits, disadvantages, and potential impacts of the
proposed zone change. Subsequently, the building officer will prepare a
documented staff report of his or her findings and recommendations to the
planning and zoning commission.
   F.   Placement On Commission Agenda: The building officer will, as soon as
practical, place the proposed zone change on the agenda of the planning and
zoning commission.
   G.   Actions Required Prior To Commission Decision: Before any decision is
reached by the planning and zoning commission: (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      1.   The building officer will post a copy of the proposed zone change
upon the property where the zone change is requested. This public notice will
be made at least fifteen (15) days before the planning and zoning commission
consider the zone change publicly.
      2.   The planning and zoning commission will hold one public hearing at a
public facility within the town. Town residents and the general public will
receive at least fifteen (15) days' notice of the public hearing. Public notice
will be advertised in one newspaper of general circulation throughout Campbell
County, as well as any local publications within the town. Public comments
received during the meeting will be documented for subsequent reference during
the zone change process. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-
2004)
      3.   The building officer will provide written notice to all adjoining
property owners, as well as the date, time and place when the planning and
zoning commission will consider the proposed zone change.
   H.   Considerations For Approval: In determining whether to approve or deny
a zone change application, the planning and zoning commission will make at
least the following considerations:
      1.   Will the proposed change in zoning be complementary with existing
land uses and zoning on adjacent properties?
      2.   Will the proposed zone change diminish adjacent property values?
      3.   What is the relative gain of the zone change to the community
compared to the hardship upon the landowner?
      4.   How suitable is the subject property to land uses permitted in the
proposed zoning district?
      5.   How long has the subject property been vacant?
      6.   Will the proposed land use meet future needs of the community or
potential incoming residents?
      7.   Will the proposed change in zone significantly deter the community
from the land use concepts depicted in the zoning map and/or the master plan?
   I.   Commission Recommendation: Upon consideration of a staff report from
the building officer and public comment, the planning and zoning commission
will make a written recommendation to the town council. The recommendation will
state the rationale for its decision, recommended project stipulations, and
provide any appropriate maps depicting the proposed zone change.
   J.   Council Review: The town council will review the staff report from the
building officer, public comments, and the recommendation of the planning and
zoning commission. In the course of its review, the town council may hold an
additional public hearing to provide an expanded opportunity for public
comment.
   K.   Council Decision: The town council will make a decision concerning the
proposed zone change.
   L.   Appeal: Any appeal of the decisions by the planning and zoning
commission or the town council will be made to the board of adjustments in
accordance with chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-4-6: VARIANCE PROCESS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of a variance is to modify the strict application
of the requirements of the this title. A variance is granted by the planning
and zoning commission where it can be shown that unusual site development
characteristics, extraordinary or exceptional circumstances, or other relevant
factors create an undue hardship or prevent a landowner from using a lot or
land parcel for purposes which are similar to other land uses in the same
zoning district. Each authorized variance will apply to a specific use or
structure, and will continue in perpetuity regardless of future changes in land
ownership.
   B.   Who May Apply: Owners and/or prospective developers of any lots or
parcels may make application for a variance in any zoning district.
   C.   Application Form: Applicants must complete a variance application form
that will request at least the following information:
      1.   Name, address, telephone number, e-mail address, and fax number of
the applicant.
      2.   When the applicant is not the landowner, the applicant will furnish
a written letter from the landowner which authorizes the application and
endorses the proposed variance.
      3.   Legal description and total land area of the land and/or the total
floor area of the building(s) where the proposed variance would be located.
   D.   Additional Information: Applicants will also provide the following
additional information, which will supplement a completed application form:
      1.   Location map of the lots or land parcels being considered for a
variance.
      2.   A plot plan of the site and buildings where the proposed variance
would occur.
   E.   Review By Building Officer: The building officer, or his or her
authorized representative, will make a review of the proposed variance and
evaluate the merits, disadvantages, and potential impacts of the proposed
variance. Subsequently, the building officer will prepare a documented staff
report of his or her findings and recommendations to the planning and zoning
commission.
   F.   Placement On Commission Agenda: The building officer will, as soon as
practical, place the proposed variance on the agenda of the planning and zoning
commission.
   G.   Actions Required Prior To Commission Decision: Before any decision is
reached by the planning and zoning commission, the building officer will:
      1.   Post a copy of the variance request upon the property where the
variance is requested. This public notice will be made at least ten (10) days
before the planning and zoning commission consider the variance publicly.
      2.   Provide written notice to all adjoining property owners, as well as
the date, time and place when the planning and zoning commission will consider
the request.
   H.   Public Hearing: Upon consideration of a staff report from the building
officer and public comments made during a scheduled public hearing of the
variance, the planning and zoning commission will make its decision concerning
the variance request. Any affirmative decision may contain specific
stipulations, which may modify the specific variance request.
   I.   Considerations For Approval: In determining whether to approve or deny
a variance application, the planning and zoning commission will use and address
the following considerations. No variance shall be authorized unless the
planning and zoning commission find that all of the following conditions will
exist:
      1.   The variance will not authorize a permitted use other than those
specifically authorized by this title in the district regulations. (Ord. 2001-
05, 6-11-2001)
      2.   Enforcement of the provisions of this title will result in
unnecessary hardship or prevent a landowner from using a lot or land parcel for
purposes which are similar to other conforming land uses in the same zoning
district. (Ord. 2002-8, 12-23-2002)
      3.   The extraordinary circumstances of physical site constraints were
not created by the owner of the property and do not represent a general
condition of the district where the property is located.
      4.   The variance will not substantially or permanently damage any
adjacent, conforming property.
      5.   The variance will not alter the character of the zoning district
where the variance would occur.
      6.   The variance is the minimum deviation from this title and the least
modification that will afford the relief sought. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      7.   The variance will not adversely affect the public health, safety or
welfare of the community. (Ord. 2002-8, 12-23-2002)
   J.   Notice Of Action: A notice of action of the planning and zoning
commission will be prepared by the building officer and transmitted to the
applicant. The notice of action will state the rationale for approval or
disapproval and outline any required stipulations to any approved variance
application.
   K.   Appeal: Any appeal of the decision by the planning and zoning
commission will be made to the board of adjustments in accordance with chapter
8 of this title. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
CHAPTER 5
VEHICULAR PARKING STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Purpose
11-5-2: Applicability
11-5-3: Width Of Driveways
11-5-4: Specifications For Development Of Vehicular Parking Facilities
11-5-5: Parking For Handicapped And Disabled Persons
11-5-6: Compact Automobile Spaces
11-5-7: Loading Areas
11-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the vehicular parking standards is to establish reasonable
parking provisions for the design of vehicular parking facilities. The number
of parking spaces required for various land uses is identified within the
requirements for each zoning district in chapter 3, including articles A
through M, of this title. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-5-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   When Applicable: The provisions of this chapter will apply at the time
a building is constructed, altered, or enlarged, or whenever the use and/or
occupant load of a building is changed.
   B.   Mixed Land Uses: In the case of mixed land uses, the total number of
vehicular parking spaces will represent the sum of the parking requirements for
the various uses computed separately. Required parking spaces for one use shall
not be considered required parking spaces for any other land use. (Ord. 2001-
05, 6-11-2001)
11-5-3: WIDTH OF DRIVEWAYS:
Driveways and off street parking will not be less than ten feet (10') wide.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-5-4: SPECIFICATIONS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF VEHICULAR PARKING FACILITIES:
   A.   Asphalt Or Concrete Surfacing: Where access to a parking space or
spaces is from a state highway, street or alley paved with asphalt or concrete
surfacing, such parking areas, as well as the maneuvering areas and driveways
used for, will be paved with:
      1.   Concrete surfacing to a minimum thickness of three and one-half
inches (31/2"), with expansion joints as necessary; or
      2.   Asphalt surfacing, rolled to a smooth, hard surface having a minimum
thickness of one and one-half inches (11/2") after compaction, and laid over a
base of crushed rock, gravel, or other similar material compacted to a minimum
thickness of four inches (4"). However, the requirement for the base may be
modified if:
         a.   A Wyoming registered professional engineer, retained to furnish a
job site soil analysis, provides an engineering report that finds that the base
is unnecessary to ensure a firm and unyielding subgrade equal from the
standpoint of the service life and appearance of the asphalt surfacing to that
provided if a base were required.
         b.   Other available information which provides similar evidence.
      3.   Other alternate material that will provide at least the equivalent
in service, life and appearance of the materials and standards, as well as
related standards to be used during construction.
   B.   Marking Of Spaces:
      1.   Land uses for which more than two (2) parking spaces are required
shall have all such required spaces clearly marked with paint or other similar
distinguishing material.
      2.   Compact parking spaces will be clearly marked with the words:
"Compact Only".
   C.   Wheel Stops:
      1.   Wheel stops shall be provided for parking lots with a ground slope
of more than three percent (3%), except that the installation of wheel stops is
optional for parking stalls oriented at right angles to the direction of the
ground slope.
      2.   Wheel stops are required on the perimeter of parking lots, which are
adjacent to walls, fences, or pedestrian walkways. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
   D.   Landscaping:
      1.   Where parking facilities are situated adjacent to a street right of
way, a minimum of five feet (5') of landscaping will be provided adjacent to
the right of way line, except where driveways, sidewalks, and bikeways
intersect this area. The landscaped area will increase to a minimum of ten feet
(10') when the parking area adjoins a state highway.
      2.   At least five percent (5%) of the total gross area of a parking area
will be landscaped. (Ord. 2001-10, 9-24-2001)
      3.   Concrete curb at least five inches (5") high will border all
landscaped areas within the parking area.
   E.   Lighting:
      1.   A lighting system will be installed to provide illumination over the
entire parking area during regular business hours and minimum security
illumination during nonbusiness hours.
      2.   All floodlights will be shielded to minimize the glare onto
adjoining properties.
   F.   Slope: Parking areas will have a design slope which does not exceed
five percent (5%). However, access ramps or driveways may contain slopes up to
twenty percent (20%).
   G.   Design: Parking spaces and drive aisles will be designed, constructed,
and striped as follows:
   MINIMUM DIMENSIONS
   STANDARD VEHICULAR PARKING STALLS
 
         Stall Depth       Drive Aisle                        
Parking   (Measured         Width Between                      
Stall     Perpendicular     Rows Of           Total Stall       
Angle     From Base Of      Parking Stalls    And Drive         
(Degrees) Stall)                              Isle Width       Curb Length
30        16 feet 10 inches 15 feet 10        49 feet 2 inches 18 feet
                            inches1
45        19 feet 1 inch    16 feet 6 inches1 54 feet 8 inches 12 feet 8 inches
60        20 feet 1 inch    19 feet 4 inches1 59 feet 6 inches 10 feet 5 inches
90        18 feet           26 feet2          62 feet          9 feet
 
Notes:
      1.   One way traffic only.
      2.   Two-way traffic for standard and compact parking areas.
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-5-5: PARKING FOR HANDICAPPED AND DISABLED PERSONS:
   A.   Parking Space Requirements:
      1.   All nonresidential parking areas accessible to the general public
shall provide parking spaces designated for use by handicapped and disabled
persons. The required number of parking stalls for handicapped and disabled
persons is as follows:
   NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED
   FOR HANDICAPPED AND DISABLED PERSONS
 
Total Number Of Parking Spaces In Number Of Required Parking Spaces For
Vehicular Parking Area            Handicapped And Disabled Persons
1 – 25                          1
26 – 50                         2
51 – 75                         3
76 – 100                        4
101 – 150                       5
151 or more                       2 percent of total
 
      2.   When less than five (5) parking spaces are provided, one parking
stall shall be fourteen feet (14') wide and striped to provide a nine foot (9')
parking area and a five foot (5') loading and unloading area. However, there is
no requirement that the space be reserved exclusively or identified for use by
only handicapped persons.
   B.   Location Of Parking Spaces:
      1.   Parking spaces for handicapped and disabled persons will be located
as near as practical to a primary entrance and not be less than fourteen feet
(14') wide and striped to accommodate curb cut to access walkways.
      2.   The parking space will be located so that a handicapped or disabled
person is not compelled to wheel or walk behind parked vehicles other than his
or her own.
      3.   Pedestrian walkways, which are accessible to the physically
handicapped, shall be provided from each handicap parking space to related
facilities. When needed, curb cuts or ramps will also be provided.
   C.   Slope: The surface slopes of parking spaces for handicapped and
disabled persons will be the minimum possible, but not exceed one-fourth inch
(1/4") per foot (2.083 percent slope) in any direction.
   D.   Marking: The surface of each parking space will have a surface
identification sign duplicating the symbol of accessibility in blue print; the
identification sign will be at least three (3) square feet in size. (Ord. 2001-
05, 6-11-2001)
11-5-6: COMPACT AUTOMOBILE SPACES:
   A.   Maximum Allowed: Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the parking
spaces in a nonresidential parking area may be compact parking spaces.
   B.   Dimensions: Compact parking spaces will have a minimum dimension of
fifteen feet (15') long and eight feet (8') wide. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-5-7: LOADING AREAS:
Loading facilities will be provided on site for some commercial and industrial
facilities. These requirements are as follows:
   LOADING AREA REQUIREMENTS
   COMMERCIAL LAND USES
Type Of        Floor Area       Number Of Loading Spaces Required
Commercial Use (In Square Feet)
Type Of                   Floor Area       Number Of Loading Spaces Required
Commercial Use            (In Square Feet)
Medical office            5,000 – 10,000 1 delivery van space
Professional office       5,000 – 10,000 1 delivery van space
Retail services           5,000 – 10,000 1 delivery van space
Retail (single occupancy) Over 30,000      1 semitruck space
Restaurants               Over 1,000       1 delivery van space
Hotels                    Over 5,000       1 delivery van space
Motels                    Over 5,000       1 delivery van space
 
   LOADING AREA REQUIREMENTS
   INDUSTRIAL LAND USES
 
Type Of        Floor Area       Number Of Loading
Industrial Use (In Square Feet) Spaces Required
Warehouses and 5,000 – 15,000 1 delivery van space
manufacturing  15,001 – 40,0001 semitruck space
              40,001 – 100,002 semitruck space
                                2 semitruck spaces plus 1 semitruck space for
              Over 100,000     each additional 50,000 square feet to a maximum
                                of 6 loading spaces
 
(Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
CHAPTER 6
SPECIAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Zone Lot For Structures
11-6-1: ZONE LOT FOR STRUCTURES:
A zone lot is an area designated for development by the owner for provision of
compliance under this title in the following manner:
   A.   Designated, Provided And Maintained For Each Structure: A separate
ground area called the zone lot shall be designated, provided and maintained
for each structure containing a permitted use or uses. Each zone lot shall have
at least one front line and shall be occupied only by a main structure
containing the permitted use or uses and a subordinate structure or structures
containing only accessory uses.
   B.   Designated Only By Owner: A zone lot shall consist of a single parcel
of contiguous land and shall be designated as a zone lot only by the owner
thereof. Where a single individual or entity does not own a designated zone
lot, or where the ownership of the land is jointly held, all responsible
parties shall agree and participate in the designation of the zone lot. A
record of the designation of zone lots shall be kept in the files of the town
clerk-treasurer.
   C.   Conformance To Zoning District: No zone lot shall be designated unless
it shall conform to all of the applicable regulations of zoning district in
which the property is located. No lots may be designated a zone lot unless they
are currently in the same zoning district. Lots from different zoning districts
may not be joined together as a zone lot.
   D.   Amendment Of Boundaries And Area: The land area occupied by a use and/
or the building site designated and occupied by each structure existing on the
effective date hereof shall be deemed the zone lot for such use and/or
structure. Upon application to and approval by the building officer, the
boundaries and area of the zone lot may be amended, provided full compliance
can be maintained with all of the requirements of this title.
   E.   Zone Lot Involves Several Lots: When a zone lot is designated and said
designation involves several lots of a platted, recorded subdivision, the
outside boundaries of the zone lot shall conform to the platted lot lines of
the recorded plat.
   F.   Notice Of Zone Lot Designation: When a zone lot is designated and said
designation involves several lots of a platted, recorded subdivision, and after
approval of the planning and zoning commission, then the notice of zone lot
declaration shall be recorded at the county clerk's office by the person
declaring the zone lot. A copy of the recorded notice of zone lot declaration
shall be filed with the town clerk-treasurer.
   G.   Minimum Lot Area: Zone lots must conform to the minimum lot area
requirements for the zoning district wherein they are located. (Ord. 2001-05,
6-11-2001)
CHAPTER 7
NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
11-7-1: Nonconforming Uses
11-7-2: Facility Repairs
11-7-1: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Existing Uses: A nonconforming use may be continued on the same land
lot or land parcel, as well as within the same floor area, which existed on the
date when the use initially became nonconforming.
   B.   Enlargement Or Extension: The area occupied by a nonconforming use
within an existing structure or on a lot or parcel of land may not be enlarged
or extended except as provided in section
11-4-1 of this title.
   C.   Discontinued: If active and continuous operation of a nonconforming use
is discontinued for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months, the structure
or tract of land shall subsequently be used only for a conforming use. A stated
intent to resume operations shall not affect this provision. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-
11-2001)
11-7-2: FACILITY REPAIRS:
Ordinary repairs and maintenance of a nonconforming building shall be
permitted. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
CHAPTER 8
APPEALS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Who May Appeal
11-8-2: Creation Of Board Of Adjustment
11-8-3: Authority And Scope Of Responsibility
11-8-4: Rules For Proceedings
11-8-1: WHO MAY APPEAL:
Any order or decision of the building officer or the planning and zoning
commission may be appealed to the board of adjustment by any person, private
company or corporation, or public agency affected by any such order or
decision. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-8-2: CREATION OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Created: A board of adjustment will be created by the town council
pursuant to the requirements outlined in title 15 of the Wyoming Statutes.
   B.   Membership: The board of adjustment shall consist of two (2) members of
the town council, two (2) members of the planning and zoning commission and one
citizen of the town.
   C.   Existing Board; Term: The existing board of adjustment, effective on
the effective date hereof, shall be the duly constituted board of adjustment of
the town. Existing members of the board shall be allowed to complete their
appointed terms of office. Subsequently, appointments shall be made for three
(3) years.
   D.   Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled for any unexpired term in the same
manner as the original appointment was made.
   E.   Removal: Upon the town council's receipt of written allegations and the
holding of a public hearing, the town council may remove any member of the
board of adjustment for reasonable cause.
   F.   Compensation: Members of the board of adjustment will serve without
compensation.
   G.   Officers:
      1.   Chair; Vice Chair: The board shall select one of their members as
chair and one as vice chair. Both the chair and vice chair will serve one year,
or until their successors have been selected.
      2.   Secretary: The board of adjustment may appoint a secretary to the
board.
   H.   Meetings: The members of the board of adjustment will meet once a
month, or as needed, at times and places which may be determined by resolution
of the board. Special meetings may be called at any time by the chair, or, in
his absence, by the vice chair.
   I.   Quorum: A simple majority of the board shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business.
   J.   Rules Of Procedure: The board may adopt rules of procedure for
conducting its business which are consistent with section
11-8-4 of this chapter. Copies of all rules or regulations adopted by the board
shall be transmitted to the building officer who shall make them freely
accessible to the public. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-8-3: AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF RESPONSIBILITY:
The board of adjustment will have the following powers and jurisdiction:
   A.   Appeals From Building Officer: Hear and make decisions concerning
appeals of orders, decisions, determinations, and interpretations made by the
building officer, or his or her authorized representatives.
   B.   Error In Law: Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is
error of law in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
building officer in the enforcement of this title.
   C.   Interpret Provisions Of Title: Interpret the provisions of this title
in a manner that promotes the recommendations and policies of the current
master plan.
   D.   Nonconforming Buildings: Permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming
building upon a property, which has been damaged by casualty, act of God, or
public enemy, when the board finds some compelling public necessity requiring
continuance of the nonconforming use.
   E.   Land Area; Floor Area: Authorize an increase in the land area occupied
by a legal, existing, nonconforming use on an existing zone lot, or the floor
area occupied by a legal, nonconforming use in an existing structure, subject
to terms and conditions fixed by the board.
   F.   Variances: Authorize variances when an appellant can demonstrate that
the strict application of any of the requirements of this title would:
      1.   Be contrary to the public interest;
      2.   Result in unnecessary hardship; and
      3.   Deprive him of the reasonable use of his land or structure, when
compared to other land or structures similarly situated. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-
2001)
   G.   Power To Reverse Order, Requirement, Decision Or Determination: Subject
to the limitations set forth in this chapter, the board of adjustment, by
majority vote of the board, may reverse, affirm or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination which is appealed. To that end, the
board shall have all of the powers of the building officer and may attach
stipulations to any decision. (Ord. 2002-8, 12-23-2002)
11-8-4: RULES FOR PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Who May Appeal: Appeals to the board of adjustment may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by any officer, department or agency affected by any
decision of the planning and zoning commission, the building officer, or his or
her authorized representatives. Such appeal shall be made in writing on forms
provided by the building officer, and delivered to the town within thirty (30)
days from the date of the action being appealed. Upon receipt of notice of
appeal, the building officer shall transmit to the board of adjustment the
notice of appeal and all of the original documents or copies which represent
the record of the action being appealed. (Ord. 2002-1, 4-22-2002)
   B.   Notice Of Appeal; Stay Of Proceedings: After a notice of appeal has
been filed, an appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the building officer, or his or her authorized
representative, shall certify to the board of adjustment that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such a case, the board shall tentatively reaffirm the action of
the building officer and allow the order or decision to stand, or shall direct
the building officer that proceedings shall not be stayed, except by a
restraining order which may be granted by a court of record after giving due
notice to the building officer.
   C.   Hearing: Decisions of the board of adjustment concerning an appeal
shall be reached only after a public hearing concerning the specific appeal.
The board shall fix a reasonable time and place for the hearing and shall
proceed in accordance with the following rules: (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
      1.   Public notice shall be given of all hearings. Public notice shall
consist of posting a sign by the building officer on the affected property for
at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the hearing; and one posting of
a notice by the building officer in the town hall at least five (5) days prior
to the hearing. Both the sign and the notice shall identify the applicant, the
nature and general scope of the appeal or the variance sought and shall give
the date, time and place of the hearing. All hearings shall be open to the
public. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-03, 3-22-2004)
      2.   Notice To Parties Of Interest: Notice of the hearing will also be
given to any parties of interest, including the town attorney, building officer
and any attorney of record for the applicant. All parties of interest shall be
permitted to be heard in all public hearings.
      3.   Evidence And Testimony: At any public hearing, any interested party
may also appear in person or be represented by an agent or attorney; and after
being duly sworn, the interested party may offer evidence and testimony, as
well as cross examine witnesses.
      4.   Witnesses Sworn Or Affirmed: All witnesses shall be sworn or shall
affirm their testimony in the manner required in courts of record.
      5.   Open To Public: All testimony and evidence shall be presented
publicly.
      6.   Record Of Proceedings: The board shall keep a record of the
proceedings for each matter heard. Records of the proceedings will be kept on
file and copies made available to any party at cost. The record of proceedings
may include documents and physical evidence considered in the case.
      7.   Written Decision: The board shall render a written decision on each
case heard within thirty (30) days of the hearing. Each decision must be
supported by the rationale for its decision and based on findings of fact. The
record shall also document the vote of each member for each decision and be
available for public review.
      8.   Vote Of Board: The concurring vote of three (3) members of the board
shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination
of the building officer and/or the planning and zoning commission, or to decide
in favor of the applicant.
      9.   Appeal: Appeal of the board's decision may be made to the district
court in the manner prescribed by state law within ten (10) days of the board's
decision. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
CHAPTER 9
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-9-1: Administration, Inspections, Right Of Entry, And Other Powers
11-9-2: Inspection And Repair
11-9-3: Violation Unlawful
11-9-4: Permits And Inspections
11-9-5: Citizen Complaints
11-9-1: ADMINISTRATION, INSPECTIONS, RIGHT OF ENTRY, AND OTHER POWERS:
   A.   Administration:
      1.   Building Officer: A municipal building officer will be designated
and approved by a majority vote of the town council. The building officer shall
have the authority to enforce the provisions of this title.
      2.   Powers Of Building Officer: The building officer shall have the
power to render interpretations of this title and to adopt and enforce related
rules and regulations, which may supplement the provisions of this title.
Interpretations of this title, as well as related municipal rules and
regulations, shall conform to the general intent and purpose of this title.
   B.   Inspections: The town animal control officer, building inspector, or
other authorized representatives of the building officer, are authorized to
make site and building inspections, as well as other actions that may be
required to enforce the provisions of this title.
   C.   Right Of Entry:
      1.   The building officer, or his or her authorized representative(s),
may enter any building in the town to make an authorized property or building
inspection, enforce any of the provisions of this title, or inspect buildings
or properties whenever the building officer has reasonable cause to believe
there is a condition or ordinance violation which makes such building or
property unsafe, dangerous, hazardous, or in derogation of any provision of
this title.
      2.   Building or property inspections will be made at reasonable times
during daylight hours. When a building on a given property is occupied, the
building officer and his or her authorized representatives will first present
proper credentials to building occupants and request entry. When existing
buildings are unoccupied, the building officer and his or her authorized
representatives will first make a reasonable effort to locate and contact the
owner, or other person having charge or control of the building or premises,
and request entry. If such entry is refused, the building officer and his or
her authorized representative shall have recourse to every remedy provided by
law to secure entry.
   D.   Other Powers: The building officer is also authorized to perform the
following:
      1.   Receive and review all applications for amendments to the language
of this title, land use plan amendments, planned unit developments, zone
changes, and variances.
      2.   Refer land use permit applications, as well as related staff reports
and recommendations, to the planning and zoning commission for its review and
submission of recommendations to the town council.
      3.   Refer land use permit applications to other appropriate public and
private agencies for comments, adjacent landowners, and the community to gain
relevant information to better evaluate relevant project issues and
recommendations concerning a given application.
      4.   Receive and review all applications for zone lot designations, and
prepare recommendations for review and action by the planning and zoning
commission.
      5.   Maintain and update the zoning map.
      6.   Coordinate with other municipal officials in the administration and
enforcement of this title.
      7.   Receive and review all building, plumbing, and mechanical permit
applications for all new construction, as well as renovations, alterations, and
expansions to existing properties and buildings. Approve or disapprove such
applications based on their conformance with the provisions of this title and
applicable building codes adopted by the town.
      8.   Participate in meetings or public hearings related to land use
permits and building permits being considered by the planning and zoning
commission and the town council.
      9.   Upon reasonable cause, revoke any land use or building permit, issue
cease and desist orders, or take any other lawful action to ensure substantial
compliance with the provisions of this title.
      10.   Prepare and propose desirable changes to this title or other
related town ordinances which may be necessary to improve the management of
land use development within the community. All such changes shall be subject to
the amendment procedures outlined in this title.
      11.   Maintain a community land use database and complete any land use
studies, which may be necessary to monitor future compliance and effectiveness
of this title.
      12.   Maintain records and files for all land use and building permit
applications.
      13.   Issue notices and/or citations for violations of this title.
   E.   Indemnification: The town shall hold harmless the town building
officer, as well as his or her authorized representative, when acting in good
faith and without malice, from all personal liability for any damage which may
accrue to any person or property as a result of any act or omission associated
with the administration and enforcement of this title. The town attorney,
through final determinations of such proceedings, shall defend any suit brought
against the town, the building officer, and/or his or her authorized
representative. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-9-2: INSPECTION AND REPAIR:
After inspection by the building officer and/or his or her authorized
representative(s), all buildings or property determined to be unsafe,
dangerous, hazardous, or in derogation of any of the provisions of this title
shall be repaired, rehabilitated, vacated, demolished, or removed in accordance
with the procedure specified in chapter 10 of this title 1 . (Ord. 2001-05, 6-
11-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See also dangerous building abatement provisions, title 9, chapter 4 of
  this code.
11-9-3: VIOLATION UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person, private firm or corporation, or public
agency to construct, alter, expand, renovate, or demolish any building or
structure in violation of this title. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-9-4: PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS:
All buildings or structural improvements, which are authorized via the review
and approval processes of this title, are subject to inspection by the building
officer, or his of her authorized representative, in accordance with this title
and most recent building construction codes that have been adopted by the town
1 . (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
 
Notes
1 2. See title 9 of this code.
11-9-5: CITIZEN COMPLAINTS:
Any landowner, resident, private company, corporation, or public agency shall
be allowed to file a complaint of any violation of this title at the office of
the town clerk-treasurer for the building officer's review.
   A.   Forms: The forms for such complaint will be made available to the
general public at the town clerk-treasurer's office.
   B.   Response To Complaint: When a complaint is received, the town clerk-
treasurer shall send a copy of the complaint, via certified mail, to the
landowner or person who owns and/or occupies the subject property within ten
(10) days of receipt of the complaint. The landowner or person who owns or
occupies the subject property, shall have thirty (30) days to submit a written
response to the complaint.
   C.   Investigation: After receipt of the response, the building officer, or
his or her authorized representative, shall investigate the complaint and
determine the appropriate action.
   D.   Appeal: Should the building officer, or his or her authorized
representative, issue any notice concerning correction for violation of this
title, the landowner or person who receives any notice of violation shall have
the right to appeal as set forth in chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-
11-2001)
CHAPTER 10
VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND REMEDIES
SECTION:
11-10-1: Continuing Violations And Penalty
11-10-2: Order In Writing
11-10-3: Additional Remedies
11-10-1: CONTINUING VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct,
alter, maintain, or use any building or structure or to use any land in
violation of any provisions of this title, or any amendment thereof. (Ord.
2001-5, 6-11-2001)
   B.   Violation: Any person, owner, lessee, occupant, or otherwise, who
violates any of the provisions of this title or any subsequent amendments, or
who interferes in any manner with any person in the performance of a right or
duty granted or imposed upon him by the provisions of this title shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code per offense. (Ord. 2001-5, 6-11-2001; amd. 2007 Code)
   C.   Separate Offense: Each day during which such violation shall continue
shall be deemed to be a separate offense. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-10-2: ORDER IN WRITING:
   A.   Written Order: The building officer or his authorized representative
shall order, in writing, the remedying of any violation. Such order and notice
shall be made pursuant to the provisions of chapter 9 of this title.
   B.   Work Stopped: After any order has been served, no work shall proceed on
any structure or tract of land covered by such an order except to correct the
violation or comply with the order. (Ord. 2001-05, 6-11-2001)
11-10-3: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
These provisions shall be enforceable in addition to the other remedies
provided by law, by injunction, mandamus, or proceedings in abatement. (Ord.
2001-05, 6-11-2001)
CHAPTER 11
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
11-11-1: Amendments
11-11-1: AMENDMENTS:
Amendments to this title shall be in accordance with the laws of the state of
Wyoming and the following general procedure and requirements:
   A.   Initiation: Amendments may be made at any time by the town council, by
ordinance, on its own motion, upon recommendation from the planning and zoning
commission or upon the signed petition of any interested persons.
   B.   Referral To Commission: All proposed amendments shall be referred to
the planning and zoning commission for study and recommendation.
   C.   Public Hearing: Before taking official action, the town council shall
hold a public hearing on all proposed amendments after at least fifteen (15)
days' notice of the time and place of the public hearing shall have been given
at least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the
municipality or by posting the same in the town hall and two (2) other
prominent places in the community.
   D.   Protests: If there is a protest against the change signed by the owners
of twenty percent (20%) or more of the area of the lots included in the
proposed change, or of those immediately adjacent within a distance of one
hundred forty feet (140'), an amendment will not become effective except upon
the affirmative vote of three-fourths (3/4) of all members of the town council.
In determining the one hundred forty feet (140'), the width of any intervening
street or alley shall not be included. (Ord. 2001-15, 1-14-2002)
CHAPTER 12
CONDOMINIUM PLATTING
SECTION:
11-12-1: Authority
11-12-2: Short Title
11-12-3: Purpose
11-12-4: Application
11-12-5: Definitions
11-12-6: Administration And Enforcement
11-12-7: Procedures And Requirements For Platting
11-12-8: Fees
11-12-9: Improvements
11-12-10: Amendments
11-12-11: Legal Status
11-12-1: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to and in accordance with the authority vested
in the town council of the town of Wright, by the statutes of the state of
Wyoming. (Ord. 2008-07, 10-27-2008)
11-12-2: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the CONDOMINIUM PLATTING
REGULATIONS OF THE TOWN OF WRIGHT, WYOMING. (Ord. 2008-07, 10-27-2008)
11-12-3: PURPOSE:
These regulations have been promulgated and adopted with the following purposes
in mind:
   A.   To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of present and future residents of the town of Wright, Wyoming.
   B.   To establish adequate and accurate records of condominium lands and
buildings.
   C.   To provide for the harmonious development of the town of Wright and to
ensure that the development is in accord with a duly adopted comprehensive
plan.
   D.   To encourage the innovative use of land.
   E.   To protect the character and value of condominium lands and buildings
throughout the town of Wright. (Ord. 2008-07, 10-27-2008)
11-12-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   These regulations shall apply to all of the lands within the boundaries
of the town of Wright, Wyoming, as they shall from time to time be amended.
   B.   Every owner or proprietor of any tract or parcel of land who shall
hereafter construct a condominium, or convert land and improvements to
condominium status, shall submit a condominium plat or plats in accordance with
these regulations. No person shall commence the physical layout or construction
on the ground of a condominium without first obtaining the approval of the town
council in the form of an approved condominium plat.
   C.   These regulations shall apply to any land and improvements where
portions of which are designated for separate ownership and the remainder of
which is designated for common ownership by the owners of these portions.
   D.   A condominium proposal consisting of a land subdivision may comply with
the minor plat requirements of the subdivision regulations and may submit his
condominium plat and minor plat concurrently for planning commission
consideration. (Ord. 2008-07, 10-27-2008)
11-12-5: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases are hereby defined and shall be
interpreted in the same fashion throughout this chapter. The word "shall" is
always mandatory. The word "may" is permissive. Words used in the present tense
shall include the future tense and words used in the singular shall include the
plural. Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned to
them.
BUILDING: Any permanently affixed, covered structure intended for the shelter,
housing, or enclosure of persons, animals or goods.
COMMISSION: The town of Wright planning commission.
CONDOMINIUM: Real estate, portions of which are designated for separate
ownership and the remainder of which is designated for common ownership by the
owners of those portions.
CONVERSION CONDOMINIUM: Condominium projects not originally built and sold as
condominiums but subsequently converted to condominium use.
COUNCIL: The town of Wright town council.
DECLARATION: A statement provided by the developer for a condominium
development which includes, but is not limited to, the following elements: a)
the creation of a management association for the condominium rules governing
its duties, powers and procedures, as well as provisions for changing,
expanding or terminating the condominium; b) any restrictions and limitations
on the use and occupancy of the units and the common lands, limited common
lands and the facilities; c) party wall agreements; and d) provisions governing
the maintenance of the exterior portions of the units and the common and
limited elements.
DEVELOPER: The person or persons, partnership or limited partnership,
corporation or other business association which owns a rental dwelling or
building and proposes to convert the land and improvements to a condominium
status, or proposes to construct a new condominium project.
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW BOARD: A board consisting of the building official, the town
engineer, all utility companies, and the Campbell County fire marshal.
EASEMENT: A designated area on a tract, block or lot of land which the owner
has set aside for the use of others, particularly, public utilities.
IMPROVEMENTS: Man installed physical features such as pavements, curbs,
gutters, sidewalks, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, grading, street
signs, structures, landscaping, and other items for the welfare of the property
owners and the general public.
OWNER: Any person having a legal or equitable interest in land.
PLAT: A map or drawing on which the developer's plan of the condominium
proposal is presented and which he submits for approval.
PROPRIETOR: Any person having a legal or equitable interest in land.
UNIT: That portion of a condominium designated for separate ownership on a
recorded plat.
UNSIGHTLY: Unpleasant or offensive to look at; unattractive.
ZONE LOT: A single parcel of contiguous land occupied or intended to be
occupied by structures and uses as permitted by the zoning ordinance of the
town of Wright, Wyoming. (Ord. 2008-07, 10-27-2008)
11-12-6: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Administration:
      1.   These regulations shall be administered by the building official of
the town of Wright.
      2.   All plats submitted to the town council of the town of Wright shall
first have been examined by the building official and the planning commission
in accordance with the procedures established by these regulations. As a part
of their examination, the building official and the planning commission shall
consult with other public or private agencies to determine whether or not the
plat, as proposed, will contribute to the orderly growth and development of the
town. The building official shall receive all materials required to be
submitted by these regulations. Condominium plats, supporting materials, and
the building official's recommendations thereon shall be reviewed and evaluated
by the planning commission. After concluding its examination, the planning
commission shall notify the developer of its decision in writing, and
communicate its findings and recommendations to the town council in writing.
The actions of the building official, the planning commission and the council
shall be governed by the procedures and schedules hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Appeals: Any developer of a condominium plat aggrieved by the action of
the building official or the planning commission of the town of Wright in their
administration of these regulations may request a hearing before the board of
adjustment. The request shall be in writing and shall be submitted within
thirty (30) days of the action or decision appealed from, and shall state the
specific relief which the developer seeks. Within thirty (30) days of the
receipt of such a request, the board of adjustment shall hold a hearing to
determine the proper disposition of the matter. At the hearing, the board of
adjustment shall consider not only the developer's appeal, but also the written
or verbal comments of the planning commission and the building official or
person appealed from. The board of adjustment shall either reaffirm or modify
the decision of the planning commission, building official or person and note
the decision in the record of its hearing. The developer may then proceed with
his condominium plat, based upon the decision of the board of adjustment. After
all changes have been made, the developer shall proceed to a review by the town
council. If no further changes are required by the town council, the developer
shall prepare the final plat and submit to the building official. After
assurance that the final plat has been prepared according to these regulations,
the building official will place the final plat on the next council agenda.
   C.   Variances: Variances shall follow the guidelines according to the
subdivision ordinance of the town of Wright.
   D.   Certificate Of Occupancy: A certificate of occupancy shall not be
issued for any condominium until the plat is approved by the town and recorded
in the office of the county clerk.
   E.   Penalties: Any person who violates any provision of these regulations
and any person who, as an agent for the developer, offers for sale any
condominium unit without first complying with the provisions of these
regulations shall upon conviction be fined and/or be imprisoned as provided for
by the laws of the state of Wyoming. Each day of violation constitutes a new
offense.
   F.   Administrative Liability: The town shall hold harmless the building
official, the planning commission, and any other agencies and officials, and
their official agents and representatives, when acting in good faith and
without malice, from all personal liability for any damage that may accrue to
any person or property as a result of any act required by these regulations, or
for the omission of any act on the part of the building official, the planning
commission or other officials or their authorized agents in the discharge of
their duties hereunder. Any suit brought against the town or the town
administration because of any such act or omission in the carrying out of the
provisions of these regulations shall be defended by the town's attorney
through final determination of such proceedings. (Ord. 2008-07, 10-27-2008)
11-12-7: PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR PLATTING:
   A.   Preapplication:
      1.   Prior to the submission of a condominium plat, as required by these
regulations, the developer shall contact the building official to determine:
         a.   Procedures and requirements for filing the condominium plat or
plats.
         b.   Availability of public water and sewer and requirements when
public systems are not readily available, in the case of new condominium
construction.
         c.   Zoning requirements on the property.
         d.   Requirements of the duly adopted master plan.
         e.   The location and extent of any floodplains as shown by maps in
the office of the building official, in the case of new condominium
construction.
         f.   Soil information, if previously filed from a subdivision plat.
      2.   As part of this contact, the developer shall discuss with the
building official his tentative condominium proposal.
      3.   The developer shall request that the development review board,
review and comment on a sketch plat prior to his preparation of a condominium
plat. The development review board shall make such a review and a consolidated
list of corrections and comments will be made to the developer by the building
official in writing within five (5) days from the date of the review.
      4.   The purpose of this preapplication procedure is to determine any
problems with the proposed condominium development before expenses are incurred
in the preparation of a condominium plat. No official action is required of the
building official or other agencies other than to offer appropriate comments on
the proposal.
   B.   Condominium Plat:
      1.   Condominium plats shall be submitted in fifteen (15) blue line or
black line copies. The condominium plat shall consist of a drawing or drawings
at a scale which accurately depicts all existing conditions and information
required, and accompanying material as prescribed by these regulations.
      2.   The condominium plat size and format shall be presented on a sheet
or sheets twenty four inches (24") wide by thirty six inches (36") long within
which borders that are one and one-half inches (11/2") on the left side and
one-half inch (1/2") on the remaining sides. Where necessary, the condominium
plat may be more than one sheet, provided that each sheet is numbered and the
total number of sheets comprising the plat shall be stated on each sheet (for
example: Sheet 1 of 2). The face of the drawing or drawings shall contain the
following information:
         a.   The name of the condominium at the top of the sheet. The name
shall not duplicate or too closely resemble the name of any condominium or
subdivision previously developed in the town.
         b.   Date of preparation, scale and north arrow. The top of each sheet
shall represent north wherever possible.
         c.   A vicinity map drawn at a scale of one inch equals one thousand
feet (1" = 1,000') or one inch equals two thousand feet (1" = 2,000'), showing
the location of the proposed condominium in the town.
         d.   A legal description of the property.
         e.   A description of all monuments, both found and set, which mark
the boundary of the property, and a description of all control monuments used
in the survey, also to include two (2) ties to a public land survey corner.
         f.   Identification of all common areas.
         g.   Horizontal unit boundaries with bearings and distances.
         h.   The location and dimension of horizontal and vertical building
sections, existing and proposed, in sufficient detail to legally describe air
spaces.
         i.   Units logically and consecutively numbered.
         j.   The location and dimension of existing and proposed improvements,
including decks, walkways and other accessory structures.
         k.   Names of adjoining streets.
         l.   The location and dimension of all easements of record.
         m.   A notarized certificate by all parties having any titled interest
in or lien upon the land and improvements, consenting to the recording of the
plat. The certificate shall read:
Know all men by these presents that the undersigned (official name of the
developer), being the owner, proprietor, or parties of interest in the land
shown on this plat, do hereby certify:
That the foregoing plat designated as (name of Condominium), is located in
(Section, Township, Range, City, County, State) and is more particularly
described as follows:
(Insert full legal description of property)
And contains an area of          acres, more or less, and
That this condominium development, as it is described and as it appears on this
plat, is made with the free consent and in accordance with the desires of the
undersigned owner(s) and proprietor(s), and that this is a correct plat of the
condominium development as it is divided into common areas, units, and
easements.
Executed this          day of                , A.D., 20    , by:
(Designation of interest: owner, mortgagee, etc.)
STATE OF WYOMING   )
               ) ss.
County of Campbell   )
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me by                , this
                day of                , 20    .
Witness my hand and official seal.
               Notary Public
My Commission Expires:
         n.   Certificate of a registered land surveyor as follows:
I,                       do hereby certify that I am a registered land
surveyor, licensed under the laws of the State of Wyoming, that this plat is a
true, correct, and complete plat of (Condominium Name) as laid out, platted,
and shown hereon, that such plat was made from an accurate survey of said
property and improvements by me and under my supervision and correctly shows
the location and dimensions of the units, common areas, and easements of said
condominium as the same are staked upon the ground in compliance with Town of
Wright regulations governing the platting of condominiums.
               Registered Land Surveyor
               No.                
         o.   Certificate of review of the town engineer as follows:
Data on this plat reviewed this          day of             , 20    , by the
Town Engineer of Wright, Wyoming.
               Town Engineer
         p.   Certificate of approval by the town of Wright planning commission
as follows:
This plat approved by the Town of Wright Planning Commission this          day
of             , 20    .
               Chairman
               Secretary
         q.   Certificate of approval by the town council of the town of Wright
as follows:
This plat approved by the Town Council of the Town of Wright, Wyoming, this
          day of             , A.D., 20    .
               Mayor
               Town Clerk
      3.   The following supporting materials shall be submitted with the
condominium plat:
         a.   A completed condominium plat checklist on standard forms
provided.
         b.   A completed condominium plat application on forms provided.
         c.   In the case of condominium conversions, the developer shall
submit copies of letters to the tenants of the building notifying them of the
proposed conversion.
         d.   The names and mailing addresses of all property owners within one
hundred feet (100') (excluding public rights of way) of the exterior boundaries
of the condominium property.
         e.   A draft of proposed private easement descriptions for utilities
serving the condominium development.
         f.   A draft of the proposed condominium declaration submitted for
planning commission review and comment, but not for any formal approval.
      4.   The condominium plat and all required supporting materials must be
submitted to the building official at least twenty (20) days prior to planning
commission consideration. Within three (3) days, copies of the plat will be
transmitted to appropriate agencies and officials for their review and comment.
      5.   Agencies receiving referral copies of the condominium plat should
return written comments on the plat to the building official within five (5)
working days after receipt of the plat.
      6.   Upon receipt of all agency comments, or at the end of the five (5)
day period, the building official will summarize the agency comments, add
written comments and recommendations from himself/herself, and present the
material and recommendations to the planning commission for its consideration.
      7.   At least twenty (20) days prior to the date of the planning
commission meeting at which the plat is to be considered, the building official
shall, from information provided by the developer as a part of his condominium
plat submittal, notify property owners within one hundred feet (100')
(excluding public rights of way) of the exterior boundaries of the proposed
condominium of the time, date and place of the meeting. The building official
at this time shall also cause to effect a notice of public hearing.
      8.   The developer and all other interested or affected parties shall be
allowed to offer comments on the condominium plat at the planning commission
meeting. After due deliberation, the planning commission shall either approve
or disapprove the condominium plat and so notify the developer in writing
within ten (10) days after the date of the meeting at which final action was
taken. The planning commission shall specify conditions under which the plat
may gain approval.
      9.   If the developer contends that conditions of approval attached by
the planning commission are of such a nature as to make development of his land
impractical, or if the developer contends that disapproval of his condominium
plat by the planning commission was a wrongful decision, he may, in writing,
request a hearing before the town of Wright board of adjustment and proceed
according to the provisions of subsection
11-12-6B of this chapter.
      10.   Within a reasonable time after receiving the recommendations of the
planning commission along with the condominium plat and accompanying materials,
the town council shall either approve the plat or disapprove the plat and
notify the developer of the conditions to be met to gain approval.
      11.   Upon approval by the town council of the condominium plat the
developer shall be notified to submit the duly approved and executed
condominium plat and the payment for recording to the building official to be
submitted to the county clerk and recorder for the filing of the condominium
plat among the official records of the county.
   C.   Corrected Plats:
      1.   If, after approval and recording of a condominium plat, errors are
found in the language or numbers on the recorded plat, the developer shall file
a properly signed, corrected or revised original Mylar with the building
official. The plat shall be noted "CORRECTED PLAT" under the name of the
condominium. Notations shall be made on the face of the plat listing all
corrections made and the book and page numbers where the original plat was
recorded. The building official shall review the plat for correction, secure
the signatures of the proper public officials on the corrected plat and present
the plat to the town council for the reaffirmation of their approval and to the
county clerk for recording. The recording of the corrected plat shall void the
incorrect original plat, and the county clerk shall note "VOID" across the face
of the incorrect plat. (Ord. 2008-07, 10-27-2008)
11-12-8: FEES:
   A.   Recording Fee: As determined by the county clerk. To be submitted to
the building official after approval of the condominium plat and made payable
to the Campbell County clerk. (Ord. 2008-07, 10-27-2008)
11-12-9: IMPROVEMENTS:
All condominium structures and condominium conversions must comply with the
following regulations:
   A.   International Building Code: All applicable provisions of the
international building code for new condominium and multiple- family
construction shall be complied with. In the case of condominium conversions,
the developer shall be required to comply with all applicable provisions of the
international building code only where the future owner of a proposed
condominium unit would have separate ownership of the land under this unit.
   B.   Zoning Code: A letter of zoning compliance shall be obtained from the
building official prior to construction of a condominium or prior to a
condominium conversion. All applicable provisions of the zoning code shall be
complied with in the case of new construction; however, only the off street
parking, landscaping, additional storage and screening requirements of this
chapter shall be complied with in the case of condominium conversions.
   C.   Utilities: Each unit shall have separate, independently metered
utilities as to maintain the individual air space. In the case of a conversion
to a condominium, where a single metered utility supplies multiple units, an
association shall be formed and approved by the town attorney and the person or
party responsible for paying utility bills for an entire building is
designated.
   D.   Storage: Each condominium unit shall have a minimum of two hundred
(200) square feet of additional area for storage and be listed under the
limited common elements.
   E.   Off Street Parking: Each condominium shall have two (2) designated
parking spaces per unit and as a whole, two (2) parking spaces for every three
(3) units for additional parking needs.
   F.   Screenings: Screening devices such as fences, shrubs and other
landscaping materials shall be used to "hide" or blend items into the
development which may be considered "unsightly" when viewed from areas deemed
as "public" (rights of way, sidewalks, streets, parking areas, etc.). (Ord.
2008-07, 10-27-2008)
11-12-10: AMENDMENTS:
Any provision of these regulations may be amended from time to time by the town
council, only after any such amendment has been reviewed by the planning
commission and its recommendation received. (Ord. 2008-07, 10-27-2008)
11-12-11: LEGAL STATUS:
No condominium plat shall be approved unless it conforms to the provisions
contained in these regulations. Whenever there is a discrepancy between the
requirements of these regulations and any other official town regulations, the
most restrictive shall apply. (Ord. 2008-07, 10-27-2008)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization
12-1-2: Findings Of Fact
12-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
12-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-1-5: Definitions
12-1-6: General Provisions
12-1-7: Floodplain Administrator
12-1-8: Permit Procedures
12-1-9: Variance Procedures
12-1-10: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Wyoming has, per national flood insurance
program regulations section 60.3(b), delegated the responsibility of local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the Wright town council of the town of Wright, Wyoming, does ordain
as follows. (Ord. 2007-08, 12-10-2007)
12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the town of Wright are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 2007-08, 12-10-2007)
12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 2007-08, 12-10-2007)
12-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 2007-08, 12-10-2007)
12-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this chapter its most reasonable application.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a community's
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, zone A usually is refined into zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building: a) built, in the case of a building
in zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the
elevated floor, or in the case of a building in zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structure member of the elevated floor
elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns (posts and piers),
or shear walls parallel to the flow of the water and b) adequately anchored so
as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a flood of up
to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by
means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to
facilitate the unimpeded movement of floodwaters. In the case of zones V1-30,
VE, or V, "elevated building" also includes a building otherwise meeting the
definition of "elevated building", even though the lower area is enclosed by
means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls meet the standards of section
60.3(e)(5) of the national flood insurance program regulations.
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the flood boundary-floodway map.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY): The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
1. By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior;
or
2. Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the national
flood insurance program regulations.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the coastal barrier resources act (Pub. L. 97-348), includes
substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was issued,
provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other improvement was within one
hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The "actual start" means either
the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as
the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the "actual start of construction"
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before "start of construction" of
the improvement. This includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this chapter
when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance,
therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited
by this chapter. (For full requirements see section 60.6 of the national flood
insurance program regulations.)
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 2007-08, 12-10-2007)
12-1-6: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazard within the jurisdiction of the town of Wright.
   B.   Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal emergency management agency in a
scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study For Town
Of Wright", dated January 1, 2008, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps
and flood boundary-floodway maps (FIRMs and FBFMs) and any revisions thereto
are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   C.   Establishment Of Development Permit: A development permit shall be
required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered,
or have its use changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations.
   E.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   F.   Interpretation: In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   G.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare occasions
greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder. (Ord. 2007-08, 12-10-2007)
12-1-7: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
   A.   Designation: The town of Wright building official, is hereby appointed
the floodplain administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this
chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (national flood insurance
program regulations) pertaining to floodplain management. (Ord. 2010-04, 3-22-
2010)
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: Duties and responsibilities of the
floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Review permit applications to determine whether a proposed building
site, including the placement of manufactured homes, will be reasonably safe
from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the federal water pollution control act
amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the floodplain administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of such notification to the federal emergency management
agency.
      7.   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with subsection
12-1-6B of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
section
12-1-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-08, 12-10-2007)
12-1-8: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for a development permit shall be presented to the
floodplain administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not
be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection
12-1-10B2 of this chapter;
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection
12-1-7B1 of this chapter.
   B.   Approval or denial of a development permit by the floodplain
administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for
that area. (Ord. 2007-08, 12-10-2007)
12-1-9: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Appeal Board To Render Judgment: The appeal board as established by the
community shall hear and render judgment on requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Error By Floodplain Administrator: The appeal board shall hear and
render judgment on an appeal only when it is alleged there is an error in any
requirement, decision, or determination made by the floodplain administrator in
the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   C.   Appeal Of Appeal Board Decision: Any person or persons aggrieved by the
decision of the appeal board may appeal such decision in the courts of
competent jurisdiction.
   D.   Records: The floodplain administrator shall maintain a record of all
actions involving an appeal and shall report variances to the federal emergency
management agency upon request.
   E.   Exception: Variances may be issued for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to
the procedures set forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   F.   Lot Size: Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection
12-1-8B of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   G.   Conditions Of Variance: Upon consideration of the factors noted above
and the intent of this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to
the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and
objectives in section
12-1-3 of this chapter.
   H.   No Increase In Flood Levels: Variances shall not be issued within any
designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
   I.   Historic Structures: Variances may be issued for the repair or
rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   J.   Prerequisites For Granting Variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   K.   Criteria For Issuance: Variances may be issued by a community for new
construction and substantial improvements and for other development necessary
for the conduct of a functionally dependent use provided that:
      1.   The criteria outlined in subsections A through I of this section are
met, and
      2.   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety. (Ord. 2007-08, 12-10-2007)
12-1-10: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and discharge
from the systems into floodwaters; and
      7.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in: 1) subsection
12-1-6B of this chapter, 2) subsection
12-1-7B8 of this chapter, or 3) subsection C3 of this section, the following
provisions are required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement), elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the floodplain administrator that the standard of this subsection as
proposed in subsection 12-1-8A1 of this chapter, is satisfied.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this subsection. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the floodplain administrator.
      3.   Manufactured Homes: Require that all manufactured homes to be placed
within zone A on a community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods
and practices which minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this
requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
   C.   Standards For Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with sections
12-1-2,
12-1-3, and
12-1-4 of this chapter.
      2.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development
permit requirements of subsection
12-1-6C of this chapter; section
12-1-8 of this chapter; and the provisions of this section.
      3.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including the placement of
manufactured home parks and subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots
or five (5) acres, whichever is less, if not otherwise provided pursuant to
subsection
12-1-6B or
12-1-7B8 of this chapter.
      4.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce
exposure to flood hazards.
      5.   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured
home parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage. (Ord. 2007-08, 12-10-2007)
