VILLAGE OF FRANKLINVILLE, NEW YORK
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through July 14, 2025
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the village, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Village Code,” for
which designation “Code of Ordinances,” “Codified Ordinances,” or “Code” may be
substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any
part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted, amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto, and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law, and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Franklinville,
New York.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the Village of Franklinville, New
York.
      COUNTY. Cattaraugus County.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Franklinville, New York.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
nonseverability provision, each division or part of every section is severable.
If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Board
of Trustees refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department,
officer, agency, authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name
designation is incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that
ordinance or subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities
placed with that entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the
named board, bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its
effective date or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to
which the duties, liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   (A)   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former
section or law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section
or law is not revived unless it so expressly provides.
   (B)   The repeal of any section shall not extinguish or release any penalty,
forfeiture or liability incurred under the section, unless the repealing
section so expressly provides.
   (C)   The section shall be treated as still remaining in force for the
purposes of sustaining any proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of
the penalty, forfeiture or liability.
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see N.Y. ___ Law § ____
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in a previous year and subsequently amended,
the previous code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior
Code, §      ).”
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $250 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $750 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
31.   TAXATION
      
32.   FINANCIAL POLICIES
      
33.   VILLAGE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
Residency Requirements
   
30.01   Findings
   
30.02   Definition
   
30.03   Village residency required for full-time employee
   
30.04   Hardship exception to residency requirement
   
30.05   Posting of residency requirement
   
30.06   Breach of requirement; notice; scheduled hearing
   
30.07   Hearing and decision; dismissal and reinstatement application
   
30.08   Waiver of residency requirement; standards; record of waiver
Indemnification of Officers and Employees
   
30.20   Purpose
   
30.21   Definition
   
30.22   Village required to provide legal defense
   
30.23   Representation by Village Attorney; conflict and retention of private
counsel
   
30.24   Avoidance of default judgment
   
30.25   Duty to indemnify and hold harmless
   
30.26   Approval of private counsel proposed settlement
   
30.27   Service of judgment or settlement on Mayor for payment
   
30.28   Required conditions prior to duty to defend and indemnify
   
30.29   Restriction on application; no change to workers’ compensation law
   
30.30   Rights and obligations of insurer not changed
   
30.31   Application; additional rights of defense and indemnification not
superceded
Retirement Incentive Program
   
30.45   Implementation of retirement incentive program
RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS
§ 30.01 FINDINGS.
   The Village Board of Trustees makes a legislative determination that
residency by its employees and officers within the community will assure
continuation of essential public services and encourages hiring and promoting
from within.
(Ord. 4-2002, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 30.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RESIDENCY. The actual principal domicile of an individual where the person
normally sleeps and maintains usual personal and household effects.
(Ord. 4-2002, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 30.03 VILLAGE RESIDENCY REQUIRED FOR FULL-TIME EMPLOYEE.
   (A)   In addition to any other legal requirements or prohibitions, no person
shall be eligible to become a full-time employee of the village who is not a
citizen of the United States of America, at least 18 years of age, and a
resident of the village within 12 months following the employee’s initial date
of hire. Until all of the requirements of this division have been fulfilled, no
employee shall be placed on permanent status as a full-time employee.
   (B)   Any person who becomes a full-time employee of the village after the
date of the adoption of this section shall be ineligible to continue as a full-
time employee of the village if that person resides in a municipality outside
of the village.
   (C)   Pursuant to NY Village Law § 3-300(2)(b), the Village Board of the
Village of Franklinville, which has a population of less than 3,000 people, may
appoint an individual to the office of Village Justice who does not reside in
the village but does reside within Cattaraugus County.
(Ord. 2-1999, passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. 3-2009, passed 8-10-2009)
§ 30.04 HARDSHIP EXCEPTION TO RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   The Village Board of Trustees continues its residency requirement
established by §
30.03 above. Where hardships are encountered, the time limit set forth in §
30.03 above may be extended in the discretion and as determined by the Village
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 4-2002, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 30.05 POSTING OF RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   A copy of §
30.03 and this subchapter law shall be provided to all employees upon initial
appointment. However, the failure of the employer to do so shall not affect the
application of either law to any employee who is appointed after its effective
date.
(Ord. 4-2002, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 30.06 BREACH OF REQUIREMENT; NOTICE; SCHEDULED HEARING.
   Should it be determined that an employee is not in compliance with the
residency requirement, the employee’s supervisor, upon becoming aware of the
allegation, shall provide the employee written notice of the alleged violation
and shall allow the employee seven days in which to respond. Where there is
failure to respond or where the response is not, in the judgment of the
employee’s supervisor, sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this law, the
employee’s supervisor shall set a hearing date to hear the charge of non-
residency and to make a record of this hearing. Should an employee establish
residency to the satisfaction of the employee’s supervisor prior to the hearing
date, it shall result in a cancellation of the hearing authorized by this law.
(Ord. 4-2002, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 30.07 HEARING AND DECISION; DISMISSAL AND REINSTATEMENT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The employee shall be sent a notice of the hearing date at least 15
days prior to the hearing. The hearing record and the determination of the
supervisor as to whether the employee is a nonresident or resident shall be
referred to the Mayor for review and decision.
   (B)   Should the Mayor decide that an employee is a nonresident in violation
of §
30.03 above, the employee shall be dismissed in accordance with any statutory
or contractual procedure applicable to the employee under the circumstances.
   (C)   Upon re-establishing residency, an individual having been dismissed
may apply for reinstatement and shall be reinstated if the position is vacant.
(Ord. 4-2002, passed 11-25-2002)
§ 30.08 WAIVER OF RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT; STANDARDS; RECORD OF WAIVER.
   (A)   If the Village Board of Trustees determines by resolution that it is
in the best interests of the village to do so, the provisions of §
30.03 above may be waived with respect to an applicant or applicants for a
particular title or position in accordance with the following standards:
      (1)   Lack of qualified applicants. The requirement of residency may be
waived in those instances where the employer has difficulty hiring the most
qualified person because of the residency requirement; or
      (2)   Necessity for nonresidency. The requirement of residency may be
waived in those instances where it is determined that residency is not a
material consideration for the title or position.
   (B)   A copy of any resolution adopted in accordance with this provision
shall be placed in the personnel file of the affected individual and a copy
thereof shall be mailed or delivered to the individual.
(Ord. 4-2002, passed 11-25-2002)
INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 30.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide legal and financial
protection for those individuals serving the village, from losses which may be
brought against them in their individual capacity for actions taken while in
the performance of their official duties and responsibilities. In enacting this
chapter, the Board of Trustees finds that the state has enacted similar
provisions for the legal and financial security of its officers and employees
and further finds that the security is also required for local personnel.
   (B)   By enactment of this local law, the Board of Trustees does not intend
to limit or otherwise abrogate any existing right or responsibility of the
village or its employees with regard to indemnification or legal defense. It is
solely the intent of this local law to provide similar coverage for local
employees as is presently provided for state employees, so as to continue to
attract qualified individuals to local government service.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 30.21 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person holding a position by election, appointment or
employment in the service of the village, whether or not compensated, or a
volunteer expressly authorized to participate in a municipally-sponsored
volunteer program, but shall not include an independent contractor. The term
EMPLOYEE shall include a former employee, his or her estate or judicially
appointed personal representative.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 30.22 VILLAGE REQUIRED TO PROVIDE LEGAL DEFENSE.
   Upon compliance by the employee with the provisions of §
30.28 below, the village shall provide for the defense of the employee in any
civil action or proceeding in any state or federal court arising out of any
alleged act or omission which occurred or is alleged in the complaint to have
occurred while the employee was acting within the scope of his or her public
employment or duties, or which is brought to enforce a provision of 42 U.S.C.
§§ 1981 or 1983. This duty to provide for a defense shall not arise where the
civil action or proceeding is brought by or on behalf of the village.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 30.23 REPRESENTATION BY VILLAGE ATTORNEY; CONFLICT AND RETENTION OF PRIVATE
COUNSEL.
   (A)   Subject to the conditions set forth in §
30.22 above, the employee shall be entitled to be represented by the Village
Attorney, provided, however, that the employee shall be entitled to
representation by private counsel of his or her choice in any civil judicial
proceeding whenever the Village Attorney determines, based upon his or her
investigation and review of the facts and circumstances of the case, that
representation by the Village Attorney would be inappropriate, or whenever a
court of competent jurisdiction, upon appropriate motion or by a special
proceeding, determines that a conflict of interest exists and that the employee
is entitled to be represented by private counsel of his or her choice.
   (B)   The Village Attorney shall notify the employee in writing of the
determination that the employee is entitled to be represented by private
counsel of his or her choice. The Village Attorney may require, as a condition
to payment of the fees and expenses of the representation, that appropriate
groups of the employees be represented by the same counsel.
   (C)   If the employee or group of employees is entitled to representation by
private counsel under the provisions of this section, the Village Attorney
shall so certify to the Village Board. Reasonable attorneys’ fees and
litigation expenses shall be paid by the village to the private counsel from
time to time during the pendency of the civil action or proceeding subject to
certification that the employee is entitled to representation under the terms
and conditions of this section by the head of the department, commission,
division, office or agency in which the employee is employed and upon the audit
and warrant to the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Any dispute with respect to representation of multiple employees by a
single counsel or the amount of litigation expenses or the reasonableness of
attorneys’ fees shall be resolved by the court upon motion or by way of a
special proceeding.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 30.24 AVOIDANCE OF DEFAULT JUDGEMENT.
   Where the employee delivers process and a request for a defense to the
Village Attorney as required by §
30.28 below, the Attorney shall take the necessary steps including the
retention of private counsel under the terms and conditions provided in §
30.23 above on behalf of the employee to avoid entry of a default judgment
pending resolution of any question pertaining to the obligation to provide for
a defense.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 30.25 DUTY TO INDEMNIFY AND HOLD HARMLESS.
   The village shall indemnify and save harmless its employees in the amount of
any judgment obtained against those employees in any state or federal court, or
in the amount of any settlement of a claim provided that the act or omission
from which the judgment or settlement arose occurred while the employee was
acting in good faith within the scope of his or her public employment or
duties, the duty to indemnify and save harmless prescribed by this section
shall not arise where the injury or damage resulted from intentional wrongdoing
or recklessness on the part of the employee.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 30.26 APPROVAL OF PRIVATE COUNSEL PROPOSED SETTLEMENT.
   (A)   An employee represented by private counsel shall cause to be submitted
to the Board of Trustees any proposed settlement which may be subject to
indemnification by the village and if not inconsistent with the provisions of
this section, the Mayor shall certify the settlement, and submit the settlement
and certification to the Village Attorney.
   (B)   The Attorney shall review the proposed settlement as to form and
amount, and shall give his or her approval if, in his or her judgment, the
settlement is in the best interest of the village.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize the village to
indemnify or save harmless an employee with respect to a settlement not so
reviewed and approved by the Village Attorney.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 30.27 SERVICE OF JUDGEMENT OR SETTLEMENT ON MAYOR FOR PAYMENT.
   (A)   Upon entry of a final judgment against the employee, or upon the
settlement of the claim, the employee shall cause to be served a copy of the
judgment or settlement, personally or by certified or registered mail within 30
days of the date of entry or settlement upon the Mayor; and if not inconsistent
with the provisions of this section, the judgment or settlement shall be
certified for payment by the Mayor.
   (B)   If the attorney concurs in the certification, the judgment or
settlement shall be paid upon the audit and warrant of the Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 30.28 REQUIRED CONDITIONS PRIOR TO DUTY TO DEFEND AND INDEMNIFY.
   (A)   The duty to defend or indemnify and save harmless provided by this
chapter shall be conditioned upon:
      (1)   Delivery to the Village Attorney or his or her assistant, at his or
her office, by the employee of the original or a copy of any summons,
complaint, process, notice, demand or pleading within five days after he or she
is served with the document; and
      (2)   The full cooperation of the employee in the defense of the action
or proceeding and in defense of any action or proceeding against the state
based upon the same act or omission, and in the prosecution of any appeal.
   (B)   The delivery shall be deemed a request by the employee that the
village provide for his or her defense pursuant to this local law.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 30.29 RESTRICTION ON APPLICATION; NO CHANGE TO WORKERS’ COMPENSATION LAW.
   The benefits of this section shall inure only to employees as defined herein
and shall not enlarge or diminish the rights of any other party nor shall any
provision of this section be construed to affect, alter or repeal any provision
of the workers’ compensation law.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 30.30 RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF INSURER NOT CHANGED.
   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to impair, alter,
limit or modify the rights and obligations of any insurer under any policy of
insurance.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 12-22-1980)
§ 30.31 APPLICATION; ADDITIONAL RIGHTS OF DEFENSE AND INDEMNIFICATION NOT
SUPERCEDED.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all actions and
proceedings pending upon the effective date thereof or there after instituted.
   (B)   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall not be construed in any way to impair, alter,
limit, modify, abrogate or restrict any immunity available to or conferred upon
any unit, entity, officer or employee of the village, or any right to defense
and/or indemnification provided for any governmental officer or employee by, in
accordance with, or by reason of, any other provision of state or federal
statutory or common law.
(Ord. 3-1980, passed 12-22-1980)
RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PROGRAM
§ 30.45 IMPLEMENTATION OF RETIREMENT INCENTIVE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The village hereby elects to provide all of its eligible employees
with a retirement incentive program authorized by Chapter 86, Laws of 2000.
   (B)   The commencement date of the retirement incentive program shall be
October 1, 2000.
   (C)   The open period, during which eligible employees may retire and
receive the additional retirement benefit, shall be 90 days in length.
   (D)   The actuarial present value of the additional retirement benefits
payable pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be paid as one lump
sum, or in five annual installments. The amount of the annual payment shall be
determined by the Actuary of the New York State and Local Employees’ Retirement
System, and it shall be paid by the village for each employee who receives the
retirement benefits payable under this section
   (E)   This section shall take effect August 30, 2000.
(Ord. 2-2000, passed 3-8-2000)
CHAPTER 31: TAXATION
Section
Village Assessment
   
31.01   Purpose
   
31.02   Cessation of village as assessing unit
   
31.03   Assessor position abolished
   
31.04   Board of Assessment review abolished
   
31.05   Taxes levied by village
VILLAGE ASSESSMENT
§ 31.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The intent of the Board of Trustees of the village is to implement
N.Y. Real Prop. Tax Law § 1402(3) of the real property tax law providing for
the voluntary termination of the village’s status as an assessing unit, as
provided in the village law and the real property tax law.
   (B)   It is also the intent of this subchapter to abolish the position of
Assessor and to terminate any and all responsibility as provided by the law for
the review of the assessments of real property located within the village.
(Ord. 1-2002, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 31.02 CESSATION OF VILLAGE AS ASSESSING UNIT.
   On or after the effective date of this subchapter, the village shall cease
to be an assessing unit.
(Ord. 1-2002, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 31.03 ASSESSOR POSITION ABOLISHED.
   The position of Assessor in the village is hereby abolished.
(Ord. 1-2002, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 31.04 BOARD OF ASSESSMENT REVIEW ABOLISHED.
   The Board of Assessment review in the village is hereby abolished.
(Ord. 1-2002, passed 1-28-2002)
§ 31.05 TAXES LEVIED BY VILLAGE.
   On or after the effective date of this subchapter, taxes in the village
shall be levied on a copy of the applicable part of the assessment roll of the
village with the taxable status date of the village controlling for village
purposes.
(Ord. 1-2002, passed 1-28-2002)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCIAL POLICIES
Section
Procurement Policy
   
32.01   General provisions; purposes and authority
   
32.02   Basis for award; documentation and requirements
   
32.03   Applicable contracts
   
32.04   Procurement policy; savings; construction
PROCUREMENT POLICY
§ 32.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS; PURPOSES AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter provides for the Village Board of Franklinville ("Village
Board") to exercise its local option under N.Y. General Municipal law ("GML") §
103(1), as amended by Chapter 608 of the Laws of 2011 and Chapter 2 of the Laws
of 2012. These amendments authorize the Village of Franklinville ("village") to
award purchase and service contracts subject to competitive bidding under N.Y.
Gen. Mun. Law § 103 based on either lowest responsible bidder of the "best
value," as defined in § 163 of the New York State Finance Law. Accordingly, a
quote or proposal received pursuant to standard bidding procedures, including
both purchase contracts and those contracts for service work, may be awarded on
either a best value or lowest responsible bidder standard, so long as the
requirements of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   BEST VALUE shall mean and refer to a basis for awarding contracts for
services to the offerer which optimizes quality, cost and efficiency, among
responsive and responsible offers. Such basis shall reflect, whenever possible,
objective and quantifiable analysis. Such basis may also identify a
quantitative factor for offers that are small businesses or certified minority-
or women-owned business enterprises as defined in N.Y. Executive Law §§ 301(1),
(7), (15) and (20) to be used in the evaluation of offers for awarding of
contracts for services. Goods and services procured and awarded on the basis of
best value are those that the Village Board determines will be of the highest
quality while being the most cost efficient.
   (C)   This "best value" option may be, but is not required to be, used to
award an applicable purchase contract to optimize quality, cost, and efficiency
among responsive and responsible offers instead of the lowest responsible
bidder. Best value procurement links the procurement process directly to the
village's performance requirements, incorporating selection factors such as
useful lifespan, quality, options, and incentives for more timely performance
and additional services. Even if the initial expenditure is higher, considering
the total value over the life of the procurement may result in a better value
and long-term investments of public funds. Best value procurement also
encourages competition and, in turn, often results in better pricing, quality,
and service. Fostering healthy competition ensures that bidders will continue
to strive for excellence in identifying and meeting village needs, including
the participation of small, minority, and women-owned businesses, and the
development of environmentally-preferable goods and service delivery methods.
Best value procurement will provide needed flexibility in obtaining important
goods and services at favorable prices, and will reduce the time to procure
such goods and services.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 3-28-2016)
§ 32.02  BASIS FOR AWARD; DOCUMENTATION AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All awards based on best value shall require Village Board approval.
When awarding a contract based upon best value the requirements of N.Y. Finance
Law § 163 and the following criteria and procedures shall apply and be
observed:
      (1)   The Village Board shall document in the procurement record and in
advance of the initial receipt of offers a clearly articulated procedure and a
clear statement of product specifications, requirements or work to be
performed; a documentable process for soliciting bids, proposals or other
offers; a balanced and fair method, established in advance of the receipt of
offers, for evaluating offers and awarding contracts; contract terms and
conditions that protect the village's interests and promote fairness in
contracting with the business community; and a regular monitoring of vendor
performance.
      (2)   Reasonable efforts shall be made to ensure that the private and
not-for-profit sectors in New York State are apprised of procurement
opportunities, including by specifying the elements of a responsible bid and
disclosing the process for awarding contracts including, if applicable, the
relative importance or weight of cost and the overall technical criterion for
evaluating offers and ensuring the procurement is conducted accordingly.
      (3)   Guidelines and specifications for procurements and best value
determinations shall reasonably address performance and shall prescribe the
minimum specifications or requirements that must be met in order for an offer
to be considered responsive, a process for ensuring a competitive field, a fair
and equal opportunity for interested bidders to submit responsive offers, and a
balanced and fair method of award. Such criteria may include, but are not
limited to: the cost of maintenance; the proximity to the end user if distance
or response time is a significant term; durability; availability of replacement
parts or maintenance contractors; longer product life; product performance
criteria; or quality of craftsmanship.
      (4)   In the event that no best value election is made purchase contracts
will continue to be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder furnishing any
required security.
      (5)   All information gathered in the course of the bidding procedures of
this local law shall be filed with the documentation supporting the subsequent
purchase or public works contract. When a contract is awarded on the basis of
best value rather than a lowest responsible bidder, the basis for determining
best value shall be properly documented.
   (B)   The village shall adopt procurement policies that, in conjunction with
this local law, help develop procedures for governing awards on the basis of
best value. These policies may be adopted by resolution and shall be
periodically reviewed and updated by the Village Board.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 3-28-2016)
§ 32.03 APPLICABLE CONTRACTS.
   (A)   This chapter applies only to purchase contracts involving an
expenditure of more than $20,000 including contracts for service work (i.e.,
building services under Article 9 of the N.Y. Labor Law and utility services).
Such number is based upon current procurement levels set in N.Y. Gen. Mun. Law
§ 103. If the dollar thresholds of N.Y. Gen. Mun. Law § 103 are increased or
decreased in the future by proper amendment to law, then the dollar thresholds
as set forth herein shall be deemed simultaneously amended to match the then
stated updated thresholds.
   (B)   This local law does not apply to purchase contracts for the following:
(i) any purchase contract necessary for the completion of a public works
contract pursuant to Article 8 of the New York State Labor Law; and (ii) any
purchase or procurement of goods and services otherwise excluded by law from
best value purchasing standards, whether now existing or hereafter arising.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 3-28-2016)
§ 32.04 PROCUREMENT POLICY; SAVINGS; CONSTRUCTION.
   Any inconsistent provision of the village's procurement policy, as adopted
or amended prior to the effective date of this chapter, shall be deemed
superseded and supplemented by the provisions of this chapter so as to
incorporate this chapter therein. If any part or provision of this chapter or
the application hereof to any person or circumstance be adjudged invalid by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such judgment shall be confined in its
operation to the part or provision or application directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and shall not
affect or impair the validity of the remainder of this chapter or the
application thereof to other persons or circumstances, and the Village Board of
the Village of Franklinville hereby declares that it would have passed this
chapter or the remainder hereof had such invalid application or invalid
provision been apparent or omitted. Any reference to a state statute or code
shall include the future amendment or recodification of such statute or code
and the references herein are for convenience and construction purposes only.
(Ord. 1-2016, passed 3-28-2016)
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Management and custody of village properties
§ 33.01 MANAGEMENT AND CUSTODY OF VILLAGE PROPERTIES.
   (A)   The village properties are limited public forums and visitors to these
properties can only be present at these properties to conduct business with the
village and all others not conducting business with the village are not allowed
on or in village properties. Moreover, once a citizen concludes the conducting
of his or her business with the village, he or she shall be required to leave
these properties. Those who fail to adhere to these rules will be trespassing
and the village may avail itself of any and all legal remedies to prohibit such
trespassing.
   (B)   The Village Board of Trustees, village officials and village
department heads may promulgate posted rules which, among other things,
prohibit access to certain portions of village properties consistent with the
aforesaid management and custody of village properties, including but not
limited to, the posting of signs indicating that certain areas of village
properties are for village officials, village employees or invitees of the
village for the purpose of conducting business with the village.
(Ord. 2-2023, passed 5-22-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Board of Trustees authority
   
50.03   Fee schedule
   
50.04   Enforcement of provisions
Disposal Regulations
   
50.15   Public property disposal prohibitions
   
50.16   Private property disposal prohibitions
   
50.17   Burning or burying prohibited
   
50.18   Restriction on vehicle usage
   
50.19   Non-resident garbage and recyclables prohibited
   
50.20   Permitting disposal of non-resident garbage and recyclables prohibited
   
50.21   Restricted use of village property trash receptacles
   
50.22   Use of distinctively labeled bags; location of garbage
   
50.23   Authorized agent for distribution of distinctively labeled bags
   
50.24   Re-use of distinctively labeled bags prohibited
   
50.25   Presumption of responsibility for improper disposal
Garbage Collection Rates
   
50.30   Title
   
50.31   Purpose and intent
   
50.32   Definitions
   
50.33   Applicability
   
50.34   Scope of service provided
   
50.35   Billing; rates
   
50.36   Responsibility of payments; delinquent payments
   
50.37   Exempt structures; fines
Recycling and Alternative Disposal
   
50.40   Mandatory recycling
   
50.41   Recycling exceptions
   
50.42   Alternate disposal methods
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Chapter 51
   Water, see
Chapter 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. All substances or material which remain after combustion.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. A person who has been designated to issue distinctively
labeled bags on behalf of the village and to collect the necessary fees
therefore.
   DISTINCTIVE LABELED BAG. A sticker of such design as may be determined by
the Board of Trustees containing a distinctive imprint or label to be used for
the collection and disposal of non-recyclable garbage and trash in the village.
   GARBAGE. All organic waste material, both animal and vegetable.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. A waste or combination of wastes, which because of its
quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics
may:
      (1)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness;
      (2)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed; and
      (3)   All those chemicals, wastes, oils and/or all those articles or
materials listed under N.Y. Envtl. Conserv. Law § 27-0903 as drawn up by the
Commissioner.
   LANDFILL. A disposal facility or part of a facility meeting all DEC and EPA
standards, where solid waste is placed in or on land, and which is not a land
treatment facility, a surface impoundment or an injection well.
   PAPER. Waste paper, cardboard, cardboard boxes and containers.
   PERSON. An individual, trust, firm, joint stock company, corporation,
partnership, association or any interstate body.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. A natural person, association, partnership, firm or
corporation that occupies, manages, uses or controls premises.
   RECYCLABLES. Those items or materials appearing on the official list of
mandatory recyclable materials as adopted by the Board of Trustees.
   REFUSE. All other waste material not otherwise specifically defined.
   STORAGE. The containment of waste, garbage or refuse for a period of over 60
days, in such a manner as not to constitute disposal of the waste.
   TRASH. All discarded material not suitable for further use.
   VEHICLE. A motor vehicle designed or adapted for use in the removal of
garbage and trash.
   WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, trash, sludge and all other waste material not
otherwise specifically defined.
   WHITE GOODS. Washing machines, clothes dryers, refrigerators, freezers and
all other similar types of materials that are of recyclable value.
   YARD WASTE. Grass clippings, leaves and cuttings from shrubs and hedges.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
§ 50.02 BOARD OF TRUSTEES AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees is hereby empowered to adopt by resolution rules
and regulations pertaining to solid waste management in regard to materials
preparation requirements and such other rules and regulations as may be
necessary to effectively and efficiently ensure sound management of this
chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall incorporate by reference the
rules and regulations as are in effect, and compliance with the provisions of
this chapter shall require compliance with the rules and regulations.
   (C)   The rules and regulations may be changed from time to time by
resolution of the Board.
   (D)   Failure to comply with the rules and regulations, except where
otherwise excepted in this chapter, shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-9)
§ 50.03 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall establish by resolution the user
collection fee which shall be applicable to all users of the village solid
waste management program.
   (B)   Fees may be imposed for both recyclable as well as non-recyclable
materials but shall not be in excess of what is needed to operate the waste
management program.
   (C)   The fees may be changed from time to time by resolution of the Board
of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-15)
§ 50.04 ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable by the Mayor, any member
of the Board of Trustees, any peace officer, or any police officer or any agent
duly authorized by resolution of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-17(A))
DISPOSAL REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 PUBLIC PROPERTY DISPOSAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall place, throw or deposit or cause to be placed, thrown or
deposited any garbage, refuse, papers, trash, hazardous waste and/or material
or ashes upon any sidewalk, street, alley, lane, gutter or any public ground in
the village or into any stream or upon the banks of any stream running through
or adjacent to the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2(A)) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 PRIVATE PROPERTY DISPOSAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall place, throw or deposit or cause to be placed, thrown or
deposited any garbage, refuse, papers, trash, hazardous waste and/or material
or ashes upon his or her or another person’s property, except that ashes may be
deposited thereon with the owner’s permission for the purpose of filling land
so long as it is immediately covered with a suitable material to prevent ashes
from blowing into the air.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2(B)) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 BURNING OR BURYING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bury or openly burn or cause to be buried or openly burn any
garbage, refuse, papers, trash, hazardous waste and/or materials within the
village limits.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2(C)) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 RESTRICTION ON VEHICLE USAGE.
   (A)   The collection, removal and carrying of garbage, refuse, trash, paper,
hazardous waste and/or materials and ashes on any highway, street, alley or
land of the village must be done in covered, watertight vehicles which shall be
in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Board of Health.
   (B)   No garbage, papers, trash, refuse, hazardous waste and/or materials or
ashes shall be spilled or scattered along the streets or public places and the
vehicles used for the collection and transportation of the material shall not
be allowed to stand or tarry along the public streets for a longer time than
shall be reasonably necessary for the loading of the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-3) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19 NON-RESIDENT GARBAGE AND RECYCLABLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation for non-residents of the village to purchase or
otherwise use the distinctively labeled bags for the purpose of depositing
garbage and trash in the village or to permit any person to bring in, place or
deposit any refuse or recyclables originating from outside the village on any
real property owned or leased by him or her or under his or her control for the
purpose of disposal under the village operated waste disposal and recycling
program.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-4) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 PERMITTING DISPOSAL OF NON-RESIDENT GARBAGE AND RECYCLABLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation for any resident of the village, owner, lessee or
person in control of real property within the village to permit any person to
bring in, place or deposit any refuse or recyclables originating from outside
the village on any real property owned or leased by him or her or under his or
her control for the purpose of disposal under the village operated waste
disposal and recycling program.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-5) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 RESTRICTED USE OF VILLAGE PROPERTY TRASH RECEPTACLES.
   It shall be a violation to place any materials into a trash receptacle
located on village property unless the waste was generated at that location.
Permitted waste would include picnic waste.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-6) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 USE OF DISTINCTIVELY LABELED BAGS; LOCATION OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of all persons residing within the
village to separate all non-recyclable garbage and trash from recyclables, and
to place in bag or container non-recyclables with a distinctively labeled bag
sold by the village or its authorized agent.
   (B)   No person shall use any bag or label other than bags or labels issued
by the village for disposal under the village-operated solid waste program.
   (C)   No person shall duplicate or imitate any distinctively labeled bag or
label issued by the village.
   (D)   No person shall give, sell or issue in any manner a duplicated or
imitated distinctively labeled bag or label.
   (E)   Any prohibited action of this section shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
      (1)   All garbage shall be set out in an enclosed waterproof container, a
container purchased from the village or a plastic bag with a sticker purchased
from the village.
      (2)   No garbage, tires, batteries or trash (which shall include
demolition debris) shall remain outside of any building on the property.
      (3)   Garbage shall be set out to the curb no sooner than 24 hours prior
to the scheduled pickup and containers shall be removed within 24 hours after
the pickup.
   (F)   There shall be no conflict between divisions (E)(2) and (3) above.
They are not inconsistent. Division (E)(3) above deals with garbage set out to
the curb only and division (E)(2) shall not be interpreted as to allow garbage
to remain at the curb longer than what is specified in division (E)(3) above.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-12) (Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-9-2006) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 AUTHORIZED AGENT FOR DISTRIBUTION OF DISTINCTIVELY LABELED BAGS.
   (A)   Any person operating a place of business within the village may apply
to become an authorized agent to issue distinctively labeled bags on behalf of
the village.
   (B)   The authorized agent shall pay to the village the designated
collection fee established by the village for each distinctively labeled bag
sold upon receipt of the same.
   (C)   The authorized agent may add a service charge not to exceed the fee
set for this purpose by the Board of Trustees. All fees shall be set by
resolution of the Board of Trustees and may be changed by resolution from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-13)
§ 50.24 RE-USE OF DISTINCTIVELY LABELED BAGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation to re-use, or permit to be re-used, a distinctively
labeled bag that has previously been placed at the curb, or street side, for
collection.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-7) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.25 PRESUMPTION OF RESPONSIBILITY FOR IMPROPER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   In the case where waste is deposited in bags or containers that are
not distinctively labeled, it shall be presumed that the waste is the
responsibility of the person, or persons, that may be identifiable by
inspection of the contents of the container or bag.
   (B)   In the event that identification cannot be determined by the
inspection, it will be presumed that the waste is the responsibility of the
occupant of single-family dwellings, or the owner of all other buildings or
real property where the placement has been made. If placement is made on a
public or private right-of-way, the closest private real property will be
deemed to be the location of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-14)
GARBAGE COLLECTION RATES
§ 50.30 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Village of
Franklinville Garbage Collection Local Law.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 5-23-2011)
§ 50.31 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The Board of Trustees of the village recognizes the expectation of the
residents of the village to be provided with a weekly garbage collection
service. The general purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the most
efficient, economic, and equitable system of garbage collection to the
residents of the village.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 5-23-2011)
§ 50.32 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise stated in this subchapter, for the purposes of this
subchapter, the definitions set forth in N.Y. Gen. Mun. Law § 451 shall be
controlling.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 5-23-2011)
§ 50.33 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to any dwelling or structure located within the
village which is actively metered and connected to the village water system and
which by said connection receives periodic billing statements from the village
for such service. In the absence of a metered water supply, a property owner
who is identified by the village as utilizing the collection service, such
property owner will be billed as if they connected to the village water system.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 5-23-2011)
§ 50.34 SCOPE OF SERVICE PROVIDED.
   The village will contract with a service provider on an annual basis for the
weekly curbside removal of residential waste in containers prescribed by the
provider according to the terms of the contract.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 5-23-2011)
§ 50.35 BILLING; RATES.
   (A)   Billing. The village shall issue quarterly billing for the garbage
collection on the village water bills for the property associated with the
corresponding meter.
   (B)   Rates. The Village Board shall set the rate for the service on an
annual basis. Such annual basis shall correspond with the contract term agreed
upon by the village and the provider. The initial charge for this service shall
be $25 per quarter per metered parcel located within the village.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 5-23-2011)
§ 50.36 RESPONSIBILITY OF PAYMENTS; DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Responsibility of payments.  The owners of all structures served by a
metered connection to the village water supply, either individually or by an
association representing them, shall agree to guarantee payment of all charges
which accrue against all structures. When a structure served by the village
water system becomes vacant, owner shall give notice to the village specifying
the date of such vacancy, and the owner of the structure shall be liable for
all garbage collection fees until such notice is given.
   (B)   Delinquent payments. If there shall be any payments which are due to
the village or any department thereof, pursuant to any section of this
subchapter, which shall remain due and unpaid, in whole or in part, for a
period of 30 calendar days from the date of billing by the village, the same
shall constitute a default, and there shall be added to the entire amount of
the original bill, a penalty equal to 10% of the original bill, and interest
shall accrue on the unpaid balance, at the rate of 2% per month, retroactive to
the date of the original billing.
   (C)   Liens. The garbage collection fee shall constitute a lien upon the
structure deemed covered by the service. The lien shall be prior and superior
to every other lien or claim except the lien or an existing tax assessment or
other lawful charge imposed by the village or for the state or political
subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 5-23-2011)
§ 50.37 EXEMPT STRUCTURES; FINES.
   (A)   Any structure which primary purpose is a business as defined in the
village zoning law and does not contain a dwelling unit, shall be exempt from
the garbage collection fee upon the filing of an affidavit signed by the
property owner and filed with the Village Clerk. Such affidavit must state that
the structure has been zoned commercial pursuant to the village zoning law,
that the structure is not used as dwelling, and the occupants of said structure
do not utilize the garbage collection service.
   (B)   If the occupant of a structure who has been granted an exemption is
deemed in the opinion of the village to have utilized the garbage collection
service, the owner of said structure shall be fined the amount of $100 for
every such occurrence. Said fine shall be assessed after a hearing held in
conformance with the procedures set forth in
Chapter 52 of this code. Each violation shall be separate and distinct
violation Such penalty may be recovered in an action brought by the Village
Attorney at the request of the Village Board in the name of the village in any
court of competent jurisdiction. In addition to the above described penalty,
the village may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs, and other
expenses associated with the enforcement activities. Such fine may be released
or compromised by the Village Board before the matter has been referred to the
Village Attorney, and where such matter has been referred to the Village
Attorney, any such penalty may be released or compromised and any action
commenced to recover the same may be settled and discontinued by the Village
Attorney, with the consent of the Village Board.
(Ord. 2-2011, passed 5-23-2011)
RECYCLING AND ALTERNATIVE DISPOSAL
§ 50.40 MANDATORY RECYCLING.
   For the purpose of being able to react promptly to recycling requirements of
the county and the state, the Board of Trustees is hereby empowered to adopt by
resolution an official list of mandatory recyclable materials. The list may be
changed from time to time by resolution of the board. Failure to recycle
materials on this official list, except where otherwise excepted by this
chapter, shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-8)
§ 50.41 RECYCLING EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions for recycling waste need not be complied with when the person
contracts with a private disposal service and the private disposal service
permits waste of all types to be mixed together in a dumpster or other suitable
container which will then be properly disposed of by the private disposal
service.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-10)
§ 50.42 ALTERNATE DISPOSAL METHODS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit any person from
contracting with a private hauler for removal of waste and recyclables. Nothing
in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit any person from disposing or
causing to be disposed of waste and recyclables at a landfill or transfer
station operated by the county, their duly designated representative, or with a
private firm properly authorized to dispose of these materials.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-11)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   A person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a violation which is punishable as follows.
   (A)   For a first conviction, by a fine of $100, or imprisonment for 15
days, or both.
   (B)   For a second conviction within one year, by a fine of $150, or
imprisonment for 15 days, or both.
   (C)   For a third conviction within one year, by a fine of $200, or
imprisonment for 15 days, or both.
   (D)   For a fourth and all subsequent convictions within one year, by a fine
not less than $250 nor more than $500, or imprisonment for 15 days, or both.
(Ord. 1-2006, passed 1-9-2006)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
Public Sewer Use
   
51.015   Proper disposal of materials required
   
51.016   Discharge without treatment prohibited
   
51.017   Sewer construction regulation
   
51.018   Requirement of property owner to connect with sewer line at owner’s
expense
   
51.019   Septic system replacement
Private Sewage Disposal
   
51.030   When private sewage disposal system connection required
   
51.031   Private sewage disposal system construction application; permit; fee
   
51.032   Inspection and construction approval required prior to use
   
51.033   Compliance with state health regulations required
   
51.034   Connection to public sewer required if subsequently becomes available
   
51.035   Sanitary operation of private sewage disposal system required
   
51.036   Additional requirements not waived or preempted
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.050   Written permit required
   
51.051   Types of permits; application; inspection fee
   
51.052   Costs and expenses borne by owner
   
51.053   Sewer to building ratio
   
51.054   Use of old building sewers
   
51.055   Materials and construction methods required
   
51.056   Elevation requirement
   
51.057   Surface runoff and groundwater connections prohibited
   
51.058   Connections to conform to applicable regulations
   
51.059   Supervision of connection
   
51.060   Protection of public from excavation hazard required
   
51.061   Manhole connection requirements
   
51.062   Service and repair of building sewer
   
51.063   Sewer cleanout required to be accessible
Public Sewer Discharge
   
51.075   Discharge into sanitary sewer prohibited
   
51.076   Storm sewer or natural outlet
   
51.077   Specific prohibited discharge substances
   
51.078   Discharge of certain prohibited substances with prior written approval
   
51.079   Superintendent remedial authority over discharge
   
51.080   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
51.081   Continuous operation of preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing
facilities
   
51.082   Industrial waste sewer manhole and meters
   
51.083   Measurement, test and analysis
   
51.084   Arrangements for disposal of unusual waste not excluded
   
51.085   Industry required to comply with special standards
Sewer Damage
   
51.100   Person damaging sewer works subject to arrest
   
51.101   Notification of accidental violation of discharge restrictions
   
51.102   Posting of notice to call village in case of accidental discharge
Significant Users
   
51.115   Purpose and notice
   
51.116   Application for significant user permit; fee
   
51.117   Application data requirements
   
51.118   Issuance of permit; expiration and reissue
   
51.119   Non-transferability of permit
   
51.120   Modification of permit terms
   
51.121   Permit restrictions by village
Inspections
   
51.135   Superintendent right to inspect
   
51.136   Observation of safety rules during inspection
   
51.137   Easement right-of-way for inspection
   
51.138   Federal and state inspection rights
   
51.139   Inspection information and data available to public
Sewer Extensions
   
51.150   Designs and plans for sewer extension
   
51.151   Sewer extension by public contract
   
51.152   Developer or owner constructed sewer extension
   
51.153   Sewer extension as village property
Interceptors
   
51.165   Scope and purpose
   
51.166   Definitions
   
51.167   Grease interceptor permit or prior approval required
   
51.168   Installation and use of grease interceptors required
   
51.169   Specifications and requirements for grease interceptors
   
51.170   Sand, soil and oil interceptors
   
51.171   Commercial laundry
   
51.172   Design and maintenance of equipment
   
51.173   Request for modification of equipment by village
Fees
   
51.185   Establishment of fees
   
51.186   Definitions
Violation
   
51.200   Notice of violation; time for correction
   
51.201   Offender responsible for damages, costs and expenses
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND ) . The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days 20°C. expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDER. Any person, persons or corporation who undertake to construct,
either under contract or for resale, any habitable building.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building to the public sewer or other
place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, persons or corporation who undertake to construct
simultaneously more than one housing unit on a given tract or land subdivision.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   HEALTH OFFICER. Agent or representative of the Cattaraugus County Health
Department.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NYSDEC. The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with the
ground, surface and storm waters may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT USER. Any person who:
      (1)   Discharges more than 1.0% of the design flow or design loadings
(Examples: BOD and total suspended solids) for the sewage treatment plant;
      (2)   Discharges industrial waste; or
      (3)   Discharges water or waste which, in the opinion of the
Superintendent, can either alone or in combination with other waste have a
detrimental impact on the sewage works; cause an increase in the cost of
managing effluent, sludge or air emissions; cause an increase in the cost of
operation, maintenance or replacement of the sewage works.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any give constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (sometimes termed STORM SEWER). A pipe or conduit which carries
storm and surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial
wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Sewage Works and/or of Water Pollution
Control of the village, or his or her authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The duly elected Board of Trustees of the Village of
Franklinville or its authorized deputy or representative.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either, continuously
or intermittently.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1)
PUBLIC SEWER USE
§ 51.015 PROPER DISPOSAL OF MATERIALS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 DISCHARGE WITHOUT TREATMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the village,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sewage, industrial
waste or other polluted waters except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 SEWER CONSTRUCTION REGULATION.
   (A)   Use of separate storm sewers and sanitary sewers is mandatory for all
future construction in the village. Construction of combined sewers will not be
allowed in the future.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(Prior Code, §§ 3-2-3, 3-2-4) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 REQUIREMENT OF PROPERTY OWNER TO CONNECT WITH SEWER LINE AT OWNER’S
EXPENSE.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the village and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
village, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is
within 400 feet of the property line.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.019 SEPTIC SYSTEM REPLACEMENT.
   (A)   Any private septic system in existence and being used at the time of
the adoption of this chapter which remains continuously in good condition and
repair may continue to be used until such time as the septic would need to be
revitalized, expanded or improved in any manner other than regular maintenance
or pumping.
   (B)   At that time, the private septic user shall be required to connect to
the municipal sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 51.030 WHEN PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of §
51.018 above, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.031 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION APPLICATION; PERMIT; FEE.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal system the
owner shall first prepare a written permit application furnished by the village
and obtain a written approval of the Superintendent and the CCDOH. A permit and
inspection fee in an amount to be determined from time to time by the Village
Board shall be paid therefore.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.032 INSPECTION AND CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL REQUIRED PRIOR TO USE.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage
of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered.
   (B)   The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice
by the Superintendent. Use of the system shall not be allowed until
construction is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3)
§ 51.033 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE HEALTH REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health
of the state.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.034 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED IF SUBSEQUENTLY BECOMES AVAILABLE.
   At such time as a public sewer disposal system, as provided in §
51.017(B) above, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with §
51.019 above.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.035 SANITARY OPERATION OF PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.036 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS NOT WAIVED OR PREEMPTED.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer or
the State Department of Environmental Conservation.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-7)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.050 WRITTEN PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-1) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 TYPES OF PERMITS; APPLICATION; INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For residential and commercial service; and
      (2)   For service to significant users or establishments producing
industrial wastes.
   (B)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application
on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent.
   (C)   A permit and inspection fee in an amount determined from time to time
by the Village Board shall be paid therefore in accordance with §§
93.095 through
93.098.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-2) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.052 COSTS AND EXPENSES BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner except that the village will provide
for connection to village systems within the street right-of-way. The property
owner or contractor shall adequately schedule work to allow village utility
work to be completed prior to the owner’s contractor making connections.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-3) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.053 SEWER TO BUILDING RATIO.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building. Where building sewers are to serve multiple dwelling structures,
there shall be provided at least one separate building sewer for each group of
four living units.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-4) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.054 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewer may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-5)
§ 51.055 MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION METHODS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building sewers shall have a diameter of four inches minimum with a
minimum slope of one-quarter inch per foot. Sewer pipe approvable for building
sewer construction include plastic pipe SDR-35 conforming to ASTM Designation
D-3034 with flexible rubber gasket joints no greater than ten-foot lengths or
ductile iron pipe if the owner submits a method of fining satisfactory to the
Superintendent. Sewer pipe bedding shall be placed so that the entire length of
pipe will have full bearing.
   (B)   Adequate bedding shall consist of four inches of select granular
backfill beneath the pipe and six inches over the pipe. Select granular
backfill material shall be approved by the Superintendent and consist of sound,
hard, durable, well-graded stone, run-of-bank gravel or other acceptable
granular material with maximum size of one and one-half. This material shall be
free of frozen lumps, foreign materials or other objectionable material.
   (C)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village.
   (D)   In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-6)
§ 51.056 ELEVATION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor.
   (B)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage or industrial waste carried
by the building drain shall be lifted by a village approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-7) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.057 SURFACE RUNOFF AND GROUNDWATER CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof down spouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-8) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.058 CONNECTIONS TO CONFORM TO APPLICABLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9.
   (B)   All the connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-9) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.059 SUPERVISION OF CONNECTION.
   (A)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent prior to placing backfill when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer.
   (B)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-10)
§ 51.060 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC FROM EXCAVATION HAZARD REQUIRED.
   (A)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
   (B)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored to its original state or in a manner
satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-11) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.061 MANHOLE CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   When any building sewer is to serve a school, hospital or similar
institution or public building; or is to serve a complex of industrial or
commercial buildings; or which, in the opinion of the Superintendent, will
receive sewage or industrial wastes of the volume or character that frequent
maintenance of the building sewer is anticipated, then the building sewer shall
be connected to the public sewer through a manhole.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall determine if and where this type of
connection to the public sewer is required and recommend procedures for its
installation. The new manhole shall then be installed in the public sewer at
the owner’s expense and the building sewer connection made thereto under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-12)
§ 51.062 SERVICE AND REPAIR OF BUILDING SEWER.
   Building sewers shall be serviced and repaired by the owner of the property
being served.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-13)
§ 51.063 SEWER CLEANOUT REQUIRED TO BE ACCESSIBLE.
   There shall be an accessible cleanout on the building drain near its
junction with the building sewer outside the building.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-14) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
PUBLIC SEWER DISCHARGE
§ 51.075 DISCHARGE INTO SANITARY SEWER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-1) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.076 STORM SEWER OR NATURAL OUTLET.
   Storm waters and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged, on approval of the Superintendent, to a storm sewer
or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-2)
§ 51.077 SPECIFIC PROHIBITED DISCHARGE SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
prohibited waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid solid or gas;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, which could injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works;
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
   (E)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of this Superintendent;
   (F)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
   (G)   Excessive odor as determined by the Superintendent; or
   (H)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the sewage treatment plant
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction, for items
such as: treatment plant effluent discharging to the receiving stream, sludge,
residue or scum disposal criteria on land, or air emissions.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-3) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.078 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES WITH PRIOR WRITTEN
APPROVAL.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Superintendent that the wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a
nuisance.
   (B)   In forming this opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the
Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (C)   The substances restricted, unless specifically approved in writing by
village permit are:
      (1)   Any liquid, vapor or waste having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C) or containing heat in such quantities so as to cause the temperature of
the treatment plant influent to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 25 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65°C);
      (3)   Any waters or wastes containing substances in excess of the
following levels:
Parameter Monthly Average Level (mg/l)
Parameter      Monthly Average Level (mg/l)
Arsenic        0.05
Cadmium        0.07
Total Chromium 0.05
Copper         1.80
Cyanide        0.3
Lead           0.3
Mercury        0.2
Nickel         1.0
Silver         0.24
Zinc           1.48
 
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols in excess of 0.5 mg/l or
other taste or odor producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent as necessary, after
treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state,
federal or other public agencies of jurisdiction of the discharge to the
receiving waters;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes have pH in excess of 9.5; and
      (6)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, solids concentration or chemical oxygen demand, in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works. For purposes of this chapter, any concentrations exceeding the following
limits shall be considered unusual. All other determinations of unusual
concentrations, if not specified in this local law shall be at the
Superintendent’s discretion:
 
Total solids           900 mg/l
Total dissolved solid  600 mg/l
Total suspended solids 300 mg/l
Settleable solids      200 mg/l
BOD                    250 mg/l
Chemical oxygen demand 700 mg/l
 
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of waste constituting
slugs, as defined herein.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-4)
§ 51.079 SUPERINTENDENT REMEDIAL AUTHORITY OVER DISCHARGE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
51.078 above, and which in the judgment of the Superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Superintendent, with the approval of the Village Board, may:
      (1)   Reject the waste;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require, control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the waste not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of §
51.084 below; and/or
      (5)   Require surveillance and/or monitoring necessary to determine the
extent of non-compliance with appropriate documentation.
   (B)   Any person notified by the Superintendent that the village is
rejecting the waste shall immediately stop or eliminate the contribution. In
the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with the rejection
order, the village shall take such steps as deemed necessary including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the sewer works or endangerment to any individuals. The village shall reinstate
service upon proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge and after
assurance that the person responsible for the discharge will submit a detailed
written statement describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the
measures taken to prevent any future occurrence. This statement shall be
submitted to the Superintendent within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
   (C)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and the licensed sewer
plant operator, and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes,
ordinances and laws. In addition, 30 days after the pretreatment or
equalization is operational, the owner must provide a certification to the
Superintendent, backed by whatever testing the Superintendent and plant
operator may require, indicating when the applicable pretreatment requirements
are being achieved on a consistent basis and if not, describe the steps to be
taken, along with a proposed schedule, to achieve compliance.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-5) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.080 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and open to inspection by the
Superintendent or designee at any time.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-6) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.081 CONTINUOUS OPERATION OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING
FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided for
any wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-7)
§ 51.082 INDUSTRIAL WASTE SEWER MANHOLE AND METERS.
   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent.
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-8)
§ 51.083 MEASUREMENT, TEST AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole should be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected.
   (B)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved, to be performed by a laboratory certified in the state, will
determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premise is
appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
   (C)   Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are
obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-9)
§ 51.084 ARRANGEMENTS FOR DISPOSAL OF UNUSUAL WASTE NOT EXCLUDED.
   No statement in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing any special
agreement or arrangement between the village and an industrial concern for
treatment of unusual waste provided that the agreement or arrangement in no way
violates this subchapter, the Federal Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
National Pretreatment Standards as listed in C.F.R. § 403.5(a) and (b).
(Prior Code, § 3-5-10)
§ 51.085 INDUSTRY REQUIRED TO COMPLY WITH SPECIAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   When pretreatment regulations are adopted by USEPA or NYSDEC for any
industry, then that industry must immediately conform to the USEPA or NYSDEC
timetable for adherence to federal or state pretreatment requirements and any
other applicable requirements promulgated by USEPA and NYSDEC in accordance
with the Clean Water Act of 1977 § 307 (Pub. L. No. 95-127, being U.S.C. §
1317).
   (B)   Additionally, the industries shall comply with any more stringent
standards necessitated by local conditions as determined by the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-5-11)
SEWER DAMAGE
§ 51.100 PERSON DAMAGING SEWER WORKS SUBJECT TO ARREST.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewage works.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-1) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.101 NOTIFICATION OF ACCIDENTAL VIOLATION OF DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Any person discharging industrial waste shall notify the
Superintendent immediately upon accidentally discharging wastes in violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   This notification shall be followed, within 15 days of the date of
occurrence, by a detailed written statement describing the causes of the
accidental discharge and the measures being taken to prevent future
occurrences.
   (C)   The notification will not relieve liability for any expenses, loss or
damage to the sewage works, or any fines imposed on the village under
applicable state and federal regulations as to discharges of industrial waste.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-3)
§ 51.102 POSTING OF NOTICE TO CALL VILLAGE IN CASE OF ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   Persons discharging industrial waste are to post a notice advising their
employees to call the village office in case of an accidental discharge in
violation of this chapter for their information.
(Prior Code, § 3-6-4)
SIGNIFICANT USERS
§ 51.115 PURPOSE AND NOTICE.
   (A)   The requirements outlined in this subchapter are in no way intended to
replace other requirements of this chapter, but are to supplement all other
requirements.
   (B)   Within ten days after the effective date of this chapter, the village
will submit a notice in writing to each person discharging to the public sewer
whom they suspect qualifies under the definition of “significant user”.
   (C)   However, failure of the village to submit a notice to a person who
qualifies as a significant user does not relieve that person from adhering to
the requirements associated with the significant user classification.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-1)
§ 51.116 APPLICATION FOR SIGNIFICANT USER PERMIT; FEE.
   (A)   Any significant user existing at the time of the enactment of this
local law shall make written application for a village significant user permit
on forms on file at the village office within 45 days after the effective date
of this chapter. In the case of proposed significant users, a written
application must be submitted not less than 90 days prior to the proposed
connection date to the public sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-2)
   (B)   A fee of $50, payable to the village, shall accompany the application
for a significant user permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-3) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.117 APPLICATION DATA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The applicant shall provide data requested on the application form.
   (B)   However, the village reserves the right to require additional
information deemed to have a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterways on facilities for waste treatment.
   (C)   The additional information required may include:
      (1)   A flow diagram delineating any and all wastewater streams;
      (2)   Analysis of any and all wastewaters generated on the premises or
potentially capable of entering the public sewer; and/or
      (3)   The quantity and frequency of wastewater flows.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-4)
§ 51.118 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; EXPIRATION AND REISSUE.
   (A)   The village will officially respond to a completed application for a
significant user permit within 30 days. An existing significant user must have
a valid permit approved by the village within 90 days after the effective date
of this chapter or be considered in violation. Any proposed significant user
must make application for permit at least 30 days prior to discharge to the
public sewer.
   (B)   All significant user permits issued under this chapter shall be issued
by the village. The village, in its sole discretion, shall determine the
duration of the permit, and shall specify the time of expiration. Under no
circumstances shall a permit be issued for any period of time in excess of five
years from the date of issuance. The permit may be reissued, providing that the
application be made at least 90 days prior to expiration of existing permit.
The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the
village during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements are
modified or other just cause exists. The significant user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in his or her permit in writing at least 30 days prior to
the effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the significant
user’s permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Prior Code, §§ 3-7-5, 3-7-6)
§ 51.119 NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT.
   Significant user permits are issued to a specific person/owner/user for a
specific operation. A permit shall not be reassigned or transferred, or sold to
a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or changed operation. Any
succeeding person, owner or user shall reapply for significant user permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-7) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.120 MODIFICATION OF PERMIT TERMS.
   Any significant user who anticipates a significant change in volume or
character of the discharge to the public sewer must not only obtain approval
from the Superintendent and licensed sewer plant operator, but may also be
required to seek modification to the significant user permit.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-8) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.121 PERMIT RESTRICTIONS BY VILLAGE.
   The following terms may be imposed by the village in the issuance of a
significant user permit:
   (A)   Limitation upon the characteristics, volume of wastewaters or the rate
of flow permitted from the premises;
   (B)   The installation and maintenance (including calibration) by the
permittee at his or her own expense for facilities or equipment, including but
not limited to devices for intermittent or continuous measurement of
wastewaters discharged; facilities or equipment for reducing the maximum rates
of discharge; pretreatment and flow control facilities; suitable controls or
sampling manholes; grease, oil and sand interceptors, separators or traps;
   (C)   Maintenance of appropriate records of all measurements of wastewaters
made by the permittee;
   (D)   The submission to the village of periodic reports (as frequent as
weekly but no greater than quarterly) signed by the authorized representative,
setting forth adequate data upon which the acceptability of the wastewaters may
be determined subsequent to the commencement of operation of any pretreatment
or flow control facilities;
   (E)   Reimbursement of village costs including staff time and lab fees, to
independently sample and analyze the quantity and quality of the significant
user’s waste stream as frequently as weekly; and
   (F)   Other terms and conditions as may be necessary to protect the village
sewage works and to carry out the intent and provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-7-9)
INSPECTIONS
§ 51.135 SUPERINTENDENT RIGHT TO INSPECT.
   (A)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This authority shall also allow the Superintendent or his or her
representatives to inspect and copy all industrial wastewater discharge records
which the industry is required to keep to be in conformance with federal, state
or local regulations.
   (C)   The Superintendent or his or her representatives shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil,
refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or
facilities for waste treatment.
   (D)   If the results of the aforementioned monitoring efforts indicate that
a person has committed a violation, the village shall reserve the right to hire
an independent laboratory, certified and/or approved by the New York State
Department of Environmental Conservation and/or the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, to secure and analyze samples of wastewater.
   (E)   The samples shall be secured and analyzed for the purpose of
confirming or negating the violation. If the results of the analyses
substantiate a violation, the costs shall be borne by the violator; if,
however, the results indicate that a violation has not occurred, the costs
shall be borne by the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-1)
§ 51.136 OBSERVATION OF SAFETY RULES DURING INSPECTION.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
51.135 above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the village
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees and the village shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by village employees and against liability claims and
demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
51.139 below.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-2)
§ 51.137 EASEMENT RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR INSPECTION.
   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-3)
§ 51.138 FEDERAL AND STATE INSPECTION RIGHTS.
   Authorized employees of the NYSDEC and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (USEPA) shall have the same powers and authority provided to
the Superintendent under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-4)
§ 51.139 INSPECTION INFORMATION AND DATA AVAILABLE TO PUBLIC.
   (A)   Information and data obtained from inspections, reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the person responsible for the discharge specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Superintendent and Village Board that
the release of the information would divulge information, processes or methods
of production entitled to protection as trade secrets.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, and state disposal
system permit; provided, however, that the portions of a report shall be
available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review or
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as confidential
information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the village as confidential, shall not be
transmitted by the village to any governmental agency until and unless a ten-
day notification is given to the person providing the information.
(Prior Code, § 3-8-5)
SEWER EXTENSIONS
§ 51.150 DESIGNS AND PLANS FOR SEWER EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   All extensions to the sanitary sewer system owned and maintained by
the village shall be properly designed in accordance with the Standards for
Waste Treatment Works, Municipal Sewerage Facilities as published by the
NYSDEC. Plans and specifications for sewer extensions shall be submitted to,
and approved by, the Superintendent and the NYSDEC before construction may
proceed.
   (B)   The design of sewers must anticipate and allow for flows from all
possible future extensions or developments within the immediate drainage area.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-1)
§ 51.151 SEWER EXTENSION BY PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   Sewer extensions may be constructed by the village under public
contract if, in the opinion of the Village Board, the number of properties to
be served by the extension warrants its cost. Under this arrangement the
property owner shall pay for and install the building sewer from the public
sewer to his or her residence or place of business in accordance with the
requirements of §§
51.050 through
51.063 above.
   (B)   Property owners may propose sewer extensions within the incorporated
village by drafting a written petition, signed by a majority of the benefitting
property owners, and filing it with the Village Board. The cost of the
extensions may be assessed to the benefitted property owners in any manner
determined by the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-2)
§ 51.152 DEVELOPER OR OWNER CONSTRUCTED SEWER EXTENSION.
   (A)   If the village does not elect to construct a sewer extension under
public contract, the property owner, builder or developer may construct the
necessary extension, if the extension is approved in accordance with the
requirements of §
51.150 above.
   (B)   He or she or they must pay for the entire installation, including all
expenses incidental thereto. Each building sewer installed must be installed
and inspected as previously required and the inspection fees shall be paid.
   (C)   The periodic inspection by the Superintendent and the expenses for
this inspection shall be paid for by the owner, builder or developer.
   (D)   The Superintendent’s decisions shall be final in all matters of
quality and methods of construction.
   (E)   The cost of sewer extension thus made shall be absorbed by the
developers or the property owners, including all building sewers.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-3)
§ 51.153 SEWER EXTENSION AS VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   (A)   All sewer extensions constructed at the property owner’s, builder’s or
developer’s expense, after final approval and acceptance by the Superintendent,
shall become the property of the village and shall thereafter be maintained by
the village.
   (B)   The sewers, after their acceptance by the village, shall be guaranteed
by the owner, builder or developer against defects in materials or workmanship
for 24 months. The guarantee shall be in a form provided for by the village. At
the sole discretion of the village, a completion bond or certified check may be
demanded as part of the guarantee.
(Prior Code, § 3-11-4) (Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
INTERCEPTORS
§ 51.165 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate and control discharges of
animal and vegetable fats, oils and grease, food waste, soil, sand and lint
into the public sewer collection system and wastewater treatment plant that
interfere with the operations of the system, cause blockage and plugging of
pipelines, interfere with normal operation of pumps and their controls, and
contribute waste of a strength or form that either causes treatment
difficulties or is beyond the treatment capability of the waste water treatment
plant.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.166 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in activities
of preparing, serving or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs
and that use one or more of the following preparation activities: cooking by
frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing, rotisserie
cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting or
poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing and any other
food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product in or
on a receptacle that requires washing.
   FATS, OILS and GREASES. Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 C.F.R. § 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as GREASE or GREASES.
   GREASE TRAP or INTERCEPTOR. A device for separating and retaining waterborne
greases and grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and
entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These devices also
serve to collect settable solids, generated by and from food preparation
activities, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer
collection and treatment system. GREASE TRAPS and INTERCEPTORS are sometimes
referred to herein as GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY. The design features of a grease interceptor and
its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases from
grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary sewer.
   NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking.
These include cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs preparation and serving
establishments.
   USER. Any person, including those located outside the jurisdictional limits
of the village, who contributes, causes or permits the contribution or
discharge of wastewater into the sewer treatment plant, including persons who
contribute the wastewater from mobile sources, such as those who discharge
hauled wastewater.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.167 GREASE INTERCEPTOR PERMIT OR PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   All food service establishment facilities are subject to grease interceptor
requirements. All those facilities must obtain approval from the Superintendent
of Public Works or his or her designee for grease interceptor sizing as well as
submitting plans for a building permit. All grease interceptors shall be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.168 INSTALLATION AND USE OF GREASE INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All permitted food service establishments are required to install,
operate and maintain an approved type and adequately sized grease interceptor
necessary to maintain compliance with the objectives of this chapter. Grease
interceptors shall be installed at the user’s expense. Grease interceptors may
also be required in non-cooking or cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs
establishments and other industrial or commercial establishments when they are
deemed necessary by the Superintendent/licensed plant operator for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease. All grease interceptors must meet
the requirements of the Uniform Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Any such facility in operation without such a grease trap on the date
of original enactment of this section shall be required to install and use such
a grease trap within 60 days of enactment.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.169 SPECIFICATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   No user shall allow wastewater discharge concentration from subject
grease interceptor to exceed 325 milligrams per liter, as identified by method
EPA Method 1664 or 275 milligrams per liter, as identified by EPA method 413.
      (2)   All grease interceptors shall be of a type, design and capacity
approved by the superintendent or his or her designee and shall be readily and
easily accessible for user cleaning and village inspection.
      (3)   All the grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of
accumulated waste content as required in order to maintain minimum design
capability or effective volume of the grease interceptor.
      (4)   Users who are required to pass water through a grease interceptor
shall:
         (a)   Provide for a minimum hydraulic retention time of 24 minutes at
actual peak flow or 12 minutes at the calculated theoretical peak flow rate as
predicted by the Uniform Plumbing Code fixture criteria, between the influent
and effluent baffles with 20% of the total volume of the grease interceptor
being allowed for sludge to settle and accumulate, identified hereafter as a
“sludge pocket;”
         (b)   Understand and agree that: no person shall introduce, nor allow
the introduction of physical, chemical or biological agents into grease traps
for the purpose of resuspending dissolving, emulsifying or rendering soluble
any fats, oils or grease removed from waste water by the grease traps and
reintroducing them into the village sewer system. Enzymes, emulsifiers and any
other inhibitors are prohibited;
         (c)   Understand and agree that: wastewater in excess of 140°F shall
not be discharged into a grease trap;
         (d)   Operate the grease interceptor in a manner so as to maintain the
device such that attainment of the grease limit is consistently achieved.
CONSISTENT shall mean any wastewater sample taken from the grease interceptor
shall be subject to terms of numerical limit attainment described previously.
If an establishment desires, because of documented space constraints, an
alternate to an out-of-building grease interceptor, the request for an
alternative location shall contain the following information:
            1.   Location of village sewer main and easement in relation to
available exterior space outside building; and
            2.   Existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common plumbing
for all services at that site.
         (e)   Understand and agree that: the use of automatic grease removal
systems is conditionally permissible, upon prior written approval by the
Superintendent, and the Cattaraugus County Department of Health. Any
establishment using this equipment shall operate the system in such a manner
that attainment of the grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the
unit’s outlet, is consistently achieved;
         (f)   Understand and agree that: no person shall deposit or discharge
into the village sewers any fats, oils and grease which have been removed from
a grease trap or sewer system outside the village; and
         (g)   Understand and agree that: the Superintendent reserves the right
to make determinations of grease interceptor adequacy and need, based on review
of all relevant information regarding grease interceptor performance, facility
site and building plan review and to require repairs to, or modification or
replacement of the traps.
   (B)   (1)   The user shall maintain a written record, on forms provided by
the village, of trap maintenance for three years. All records shall be kept in
a conspicuous location and shall be available for inspection by the village at
all times.
      (2)   The user shall submit maintenance records to the village on a
biannual basis (twice per year). Records shall be submitted by March 1 and
October 1 of each year. The records shall be submitted to the Superintendent of
Public Works. The Superintendent or designee will make quarterly and periodic
inspections of facilities.
   (C)   No non-grease laden sources are allowed to be connected to sewer lines
intended for grease interceptor service.
   (D)   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following adoption
of this subchapter, although installation of grease interceptors will be
required to be installed, no enforcement actions will be taken under this
subchapter for failure to achieve limits on grease discharges from grease
interceptors. If, during this one-year period, an obstruction of a village
sewer main(s) occurs that causes a sewer overflow to the extent that an impact
on the environment is realized and that the overflow or failure of the sanitary
sewer collection system to convey sewage can be attributed in part or in whole
to an accumulation of grease in the village’s sewer main(s), the village will
take appropriate enforcement actions.
   (E)   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be
provided over each chamber and sanitary tee. The access manholes shall extend
at least to finished grade and be designed and maintained to prevent water
inflow or infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily removable covers
to facilitate inspection, grease removal and wastewater sampling activities.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.170 SAND, SOIL AND OIL INTERCEPTORS.
   All car washes, truck washes, garages, service stations, car and truck
maintenance facilities, fabricators, utility equipment shops and other
facilities (as determined by the Superintendent/wastewater plant operator) that
have sources of sand, soil and oil shall install effective sand, soil and oil
traps, interceptors and/or oil/water separators. These systems shall be sized
to effectively remove sand, soil and oil at the expected flow rates. These
systems shall be at the user’s expense, cleaned or pumped on a regular basis to
prevent impact upon the wastewater collection and treatment systems. Users
whose systems are deemed to be ineffective by the Superintendent/wastewater
plant operator shall be asked to change the cleaning frequency or to increase
the size of the system. Owners or operators of washing facilities will be
required to prevent the inflow of detergents and rainwater into the wastewater
collection system. Oil/water separator installations shall be required at
facilities that accumulate petroleum oils and greases and at facilities deemed
necessary by the Superintendent/wastewater plant operator.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.171 COMMERCIAL LAUNDRY.
   Commercial laundries shall be equipped with an interceptor with a wire
basket or similar device, removable for cleaning, that prevents passage (into
the wastewater collection system) of solids one-half inch or larger in size
such as rags, strings, buttons or other solids detrimental to the system.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.172 DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The equipment or facilities installed to control fats, oils, grease,
food waste, sand, soil, oil and lint must be designed in accordance with the
NYS Department of Conservation guidelines, most current engineering standards,
or other applicable guidelines approved by the Superintendent/wastewater plant
operator.
   (B)   Underground equipment shall be tightly sealed to prevent inflow of
rainwater and shall be easily accessible to allow regular maintenance and
inspection.
   (C)   Control equipment shall be maintained by the owner and/or operator of
the facility as to prevent a stoppage of the wastewater collection system, and
the accumulation of fats, oils, grease, food waste, sand, soil and lint in the
collection lines, pump stations and wastewater treatment plant.
   (D)   If the village is required to clean out the wastewater collection
lines, as a result of a stoppage resulting from poorly maintained control
equipment (or lack thereof) the owner or operator shall be required to refund
the labor, equipment, materials and any overhead costs to the village including
any fines incurred due to any sanitary sewer overflow due directly to the
stoppage.
   (E)   The village retains the right to inspect and approve any and all
installations of control equipment.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.173 REQUEST FOR MODIFICATION OF EQUIPMENT BY VILLAGE.
   The village, through the Superintendent/wastewater plant operator, reserves
the right to request additional control measures if existing control equipment
is shown to be insufficient to protect the wastewater collection system and
wastewater treatment plant from interference due to the discharge of fats,
oils, grease, sand soil, lint or any other undesirable materials.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
FEES
§ 51.185 ESTABLISHMENT OF FEES.
   The following connection and other service fees will be established in an
amount to be determined from time to time by the Village Board:
   (A)   Permit and inspection fee connection fee;
   (B)   Turn-on service fee;
   (C)   Turn-off service fee;
   (D)   Repair termination fee; and
   (E)   Non-payment termination fee.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 51.186 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONNECTION FEE. The fee charged to compensate for the village’s cost to make
the physical connection of the customer’s private service line to the public
waste water main; this fee shall include the permit and connection fee.
   CUSTOMER. The owner(s) of the real property being provided with waste water
service; does not include a tenant or other occupant of the real property using
the waste water system unless that occupant is the legal owner of the real
property.
   NON-PAYMENT TERMINATION FEE. The fee charged to compensate for the cost of
terminating service at a service location for non-payment of service charges or
rates.
   PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEE. The fee charged for the cost of the permit and
the village’s inspection of the physical connection of a service location to
the village waste water system.
   REPAIR TERMINATION FEE. The fee charged to compensate for the cost of
terminating service at a service location necessitated by the customer’s faulty
connection or wastewater service line or at the request of the customer so that
repairs can be made to the customer’s connection to the village waste water
system.
   SERVICE LOCATION. The customer’s building or other structure or place on the
real property receiving wastewater service from the village.
   TURN-OFF SERVICE FEE. The fee charged for terminating service at a service
location at the request of the customer for reasons unrelated to connection
repair or service line repair or nonpayment of waste water rates.
   TURN-ON SERVICE FEE. The fee charged for the cost of resuming service to the
same customer at the same service location.
(Ord. 2-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
VIOLATION
§ 51.200 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; TIME FOR CORRECTION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements, except §§
51.100 through
51.102, shall be served by the village, with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof.
   (B)   The offender shall, within the period of time state in the notice,
permanently cease all violations.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-1)
§ 51.201 OFFENDER RESPONSIBLE FOR DAMAGES, COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the village for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the village by
reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-3)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter for which a
penalty is not set out shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
51.200 above, shall be guilty of a violation and on conviction thereof shall be
fined in the amount not exceeding $250 for each offense. Each day in which any
such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-9-2)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Short title
   
52.002   General purpose
   
52.003   Applicability
   
52.004   Authorities
   
52.005   Definitions
   
52.006   Abbreviations
   
52.007   Connection to public water line required
   
52.008   Tampering
Private Water Supply (Cross Connection)
   
52.010   Purpose
   
52.011   Responsibility
   
52.012   Requirements
New Water Mains and Water System Extensions
   
52.020   Legal requirements to be met
   
52.021   Design
   
52.022   Construction
   
52.023   Materials for water pipe and appurtenances
   
52.024   Water pipe installation
   
52.025   Testing
   
52.026   Dedication of water system to public use
   
52.027   Liability insurance coverage during construction period
Building Laterals, Connections and Fees
   
52.030   Permit required for connections to public water system; permit and
tapping fees
   
52.031   Registration of contractors
   
52.032   Water service connections
   
52.033   Requirements for copper and HDPE service pipe
   
52.034   Requirements for ductile iron pipe
   
52.035   Requirements for backfill
   
52.036   Separation from sewer pipes
   
52.037   Maintenance of building lateral
Village Water Customers
   
52.040   Sale of water; emergency shutoff; conservation
   
52.041   Access
   
52.042   Metering
   
52.043   Billing; rates
   
52.044   Reserved
   
52.045   Responsibility for payment
   
52.046   Appeal of bills
   
52.047   Discontinuance of service
   
52.048   Resumption of service
Water Customers Outside the Village
   
52.060   Terms
Water Districts
   
52.065   Village as supplier
Protection of Water Supply
   
52.070   General prohibition
   
52.071   Specific prohibitions
Enforcement and Penalties
Part 1. Administrative Remedies
   
52.080   Notification of violation
   
52.081   Consent orders
   
52.082   Administrative or compliance order
   
52.083   Cease and desist orders
   
52.084   Show cause hearing
Part 2. Judicial Remedies
   
52.090   Fines
   
52.091   Injunctive relief
   
52.092   Damages
Part 3. Miscellaneous
   
52.100   Delinquent payments
   
52.101   Performance bonds
   
52.102   Levy of civil penalties
   
52.103   Inspections
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 SHORT TITLE.
   For brevity and ease of communication, this chapter may be cited as the
Village of Franklinville Water Supply Protection and System Use Law.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.002 GENERAL PURPOSE.
   The general purpose of this chapter is the following: to provide for
efficient, economic, healthful and legal operation of the water supply systems
owned by the Village of Franklinville.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.003 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas within village water districts of the
village as well as to any parcels within the village outside such districts
connected or having access to water distribution lines of the village or within
1,000 linear feet of wells of the village.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.004 AUTHORITIES.
   The authorities for this chapter shall be as follows:
   (A)   Department of Public Works (DPW). The DPW is the village water
supplier and is authorized and responsible to manage the village water system
and service.
   (B)   New York State Sanitary Regulations.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.005 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise stated in the section where the term is used in this
chapter, the meaning of terms used in this chapter shall be as stated below.
When not inconsistent with the context, the present tense shall include the
future, and words used in the plural shall include the singular and vice versa.
Furthermore, a masculine pronoun shall include the feminine. SHALL is
mandatory; MAY is permissive. All other definitions of NY Sanitary Code, Part 5
applicable to this chapter.
   ACCEPTABLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. An acceptable air gap, reduced
pressure zone device or double check valve assembly as used to contain
potential contamination within a facility. In order for such a device to be
acceptable, it must be listed in the most current New York State Department of
Health, List of Acceptable Backflow Prevention Devices.
   ADAPTER. A fitting used to connect pipe, tubing, or other fittings having
differing characteristics such as sizes, diameters or material.
   AGRICULTURAL - ASSOCIATED ANIMAL WASTE. Manure obtained from agricultural
industries.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
to a tank, plumbing fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the
receptacle. The differential distance shall be at least double the diameter of
the supply pipe, measured vertically, and in no case shall the air gap be less
than one inch.
   AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR TESTING AND MATERIALS. The latest edition of any ASTM
specification, when stipulated in this chapter.
   APPLICANT. That person who makes application for any permit or his agent.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the Superintendent as meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in this chapter or as suitable for the proposed
use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than from the public water supply system. These auxiliary waters may
include water from natural sources such as a well, spring, or stream.
   BACKFLOW.  A flow condition, induced by differential in pressure, that
causes the flow of water or other liquids and/or gases into the distribution
system of a public water supply from any source other than its intended source.
   BACKPRESSURE. The resulting backflow of water from a plumbing fixture or
other customer source(s) into a public water supply system due to greater
pressure within the customer's system.
   BOARD. The Village Board of the Village of Franklinville.
   CERTIFIED TESTER. That individual or firm approved to accomplish the
necessary inspections and operational tests of backflow prevention devices and
who meets the required certification of the New York State Department of
Health.
   CONNECTION CHARGE (TAP FEE). The one time application fee to offset
village's expenses to process an application for a connection of a building/
street lateral to the public water system. The fee also covers plan review,
permit issuance, materials and labor expended by the village in connection with
the application and inspection costs. The fee may be scaled to the amount of
work involved.
   CONTAINMENT. Cross connection control which isolates the customer's entire
facility from the public water supply system in the event of a backflow from
the customer's facility.
   CONTAMINATION. The presence in water of a substance that tends to degrade
its quality.
   CONTRACTOR. A person, acceptable to the village as qualified to perform the
installation of water lines and appurtenances thereto.
   CROSS CONNECTION. A physical connection through which a water supply could
be contaminated.
   CURB BOX. The point of connection between a street lateral and a building
lateral.
   CURB STOP. A valve accessible for operations from the surface of the ground
for interrupting flow at the curb box.
   CUSTOMER. A water user serviced by the public water supply system.
   CUSTOMER'S WATER SYSTEM. The piping used to convey water supplied by the
public water supply system throughout a customer's facility. The system shall
include all those parts of the piping beyond the control point of the village.
The control point is either the curb valve or the main valve located in the
public right-of-way that isolates the customer's facilities from the village's
water distribution system.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. Whether a facility is rated as hazardous, aesthetically
objectionable or non-hazardous.
   DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS (DPW). Village of Franklinville Department of
Public Works, its employees or designees.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY ACCEPTABLE. Two single independently acting
check valves, with tightly closing shutoff valves located at each end of the
assembly, and suitable connections for testing the water tightness of each
check valve. This device must be approved as a complete assembly.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EMERGENCY REPAIR. Any broken water line, or system, or component thereof
that serves as an immediate danger to the life, safety, health or welfare of
any person as a result of such breakage or deficient component shall be deemed
an emergency, and emergency repairs shall be hereby authorized.
   FITTING. A part used to connect piping or tubing.
   HAZARDOUS FACILITY. A facility, in which substances may be present which, if
introduced into the public water system, would or may endanger or have an
adverse effect on the health of other water customers. Typical examples are
laboratories, sewage treatment plants, chemical plants, hospitals and
mortuaries.
   HERBICIDE. Any substance used to destroy or inhibit plant growth.
   HUMAN EXCRETA. Human feces and urine.
   JUNKYARD. An area where two or more unregistered, old or secondhand motor
vehicles are being accumulated for purposes of disposal, resale of used parts
or reclaiming certain materials such as metal, glass, fabric, and/or the like.
   LATERAL, BUILDING. A water line owned by the owner of the property which it
serves serving a building extending from a curb box downstream to a building.
   LATERAL, STREET. A water line owned or to be conveyed to the village running
from a water main to a curb box.
   LINEAR DISTANCE. The shortest horizontal distance from the nearest point of
the structure or object to the extension of the centerline of the wells.
   MANUFACTURER.  The party that manufactures, fabricates, or produces
materials or products.
   MANURE. Animal feces and urine.
   NATIONAL PIPE THREAD.  As specified in ANSI/ASME B1.20.1.
   NONAGRICULTURAL - ASSOCIATED ANIMAL WASTE. Manure obtained from
nonagricultural industries.
   NON-HAZARDOUS FACILITY. One that does not require the installation of a
backflow prevention device within the customer's system.
   OWNER. A person having title to real property.
   PERSON. Any individual, public or private corporation, political
subdivision, federal, state, or local agency or entity, association, trust,
estate or any other legal entity whatsoever.
   PESTICIDE. Any substance used to destroy or inhibit pests such as rodents
and insects.
   POLLUTANT. Dredge, spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage,
sewage sludge, chemical waste, biological materials, radioactive materials,
heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial
and municipal and agricultural and nonagricultural-associated animal wastes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. The water supply system owned by the village,
including the source, treatment works, transmission mains, distribution system
and storage facilities serving the public. This includes the distribution
system up to its connection with the customer's water system.
   RADIATION. Ionizing radiation; that is any alpha particle, gamma ray, X-ray,
neutron, high speed proton and any other atomic particle producing ionization,
but shall not mean any sound or radio wave, or visible, infrared, or
ultraviolet light.
   RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL. Any material in any form that emits radiation
spontaneously.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE (RPZ) DEVICE, ACCEPTABLE. A minimum of two
independently acting check valves, together with an automatically operated
pressure differential relief valve located between the two check valves. During
normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two
check valves shall be less than the upstream (supply) pressure. In case of
leakage of either check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to
the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between the checks at
less than the supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff
valves located at each end of the device. Each device shall be fitted with
properly located test cocks. This device must be approved as a complete
assembly.
   REFUSE.  All putrescible and noputrescible solid wastes including garbage,
manure, rubbish, ashes, incinerator residue, street cleanings, dead animals,
offal and solid commercial and industrial wastes.
   REFUSE DISPOSAL AREA. Land used for the depositing of refuse except that it
shall not include the land used for the depositing of refuse from a single
family, a member of which is the owner, occupant or lessee of said land, or any
part of a farm on which only animal wastes resulting from the operation of such
farm are deposited.
   SERVICE LINE.  The piping or water service line for conducting water from a
water main to the water distribution system of the structure served.
   SEWAGE. Any liquid or solid matter from a domestic, commercial, private or
industrial establishment which is normally carried off in sewer or waste pipes.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any system used for disposing sewage.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, premises or residence that is served by a municipal
or private water system.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The individual designated by the Board as the administrator
of the public water supply system of the village or a portion thereof or his
representative.
   SUPPLIER. The party that supplies materials or services. A supplier may not
be the manufacturer.
   SUPPLIER OF WATER. The owner or operator of a public water system.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any toxic substance as so defined by NY Public Health Law,
§ 4801, Subdivision 2.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any treatment plant, sewer, disposal field, lagoon, pumping
station, septic system, construction drainage ditch or surface water
intercepting ditch, incinerator, and area devoted to sanitary landfill, or
other works not specifically mentioned in this paragraph, installed for the
purpose of treating, neutralizing, stabilizing or disposing of sewage.
   USER. Any person who is connected to or is required to be connected to the
public water system of the village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Franklinville, a municipal corporation of the State
of New York located in the County of Cattaraugus.
   WATER DISTRICT. A public water system supplied with water by the village
system.
   WATER MAIN or MAIN.  A water main in a public street or right-of-way owned
by a municipality or public organization and supplying or capable of supplying
water to more than one parcel of property.
   WATER SUPPLY. The public water supply of the village.
   WATER SYSTEM OPERATION. The operation of a public water system as prescribed
by NY Sanitary Code, Part 5 to include all responsibilities of a certified
operator.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.006 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
   ANSI      American National Standards Institute
   ASME      American Society of Mechanical Engineers
   ASTM      American Society for Testing and Materials
   C      Celsius
   CSA      Canadian Standards Association
   DPW      Department of Public Works of the Village of Franklinville
   F      Fahrenheit
   G      Grams
   ISO      International Organization for Standardization
   L      Liter
   MG      Milligram
   MM      Millimeter
   NPT      National Pipe Thread
   NSF      National Sanitation Foundation
   NYCRR   Official compilation of the Codes, Rules and Regulations of the
State of New York
   NYSDOT    New York State Department of Transportation
   OD       Outside diameter
   PE       Polyethylene
   PPI       Polypropaline Pipe Institute
   PPM       Parts per million
   PSI       Pounds per square inch
   PVC       Polyvinyl chloride
   SDR       Standard dimension ration
   SIDR       Standard inside dimension ratio
   UL       Underwriters Laboratories
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.007 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER LINE REQUIRED.
   The owner of any real property which contains fixtures to dispense potable
water or otherwise requires a supply of potable water and which abuts on any
street or right-of-way in which public water distribution facilities owned by
the village are located is hereby required at his or her expense to connect
such private water facilities directly with the proper public water facilities
at a curb box installed or to be installed by the village or owned by the
village in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within six months
after the date of official notice to do so. This section shall not apply to the
extent that it would require an owner to install more than 250 feet of building
lateral water line per household unit, or, for non-residential uses,
determining units by dividing estimated annual usage in gallons by 40,000
rounded to the nearest tenth of a unit with minimum of one unit, to be
connected with the user units for property in unitary ownership in one location
aggregated. The time within which such connection must be made may be extended
by the Superintendent for good cause shown. Any such extension may be reviewed
by the Board. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent connection
by properties not hereby required to become connected.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009) Penalty see §
52.999
§ 52.008 TAMPERING.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall alter, tamper with or damage any
component, equipment or facility of the village water system. No unauthorized
person shall interfere with the operation of any facility or cause water loss,
contamination or inadequate treatment in any part or process of the village
water system.
   (B)   All meters within the village are and remain the property of the
village. No person shall illegally retain possession of a meter that is the
property of the village.
   (C)   No person shall remove or cause damage to the meter in a water
service. After such meter is attached, any damage which said meter may sustain
resulting from frost or carelessness of said owner, agent or tenant, or from
neglect of any of them to properly secure and protect the same, as well as any
damage which may result from hot water or steam, shall be repaired at the
owner's expense, in default of which water will be shut off from the structure
and connection will not be restored until all charges are paid.
   (D)   No unauthorized person shall remove a meter from a service where it is
installed by the village. The property owner or tenant is responsible to see
that the meter serving their structure is not removed, moved from one service
to another, illegally bypassed or tampered with. No bypass valve shall be
opened, and otherwise water shall not be delivered to any structure which does
not properly register on a meter except as authorized by the Water Department.
   (E)   If a bypass valve has been opened, or if the meter has been removed or
tampered with, or if some other condition is found to exist in a water service
which would permit the delivery of water to the structure without the proper
registry thereof on a meter, it shall be presumptive evidence that the persons
or person who accepted or received the use or benefit of the water did so with
the knowledge of the illegal condition.
   (F)   Broken seals. If a seal or tamper protection on a valve, meter or
other fitting is broken, it shall be presumptive evidence that the water
consumption has not been properly registered on the meter. If a seal is broken,
it shall be replaced by the Water Department, and the property owner shall be
charged a fee for sealing as established by the BPU. No fee shall be charged if
the seal was broken accidentally and the Water Department is notified promptly.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009) Penalty see §
52.999
PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY (CROSS CONNECTION)
§ 52.010 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to safeguard the potable water supply of
the village from potential contamination by preventing backflow from a water
user's system into the public water system and to comply with the requirements
of the NY Sanitary Code, Part 5, § 5-1.31.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.011 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall be responsible for the protection of the
water distribution system from contamination due to the backflow of
contaminants through the water service connection. If, in the judgement of the
Superintendent, an acceptable backflow prevention device is required at any
water service connection to any customer's premises, for the safety of the
water system, the Superintendent shall give notice in writing to said customer
to install such an acceptable backflow prevention device at each service
connection to his or her premises. The customer shall install at such
reasonable time determined by the Superintendent, such approved device or
devices at his or her own expense; and failure, refusal, or inability on the
part of the customer to install said device or devices shall immediately
constitute a ground for discontinuing water service to the premises until such
a device or devices have been properly installed.
   (B)   All users of the public water system shall prevent cross connections
between the potable water piping system and all other piping systems within the
premises.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.012 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The customer's water system shall be open for inspection at all
reasonable times by the Superintendent.
   (B)   Should access to any facility or dwelling be denied to the
Superintendent for the purpose of determining if and/or what cross connection
control device is necessary, then the maximum protection device will
automatically be mandated with no further investigation.
   (C)   Where a residential customer maintains an auxiliary water supply in
addition to the public water supply, the two systems must not be
interconnected.
   (D)   An acceptable backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
non-residential service line to the customer's water system at or near the
property line immediately inside the building being served, but in all cases
before the first branch line leading off the service line, as follows:
      (1)   Whenever a customer's water system is rated hazardous, an
acceptable reduced pressure zone device or air gap shall be installed.
      (2)   Whenever a customer's water system is rated aesthetically
objectionable, as a minimum, an acceptable double check valve assembly shall be
installed.
   (E)   The design of the installation of an acceptable backflow prevention
device must be prepared in accordance with New York State laws and regulations
and the New York State Cross Connection Control Manual. The design must be
approved by the Superintendent and all agencies required by the applicable New
York State laws and regulations.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the customer at any premises where backflow
prevention devices are installed to have certified inspections and operational
tests made at least once a year. In those instances where the Superintendent
deems the hazard to be great enough, he or she may require certified
inspections at more frequent intervals. Certified inspections and operational
tests must also be made when any backflow prevention device is to be installed,
repaired, overhauled or replaced, in addition to the requirement of an annual
certified inspection and operation test. All inspections and tests shall be at
the expense of the customer and shall be performed by the device manufacturer's
representative, village personnel, or by a certified tester approved by the
Superintendent. The Superintendent shall make available the names, addresses
and telephone numbers of these persons who are certified as testers for the
backflow prevention devices. The customer shall notify the Superintendent in
advance, in writing, when the tests are to be undertaken so that he or she may
witness the tests if the Superintendent so desires. These devices shall be
repaired, overhauled or replaced at the expense of the customer whenever said
devices are found to be inadequate. Records of tests, repairs and overhauls
shall be kept and made available to the Superintendent. Copies of all testing
and maintenance records shall be sent to the Superintendent immediately after
the work is performed. The failure, refusal or inability on the part of the
customer to obtain such certified inspections and operational tests shall
immediately constitute a grounds for discontinuing water service to the
premises until such inspections and tests have been properly conducted.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
NEW WATER MAINS AND WATER SYSTEM EXTENSIONS
§ 52.020 LEGAL REQUIREMENTS TO BE MET.
   The owner and the village are subject to federal, state and county laws and
regulations relating to the construction of new water mains or water system
extensions whose application varies depending upon the circumstances and whose
requirements must be complied with including the following:
   (A)   New York State Environmental Quality Review Act.  As early as
possible, the village has to determine whether an Environmental Assessment Form
needs to be prepared for the proposed action. The extension of water service to
"approved subdivisions", not otherwise requiring the preparation of an
Environmental Assessment Form, is exempt.
   (B)   Cattaraugus County Sanitary Code and New York Public Health Law. The
Cattaraugus County Department of Health must approve the plans and
specifications.
   (C)   Village requirements.  The requirements of the village are set forth
in this chapter. Additional requirements may need to be satisfied depending
upon the owners particular proposal to implement the provisions and purposes of
the chapter; such requirements may not be evident to the village at the time of
the initial review of the design to be submitted by the owner under §
52.021 but may arise as design, construction and testing of facilities
progresses.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.021 DESIGN.
   (A)   Submissions to the village. The owner who desires to construct a new
water main or a water system extension must submit the following to the
village:
      (1)   Three sets of prints, plans and specifications;
      (2)   Cattaraugus County Department of Health Application for Approval of
Water Distribution System partially completed with information specific to the
water system extension. The Superintendent will supply related village
information on the form, will sign this application and will forward it to the
Cattaraugus County Health Department.
   (B)   Standards.  Drawings to scale bearing the stamp of a New York licensed
engineer are required. Such plans and specifications shall include without
limitation the location, size, nature and specifications of all physical
components of the system (e.g. water lines, valves and associated equipment)
the location and construction of all access roads, the location of any
easements or other property rights to be provided to the village, a surveyor's
description of the property rights required for the operation, maintenance and
repair and replacement of the water system extension and such other information
as is deemed necessary by the village or its engineers. Design of the system
must include, without limitation, adequate means of ingress and egress to the
entire system for its operation, maintenance, repair and replacement. Where
deemed necessary by the village, provision must be made for roads of sufficient
hardness to support vehicular traffic.
   (C)   Review.  The village and its engineers will review the materials
submitted. The owner must provide information and general cooperation with the
village as is necessary to effectuate the review.
   (D)   Approval. The village will either approve the owner's plans and
specifications, reject them in whole, or return them with comments for needed
modifications. The owner's engineer shall consult closely with the village's
staff during the review by the village and the Cattaraugus County Department of
Health. After the approval of the plans and specifications by the Cattaraugus
County Health Department and the village and the proof of liability insurance
required by this subchapter are filed with the village, construction may begin.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009) Penalty see §
52.999
§ 52.022 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Inspection. During construction, the village may have inspectors on
the site from time to time, and the owner shall make the site of the
construction freely available to them. Such inspectors function solely to
advise the Superintendent on the progress of construction. Their presence does
not imply knowledge of or approval of any aspect of the construction, nor shall
they have any responsibility to advise the owner or the owner's agents with
respect to the construction.
   (B)   Testing. Upon completion of construction, the owner shall cause the
system to be tested as set forth in this subchapter and other applicable laws
and regulations by the owner's engineer who shall witness such testing.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.023 MATERIALS FOR WATER PIPE AND APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   Pipe used on new water mains or water system extensions shall be
constructed of new and unused pipe of one of the following materials. The
choice of pipe for the specific application shall be as proposed by the design
engineer and approved by the Water Superintendent:
      (1)   Ductile iron pipe manufactured in accordance with AWWA Standard
C150 and C151 of Class 52 barrel thickness. The pipe shall be tyton joint type
with the joint meeting the requirements of AWWA Standard C111. The pipe shall
be cement mortar lined and double seal coated inside and out with a bituminous
coating of at least one mil thickness in accordance with AWWA Standard C104.
      (2)   Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe manufactured in accordance with AWWA
Standard C900, being Pressure Class 200, DR 14. The pipe shall be marked by the
manufacturer with the manufacturer's name, the DR rating, and the pressure
rating. The pipe shall be certified for use with potable water by NSF and shall
be so marked with the seal of the agency. The outside dimensions of the pipe
shall conform to the outside dimensions of ductile iron pipe.
   (B)   Mainline fittings:
      (1)   Shall be compact fittings manufactured of ductile iron in
accordance with AWWA Standard C153, Class 350.
      (2)   Shall be cement mortar lined and seal coated inside and out with an
approved bituminous coating at least one mil thick in accordance with AWWA
Standard C104.
      (3)   All fasteners used on these fittings shall be flouro-carbon coated
such as SC-1 fasteners as manufactured by StandCote, or approved equal.
      (4)   Mechanical joint restraints shall be installed in accordance with
AWWA C600.
      (5)   Mechanical joint restraints shall be Mega lug by EBAA Iron Sales,
Inc., or approved equal.
   (C)   Gate valves shall be resilient wedge with non-rising stem, having
parallel seats and a cast iron body and shall conform to AWWA Specification
C509, and the following supplemental details:
      (1)   Valve gates: Cast iron encapsulated with resilient material.
      (2)   Type of stem seal: O-ring (2).
      (3)   Ends are to be mechanical joint.
      (4)   Two-inch operating nut.
      (5)   Mainline and hydrant auxiliary valves shall have resilient seat.
   (D)   Valve boxes shall be of three piece, Buffalo style cast iron
construction, screw type with threads integrally cast with the box.
      (1)   Coating: Two coats of asphaltic coating.
      (2)   Extensions: If needed for abnormally deep valve installations.
      (3)   Lid: The word WATER shall be cast in the lid.
   (E)   Hydrants used in the work shall conform to AWWA Standard C502 and the
following:
      (1)   Compression type with valve opening equal to five and one-quarter
inches.
      (2)   Cast iron body, fully bronze mounted.
      (3)   Two two and one-half inch hose connections with national standard
threading (NST thread).
      (4)   One four-inch pumper connection (4.72 x 6 TPI).
      (5)   The operating stem nut shall be a five-sided (pentagon) 1% two-inch
nut to open right (clockwise) of one piece bronze construction.
      (6)   The boot (base) shall be mechanical joint with a six-inch inlet
diameter.
      (7)   Hydrant shall be factory painted red.
      (8)   Traffic model with breakaway flange.
      (9)   Nozzle caps shall be securely fastened to the barrel with chain.
      (10)   A dirt (weather) shield shall be provided to protect the operating
mechanism from grit
buildup and corrosion due to moisture.
      (11)   Hydrant shall be draining.
      (12)   Manufacturer:
         (a)   Kennedy Guardian Hydrant (K81A).
         (b)   Waterous five and one-quarter inches Pacer Fire Hydrant.
         (c)   Mueller Super Centurion.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009; Am. Ord. 2-2021, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 52.024 WATER PIPE INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Local utilities shall be contacted to verify construction plans and to
make arrangements to disconnect all utility services, where required to
undertake the construction work. The utility services shall later be
reconnected. The work shall be scheduled so that there is minimum inconvenience
to local residents. Residents shall be provided proper and timely notice
regarding disconnection of utilities.
   (B)   The construction right-of-way shall be cleared only to the extent
needed for construction. Clearing consists of removal of trees which interfere
with construction, removal of underbrush, logs, and stumps, and other organic
matter, removal of refuse, garbage, and trash, removal of ice and snow, and
removal of telephone and power poles, and posts. Any tree which will not hinder
construction shall not be removed, and shall be protected from damage by any
construction equipment. Debris shall not be burned, but hauled for disposal in
an approved manner.
   (C)   The public shall be protected from personal and property damage as a
result of the construction work.
   (D)   Traffic shall be maintained at all times in accordance with applicable
highway permits. Where no highway permits are required, at least one-half of a
street shall be kept open for traffic flow.
   (E)   Erosion control shall be performed throughout the project to minimize
the erosion of soils onto lands or into waters adjacent to or affected by the
work. Erosion control work shall be implemented following the guidance provided
in the New York State Guidelines for Urban Erosion and Sediment Control of the
latest revision. If the project is large enough to require a state pollutant
discharge elimination permit (SPDES) for the storm water runoff from the
construction activity as required by NYSDEC regulations, a storm water
pollution prevention plan shall be prepared and filed with the village and a
Notice of Intent (NOI) shall be filed with NYSDEC prior to any work be
completed.
   (F)   The trench shall be excavated only wide enough for proper installation
of the water pipe and appurtenances. Allowances may be made for sheeting, de-
watering, and other similar actions to complete the work. Roads, sidewalks, and
curbs shall be cut, by sawing, before trench excavation is initiated.
   (G)   Under ordinary conditions, excavation shall be by open cut from the
ground surface. However, tunneling or boring under structures other than
buildings may be permitted. Such structures include crosswalks, curbs, gutters,
pavements, trees, driveways, and railroad tracks.
   (H)   Open trenches shall be protected at all hours of the day with
barricades.
   (I)   Trenches shall not be open for more than 50 feet in advance of pipe
installation nor left unfilled for more than 50 feet in the rear of the
installed pipe, when the work is in progress, without permission of the
Superintendent. When work is not in progress, including over night, weekends,
and holidays, the trench shall be backfilled to ground surface.
   (J)   The trench shall be excavated as necessary to allow for the final
design pipe line and grade. When unsuitable soils are encountered, these shall
be excavated and replaced with select materials.
   (K)   Ledge rock, boulders, and large stones shall be removed from the
trench sides and bottom. The trench shall be over-excavated at least 12 inches
for five feet, at the transition from rock bottom to earth bottom, centered on
the transition.
   (L)   Maintenance of grade, elevation, and alignment shall be done by some
suitable method or combination of methods approved by the Superintendent. All
water mains and extensions shall be installed with a minimum depth of earth
cover of four and one-half feet, unless specifically directed by the
Superintendent.
   (M)   No structure shall be undercut unless specifically approved by the
Superintendent.
   (N)   Proper devices shall be provided, and maintained operational at all
times, to remove all water from the trench as it enters. At no time shall the
water line be used for removal of water from the trench.
   (O)   To protect workers and to prevent caving, shoring and sheeting shall
be used, as needed. Caving shall not be used to backfill the trench. Sheeting
shall not be removed but cut off no lower than one foot above the pipe crown
and no higher than one foot below final grade, and left in the trench, during
backfill operations.
   (P)   The pipe barrel shall be adequately supported, along its entire
length.
   (Q)   When the material encountered at grade in the trench is unsatisfactory
to support the pipe or is otherwise harmful in the judgment of the
Superintendent, the unstable or unsuitable soils shall be removed and replaced
with select material or bedding stone.
   (R)   Ductile iron pipe shall be laid in accordance with AWWA Standard C600.
Unless conditions require bedding as determined by the design engineer or the
Superintendent, the trench shall have a flat bottom of sound earth which shall
provide the pipe good bearing for its full length. Bell holes shall be hand
excavated to allow the pipe to be supported for its full length. If the trench
is in rock, the pipe shall be installed with a minimum of six inches of clean,
washed No. 1 stone bedding beneath the entire length of the pipe barrel.
   (S)   If PVC pipe is approved for the work, it shall be installed in
accordance with AWWA Standard C605. The trench shall be over excavated to allow
at least six inches of clean washed No. 1 stone bedding beneath the entire
length of the pipe barrel.
   (T)   In the case of PVC pipe, or in a rock trench condition, clean, washed
No. 1 stone bedding shall be placed over the laid pipe to a depth of at least
six inches. Care shall be exercised so that stone is packed under the pipe
haunches. Care shall be exercised so that the pipe is not moved during
placement of the crushed stone.
   (U)   Clean earth fill free of debris and any stones larger than four inches
shall be hand placed and compacted to a depth of at least 12 inches over the
top of the pipe bell to provide proper pipe embedment prior to machine
backfilling being allowed to begin.
   (V)   The remaining portion of the trench above the pipe embedment shall be
backfilled in one foot lifts which shall be firmly compacted. Compaction near/
under roadways, driveways, sidewalks, and other structures shall be done with
select backfill compacted to 95% of the maximum moisture-density relationship,
as determined by ASTM Specification D698, Method D. Ice, snow, or other frozen
material shall not be used for backfill.
   (W)   All main extensions shall be of such length as to provide access to
each premises to be served and shall be constructed across the entire frontage
of the lot(s). The applicant shall construct the water service connections for
each parcel within the approved development or extension.
   (X)   Prior to beginning installation of the water mains and appurtenances,
the applicant shall provide the following:
      (1)   Name of the contractor, including an address and phone number,
proof of insurance, who will installing the water mains and appurtenances;
      (2)   Shop drawings indicating that all materials utilized meet village
specifications;
      (3)   Minimum five business days advance written notice of the starting
date of construction.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.025 TESTING.
   (A)   After installation is complete, the applicant shall conduct
hydrostatic testing. The hydrostatic testing shall be conducted in accordance
with the procedures outlined in AWWA C600 for ductile iron pipe, and AWWA C605
for PVC pipe. The hydrostatic testing shall be performed by the applicant while
under the observation of the Superintendent or his approved agent. Only village
personnel shall operate existing water valves.
   (B)   If the main should fail the hydrostatic test, the necessary corrective
measures shall be taken and the tests repeated until satisfactory results are
obtained.
   (C)   After the line has satisfactorily passed the hydrostatic testing the
line shall be flushed with a sufficient volume of water to achieve a minimum
velocity of two and one-half feet per second in the main. The flushing shall
continue until the line is, in the opinion of the Water Superintendent or his
agent, clear of all dirt and debris.
   (D)   After flushing is completed, the line shall be disinfected in
accordance with AWWA C651 of the latest revision. After disinfection is
complete, samples shall be taken at locations approved by the Superintendent
for bacteriological testing.
   (E)   The applicant shall arrange for the bacteriological testing to be
performed by the Cattaraugus County Health Department or an approved commercial
laboratory. The results shall be given, in writing, to the village and the
Cattaraugus County Health Department. Should the results prove satisfactory,
the line will be approved to be placed in service when all other requirements
of this local law are met.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.026 DEDICATION OF WATER SYSTEM TO PUBLIC USE.
   All water mains and extensions to the water system constructed at the
owner's expense, after final approval and acceptance by the Village Board,
shall become the property of the village and shall thereafter be operated,
maintained and repaired by the village.
   (A)   Deed and/or easement and/or bill of sale. Legal transfer of the
physical components of the system to the village must be by deed and/or
easement and/or bill of sale, the choice of which or both to be made by the
village, executed by the owner accurately describing the components of the
system.
   (B)   Property rights. Transfer of the system shall also include the grant
of property rights acceptable to the village to property surrounding the water
system required for the operation, maintenance, repair and replacement thereof
as identified on the plans including street laterals but excluding building
laterals. The owner shall obtain any necessary rights from other property
owners, municipalities or right-of-way holders having such interests.
Generally, no acquisition of property rights is necessary for water facilities
to be installed within the right-of-way of a state, county, village, or village
road as long as the owner obtains all necessary consents of such governmental
entities to the placement of water facilities within the bounds of such roads
prior to construction.
   (C)   Title insurance. The owner shall provide at closing of the recording
of instruments conveying property rights required for the operation,
maintenance, repair and replacement of the water system extension a title
insurance policy in the form and amount deemed acceptable by the village.
   (D)   Warranty and maintenance bond. The owner shall warrant the system to
be free of defects for two years after the date of the first use of the system
or its components and shall provide a cash deposit with the attorney for the
village, a letter of credit, or a maintenance bond or other security in a form
and amount satisfactory to the village holding the village harmless from
operation, maintenance, repair and replacement of such facilities arising from
defects in the design, materials, or construction of such facilities. The
requirement for financial security may be waived by the village where the
sponsor of the water system extension providing the warranty hereunder is the
State of New York, a New York municipal corporation, or agencies thereof.
   (E)   Third party warranties. The owner will provide assignments of all
warranties applicable to equipment or appurtenances to the system.
   (F)   Professional expenses of the village. The owner shall reimburse of the
village for all expenses incurred by the village incident to the project,
including, but not limited to, engineering fees and legal fees, payable as
bills are rendered therefor by the village to the owner.
   (G)   Engineer's certification and record drawings. The owner shall provide
the village with:
      (1)   A certification to the village by a New York licensed professional
engineer that the system has been constructed in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications and that it has been tested in accordance with this
chapter; and
      (2)   Three sets of original signature paper copies of record drawings,
designated as such, bearing the seal of the New York licensed professional
engineer, plus a full digital copy, similarly annotated, in AutoCAD or
equivalent software acceptable to the village.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009; Am. Ord. 2-2021, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 52.027 LIABILITY INSURANCE COVERAGE DURING CONSTRUCTION PERIOD.
   Before commencing work, the owner performing the work shall file with the
village insurance certificates for the following:
   (A)   Workman's compensation and employer's liability insurance as required
by the laws of the State of New York covering the contractor
   (B)   Personal injury liability insurance having limits of not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate (personal injury).
   (C)   Property damage liability insurance having limits of not less than
$1,000,000 for all damages arising during the life of the contract; and shall
include, but not be limited to, the following designated hazards:
      (1)   Premises and operations;
      (2)   Independent contractors;
      (3)   Completed operations and products;
      (4)   Property damage; and
      (5)   Explosion, collapse and underground.
   (D)   Comprehensive automobile liability (including non-owned and hired
automobiles) having limits of not less than:
      (1)   Bodily injury - each person $1,000,000 each occurrence $1,000,000;
      (2)   Property damage - each occurrence $1 ,000,000.
   (E)   All insurance policies must provide for 15 business days notice to the
village before cancellation.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
BUILDING LATERALS, CONNECTIONS AND FEES
§ 52.030 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTIONS TO PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM; PERMIT AND
TAPPING FEES.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or opening
into, use, alter, or disturb any public water line or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit application from the village. A permit
application shall be submitted to the village. The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the Superintendent. All pertinent fees shall
accompany the application. The village will furnish and install the main tap
and curb box and stop only upon payment of a tapping fee. Fees shall be
established from time to time by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009) Penalty see §
52.999
§ 52.031 REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   All work on water lines connected to the public water supply,
including but not limited to obtaining water service via the principal water
mains, alterations or repair work to existing water systems within the village
shall be performed only by or under the direct supervision of a contractor
registered with the village other than a homeowner working on his own property.
For a contractor to be eligible for certification he shall either be a plumber
or other contractor with similar experience in the installation, maintenance or
repair of water or sewer lines. The contractor shall be considered an agent of
the property owner and shall be responsible for compliance with this code even
though he does not personally perform the work.
   (B)   Application to register as a contractor shall be made at the Village
Clerk's office.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009) Penalty see §
52.999
§ 52.032 WATER SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Upon completion of the application process, payment of all applicable
charges, and subject to the other provisions of these rules, the village will
install the street lateral and curb box within the public right-of-way or on a
water easement and furnish the water meter and remote meter reader if such
facilities have not been previously installed. The street lateral and curb box
shall include the street lateral from the connection at the watermain to, and
including the curb box and curb stop located at or directly adjacent to the
right-of-way or easement line.
   (B)   A water street lateral and curb box, including a curb box and curb
stop, shall be required for each premises where the total quantity of water
delivered and furnished is to be billed and metered to a single customer. If
the quantities of water furnished to the premises are to be separately and
individually metered and billed by the village to several occupants thereof,
then a separate water street lateral and curb box, including a curb box and
curb stop shall be installed for the delivery of water to each meter. The
provision by the village of separate services at the request of the property
owner shall not relieve a property owner of ultimate liability for the charges
therefore as provided by law.
   (C)   The owner will be responsible to install the water service from the
curb stop into the premises. A valve shall be located just inside the
structure, at the point of entry of the street lateral, adjacent to and ahead
of the meter to permit control of the water supply.
   (D)   As part of the tapping fee, the village will provide the owner with a
meter and remote meter reader which the owner must install prior to receiving
water. The village will inspect this installation prior to turning on service.
      (1)   A separate curb box must be installed for each meter.
      (2)   The size, type, make and location of the meter and remote reader to
be utilized on any connection shall be determined by the village.
      (3)   Meter bypasses shall not be allowed unless otherwise approved by
the village.
      (4)   Whenever possible, the water meter shall be set in the basement or
utility room. The meter shall be located at a convenient point approved by the
village so as to protect the meter and to measure the entire supply of water
through the connection. When a meter cannot be set in the basement or utility
room, it will be set inside the property line or in a place designated by the
village, and all expenses incurred by the village in connection with its proper
housing shall be reimbursed by the owner to the village.
      (5)   All meters and meter appurtenances shall at all times remain the
sole property of the village, and shall not be interfered with in any respect.
All meters shall be maintained by and at the expense of the village so far as
ordinary wear and tear are concerned, but the customer will be held responsible
if damaged due to freezing, hot water, or other external causes. In case of
damage, the village will repair the meter, or replace it if required, at the
sole expense of the customer.
      (6)   The village reserves the right to remove and replace any meter at
any time as part of a maintenance program or for any other reason.
   (E)   If a water easement is determined to be necessary in order to service
a property, the owner shall obtain and cause to be recorded by the Cattaraugus
County Clerk such easement on a form acceptable to the village to show the
right of permanent access to the public water system before a permit will be
issued.
   (F)   The owner shall, at his sole expense, construct, maintain and, when
necessary as determined by the village, replace the building lateral extending
into the serviced building. This installation and maintenance shall be
performed by a qualified person and all work shall be constructed in a manner
satisfactory to the village. The minimum size, the materials, depth of cover
and method of construction shall be in conformance with village standards. If
any defects in workmanship or materials are found or if the owner's building
lateral has not been installed in accordance with such specifications or with
requirements of the village, water service will either not be turned on or will
be discontinued if such defects are not remedied.
   (G)   All street laterals shall be installed throughout their length as
nearly as possible at right angles to the structure to which service is to be
rendered.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.033 REQUIREMENTS FOR COPPER AND HDPE SERVICE PIPE.
   All property building laterals using copper pipe shall conform to the
following specifications.
   (A)   Description.
      (1)   The work specified by this section shall include all supervision,
coordination, labor, materials, tools, equipment, services and incidentals
necessary to furnish and install new copper or HDPE pipe and fittings as shown,
specified, and required, in association with new building laterals, three-
quarters inch, up to, but not including, four inches in size. Proposed water
services four inches or larger shall be constructed of ductile iron pipe.
      (2)   In general, work shall include installation of potable water
service, from the curb stop, to the meter valve, or meter setting appurtenance.
      (3)   In no case, will a contractor be allowed to tap an existing water
main. In the event that the water main must be tapped to allow for installation
of the water service, the village shall be notified, and the tap shall be made
by the village.
      (4)   This standard describes valves and fittings for use in the
construction of the buried service line, extending from the curb stop, to the
meter valve or meter setting appurtenance. Valves include corporation stops and
curb stops. Fittings include various types of couplings and adapters.
      (5)   The performance of products depends on proper installation. The
purchaser/installer must follow the instructions supplied by or available from,
the manufacturer.
   (B)   Quality assurance.
      (1)   Qualifications of the manufacturer.
         (a)   Manufacturer shall have a minimum of five years experience
producing copper or HDPE pipe, fittings and appurtenances, and shall show
evidence of at least five installations in satisfactory operation.
         (b)   Parts interchangeability. It is the intent of these
specifications that all materials furnished herein shall be compatible with
similar materials of other manufacturers.
      (2)   Reference standards.
         (a)   ASTM B32, Specification for Solder Metal;
         (b)   ASTM B42, Specification for Standard Size Seamless Copper Pipe;
         (c)   ASTM B68, Specification for Bright Annealed Seamless Copper
Tube;
         (d)   ASTM B75, Specification for Seamless Copper Tube;
         (e)   ASTM B88, Specification for Seamless Copper Water Tube;
         (f)   ASTM B302, Specification for Threadless Copper Pipe;
         (g)   ASTM B306, Specification for Copper Drainage Tube (DWV);
         (h)   NSF International (NSF) Standard 61;
         (i)   Underwriter's Laboratories (UL);
         (j)   International Organization for standardization (ISO);
         (k)   Factory Mutual Research Corporation;
         (l)   National Fire Protection Association;
         (m)   ASME, Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code;
         (n)   Federal Specification WW-P-377D(1), Pipe, Copper, Seamless
Standard Sizes (S/S by ASTM B42);
         (o)   ANSI B16.22, Wrought Copper and Bronze Solder - Joint Pressure
Fittings;
         (p)   1996 Safe Drinking Water Act;
         (q)   ASTM D3035, Polyethylene Plastic Pipe;
         (r)   ASTM D2723, Specification for Polyethylene Plastic Tubing.
      (3)   Water services and plumbing shall conform to relevant local and/or
state plumbing codes, or to the applicable National Plumbing Code.
   (C)   Materials.
      (1)   All materials must be suitable for use in potable water systems.
      (2)   Pipe material.
         (a)   Copper pipe. Copper pipe shall conform to the requirements of
ASTM B88, for Type K copper.
         (b)   HDPE Pipe. HDPE service tubing shall conform to the requirements
of ASTM D2723, DR 9, for 250-psi rating conforming to copper tube size (CTS)
outside diameters.
      (3)   Coupling shall be compression style, both ends, for copper and HDPE
tubing, as manufactured by Mueller or Ford Meter Box Company. For HDPE tubing,
compression fitting shall be specifically designed for use with HDPE tubing,
and an internal stiffener should be used at all compression fittings.
      (4)   All copper piping and accessories must be new materials in first-
class condition. Used or recycled materials will not be allowed, regardless of
condition.
   (D)   Marking. All items shall be marked or labeled with the following
information:
      (1)   For copper only: Metal or alloy designation;
      (2)   For cooper only: Temper;
      (3)   For both copper and HDPE: Size and schedule;
      (4)   ASTM specification number;
      (5)   Name and location of supplier;
      (6)   For HDPE only: Blue-walled pipe or black-walled pipe with a blue
stripe.
   (E)   Jointing.
      (1)   All joints shall conform to the recommendations of the manufacturer
and shall be made by skilled workmen.
      (2)   Joints shall develop full strength and shall be stronger than the
pipe joined.
   (F)   Size.
      (1)   All water services, shall at a minimum, be three-quarter-inch water
services, unless otherwise directed by the village.
      (2)   All water services four inches or larger, shall be constructed of
ductile iron pipe, and shall require individual approval from the village, as
special materials, and installation and testing techniques, will be required.
   (G)   Installation.
      (1)   All connections shall be watertight at the operating pressure. The
operating pressure shall be obtained from the village.
      (2)   Installation shall generally include installation of the water
service from the curb box, which shall typically be located at the right-of-way
line, to the meter valve or meter setting. In some cases, it may be necessary
to replace an existing curb stop, and curb box. In this case, the village shall
be notified to provide a "shut-down" in order to make this repair.
      (3)   In general, the water service shall have a minimum cover of four
and one-half feet. Installation depths proposed in excess of five feet shall be
approved by the village.
      (4)   Copper and HDPE tubing shall be installed using methods which will
preserve the integrity of the pipe and protect persons and property affected by
the work, and shall be bedded and backfilled in accordance with the applicable
provisions of §
52.035, with the exception that HDPE tubing shall be backfilled with sand
extending six inches below and 12 inches above the invert of the pipe.
      (5)   One ten-gauge, steel-core, copper-coated tracer wire with blue
coating is to be installed along with any all HDPE tubing. Tracer wire to be
joined with a watertight, locking-type wire nut suitable for direct bury.
Tracer wire to be made accessible at the curb stop and at the meter.
      (6)   Copper and HDPE tubing shall be run parallel with the walls inside
the structure, and shall be pitched to drain. Drain valves shall be installed
at the low points of liquid-filled systems.
      (7)   The contractor shall make every effort to complete the water
service "run" using a single, continuous piece of pipe. When a joint is
required, the number of joints shall be kept to a minimum.
      (8)   The village shall be provided the opportunity to inspect all
proposed service installations throughout the course of the work. The
contractor shall receive approval by the village of all installed services
prior to backfilling.
      (9)   The contractor shall provide to the village, a sketch, indicating
the exact location of the installed water service, upon completion of the work.
The sketch shall indicate dimensions from permanent structures (such as a
house), along the water service line, such that the service line can be located
in the future.
      (10)   Prior to backfilling, the contractor shall test the new water
service line for any leaks.
      (11)   Upon complete installation of all new water service lines, the
contractor shall thoroughly flush the new line, to free any debris which may
have entered the piping during the course of the work, such that said debris is
flushed from the line prior to entry into the structure.
      (12)   Prior to placing the service line into service, the contractor
shall flush the line using a concentrated chlorine solution containing between
200 PPM (mg/l) and 300 PPM (mg/l) of free chlorine. The pipe shall be subjected
to this solution for at least 30 minutes. The pipe shall then be flushed until
the chlorine concentration is no higher than 1.0 mg/l.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009; Am. Ord. 2-2021, passed 11-8-2021)
§ 52.034 REQUIREMENTS FOR DUCTILE IRON PIPE.
   All property building laterals using ductile iron pipe shall conform to the
following specifications.
   (A)   Description.
      (1)   The work specified by this section shall include all supervision,
coordination, labor, materials, tools, equipment, services and incidentals
necessary to furnish and install new ductile iron pipe and fittings as shown,
specified, and required, in association with building laterals, four inches and
larger.
      (2)   In general, work shall include installation of the potable water
service, from an existing valve, blow-off assembly, or harnessed end cap, to
the facility to receive the water service.
      (3)   In no case, will a contractor be allowed to tap an existing water
main. In the event that the water main must be tapped to allow for installation
of the water service, the village shall be notified, and the tap shall be made
by the village.
      (4)   The performance of products depends on proper installation. The
purchaser/installer must follow the instructions supplied by or available from,
the manufacturer.
   (B)   Quality assurance.
      (1)   Qualifications of the manufacturer.
         (a)   Manufacturer shall have a minimum of five years experience
producing ductile iron pipe, fittings, and accessories, and shall show evidence
of at least ten installations in satisfactory operation.
         (b)   Parts interchangeability. It is the intent of these
specifications that all materials furnished herein shall be compatible with
similar materials of other manufacturers.
         (c)   The contractor shall obtain each type of material from a single
manufacturer.
         (d)   The village reserves the right to reject the material of a
manufacturer if that material fails to meet the requirements or performance
criteria of these specifications.
      (2)   Reference standards.
         (a)   AWWA C104, American National Standard for Cement-Mortar Lining
for Ductile Iron Pipe and Fittings for Water;
         (b)   AWWA C105, American National Standard for Polyethylene
Encasement for Ductile Iron Pipe Systems
         (c)   AWWA C110, American National Standard for Ductile-Iron and Gray-
Iron Fittings, 3-inch through 48-inch, (75 mm through 1200 mm), for Water and
Other Liquids;
         (d)   AWWA C111, American National Standard for Rubber-Gasket Joints
for Ductile Iron Pressure Pipe and Fittings;
         (e)   AWWA C115, American National Standard for Flanged Ductile-Iron
Pipe with Ductile-Iron or Gray-Iron Threaded Ranges;
         (f)   AWWA C150, American National Standard for Thickness Design of
Ductile-Iron Pipe G.AWWA C151, American National Standard for Ductile Iron
Pipe, Centrifugally Cast, for Water;
         (g)   AWWA C153, American National Standard for Ductile-Iron Compact
Fittings. 3 in. through 24 in. (76 mm through 610 mm) and 54 in. through 64 in.
(1400 mm through 1600 mm), for Water Service;
         (h)   ANSI B16.1, Cast Iron Pipe Flanges and Flanged Fittings;
         (i)   ANSI B1.20, Pipe, Threads, General Purpose (Inch);
         (j)   ANSI B18.2.1, Square and Hex Bolts and Screws Inch Series,
Including Hex Cap Screws and Lag Screws;
         (k)   ANSI 818.2,2, Square and Hex Nuts;
         (l)   ASTM A307, Specification for Carbon Steel Bolts and Studs,
60,000 psi Tensile Strength;
         (m)   ASTM A354, Specification for Quenched and Tapered Alloy Steel
Bolts, Studs and Other Externally Threaded Fasteners;
         (n)   ASTM A536 Standard Specification for Ductile Iron Castings;
         (o)   NSF International (NSF) Standard 61;
         (p)   Underwriter's Laboratories (UL);
         (q)   International Organization for Standardization (ISO);
         (r)   Factory Mutual Research Corporation;
         (s)   1996 Safe Drinking Water Act.
   (C)   Materials, general.
      (1)   All materials must be suitable for use in potable water systems.
      (2)   All ductile iron pipe, fittings and accessories shall be designed
for a working pressure and field hydrostatic test pressure as specified by the
village.
      (3)   All ductile iron pipe, fittings, and accessories must be new
materials in first-class condition. Used or recycled materials shall not be
allowed, regardless of condition.
   (D)   Ductile iron pipe.
      (1)   All pipe mains shall be ductile iron pipe with tyton-type bell and
spigot joints (slip-on) meeting AWWA C111.
      (2)   The pipe shall be in compliance with AWWA C150 and C151.
      (3)   The pipe shall have a Class 52 barrel thickness,
      (4)   The pipe shall be cement mortar lined and double seal coated inside
and out with an approved bituminous coating one mil thick in accordance with
AWWA C104.
   (E)   Ductile iron fittings.
      (1)   All pipe main fittings shall be fabricated of ductile iron and
shall be of mechanical joint design complying with AWWA C153 and shall be Class
350.
      (2)   The fittings shall be cement mortar lined and seal coated inside
and out with an approved bituminous coating one mil thick in accordance with
AWWA C104.
      (3)   All fasteners used on fittings shall be StandCote SC-1 fluorocarbon
coated Fasteners as manufactured by Stand Cote Industries, Inc. or approved
equal.
   (F)   Accessories: caps and plugs.
      (1)   Conform to the requirements of AWWA C1 10 for material, dimensions,
tolerance, tests, markings and other requirements.
      (2)   Caps and plugs shall be mechanical joint or push-on joint and be
furnished with all necessary joint accessories consisting of ductile iron
follower glands, plain tipped rubber gaskets, nuts and bolts, unless otherwise
specified.
      (3)   All nuts and tee bolts for mechanical joint accessories shall be
fluorocarbon coated as specified herein.
      (4)   Threaded outlets or taps, (Mueller threads), shall be provided in
plugs and caps as specified or required.
   (G)   Thrust blocking.
      (1)   All plugs, caps, tees, valves and bends of 22 1/2° or more shall be
anchored to prevent movement by providing suitable reaction blocking (thrust
blocking). Concrete used for such blocking shall have a minimum 28-day
compressive strength equal to 3000 psi.
      (2)   Prior to placing concrete, the fitting shall be completely wrapped
with a six-mil polyethylene membrane to prevent concrete bond to pipe or
fittings.
      (3)   All thrust blocking shall be placed so that fittings, nuts, bolts,
and joints are accessible for repairs.
      (4)   Blocking shall be placed against firm, undisturbed earth.
      (5)   Area of bearing on the pipe and the ground shall be as recommended
by the manufacturer.
      (6)   As an alternative to thrust blocking, upon the approval of the
Superintendent, mechanical joint restraints complying with the following
specifications may be used:
         (a)   Restraint devices for nominal pipe size three-inch through 48-
inch shall consist of multiple gripping wedges incorporated into a follower
gland meeting the application requirements of ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10, ANSI/AWWA
C151/A21.51, ANSI/AWWA C1507A21.50, ANSI/AWWA C153/A21.53, and ANSI/AWWA C111/
A21.11.
         (b)   The devices shall have a working pressure rating of 350 psi for
3-16 inch and 250 psi for 18-48 inch. Ratings are for water pressure and must
include a minimum safety factor of 2 to 1 in all sizes.
         (c)   Gland body wedges and sedge actuating components shall be cast
from grade 65-45-12 ductile iron material in accordance with ASTM A536.
         (d)   Mechanical joint restraints shall be installed in accordance
with AWWA C600.
   (H)   Installation: general.
      (1)   The contractor shall coordinate all work with the village.
      (2)   The contractor shall construct all water lines as recommended by
the manufacturer, and as generally accepted by the industry.
      (3)   All materials incorporated into the work shall be transported,
handled, stored, and installed in the work in such a manner as to insure
against breakage, cracking or other damage. No such defective material shall be
incorporated into the work.
      (4)   Prior to installing pipe, every precaution shall be taken to ensure
that no foreign material enters the pipe.
      (5)   Ductile iron pipe shall be installed in accordance with the
applicable provisions of this subchapter. The water line should be installed to
follow the designed lines and grades, and provide a minimum depth of cover of
four and one-half feet over the top of the pipe bell.
      (6)   The trench bottom shall be graded fiat to allow uniform support for
the entire length of the pipe. This will require that the trench bottom be
prepared with bell holes to allow the full-length support. After the pipe is
carefully placed and the pipe layer has assured himself that the pipe is
uniformly supported, the trench shall be carefully backfilled by hand to the
spring line. Care shall be taken to insure that the material is worked under
the haunches of the pipe by hand. The trench shall then be carefully backfilled
with the excavator bucket or by front-end loader to a depth of 12 inches of
cover over the top of the pipe with excavated material free of stones larger
than 3 inches, wood, trash, or other deleterious material.
      (7)   Proper implements, tools and facilities, shall be provided and used
by the contractor for the safe and convenient prosecution of the work,
including hoists, ropes, or other means to lower the material into the trench.
Under no circumstances shall pipe, valves, specials, etc., be dropped or dumped
into the trench.
   (I)   Ductile iron pipe - underground installation.
      (1)   The water line shall be installed in accordance with applicable
sections of AWWA C-600 and this specification.
      (2)   Every precaution shall be taken to prevent foreign material from
entering the pipe at any time.
         (a)   Excess dust, dirt, or oil on the inside of the pipe shall be
removed by an approved means prior to installing the pipe.
         (b)   If the pipe laying crew cannot get the pipe into the trench
without getting dirt into it, the ends shall be covered with a heavy tightly
woven canvas bag, which shall be left in place until the connection is to be
made to the adjacent pipe.
         (c)   At times when pipe laying is not in progress, the open ends of
pipe shall be closed with a watertight plug or other approved means.
         (d)   If water is in the trench when work is to resume, the seals
shall remain in place until the trench is pumped completely dry (these
provisions shall apply during the noon hour as well as overnight).
      (3)   Pipe shall be laid with the bell end facing in the direction of
laying, unless otherwise directed by the village.
      (4)   Installation shall be made in accordance with the recommendations
of the manufacturer and as directed by the village. The contractor shall
provide the village with a copy of the manufacturer's instructions for making
joints and installing pipe. In assembiing the pipe, the contractor shall not
deflect the ductile iron pipe joints horizontally or vertically more than five
degrees for mainline pipe. Fittings shaft be used to accomplish any change in
alignment that exceeds the standard.
      (5)   Pipe cutting shall be done in a neat and workmanlike manner taking
care not to damage the pipe. Cuts shall be smooth and at right angles to the
axis of the pipe. Bevel ends as per manufacturer's recommendations.
      (6)   Each joint shall be assembled with no less than two bronze wedges
approved for establishing electrical continuity through the joint.
   (J)   Sampling taps.
      (1)   To facilitate the testing and subsequent chlorination and
bacteriological sampling, sampling taps shall be installed.
      (2)   The sampling tap shall consist of a corporation stop installed in
the main, with a soft copper pipe from the corporation to a point two feet
above the surface. For ease of operation a curb stop may then be installed with
a short soft copper gooseneck following the curb stop.
      (3)   At the completion of all testing, the sampling taps shail be
properly abandoned. To do so, shut off the corporation stop, remove the copper
riser, replace the plastic cap on the corporation stop and backfill.
   (K)   Testing and disinfection. All testing and disinfection of ductile iron
service line shall be done in accordance with all applicable sections of the
AWWA Standards, specifically AWWA C600, and AWWA C651, and the Cattaraugus
County Health Department.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.035 REQUIREMENTS FOR BACKFILL.
   Pipe bedding and backfill materials shall meet the following specifications:
   (A)   Pipe Bedding. Pipe bedding shall consist of crushed stone or crushed
gravel meeting the NYSDOT specification Section 703-02, being No. 1 stone.
   (B)   Select backfill. Select backfill shall be NYSDOT approved gravel
meeting the requirements of NYSDOT Specification Section 304-2.02 Type 4 with a
size gradation as follows:
 
Sieve Size Percent Passing By Weight
1/4 inch   30 to 65
No. 40     5 to 40
No. 200    0 to 10
 
   (C)   Backfill and fill materials. Excavated materials may be used for
backfill provided:
      (1)   Material is sandy, loamy, or similar to bank run gravel;
      (2)   Material is free of debris, hazardous materials, frozen materials,
organic, or other deleterious materials;
      (3)   Material greater than six inches in any direction is unacceptable.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.036 SEPARATION FROM SEWER PIPES.
   No water pipe shall be laid in the same trench with a sewer pipe.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.037 MAINTENANCE OF BUILDING LATERAL.
   The owner of the property served by a building lateral shall maintain it
free of any leaks at his or her expense.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
VILLAGE WATER CUSTOMERS
§ 52.040 SALE OF WATER; EMERGENCY SHUTOFF; CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Use of meters. The sale of water to customers shall be through a
metered connection to the village system. No person shall take water or permit
water to be taken from the village's water distribution system other than
through a metered service or as permitted through a metered supply point,
except as authorized by the village. No person shall accept water knowing that
the water consumption has not been properly registered on a meter.
   (B)   Bulk sales. The DPW shall provide a metered water point for the
filling of water transport vehicles.
   (C)   Construction. When application is made for a water connection for
construction purposes, the DPW shall install an approved water meter for this
purpose. The user will pay the village fees for labor and materials and water
used.
   (D)   Resale.  Water supplied by the village to any water system or
structure is for use of such system or structure by the owners or occupants
thereof. Except as authorized by the DPW, the resale, delivery, transmission or
supplying of such water to other persons, structures, water services or water
systems is forbidden. In the case of noncompliance, the DPW is authorized to
shut off the system or structure from the village water mains.
   (E)   Emergencies. The village may shut off the water supply through the
water mains of the village in cases of water main breaks or due to operational
requirements or emergencies. When practicable, notice of a shutoff will be
given in advance. However, even when notice is not given, neither the village
nor its employees shall be liable for any damage that may occur as a result of
a shutoff.
   (F)   Conservation. The DPW shall have the authority to promulgate rules
restricting the use of village water in the case of a drought, water shortage
or other water emergency. These water shortage rules shall become effective
through an emergency proclamation by the Mayor.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.041 ACCESS.
   The officers of the DPW, agents and employees have the right to free access,
at all reasonable hours, to the structure where village water is being used to
inspect the adequacy of the system installation and condition; to make tests of
the pressure and quality of the water supply; to read, service, install and
remove water meters; to inspect for illegal connections and cross-connections;
and to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.042 METERING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise prescribed herein, consumption charges shall be
based on metered consumption, as determined by periodic meter readings taken by
the Water Department. Meters shall be read quarterly.
   (B)   If a meter reader cannot gain access to the meter for a scheduled
reading or reliable meter data is otherwise unavailable, a calculated bill may
be issued, based on past metered consumption. Calculated bills may be escalated
by up to 10% beyond past consumption to cover variations. The account shall be
adjusted in accordance with subsequent meter readings as necessary to more
accurately reflect actual consumption. No change shall be required if the
calculated billing is consistent with the average and variability of subsequent
meter readings with seasonal adjustments.
   (C)   If a meter or meters shall fail to correctly register the quantities
of water flowing through it, such amount shall be determined by taking the
average of the 12 preceding readings of such meter or meters adjusted for
seasonal variations. Where insufficient valid readings are available, such
estimate may be based on the largest possible number of valid readings taken
proceeding or subsequent to such incorrect or stopped registration.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.043 BILLING; RATES.
   (A)   The village shall issue periodic bills for water consumption on all
active services. Bills may be estimated when billing periods are scheduled more
frequently than meter readings; however, a billing shall coincide with
scheduled meter readings and bills shall be adjusted to reflect actual use.
   (B)   Water rates. The village shall issue a water rate schedule listing
consumption charges, ready-to-serve charges (meter) and other charges
appropriate to provide funds for the operation, maintenance and capital
expenses of the DPW. Within the practical limits of prudent system management,
customer rates and charges shall be related to the costs of the kinds and
levels of services provided to them.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.044 RESERVED.
§ 52.045 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT.
   (A)   The owners of all structures served by a single connection to a
village water supply pipe, either individually or by an association
representing them, shall agree to guarantee payment of all water charges which
accrue against all structures. Any delinquent charges shall be a lien on all
structures.
   (B)   Customer vacating structure.  When a customer vacates a structure
served by the village water system, the customer or owner shall give notice to
the village specifying the date of such vacancy, and the owner of the structure
shall be liable for all water and service provided until such notice is given.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.046 APPEAL OF BILLS.
   (A)   Requests for adjustments. The village shall hear and consider
complaints by any property owner or occupant who desires to contest a water
bill. The village shall determine whether an adjustment shall be made in the
bill.
   (B)   Claims and allowances.
      (1)   In all cases where any rebate or allowance is claimed, the claim
therefore shall be made to the village in writing.
      (2)   The village is prohibited by the Constitution of the State of New
York from giving public funds to private parties based upon the sense of
justice or kindness of its officers and may only settle compromise and pay
claims which are enforceable against it and are not the primary liability of
another party.
      (3)   The village is not an insurer and will not allow payment of claims
by the village unless negligence of the village is proved. Claims must be
presented to the village, in writing, within 90 days of the occurrence or
within 30 days subsequent to the billing date.
      (4)   Such claims shall be:
         (a)   Reduced by any proportion that the negligence or actions of the
claimant contributed to the damage or loss;
         (b)   Disallowed if it is covered by a contract of insurance;
         (c)   Disallowed if it is not presented in writing within the period
of time allowed by applicable statutes.
      (5)   No rebate will be granted for water lost on the customer's side of
a meter.
      (6)   No rebate for unoccupied structures will be allowed unless the
water is shut off at the curb, by a village representative, and then only from
the time the village is notified.
      (7)   No rebate will be made when the charge results from the failure on
the part of the owner or consumer to comply with the village laws or water
supply policies or to promptly repair any broken, frozen or defective building
fixture or service pipe.
      (8)   No rebate or allowance on any bill sent out by the village shall be
made by the Village Treasurer, except as approved by the Village Board.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.047 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Those water customers who, 30 days after bills delivered for services
rendered as prescribed herein and at the rates concurrent with the services
rendered, have not paid their bills shall be deemed to be delinquent and the
service to their structure may be discontinued after due notice to the owner
and residents. Such service shall not be restored until proper settlement of
the delinquent customer's account has been made, together with any additional
costs which might have been incurred by the village in the discontinuing or
restoring of the delinquent users service.
   (B)   Shutoff notice.
      (1)   A notice shall be mailed to the owner of the structure at the
owner's last known address and shall be posted in at least one conspicuous
place on the structure.
      (2)   Each shutoff notice shall state that service will be shut off
unless all delinquent water and sewer bills are paid and shall state that a
hearing may be had by the owner or any tenant to contest the validity of the
sewer charges in question or to show an error in the statement of the
delinquency.
      (3)   Such notice shall indicate the proposed date of the shutoff and
also give the name and address of the Village Clerk who may be contacted to
request a hearing. The notice shall state that unless a written request for a
hearing is made within ten days after the mailing and posting of the notice,
the hearing shall be deemed waived.
   (C)   Shutoff hearing.
      (1)   If no hearing is requested by the deadline stated in the notice,
then the DPW may proceed to terminate service.
      (2)   If the termination of service will endanger the health and welfare
of persons unable to care for themselves, the matter will be referred to the
appropriate public agency for resolution before service is terminated.
      (3)   If a hearing is requested on or before the deadline date by an
owner or tenant of the structure, a hearing shall be scheduled before the
Village Board. The applicant may be accompanied by any other persons and may
present at the hearing any information, testimony or documentation by which to
support the claim.
      (4)   Minutes shall be kept of the hearing. The Village Board shall
decide whether any error was made in the water or sewer billing and whether
service shall be discontinued. The Village Board shall make a report which
substantiates its decision. A notice of the decision and the report shall be
mailed to the applicant. If the decision is to terminate service, the notice
shall state the termination date, which shall not be less than ten days after
the mailing of the decision notice.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.048 RESUMPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   No service shall be commenced to a structure on which there are unpaid
village taxes, penalties or assessments; nor to one which is owned by an
individual or corporation with water, sewer or other municipal charges
outstanding.
   (B)   If and when all delinquent bills are paid, the water service shall be
turned back on by the DPW. A service turn-on fee shall be charged.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
WATER CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE
§ 52.060 TERMS.
   (A)   The village as a water supplier is committed and bound by law to first
supply water to the structures and properties within its corporate limits.
   (B)   The village shall have no responsibility for furnishing water to
properties outside its corporate limits, except where binding contracts for
such services have been made with the village. If the village determines that
the supply of water shall be insufficient to meet the requirements within the
village, the village may curtail or suspend water sales beyond the corporate
limits with due notice.
   (C)   The cost of water to customers outside of the village limits shall be
determined by the Board of Trustees from time to time. It is understood and
agreed that the village reserves the right at all times throughout the term of
applicable contracts to increase or decrease the rate charged to village
customers. When such changes become effective, the rates paid by customers
outside the village shall be adjusted accordingly.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
WATER DISTRICTS
§ 52.065 VILLAGE AS SUPPLIER.
   (A)   The village will become the supplier to a water district only as
agreed under the provisions of a completed contract between the village and the
water district.
   (B)   Compliance and liability. All agreements for the village to supply
water shall be in compliance with federal, state and local laws. The village
shall not be responsible for damages in any failure to supply water or for
interruption of supply. The customer agrees to save and hold harmless the
village from all damages to real and personal property occasioned or caused by
the making of any water connections, or caused by the furnishing of water under
the agreement, and shall also keep and save the village harmless from all
damage of any kind, nature and description which may arise from the making of
an agreement.
   (C)   The village shall bear no liability for defects in the water service
prior to or resulting from its freezing, unless the defects were caused
directly by the actions of the Water Department.
   (D)   Water service shall not be provided to successive public water systems
outside the village unless those systems meet village specifications and all
requirements of the New York State Sanitary Code and are properly maintained.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
PROTECTION OF WATER SUPPLY
§ 52.070 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   No person shall perform any act or grant any permit or approval which may
result in the contravention of the standards for water quality as contained in
10 NYCRR Part 170 and 6 NYCRR Parts 700-706, inclusive.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009) Penalty see §
52.999
§ 52.071 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   Without limiting the generality of the general prohibitions contained in §
52.070:
   (A)   Cemeteries. No interment of a human body shall be made within a 250
foot linear distance of the wells.
   (B)   Chloride salt. No chloride salt shall be stored within a 500 foot
linear distance of the wells except in weatherproof buildings or watertight
vessels.
   (C)   Herbicides and pesticides. No pesticides or herbicides shall be
stored, discharged, applied or allowed to remain within a 500 foot linear
distance of the wells unless a permit to do so has been obtained from the
appropriate state agency having jurisdiction.
   (D)   Human excreta and sewage.
      (1)   No privy, privy vault, pit or other receptacle of any kind for
either temporary storage or the permanent deposit of human excreta or sewage
shall be constructed, located, placed, maintained or allowed to remain within a
250 foot linear distance of the wells.
      (2)   No human excreta or sewage shall be deposited or spread upon or
beneath the surface of the ground within a 250 foot linear distance of the
wells.
      (3)   No sewage or polluted liquid of any kind shall be discharged or
allowed to flow on or beneath the surface of the ground within a 250 foot
linear distance of the wells, except in watertight pipes connected to a sewage
disposal system or treatment works for which a permit has been granted by the
appropriate state agency having jurisdiction over such facility. No such
watertight pipe shall be located within a 15 foot linear distance of the wells.
   (E)   Junkyards. No junkyard shall be located within a 250 foot linear
distance of the wells.
   (F)   Radioactive material. No radioactive material shall be disposed of by
burial in soil within a 500 foot linear distance of the wells and not within a
500 foot to 1,000 foot linear distance of the wells unless authorization has
been obtained from the appropriate state agency and such burial is in
accordance with provisions of the Official Compilation of Codes, Rules and
Regulations of the State of New York, Title 10, Part 16.
   (G)   Refuse. No refuse shall be deposited on or beneath the surface of
ground within a 250 foot linear distance of the wells.
   (H)   Refuse disposal area. No refuse disposal area shall be located within
a 500 foot linear distance of the wells.
   (I)   Toxic substances. No container used for the storage of toxic
substances shall be buried beneath the surface of the ground within a 500 foot
linear distance of the wells.
   (J)   Trespassing. No trespassing shall be allowed upon the property of the
village upon which the wells are located and no person or persons shall enter
in or upon such property except the person or persons authorized to enter said
property by the village.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009) Penalty see §
52.999
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
Part l. Administrative Remedies
§ 52.080 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Superintendent finds that any person has violated or is
violating this chapter, the Superintendent may serve upon such person a written
notice stating the nature of the violation. Within ten calendar days of the
date of the notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof shall be submitted to the
Superintendent, by such person. The correction and prevention plan shall
include specific actions. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the person
of liability for any violations caused by such person before or after receipt
of the notice of violation.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.081 CONSENT ORDERS.
   The Superintendent is hereby empowered to enter into consent orders,
assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance. Such orders shall
include specific action to be taken by such person to correct the noncompliance
within a time period also specified by the order. Consent orders shall have the
same force and effect as an administrative order.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.082 ADMINISTRATIVE OR COMPLIANCE ORDER.
   When the Superintendent finds that a person has violated or continues to
violate this chapter or a permit or order issued hereunder, he may issue an
order to such person responsible for the violation directing that, following a
specified time period, water service shall be discontinued unless the violation
is corrected and that there is no reoccurrence of the violation. Orders may
also contain such other requirements as might be reasonably necessary and
appropriate to address the noncompliance, including the installation of
pretreatment technology, additional self- monitoring, and management practices.
Such person may, within 15 days of receipt of such order, petition the
Superintendent to modify or suspend the order. Such petition shall be in
written form and shall be transmitted to the Superintendent by registered mail.
The Superintendent may;
   (A)   Reject any frivolous petitions;
   (B)   Modify or suspend the order;
   (C)   Request additional information from such person; or
   (D)   Order the petitioner to show cause in accordance with §
52.084.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.083 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Superintendent finds that a person has violated or continues
to violate this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, the
Superintendent may issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and
direct those persons in noncompliance to:
      (1)   Comply forthwith;
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Such person may, within 15 days of receipt of such order, petition the
Superintendent to modify or suspend the order. Such petition shall be in
written form and shall be transmitted to the Superintendent by registered mail.
The Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject any frivolous petitions;
      (2)   Modify or suspend the order;
      (3)   Request additional information from such person; or
      (4)   Order the petitioner to show cause in accordance with §
52.084.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.084 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The Superintendent may order any person appealing administrative
remedies for violations of this law or upon the original initiative of the
Superintendent to show cause before the Board why an enforcement action,
initiated by the Superintendent, should not be taken. A notice shall be served
on such person specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the
Board regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to be taken, the
proposed enforcement action, and directing such person to show cause before the
Board why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of
the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten calendar days before the hearing.
Service may be made on any principal or executive officer of such person's
establishment or to any partner in such person's establishment.
   (B)   The Board may itself conduct the hearing and take evidence, or may
designate any of its members or any officer or employee of the village to:
      (1)   Issue, in the name of the Board notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses, and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence;
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Board for
action thereon.
   (C)   After the Board has reviewed the evidence, it may order such person to
comply with the Superintendent's order or civil penalty, modify the
Superintendent's order or civil penalty or vacate the Superintendent's order or
civil penalty.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
Part 2. Judicial Remedies
§ 52.090 FINES.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of or who fails to perform any
duty imposed by this chapter, or any order or determination of the
Superintendent promulgated under this chapter, or the terms of any permit
issued hereunder, shall be liable to the village for a fine not to exceed
$1,000 for each such violation, to be assessed after a hearing held in
conformance with the procedures set forth in this chapter. Each violation shall
be separate and distinct violation, and in the case of continuing violation,
each day's continuance thereof shall be deemed a separate and distinct
violation. Such penalty may be recovered in an action brought by the Village
Attorney at the request of the Superintendent in the name of the village in any
court of competent jurisdiction. In addition to the above described penalty and
damages, the Superintendent may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court
costs, and other expenses associated with the enforcement activities. Such fine
may be released or compromised by the Superintendent before the matter has been
referred to the Village Attorney, and where such matter has been referred to
the Village Attorney, any such penalty may be released or compromised and any
action commenced to recover the same may be settled and discontinued by the
Village Attorney, with the consent of the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.091 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   Whenever a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of
this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the Superintendent, through
counsel may petition the court, in the name of the village, for the issuance of
a preliminary or permanent injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which
restrains the violation of, or compels the compliance with any order or
determination hereunder by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.092 DAMAGES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, in
addition, be civilly liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned to the village by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
Part 3. Miscellaneous
§ 52.100 DELINQUENT PAYMENTS.
   If there shall be any payments which are due to the village or any
department thereof, pursuant to any section of this chapter, which shall remain
due and unpaid, in whole or in part, for a period of 30 calendar days from the
date of billing by the village, the same shall constitute a default, and there
shall be added to the entire amount of the original bill, a penalty equal to
10% of the original bill, and interest shall accrue on the unpaid balance, at
the rate of 2% per month, retroactive to the date of the original billing.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.101 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Superintendent may decline to reissue a permit to any person which has
failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or previous
permit issued hereunder unless such person first files with it a satisfactory
bond, payable to the village, in a sum not to exceed a value determined by the
Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent compliance.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.102 LEVY OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   The Superintendent shall transmit to the Board on or before May 15 of each
year a list of those property owners within the village against whom a civil
penalty has been imposed pursuant to §
52.999(D) for which a show cause hearing has been held pursuant to §
52.084, the notice for which having included advice that such a civil penalty
will constitute a lien upon the property involved in the violation where such
civil penalty has been outstanding and unpaid for at least 30 days and has not
previously been levied pursuant to this section. The list shall contain a brief
description of the properties with respect to which such civil penalties were
imposed, the names of the persons liable to pay for the same and the amount
chargeable to each, including penalties and interest, computed, pursuant to §
52.100. The village shall levy such sums against the properties liable and
shall state the amount thereof in a separate column on the annual tax rolls of
the village under the name "Village Water Penalty". Such amounts, when
collected by the village receiver of taxes, shall be paid over to the Chief
Fiscal Officer of the village to the credit of the water district serving such
property. All of the provisions of the tax laws of the State of New York
covering the enforcement and collection of unpaid taxes or assessments and
special improvements not inconsistent herewith shall apply to the collection of
such county water penalty.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.103 INSPECTIONS.
   The Superintendent shall make regular and thorough inspections of the area
surrounding the wells to ascertain compliance with the requirements of §§
52.070 and
52.071
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation notice. Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter shall be served by the village with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Penalties for offenses. Any person, who shall continue any violation
beyond the time limit provided for, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $5,000 for each
violation. Each day in which any violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   Damage to structures or equipment unlawful. Any person who shall
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance, fence or equipment which is a part of the water supply works
shall be charged with an offense under NY Penal Law, Article 145 and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to the fine and imprisonment, or both, for the
particular offense charged. Each day's commission of the offense shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Civil penalties. Notwithstanding any other section of this chapter,
any person who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter, or
permits or orders issued hereunder, shall be liable for a civil penalty in an
amount not to exceed $1,000 per violation as initially established by the
Superintendent subject to modification, if any, made by the Board pursuant to §
52.045. Each day on which noncompliance shall occur or continue shall be deemed
a separate and distinct violation. Any such penalty shall specify what portion
thereof represents actual loss to the village caused by the violation. Such
person may, within 15 calendar days of notification of such civil penalty,
petition the Superintendent to modify or suspend the civil penalty. Such
petition shall be in written form and shall be transmitted to the
Superintendent by registered mail. The Superintendent may:
      (1)   Reject any frivolous petitions;
      (2)   Modify or suspend the civil penalty;
      (3)   Request additional information from such person; or
      (4)   Order the petitioner to show cause in accordance with §
52.045.
   (E)   Criminal penalties.  
      (1)   Any person who willfully violates any provision of this chapter or
any final determination or order of the Superintendent made in accordance with
§§
52.080 through
52.084, 52.090 through 52.092 and 52.100 through 52.103 shall, in addition, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $500 nor more than $1,000. Each offense shall be a
separate and distinct offense, and, in the case of a continuing offense, each
day's continuance thereof shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In
the event of a second conviction, such person shall be punishable by a fine not
to exceed $3,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than three
years or both.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements,
representations, or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or
other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or
wastewater permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 per violation
per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both. In the event of a
second conviction, such person shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
$3,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than three years or
both.
      (3)   No prosecution, under this section, shall be instituted until after
final disposition of a show cause hearing, if any was instituted.
(Ord. 2-2009, passed 3-23-2009)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   PARKING AND STOPPING
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
Speed Limits
   
70.01   Village maximum speed limit
   
70.02   Damage to street surface by vehicle prohibited
Snowmobiles
   
70.15   Intent and definitions
   
70.16   Street and highway operation
All Terrain Vehicles
   
70.30   Intent and definitions
   
70.31   Operation prohibited
   
70.32   Impoundment and redemption
 
   
70.99   Penalty
SPEED LIMITS
§ 70.01 VILLAGE MAXIMUM SPEED LIMIT.
   The speed of 30 mph shall be the maximum limit on all streets.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Speed limits on certain streets, see Ch. 72, Sch. III
§ 70.02 DAMAGE TO STREET SURFACE BY VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles or conveyances of any kind shall
be operated or moved or caused or knowingly permitted to be operated or moved
on any of the streets of the village if the operation or moving of same shall
cause damage to the surface of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
   (B)   No vehicle or combination of vehicles of any name or nature quipped
with chains, lugs or other projection from its rims or tires, except in
emergency ice conditions, shall be operated or moved on any streets in the
village if the operation thereof shall cause damage to the surface of the
streets.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-2)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 70.15 INTENT AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Legislative intent. The purpose of this subchapter is to designate
certain village streets for use by snowmobiles in accordance with the authority
granted to the village by N.Y. Parks and Recreation Law §§ 25.05 and 25.09.
   (B)   Definition.
      (1)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (2)   The terms, words and phrases used in this subchapter shall have the
same meaning as those terms, words and phrases are defined in N.Y. Parks and
Recreation Law § 21.05, and that section is incorporated herein by reference as
presently composed or subsequently modified.
         VILLAGE. The Village of Franklinville.
(Prior Code, §§ 21-1-1, 21-1-2)
§ 70.16 STREET AND HIGHWAY OPERATION.
   Operations of snowmobiles within the village shall be subject to the rules
and regulations of the office of parks and recreation N.Y. Parks and Recreation
Law Art. 25, and as follows.
   (A)   Streets and highways. Only on the shoulders and inside banks of
village highways or portions thereof are hereby designated for the purpose of
operation of snowmobiles as authorized by N.Y. Parks and Recreation Law §
25.09: All village roads within the village, except North and South Main Street
which is a state highway.
   (B)   Limited operation on highway; emergency. A snowmobile may be operated
on a highway for the purpose of an emergency as authorized by N.Y. Parks and
Recreation Law § 25.05(2)(a)(b).
(Prior Code, § 21-1-3)
ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 70.30 INTENT AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Legislative intent. The Board of Trustees finds that the unrestricted
use of ATVs result in severe economic damage including but not limited to
habitat destruction and fragmentation, soil compaction and erosion which
requires extensive and costly restoration, as well as the related noise
pollution to surrounding neighborhoods through ATV operation and general
nuisance to the public at large. Therefore, the Board finds additional
restrictions are required to be placed on the use of ATVs in the village, which
are not found in the pertinent State Vehicle and Traffic Law.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. Any self-propelled vehicle with two or more
wheels which is manufactured for sale for operation primarily on off-highway/
road trails or off-highway/road competitions and only incidentally operated on
public highways provided that the vehicle does not exceed 70 inches in width,
or 1,000 pounds of dry weight, including dirt bikes. ATV shall not include
agricultural vehicles, nor any vehicles used for snowplowing (not for hire),
lawn mowing, law enforcement, fire, emergency, military or a special event.
      SPECIAL EVENT. Any organized rally, race, parade, exhibition or
demonstration of limited duration, which is conducted according to a schedule
and in which general public interest is manifested.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 9-10-2006)
§ 70.31 OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   The operation of an ATV as defined in §
70.30(B) above is strictly prohibited within the jurisdictional boundaries of
the village.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 9-10-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties set forth in §
70.99(E) below, a police officer or peace officer may immediately impound an
ATV operated in violation of §
70.31 above.
   (B)   The impounded ATV shall be stored by the Police Department pending the
identification of the owner and notice of the impoundment.
   (C)   The Police Department shall not be liable for any damages arising out
of the provision of an erroneous name or address of the owner.
   (D)   The owner of ATV utilized in violation of this law may redeem the same
upon satisfactory proof of ownership and payment of a $100 redemption fee.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 9-10-2006)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
70.01 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 or by
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or both the fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 1-1-2)
   (C)   Any person operating or causing or knowingly permitting those vehicles
to be moved or operated (as seen in § 70.02) shall be liable to a penalty not
to exceed $50 and, in addition thereto any violation thereof shall constitute
disorderly conduct and any person violating the same shall be a disorderly
person.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-3)
   (D)   Failure to comply with any of the provisions of §§
70.15 or
70.16 shall be deeded a violation and the violator shall be liable to a fine of
not less than $10 nor more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 21-1-4)
   (E)   Failure to comply with §
70.31 shall constitute a violation and shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $100 nor more than $250. Any person who violates §
70.31 after having been previously convicted of violating §
70.31 within the last five years shall be punishable by a fine of $250. The
parent or legal guardian of a person under the age of 16 accused of violating §
70.31 will be held responsible for the violation, and may be summoned to answer
the violation in a court of competent jurisdiction. In no event shall it be a
defense that the parent or legal guardian has exercised due diligent
supervision over the activities of the person under the age of 16.
(Ord. 7-2006, passed 9-10-2006)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING AND STOPPING
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Parking regulations preempted
   
71.02   Blocking fire hydrant prohibited
   
71.03   Night parking hours
   
71.04   Double parking
   
71.05   Crosswalk, sidewalk and private driveway
Enforcement
   
71.15   Authority to impound
   
71.16   Storage of removed vehicle
   
71.17   Notice of removal
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 PARKING REGULATIONS PREEMPTED.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply except when it is necessary to
stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or official traffic control device.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-1)
§ 71.02 BLOCKING FIRE HYDRANT PROHIBITED.
   No motor vehicle, motorcycle or other vehicle shall be parked or permitted
to stand at any time, on any of the streets of the village within ten feet of a
fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 1-3-5) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 NIGHT PARKING HOURS.
   The parking of vehicles is hereby prohibited on all streets within this
village between 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. from November 1 to April 1.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-2) (Am. Ord. 1-2008, passed 4-14-2008)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 DOUBLE PARKING.
   No double parking shall be allowed or permitted, except when a traffic
officer directs the same.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-5) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 CROSSWALK, SIDEWALK AND PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   No motor vehicle, motor cycle or other vehicle shall be parked or permitted
to stand on a crosswalk, any sidewalk or across from any private driveway on
the opposite side of the street at any time.
(Ord. 1-2008, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see § 71.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 71.15 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   (A)   When any vehicle is parked or abandoned on any street within this
village during a snow storm, flood, fire or other public emergency which
affects that portion of the public highway upon which the vehicle is parked or
abandoned, the vehicle may be removed by the Police Department and/or the
Superintendent of Public Works.
   (B)   When any vehicle is found unattended on any street within the village
where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, the vehicle may be
removed by the Police Department and/or Superintendent of Public Works.
   (C)   When any vehicle is parked or abandoned on any street within the
village where stopping, standing or parking is prohibited, the vehicle may be
removed by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-1)
§ 71.16 STORAGE OF REMOVED VEHICLE.
   (A)   After removal of any vehicle, as provided in this subchapter, the
Police Department and/or Superintendent of Public Works, whichever is
applicable, may store the vehicle in a suitable place at the expense of the
owner.
   (B)   The owner, or person in charge of the vehicle, may redeem the same
upon payment of the amount of all expenses actually and necessarily incurred in
effecting the removal, together with any charges for storage.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-2)
§ 71.17 NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   The Police Department and/or Superintendent of Public Works shall without
delay report the removal and the disposition of any vehicle removed as provided
in this subchapter to the Chief of Police, and it shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police to ascertain to the extent possible the owner of the vehicle or
person having charge of the same and to notify him or her of the removal and
disposition of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-3)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
71.03 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $50.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 3-28-2005)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One way streets
      
II.   Weight restrictions
      
III.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. ONE WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The street lying east of the park and known as East Park Street and
the street lying north of the park and known as North Park Street are hereby
designated as one way streets. Motor vehicles, motor cycles and other vehicles
shall enter East Park Street from Chestnut Street and proceed northerly along
East Park Street and thence northeasterly along Pine Street or westerly along
North Park Street to North Main Street and those motor vehicles, motor cycles
and other vehicles proceeding southwesterly along Pine Street shall turn into
North Park Street and proceed to North Main Street and all motor vehicles,
motor cycles and other vehicles shall come to a full stop at the intersection
of Pine Street and either East or North Park Streets and the intersection of
North Park Street with North Main Street.
(Prior Code, § 1-2-1)
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions this schedule shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $50.
(Ord. 2-2005, passed 3-28-2005)
SCHEDULE II. WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except for delivery or pickup on Pine Street, it shall be unlawful for
any vehicle with a gross vehicle weight exceeding 20,000 pounds to travel on
Pine Street between the points of intersection of Pine Street and Park Square
and Pine Street and Green Street. For the purpose of this section, GROSS
VEHICLE WEIGHT shall mean the weight of the vehicle plus all cargo and
accessories within or on the vehicle.
   (B)   A violation of division (A) above shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $100 and not more than $250 or by imprisonment up to 15 days in jail,
or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1-2007, passed 1-22-2007)
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The maximum speed limit for motor vehicles during the hours of seven
o'clock A.M. and six o'clock P.M. on days that the Franklinville School
District is in session for the education of students on North Academy Street,
South Academy Street and Riggs Street shall be 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of division (A) above shall be
punished as follows:
      (1)   Where the court enters that the speed upon which the conviction was
based exceeded the applicable speed limit by not more than ten miles per hour,
by a fine of not less than $90 nor more than $300;
      (2)   Where the court enters that the speed upon which the conviction was
based exceeded the applicable speed limit by more than ten miles per hour but
not more than 30 miles per hour, by a fine of not less than $180 nor more than
$600, or by imprisonment for not more than 15 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment; and
      (3)   Where the court enters that the speed upon which the conviction was
based exceeded the applicable speed limit by more than 30 miles per hour, by a
fine of not less than $360 nor more than $1,200, or by imprisonment for not
more than 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 7-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted areas
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   Motor vehicles, motorcycles and all other vehicles may be parked, and
allowed to stand in the following places and in the following manner, around
the park. There shall be no parking or standing on the west side of the park.
Vehicles shall be parked with the two front, or the two rear wheels against the
curb on the north side of the park and on the east side of the park, and only
parallel parking shall be allowed on the south side of the park.
   (B)   The following restrictions are in place.
Street Side Location Old Code Section Restriction
Street          Side      Location             Old Code Section Restriction
                          From the east bounds
                          of South Main Street
                          32 feet easterly
Chestnut Street South     therefrom as         1-4-1            No parking
                          measured along the
                          south bounds of
                          Chestnut Street
                          From the east side
Chestnut Street South     of Morgan Hall to    1-4-6            No parking
                          Washburn Venue
Church Street   West      Any                  Ord. 2-1997      No parking
                          From east curb line
Elm Street      North     of Church Street,    1-3-4            No parking
                          easterly a distance
                          of 24 feet
                          Within the village
                          from the center line
First Avenue    North     of South Main Street 1-3-2            No parking
                          to a point 180 feet
                          easterly thereof
                          Within the village
First Avenue    South     from the center line 1-3-2            No parking
                          of South Main Street
                          easterly 170 feet
                          From the
                          intersection of the
                          Maple Avenue with
                          Chestnut Street and
Maple Avenue    Northeast running in a         1-12-1           No parking
                          northeasterly
                          direction to the
                          village corporation
                          limits
North Academy             From the school bus
Street          North     garage driveway west 1-14-1           No parking
                          to North Main Street
                          In an area measured
                          from the east curb
North Academy             on North Main Street
Street          South     550 feet easterly    1-3-3            No parking
                          along the south side
                          of North Academy
                          Street
Pine Street     Northwest From South Academy   1-4-8            No parking
                          Street to the Park
 
   (B)   All vehicles parked on the south side of Elm Street from Main Street
to Empire Street; on the south side of Chestnut Street from Main Street to the
east side of Morgan Hall shall be parked at an angle with the curb, so that the
right front wheel of the vehicle, looking forward, shall be against the curb,
and the right rear wheel shall not be more than four feet from the curb.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
   (C)   On the north side of Elm Street and on all other streets and places
where parking is allowed, all vehicles shall be parked with the right-hand side
of the vehicle looking forward, parallel with the curb, and the right front and
rear wheels of the vehicles not more than six inches from the curb.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
   (D)   North Main Street, South Main Street, streets around the public
square, Mill Street, Elm Street, Riggs Street, Chestnut Street, Maple Avenue
and First Avenue are hereby designated as main arteries of travel and any
vehicle approaching the streets at any place where a legal stop sign is erected
shall come to a full stop before entering upon the streets and thereafter shall
enter the streets with caution.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3)
(Ord. 4-1975, passed 12-2-1975; Ord. 2-1978, passed 9-25-1978; Ord. 1-1991,
passed 2-25-1991; Ord. 2-1997, passed 3-10-1997; Ord. 3-2001, passed 11-26-
2001; Ord. 2-2005, passed 3-28-2005) Penalty, see §
71.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   ABANDONED AND UNLICENSED VEHICLES
      
93.   SIDEWALKS AND STREETS
      
94.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
95.   WEEDS AND GRASS
      
96.   NOXIOUS ODORS
      
97.   PARKS
      
98.   NOISE
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Control of dogs
   
90.02   Excessive barking prohibited
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 CONTROL OF DOGS.
   (A)   No person or persons owning, harboring or possessing a dog or dogs
shall allow the same to run at large within the village limits, away from the
premises owned or in possession of the owner or owners. By RUNNING AT LARGE
this section will be construed to mean the allowing of the dog or dogs off of
the premises where the owner or owners live and claim as his or her abode
whether on a temporary or permanent basis and not under the custody and control
of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or otherwise
restrained or confined.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-1)
   (B)   No person or persons owning, harboring or possessing a dog or dogs
shall allow the same on the streets, sidewalks or private properties in the
village unless the dog or dogs are accompanied by a person and which person
shall have the dog or dogs under control by way of a leash or other controlling
device.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-2)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 EXCESSIVE BARKING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner of or any person harboring any dog within
the village to permit or allow the dog to engage in loud howling or barking.
(Prior Code, § 13-2-1) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for each violation of §
90.01 is hereby fixed at $25 and costs of the proceeding and in addition the
village, or its agents, shall have the right to restrain any dog or dogs in
violation of the within ordinance for a period of five days, at which time the
dog or dogs will be disposed of, unless within the five-day period the owner or
owners of the dog or dogs shall pay in addition to the $25 fine the reasonable
cost of caring for the dog or dogs including shelter, food and medical
attention, if necessary.
(Prior Code, § 13-1-3)
   (C)   Any person committing the offense as outlined in §
90.02 shall be punishable, on conviction, by a fine of $25 for the first
violation, $50 for the second violation and $100 for a third and subsequent
violation.
(Prior Code, § 13-2-2)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Title and purpose
   
91.002   Fire Chief to administer provisions
Enforcement by Fire Chief
   
91.015   Power and duty to inspect
   
91.016   Power and duty to investigate fires
Prohibited Actions
   
91.030   Prohibition against building fire on public property
   
91.031   Depositing hot material in, on or near wood prohibited
   
91.032   Prohibition against oily rags or waste; exception
   
91.033   Areas to be maintained free of combustible accumulation
   
91.034   When approval required
   
91.035   Fire extinguished upon order of Chief
   
91.036   Required care for delivery of fuel oil, flammable liquids
   
91.037   Discharge of flammable material into sewer or drain prohibited
   
91.038   Storage, handling of flammable liquid, gas or vapor
   
91.039   “No Smoking” signs posted by Chief
   
91.040   Use of flammable liquids for cleaning prohibited
Fire Extinguishment
   
91.055   Requirement of extinguishing materials
   
91.056   Use of hydrant
   
91.057   False alarm prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “The Fire Prevention
Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1)
   (B)   This chapter provides for matters intended to safeguard life and
property against fire hazards in the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2)
§ 91.002 FIRE CHIEF TO ADMINISTER PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Fire Chief of the Fire Department, hereinafter referred to as the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3)
ENFORCEMENT BY FIRE CHIEF
§ 91.015 POWER AND DUTY TO INSPECT.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief shall inspect, or cause to be inspected by uniformed
officers or other members of the Fire Department, as often as may be necessary,
all buildings and premises, except the interiors of dwellings, to ascertain and
cause to be corrected any conditions that are liable to cause fire or may be in
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Additional inspections shall be made on complaint of a resident of
the village or other responsible person, and on information or report of an
official or employee of the village government.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4)
   (B)   (1)   The Chief shall have the power and it shall be his or her duty,
upon discovery of a condition in or about a building or premises that may
endanger life or property because of the hazard of fire or explosion, to order
or direct the removal or remedying of the condition forthwith, covering among
other matters the improper use or storage of combustible or explosive matter,
or the dangerous or unnecessary accumulation of rubbish, waste paper, boxes,
shavings or other flammable materials or the obstruction of fire escapes,
stairs, passageways, doors or windows liable to interfere with the egress of
occupants in case, of fire or with the operations of the Fire Department.
      (2)   The orders shall be in writing and shall fix a period of time
within which compliance shall be met; provided that in case of highly hazardous
conditions or in any emergency such an order may be oral and shall be of the
same effect as if in writing.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6)
   (C)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this subchapter, the
Chief or other member of the Fire Department designated by him or her, or a
member of the Board of Fire Commissioners may at any reasonable hour, or in the
case of an emergency at any hour, enter upon a building or premises.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7)
§ 91.016 POWER AND DUTY TO INVESTIGATE FIRES.
   (A)   The Chief, or a member of the uniformed force designated by him or
her, shall investigate and examine into the cause and circumstances of every
fire by which any building or property shall have been burned, damaged or
destroyed, either in whole or in part.
   (B)   If evidence of incendiarism be found, the Chief or member of the
uniformed force designated by him or her shall at once reduce his or her
findings to writing and shall forthwith submit the report including the names
and addresses of witnesses to the Board of Fire Commissioners with a copy to
the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5)
PROHIBITED ACTIONS
§ 91.030 PROHIBITION AGAINST BUILDING FIRE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The building of fires in any of the streets, alleys, rights-of-way,
sidewalks and public property in the village is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.031 DEPOSITING HOT MATERIAL IN, ON OR NEAR WOOD PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit ashes or hot material of any kind on a wooden floor
or in proximity to a combustible partition within a building, or in a wooden
receptacle or other container made of combustible materials.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.032 PROHIBITION AGAINST OILY RAGS OR WASTE; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall keep or permit to be kept on any premises, oily waste or
oily rags, unless at all times, when not actually in use, the oily waste and
oily rags be kept in a metal can with riveted joints, having a self-closing
cover, and standing on metal legs which raise the bottom of the container at
least three inches above the floor.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.033 AREAS TO BE MAINTAINED FREE OF COMBUSTIBLE ACCUMULATION.
   (A)   Every place of business covered by this chapter shall be kept free and
clean of waste paper and other combustible material.
   (B)   No person shall permit accumulation of waste paper, hay, grass, straw,
weeds, litter or combustible or flammable waste, or rubbish of any kind to
remain in a cellar, upon a roof, or in a court yard, vacant lot or open space.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.034 WHEN APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No person shall build, maintain or use a fire upon a dock, or bulkhead, nor
in or upon a public street or other public place, nor in or on the premises or
grounds of a building or structure under construction or being demolished,
without first having secured the approval of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.035 FIRE EXTINGUISHED UPON ORDER OF CHIEF.
   Whenever the burning of brush or trash on private property is, in the
opinion of the Chief, of a magnitude or nature as to endanger life or property,
or is not properly supervised, he or she shall order the owner or occupant of
the property to extinguish the fire forthwith. In case the order is not
promptly complied with, the Chief shall cause immediate extinguishment of the
fire to be made.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.036 REQUIRED CARE FOR DELIVERY OF FUEL OIL, FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person when delivering fuel oil or other
flammable liquid to permit the oil or liquid to drip, fall or spread upon a
street or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.037 DISCHARGE OF FLAMMABLE MATERIAL INTO SEWER OR DRAIN PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge or lead, directly or indirectly, into a
sewer or drain, either public or private, a flammable liquid, gas or vapor.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.038 STORAGE, HANDLING OF FLAMMABLE LIQUID, GAS OR VAPOR.
   (A)   No stove, furnace, boiler, forge or other apparatus or device using an
open flame or fire, nor any electric or other apparatus which is likely to
produce an exposed spark shall be used or permitted in a room or space where
flammable liquid, gas or vapor is or is likely to be stored, handled or kept
for use or sale.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-8)
   (B)   (1)   No system of lighting using an open flame shall be installed or
used in a room or space where flammable liquid, gas or vapor, or combustible
material regulated by this section is or is likely to be stored, kept, handled
or used.
      (2)   No person shall use or take into a room or space where flammable
liquid, gas or vapor, or combustible material regulated by this chapter is
stored, kept or handled or used, any portable lighting device other than
protected incandescent electric light.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-9)
   (C)   No person shall smoke or carry a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or
match within a room or space where flammable liquid, gas or vapor, or
combustible material regulated by this section is stored, handled or kept for
use or sale.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-10(a)) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.039 “NO SMOKING” SIGNS POSTED BY CHIEF.
   Whenever, in his or her judgment, it seems necessary or desirable, the Chief
shall require signs to be conspicuously displayed in one or more locations,
bearing the words “No Smoking” in red letters at least four inches high on a
white background, and “By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners” in black
letters at least two inches high.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-10(b))
§ 91.040 USE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS FOR CLEANING PROHIBITED.
   The use of gasoline or other flammable liquids for cleaning purposes is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 8-2-11) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE EXTINGUISHMENT
§ 91.055 REQUIREMENT OF EXTINGUISHING MATERIALS.
   The owners and proprietors of multi-family houses, lodging houses, public
buildings and business buildings shall except so far as specific provision is
made in this subchapter or in the state labor law, provide fire extinguishers,
buckets, axes, fire hooks or other portable appliances for preventing and
extinguishing fires as the chief engineer shall direct.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1)
§ 91.056 USE OF HYDRANT.
   No person, other than an employee of the water company supplying water or a
member of the Fire Department acting under the order of the Chief, shall open,
use or tamper with a fire hydrant without previous permission in writing from
the water company. No person shall leave the hydrant open for a longer period
than limited in the permission, or use water for other purposes than authorized
by the water company.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.057 FALSE ALARM PROHIBITED.
   No person shall willfully give or cause to be given a false alarm of fire.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED AND UNLICENSED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Purpose, coverage and definitions
   
92.02   Storage of unlicensed vehicles
§ 92.01 PURPOSE, COVERAGE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The outdoor storage of abandoned, junked, discarded and
unlicensed motor vehicles upon privately owned properties within the village is
dangerous, unsightly and a detriment to the preservation of public health, the
protection of property and the safety and welfare of the residents of the
village.
      (2)   The outdoor storage of abandoned, junked, discarded and unlicensed
motor vehicles upon privately owned properties within the village constitutes
an attractive nuisance to children and a peril to their safety.
      (3)   The storage constitutes a threat to the safety and welfare of the
residents of the village since the fuel tanks frequently contain gasoline or
gasoline fumes and may be subject to explosion in case of fire. The storage
depreciates the value of neighboring properties and is unsightly and
discourages the orderly, progressive development of the village.
      (4)   The control of the outdoor storage of abandoned, junked, discarded
and unlicensed motor vehicles upon privately owned properties within the
village is therefore regulated for the preservation of the public health,
safety and welfare of the residents of the village.
   (B)   This section is in addition to and does not change, repeal or amend
the requirements of the village Zoning Ordinance which was effective May 20,
1963 except that the definition of JUNK YARD in the Zoning Ordinance shall
apply to all junk yards other than junk yards containing motor vehicles. Junk
yards containing motor vehicles is defined herein as it is defined in N.Y. Gen.
Mun. Law § 136.
   (C)   (1)   Residential property shall include single, multi or multiple
dwellings, apartment houses and rooming houses, vacant properties.
      (2)   Commercial property to include all other privately owned real
property in the village that is not within this residential definition.
(Ord. 3-1989, passed 6-26-1989)
§ 92.02 STORAGE OF UNLICENSED VEHICLES.
   No unregistered motor vehicle shall be located at anytime on residential
property except one that is covered with a tightly fitted tarpaulin, completely
covering the vehicle. If any owner of a motor vehicle has purchased a
replacement vehicle (new or used), the other vehicle (first owned) may remain
on the private property of the owner or tenant for a period of no more than 30
days provided that the owner of the vehicle, immediately upon termination of
the motor vehicle license for that vehicle, secure from the Village Clerk a
permit to sell the vehicle on private property where they reside, if with the
permission or the consent of the owner of the private property. Only one 30-day
permit per year shall be allowed. Any holding over after the expiration of the
permit shall be deemed a violation.
(Ord. 2-1990, passed 11-16-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: SIDEWALKS AND STREETS
Section
Obstructions
   
93.001   Definitions
   
93.002   Motor vehicles on sidewalk prohibited; village snow removal exception
   
93.003   Sidewalk pedestrian right-of-way over bicycle or skateboard
   
93.004   Animals prohibited on sidewalk; dog exception
   
93.005   Attracting crowd by selling or advertising prohibited
   
93.006   Awning height
   
93.007   Permit required for sidewalk or street placement of goods for sale
   
93.008   Permit required for public assemblage or parade
Sidewalk Construction
   
93.020   Authority to require owner to construct sidewalk
   
93.021   Notice to owner to construct sidewalk
   
93.022   Sidewalk specifications
   
93.023   Cost apportionment; choice of contractor; new subdivision cost
   
93.024   Remedy for failure to construct
Sidewalk Maintenance
   
93.035   Duty to repair sidewalks
   
93.036   Defective sidewalks described
   
93.037   Jurisdiction of Superintendent of Public Works; promulgation of rules
and regulations
   
93.038   Inspection and report
   
93.039   Repair notice service and content requirements
   
93.040   Authority to extend time of performance
   
93.041   Sidewalk quality subject to inspection and approval by Department of
Public Works
   
93.042   Permit and fee for sidewalk construction required; permit visible
   
93.043   Insurance certificate required for contractor
   
93.044   Sidewalk grade and concrete
   
93.045   Cost apportionment; owner ineligibility for reimbursement; village
reimbursement of cost and interest
   
93.046   Hindrance of Public Works Department prohibited
Snow and Ice Removal
   
93.060   Sidewalks kept clear of snow and ice
   
93.061   Twenty-four-hour time limit for removal
   
93.062   Unlawful deposit of snow or ice
Streets
   
93.075   Definitions
   
93.076   Dedication of interest to village
   
93.077   Abandonment or discontinuance of street; procedure
   
93.078   Naming of streets
   
93.079   Acquisition of street by prescription
   
93.080   Ball playing, coasting prohibited
   
93.081   Overhead, adjoining signs; permit or prior approval required
   
93.082   Erection and maintenance of utility poles and wires
Openings and Excavations
   
93.095   Permit and inspection fee required
   
93.096   Contractor insurance certificates
   
93.097   Replacement of sidewalk, curb or gutter
   
93.098   Deposit of restoration costs; bond in lieu of
   
93.099   Specifications and restrictions for street opening
   
93.100   Backfill specifications
   
93.101   Village reservation of replacement right
   
93.102   Guarding of excavation; assumption of liability
 
   
93.999   Penalty
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 93.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVEWAY APPROACH. A section of a right-of-way designated to allow access
from a public street or road to a building lot or parcel of land.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb line and lateral line of
a roadway and the adjacent property line.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported, carried or drawn, except devices moved by human power.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.002 MOTOR VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED; VILLAGE SNOW REMOVAL EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, drive or park, cause to be operated, driven
or parked or knowingly permit the operation, driving or parking of any vehicle
in or upon any sidewalk within the corporate limits of the village.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a motor-driven
vehicle or equipment that is owned, operated or authorized by the village for
the purpose of the maintenance of or removal of snow from the sidewalks.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.003 SIDEWALK PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY OVER BICYCLE OR SKATEBOARD.
   The riding of bicycles or skateboards on sidewalks in the village is
prohibited when it impedes pedestrian use of the sidewalks.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.004 ANIMALS PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALK; DOG EXCEPTION.
   No person shall ride, drive or lead any horse, team, cow or other animal,
except dogs, upon the sidewalks.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.005 ATTRACTING CROWD BY SELLING OR ADVERTISING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, by selling or advertising goods upon the streets or
sidewalks, attract a crowd and obstruct the sidewalks.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.006 AWNING HEIGHT.
   No person shall erect an awning upon or over any sidewalk or erect or
construct any awning that shall not be at all times, at its lowest point, at
least seven feet above the sidewalk.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.007 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR SIDEWALK OR STREET PLACEMENT OF GOODS FOR SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate or place for the purpose of
selling or exposing for sale, whether by auction or private sale, any goods,
wares or merchandise in any street or public place or on any sidewalk in the
village without first obtaining a permit therefore after approval of the Board
of Trustees.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.008 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGE OR PARADE.
   No person or persons nor any society or organization shall assemble or
congregate upon the sidewalks or on any corner thereof or public place or
places within the village for the purpose of holding a meeting or addressing an
audience without first obtaining a permit therefor after approval by the Board
of Trustees of the village.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.020 AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE OWNER TO CONSTRUCT SIDEWALK.
   When the Village Board of Trustees deems that in the interests of the
general public, new sidewalks must be constructed, the Superintendent of Public
Works, by written notice, shall require the owner of any building, occupied lot
or vacant lot within the limits of the village, to construct the sidewalk in
accordance with the Standard Specifications for Installation of Public
Sidewalks.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.021 NOTICE TO OWNER TO CONSTRUCT SIDEWALK.
   (A)   Written notice shall be served upon the owner or his or her executor,
legal representative or agent, either personally or by first class prepaid mail
addressed to the last known address of the owner or other person mentioned
herein as the address is shown on the records of the Superintendent.
   (B)   If the name of the owner or place of residence cannot be ascertained,
notice shall be served by posting in a conspicuous place upon the premises.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.022 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All sidewalks installed within the village shall be concrete unless
otherwise approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   Sidewalks shall be a minimum of four feet in width, matching
width and elevations to adjacent sidewalks in accordance with ADA requirements.
The concrete used shall be 3,500 pounds per square strength within air
entertainment of 6% to 7%.
      (2)   The sidewalk shall be four inches thick except at driveways, where
it shall be six inches thick.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.023 COST APPORTIONMENT; CHOICE OF CONTRACTOR; NEW SUBDIVISION COST.
   (A)   The cost of materials for the construction as established by the
village, shall be shared by the owner and the village at the rate of 50% by the
village and 50% by the property owner.
   (B)   The property owner has the option of doing the work or hiring a
contractor. The village shall share the verified expense, provided however that
the village shall in no event pay any amount greater than the maximum rate
established by the village. New construction in a subdivision shall be
completely at the expense of the developer and will be a condition of
subdivision approval unless sidewalk construction is waived at the request of
the developer.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.024 REMEDY FOR FAILURE TO CONSTRUCT.
   If the owner or agent shall fail to construct the sidewalk within 30 days of
service of the notice, the Superintendent of Public Works shall cause the
sidewalk to be constructed and the owner shall pay 50% of the expense incurred.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE
§ 93.035 DUTY TO REPAIR SIDEWALKS.
   The owner and occupant of any premises shall keep sidewalks, on or running
along the street row adjoining the property, in reasonably good and safe repair
for users thereof; and shall be responsible for all necessary and corrective
maintenance to accomplish the result. Any such owner or occupant shall be
liable for any injury or damage by reason of omission or failure to repair,
keep safe and maintain such sidewalk or to remove obstructions therefrom or
negligence in performing these functions.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006; Am. Ord. 1-2020, passed 4-13-2020)
§ 93.036 DEFECTIVE SIDEWALKS DESCRIBED.
   (A)   A defective sidewalk that is not in accordance with the standards set
forth in §
93.035 above shall mean any sidewalk which has any or all of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Unacceptable quality of sidewalk surface, including but not limited
to holes, depressions, breaks or projections;
      (2)   Ridges or gaps between adjoining sidewalk blocks;
      (3)   Differences in elevation of the surface or of adjoining sidewalk
blocks;
      (4)   Peeling or crumbling of the surface of the sidewalk;
      (5)   Tilting of sidewalk or sidewalk blocks except in the case of
handicap ramps, driveway approaches or other similar situations; or
      (6)   Missing portions of surface.
   (B)   The above shall be applicable regardless of the type of sidewalk that
exists, whether or not flagstone, brick, concrete, blacktop or any other
material.
   (C)   All defective sidewalks within the terms stated above are hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.037 JURISDICTION OF SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS; PROMULGATION OF RULES
AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Public Works shall have jurisdiction for the
purpose of ordering the repair of a defective sidewalk and for taking remedial
action towards making the surface in good repair.
   (B)   All sidewalk repair or construction is to be performed in accordance
with rules and regulations established by the Superintendent of Public Works,
who shall prepare the same and promptly file them in the office of the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.038 INSPECTION AND REPORT.
   Upon receipt of information that a sidewalk may be defective, the
Superintendent shall make an inspection of the sidewalk and file a report in
his or her office.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.039 REPAIR NOTICE SERVICE AND CONTENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   If the report shall confirm the existence of a defective
sidewalk as defined in this section, the Superintendent shall cause a notice to
be served upon the owner or his or her executor, legal representative or agent,
either personally or by first class prepaid mail, addressed to the last known
address or the owner or other person mentioned herein as the address is shown
on the records of the Superintendent.
      (2)   If the name of the owner or place of residence cannot be
ascertained, notice shall be served by posting in a conspicuous place upon the
premises.
   (B)   The notice shall contain the following:
      (1)   Description of the premises upon which the sidewalk is located;
      (2)   The statement of the particulars in which the sidewalk is
defective;
      (3)   A designation of the area in which repair or replacement is to be
made;
      (4)   An order that the repair or correction of the defective portion of
the sidewalk shall commence within 30 days of personal service or within 40
days of service by mailing;
      (5)   A procedure to schedule a hearing before the Village Board if the
owner does not agree with the findings of the Superintendent of Public Works.
That hearing shall be scheduled not less than 20 business days from the date of
service of the written notice; and
      (6)   A statement that in the event of neglect or refusal to comply with
the order to repair, or replace the defective sidewalk, the Village Board is
authorized to provide that the sidewalk be secured and repaired and that all
expenses thereof assessed against the land in which the sidewalk is located
including related necessary or incidental expenses.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.040 AUTHORITY TO EXTEND TIME OF PERFORMANCE.
   The Superintendent may extend time requirements for cause and in writing and
upon reasonable terms and conditions.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.041 SIDEWALK QUALITY SUBJECT TO INSPECTION AND APPROVAL BY DEPARTMENT OF
PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   The property owner/contractor is responsible for the quality of the
finished sidewalk.
   (B)   A representative of the Department of Public Works will inspect the
project from time to time and may require the owner to remove and replace new
construction that does not meet construction standards as set forth below and
as may be modified from time to time.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.042 PERMIT AND FEE FOR SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED; PERMIT VISIBLE.
   (A)   Before engaging upon sidewalk repair or construction, the contractor,
on behalf of the owner, must first obtain a permit from the Superintendent of
Public Works. The applications shall be furnished by the Superintendent.
   (B)   At the time of making application to the village for a permit to
construct or repair a sidewalk, the owner or contractor shall pay to the
village a permit fee in such amount as the Board of Trustees may from time to
time determine.
   (C)   A copy of any permit issued in accordance with this subchapter, in the
possession of the persons actually doing the work shall be available for
inspection by the Superintendent of Public Works.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.043 INSURANCE CERTIFICATE REQUIRED FOR CONTRACTOR.
   No permit shall be issued to a contractor until he or she has filed with the
Village Clerk a certificate showing that he or she carries workers’
compensation for all of his or her employees and must show certificate of
insurance.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.044 SIDEWALK GRADE AND CONCRETE.
   (A)   No person shall repair or reconstruct a sidewalk unless the same shall
be in accordance with the grade established and obtained from the Village
Department of Public Works.
   (B)   All replacement sidewalks shall be made of concrete.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.045 COST APPORTIONMENT; OWNER INELIGIBILITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT; VILLAGE
REIMBURSEMENT OF COST AND INTEREST.
   (A)   The cost of materials for the construction as established by the
village shall be shared by the owner and village at the rate of 50% by the
village and 50% by the property owner.
   (B)   Sidewalk repair or replacement work performed by the village because
of the neglect, refusal or failure of the owner to agree to the work shall make
the work ineligible for any village sidewalk repair or construction
reimbursement plan.
   (C)   The village shall be reimbursed for the cost of work performed or
services rendered as provided in this subchapter by assessment against and
collection from the lots or parcels of land where the work was performed or
service rendered for so much of the actual and complete cost as incurred upon
and from each lot or lots, in the manner provided for the assessment of the
cost of public improvements by applicable law, together with appropriate
interest.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.046 HINDRANCE OF PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether or not interested in the
property affected by this subchapter, to hinder or obstruct the Department of
Public Works or any person acting on his or her behalf and including any
contractor from not performing the work in this chapter.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL
§ 93.060 SIDEWALKS KEPT CLEAR OF SNOW AND ICE.
   All persons owning or occupying any house or other building, lot or vacant
house or lot in the village shall, during the winter season and during the time
the snow shall continue on the ground:
   (A)   Keep the sidewalks in front of, adjoining or in any way contiguous to
any such house, building or lot free from obstruction by snow and ice; and
   (B)   Within 24 hours after the snow and ice have fallen to the ground,
remove the same and shall also at all times keep the sidewalks in good and safe
repair and clean and keep free from dirt, filth and weeds or other obstructions
and encumbrances.
   (C)   Any such owner or occupant shall be liable for any injury or damage by
reason of omission or failure to repair, keep safe and maintain such sidewalk
or to remove snow or ice or other obstructions therefrom or negligence in
performing these functions.
   (D)   If the village assists such owner or occupant in removal of snow and
ice, such assistance shall not replace or mitigate the owner or occupant's
liability for the same.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006; Am. Ord. 1-2020, passed 4-13-2020)
§ 93.061 TWENTY-FOUR-HOUR TIME LIMIT FOR REMOVAL.
   If, within 24 hours, the snow and ice are not removed as herein provided,
the Superintendent of Public Works of the village may remove the same, and the
charge for so doing may be assessed to the adjoining owner by adding the same
to the tax roll.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.062 UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF SNOW OR ICE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to push or
deposit snow or ice in, on or across any street or sidewalks within the
village.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall plow, shovel, sweep or pile snow,
ice or other materials or permit or cause any snow, ice or other materials to
be deposited in or on any sidewalk, street, right-of-way or public highway in
the village so as to interfere with the safety and convenience of public
travel, the snow removal operations of the Department of Public Works, or the
drainage system serving the village.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
STREETS
§ 93.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONING A HIGHWAY. A road or highway is deemed abandoned if it is unused
for a period of six years. Abandonment differs from discontinuance in that no
affirmative act of a municipal body is required for the road or highway to
become abandoned. Public streets cannot be abandoned. Paper streets can be
abandoned if they appear upon a subdivision map and the subdivision is
abandoned.
   BRIDGE. A structure including supports, erected over a depression or an
obstruction such as water, highway or railway having a track or passageway for
carrying traffic, or other moving loads and having an opening measured along
the center of the track or roadway of more than 20 feet between under croppings
of abutments or spring lines or arches, or extreme ends of openings for
multiple boxes and may include multiple pipes where the clear distance between
openings is less than half of the smaller contiguous opening.
   CLOSING A STREET. Procedure whereby a municipality prohibits through passage
from one end of a street to the other by means of some type of physical barrier
at a point along the street. Street closings can be either permanent or
temporary. Temporary CLOSINGS occur for such things as parades, water main
breaks, or emergencies and utilize temporary barricades to access while
permanent closings involve the erection of some type of fixed barrier.
   CULVERT. A structure whether of single or multiple span construction within
an interior width of 20 feet or less when measurement is made horizontally
along a center line of roadway from face to face of abutments or sidewalks
immediately below the copings or fillets; or, if there are no copings or
fillets at points six inches below the bridge seats or immediately under the
top slab in case of frame structures. Both cities and villages are responsible
for the repair of any culverts located within their boundaries.
   DISCONTINUING A STREET. Procedure whereby a municipality ends the use of a
public street as a thoroughfare, and eliminates that parcel of land’s
classification as a street on the official map. A street can only be
discontinued after it is determined to be useless by the municipality.
   HIGHWAYS. Public roads maintained by the state, county or town. Town
HIGHWAYS are specifically defined to exclude any roads within the boundaries of
a village.
   OPENING A STREET. A phrase, which has two distinct meanings. While most
commonly used to describe digging or excavating a hole or trench into the
street, it is also sometimes used to describe when a street closing is ended or
a street is otherwise made accessible for travel.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area alongside both sides of a roadway that, while not
paved is municipally owned. This area includes not only the paved or traveled
portion of the street but also reasonable shoulders, including sidewalks and
the grassy area between the sidewalk and the paved street. Roads may have been
dedicated without specified rights-of-way or continuous use of a private road
may have led to it becoming a street by prescription without defined rights-of-
way. In the absence of a recorded dedication, a right-of-way would be
interpreted as a reasonable width from the paved portion.
   ROAD. A strip of land, improved or unimproved, used for purposes of travel
between two points. If the public has the right to use a road then it may also
be termed a street.
      (1)   PRIVATE ROAD. Any road that has not been dedicated to a
municipality and upon which the public had no right of access.
      (2)   PUBLIC ROAD. Same meaning as PUBLIC STREET except the term STREET
historically has been used to describe thoroughfares in municipal areas while
ROAD or HIGHWAY has been used to describe thoroughfares outside of cities and
villages.
   STREET. Any highway, road, avenue, lane or alley, which the public has a
right to use and appears. on the official map or a map filed with the County
Clerk.
      (1)   PAPER STREET. Streets that appear on the official map of the
municipality or a map filed in the office of the County Clerk but which have
not been improved.
      (2)   PRIVATE STREET. Any street that appears on the official map or a
map filed with the County Clerk but which has not been accepted for dedication
or taken by condemnation by the municipality.
      (3)   PUBLIC STREET. Those streets that have been accepted for dedication
or taken by condemnation by a municipality.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.076 DEDICATION OF INTEREST TO VILLAGE.
   (A)   Village property owners can dedicate an entire private street, a part
thereof or an easement to the village for the use as a public street. If a
property owner grants the village an easement, the village will only have the
right to use the street in accordance with the easement.
   (B)   An owner can also dedicate land not previously laid out as a street to
be used as a street. Though there may be someone willing to donate land, a
municipality is not required to accept a street for dedication.
   (C)   The process for this dedication and acceptance is as follows.
      (1)   The owner of the property must make the offer of dedication in
writing and the Board of Trustees may by resolution determine to accept the
offer. No street less than two rods (33 feet) in width may be accepted unless
the resolution passes unanimously by the Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The Board must bold a public hearing. The notice for the hearing
must include a general description of the road and its proposed course.
      (3)   The owner may convey the land by deed to be dedicated to the
village and Board of Trustees may accept the conveyance by a second resolution
that must be recorded in the County Clerk’s office. All offers of dedication
must be recorded in full in the minutes of the Board of Trustees.
      (4)   Upon acceptance of the conveyance, the land becomes a public
street.
   (D)   If there is any dispute over whether a particular street was dedicated
and/or accepted by a city or village, the issue will need to be decided in a
court. The burden of proof will fall to the party asserting that the land was
dedicated.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.077 ABANDONMENT OR DISCONTINUANCE OF STREET; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Discontinuance happens when a municipality uses legislative action to
end a street’s existence. Abandonment comes from the Highway Law and describes
what happens when a highway is unused and untraveled for a period of six years.
It is important to note that both discontinuance and abandonment are very
different from a municipality closing a street. Closing a street only occurs
for a limited period of time and can only be done in either an emergency
situation or with specific statutory authority. Once a municipality
discontinues a street, it may sell the land for adequate compensation or, if
the property was taken through eminent domain proceedings, it can be given back
to the adjoining landowner.
   (B)   To discontinue a street, the Village Board must find that a street has
become useless. Once the Board has made this finding, it will pass a resolution
discontinuing the street after the appropriate notice and a public hearing.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.078 NAMING OF STREETS.
   Streets can be named or renamed by a simple resolution of the legislative
body of the municipality. No public hearing on the matter is necessary. Owners
of property on a particular street have no vested right in the name of the
street.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.079 ACQUISITION OF STREET BY PRESCRIPTION.
   (A)   One of the lesser-known methods of acquiring streets is through
prescription, similar to adverse possession. In villages, this is achieved when
a private street has been used continuously as a street for ten years or more,
thereby giving it the same force and effect as if it had been originally laid
out and recorded as public street.
   (B)   During the requisite period, the public authority must have repaired
or essentially adopted the street for those years. The unorganized public
cannot acquire rights to private streets by prescription or dedication by use
alone.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 93.080 BALL PLAYING, COASTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall engage in playing ball or aid or assist in playing any game
in or upon any street or upon any sidewalk. No person shall engage in coasting
or sliding upon any street, alley or public ground without permission of and
except under regulations adopted by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.081 OVERHEAD, ADJOINING SIGNS; PERMIT OR PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall erect or suspend any sign or banner over a public
street within the village without the consent of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   No sign attached to any building adjoining a public street shall be
less than ten feet from the sidewalk.
   (C)   No such sign shall be placed or attached to a building so that any
portion shall be over any portion of any public street or sidewalk until a
written permit shall be obtained, after approval of the Board of Trustees,
which permit shall be valid only for such time as such bond or insurance policy
or renewal thereof shall be in force, and the maintenance of any such sign
without the bond or insurance policy shall be a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.082 ERECTION AND MAINTENANCE OF UTILITY POLES AND WIRES.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation not otherwise authorized by law to do
so shall erect or maintain any object, including tree trimming and/or removal
on, through or under the surface of any street or sidewalk or public places
within the village.
   (B)   Any telegraph, telephone, electric light or other poles and/or cable
television poles and wires and computer wires, or string wires in or over or
upon or install conduits or pipes in any street, sidewalk or public ground or
over or in front of any building or buildings within the village without a
permit from the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   All permitted telephone, telegraph, electric light or electric power
poles and/or cable television poles and wires and computer wires, where the
same are located upon the public highway or public places within the village,
shall be marked with the name or initials of the owner or owners of the poles
in the distinct and legible letters and characters and in such a manner as the
Board of Trustees shall prescribe.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
OPENINGS AND EXCAVATIONS
§ 93.095 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm, association, public utility or corporation, municipal
or otherwise, shall open or dig up any sidewalk, public grounds, pavement or
shoulder of any village street or in any way alter, remove, cut up, destroy,
elevate or lower any curbing of any such street for any purpose without first
obtaining a permit therefore from the Village Clerk, which permit shall be
issued only upon authority of the Village Board, or its designee, upon
application therefore setting forth in detail the nature of the work to be done
and the extent and size of the opening, alteration, removal, destruction
elevation or lowering intended to be performed in cases of emergency.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by a fee, which includes the cost
of inspection of the work. The permit and inspection fee as determined by the
Village Board from time to time shall be paid to the village with the
application.
(Ord. 4-2006, passed 6-12-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.096 CONTRACTOR INSURANCE CERTIFICATES.
   No permit shall be issued to a contractor until he or she has filed with the
Village Clerk a certificate showing that he or she carries workers’
compensation for all of his or her employees and must show certificate of
insurance.
(Ord. 4-2006, passed 6-12-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.097 REPLACEMENT OF SIDEWALK, CURB OR GUTTER.
   No sidewalk, curb or concrete gutter or portion thereof shall be removed
without being replaced as a full block from all existing joints.
(Ord. 4-2006, passed 6-12-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.098 DEPOSIT OF RESTORATION COSTS; BOND IN LIEU OF.
   (A)   (1)   As a further condition to the issuance of the permit, the
applicant shall deposit with the Clerk such sum of money as set forth from time
to time by resolution of the Board of Trustees, the minimum deposit to restore
the street, curbing, sidewalk, gutter and drainage lines to at least their
original condition.
      (2)   Where the permit shall be for the removal of any part of a curb,
the amount of deposit and the nature of the restoration or substitute for the
curbing shall be determined by the Board of Trustees at the time of authorizing
the Clerk to issue the permit.
      (3)   The deposit will be refunded following final inspection.
   (B)   (1)   In lieu of a money deposit as required by division (A) above,
the Board of Trustees may, in the case of a private contractor, municipal
corporation, public utility or other governmental body, authorize the Clerk to
accept a bond in a sum to be determined by the Board, conditioned upon
compliance with the terms of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any private contractor, municipal corporation, public utility or
other governmental body, in compliance with this subchapter, shall be bonded
for all work in the village involving permits. The bond may be a continuing
bond covering all work involving permits issued to the applicant during a
period of at least one year.
(Ord. 4-2006, passed 6-12-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.099 SPECIFICATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS FOR STREET OPENING.
   (A)   The sides of the area of the street opening hereunder shall be
straight and parallel and of sufficient width to permit a firm foundation for
the refill. In cutting concrete pavement, all reinforcement shall be cut along
the centerline of the trench or opening and bent back over the edge of the
remaining pavement.
   (B)   No tunneling shall be permitted under any paved, curbed or gutter
portion of the street or under the sidewalk thereof without the special and
additionally expressed authority of the Board of Trustees and except under such
conditions as it may then impose.
(Ord. 4-2006, passed 6-12-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.100 BACKFILLING SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   All street openings shall be backfilled immediately after the
completion of the applicant’s work therein. If material under the roadway is
unsuitable, contaminated or saturated, it shall be removed from the site and
suitable granular material shall be brought in.
   (B)   Excavations shall be properly backfilled and compacted with mechanical
vibratory compactor in horizontal layers not to exceed 12 inches in thickness.
The opening and the adjoining pavement which may have been disturbed in the
progress thereof shall then be temporarily paved and the temporary pavement
gird for by the applicant until such time as the village shall decide and
notify the applicant, by ordinary mail, that proper settlement of the backfill
has taken place, whereupon and within ten days of the notice the applicant
shall permanently repave the opening and adjacent pavement disturbed by him or
her with at least the same quality of material and grade of workmanship as the
original pavement and, upon so doing to the satisfaction of the Superintendent
of Public Works, shall be entitled to at refund of the deposit made by him or
her under §
93.098(A) above.
   (C)   Upon his or her failure to do so within the time required, the village
may refill and repave the same and charge the applicant with the cost hereof at
the rates specified in §
93.098(A) above. During the course of all construction, the applicant shall be
responsible for all pollution and dust control pertinent to the operation.
(Ord. 4-2006, passed 6-12-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.101 VILLAGE RESERVATION OF REPLACEMENT RIGHT.
   (A)   The village reserves the right to replace any or all cuts or openings
or to alter any replacements which may have been performed by or for the
applicant and to pay for the replacements or alterations out of the deposit
made by the applicant and, in that event, to refund the applicant any balance
of the deposit in excess of the actual or minimum cost as set forth from time
to time by resolution of the Board of Trustees, whichever shall be the greater,
and the applicant likewise shall be liable for the excess of the cost over the
deposit.
   (B)   No refund shall be made in any event except upon the report of the
Superintendent of Public Works that the refill and replacement of the opening,
pavement or cut has been effected.
(Ord. 4-2006, passed 6-12-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.102 GUARDING OF EXCAVATION; ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   All the ditches, trenches or openings shall at all times be carefully
and properly guarded and lighted by night.
   (B)   The applicant shall maintain and protect all pedestrian and motorized
traffic and assume all liabilities pertinent to permitted operations or
violations thereof.
(Ord. 4-2006, passed 6-12-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006; Ord. 4-2006, passed 6-12-2006)
CHAPTER 94: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Title and purpose
   
94.02   Authority of Board of Trustees
   
94.03   Definitions
Tree Commission
   
94.15   Creation of Commission; qualifications of Commissioners
   
94.16   Appointment of Commissioners
   
94.17   Meetings
   
94.18   Duties of Commission
   
94.19   Commission actions subject to Board of Trustees review
   
94.20   Minutes of Commission action or decision to be filed with Village Clerk
as prerequisite to becoming effective
   
94.21   Board of Trustees review to be commenced within 30 days of filing
   
94.22   Actions and decisions become final on thirty-first day after filing of
minutes; power to modify or rescind retained
   
94.23   Funding of Commission; maintenance of funds
   
94.24   Advances and reimbursements to Commissioners
Tree Planting and Removal
   
94.40   Tree planting costs
   
94.41   Tree removal costs
Maintenance of Trees and Shrubs
   
94.55   Injury or defacement of trees unlawful
   
94.56   Duty of property owner or occupant to keep intersection visibility
clear and prevent interference with use of streets and sidewalks
   
94.57   Failure of owner or occupant to comply with notice
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as the “Local Law Regarding Trees
within the Village of Franklinville” and may be cited as “Village of
Franklinville Local Law Number 2-1984”.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees finds and declares that:
      (1)   The village enjoys a heritage of trees and other vegetation that is
now threatened by external social forces, neglect and the lack of a directed
effort to provide reliable information and financial resources to village
residents about the care, maintenance, removal and replacement of trees and
vegetation;
      (2)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote a comprehensive
forestry program within the village to assure a positive benefit from village
trees planned and managed with adequate recognition of the physical, biotic and
social surroundings in which they are encouraged to grow and provide their
benefits;
      (3)   Trees can serve as a vital link between village residents and their
environment, if properly planned and managed;
      (4)   Growing site limitations in the village for trees and associated
plants are frequent and recurrent problems because of highway and street
widening, sidewalk reconstruction, air pollution, modified drainage, erosion,
soil fertility depletion, insects and disease, mechanical hazards and other
adverse influences resulting from concentrated use of land;
      (5)   An improved and expanded village tree program for planting and
maintenance of trees and associated vegetation within the village would help
make the village a more pleasant and healthful place to live, work and visit;
and
      (6)   Trees are an important economic asset and resource to the village
by increasing land values and by modifying extremes of temperature, humidity
and winds and thereby have an important role in reducing the amount of energy
consumed in heating and cooling many village buildings and homes.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 94.02 AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Board of Trustees may implement the purposes set forth in §
94.01(B) above by virtue of the authority granted by N.Y. Envtl. Conserv. Law
Art. 53.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Franklinville.
      CHAIRPERSON. The Chairperson of the Tree Commission duly elected by a
vote of the Commissioners.
      COMMISSIONER. A member of the Tree Commission.
      CONTRIBUTED FUNDS. Money donated by any person or entity to further the
purpose of this chapter.
      CONTRIBUTED GIFTS. Services or property other than money donated by any
person or entity to further the purpose of this chapter and accepted by
resolution of the Board of Trustees after the review and recommendation of the
Tree Commission.
      ENTITY. Any unit or organization created by one or more human beings and
recognized by the laws of the State of New York or of the United States.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the Village of Franklinville.
      OTHER PUBLIC FUNDS. Money appropriated by any government entity other
than the village to further the purpose of this chapter.
      PERSON. Any human being.
      STREET TREE. Any tree within the village and growing in an area between
the edge of the pavement of a public street and the sidewalk. Provided,
however, that if no sidewalk exists, then STREET TREE means a tree that has its
physical center at ground level, eight feet or closer to the edge of the
pavement of a public street.
      TREE. A woody plant having branches that spring from and are supported by
a trunk or body, including a shrub or bush.
      TREE COMMISSION. The Village of Franklinville Tree Commission duly
appointed in accordance with the provisions of §§
94.15 through
94.18.
      VILLAGE. That area encompassed by the incorporated Village of
Franklinville, a municipal subdivision of the State of New York.
      VILLAGE APPROPRIATION. Money appropriated by the Board of Trustees
specifically segregated to further the purpose of this local law.
      VILLAGE FORESTRY. The planning, establishment, protection and other
management of trees within the village for present and potential contribution
to the physiological, sociological and economic well-being of the village. An
important component of VILLAGE FORESTRY is ARBORICULTURE which specifically
includes the planting, growing, maintenance and protection of trees,
individually and in small groups.
      VILLAGE FORESTRY PLAN. A comprehensive plan for the selection,
establishment, maintenance and management of existing and future trees within
the village. The plan shall, to the maximum extent possible, present an
analysis of physical, biotic and social conditions of present and potential
sites for trees, and of improvement needs, opportunities and planned projects
within the village.
   (B)   Any word used in this chapter and not defined in this section shall be
given its common meaning.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
TREE COMMISSION
§ 94.15 CREATION OF COMMISSION; QUALIFICATIONS OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees hereby creates a Village Tree Commission
consisting of five Commissioners appointed by the Mayor.
   (B)   Qualifications:
      (1)   Each Commissioner shall be a resident of the village;
      (2)   No Commissioner shall simultaneously hold any other elected or
appointed office of the village; and
      (3)   Each Commissioner shall have attained the age of 18 years on or
before the date that he or she will assume his or her official duties.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 94.16 APPOINTMENT OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Commissioners shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by a
resolution adopted by the Board of Trustees, at a regular or special meeting,
before the appointed Commissioner assumes his or her duties.
   (B)   The Tree Commission first appointed and approved after the effective
date of this chapter shall assume its duties upon the first date that three or
more Commissioners are appointed and approved.
   (C)   Following the initial appointment of Commissioners to the Tree
Commission, vacancies shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval
of the Board of Trustees, in the following manner.
      (1)   Vacancies resulting from the expiration of a term of appointment of
a Commissioner shall be for a term ending on the second Monday in April in the
third year following the year the vacancy occurred.
      (2)   Vacancies resulting for any reason other than the expiration of a
term of appointment shall be for the balance of the term held by the
Commissioner whose vacancy is to be filled.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 94.17 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Tree Commission shall annually elect a Commissioner to serve as
Chairperson and a Commissioner to serve as Secretary.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall conduct the meetings of the Tree Commission and
the Secretary shall keep the minutes. Minutes of the meetings of the Tree
Commission shall be duplicated at village expense and filed with the Village
Clerk within 15 days after the date of each meeting.
   (C)   The Tree Commission shall conduct its meetings in accordance with
Robert’s Rules of Order, but may, subject to the approval of the Board of
Trustees, adopt rules for the conduct of its meetings.
   (D)   The meetings of the Tree Commission shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 94.18 DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   To implement the purposes of this local law.
   (B)   To formulate and present a Village Forestry Plan to the Board of
Trustees on or before the second Monday of January, 1985, and to be reviewed
not less frequently than every two years thereafter.
   (C)   To educate residents of the village of the purposes of this
subchapter.
   (D)   To ascertain and report annually to the Board of Trustees, on or
before the second Monday of each January, a realistic projection of contributed
funds, contributed gifts and other public funds that may be received during the
ensuing village fiscal year.
   (E)   To consult with property owners having street trees that, in the
judgment of the Tree Commission, pose an immediate threat to pedestrians or
motorists traveling on sidewalks or streets.
   (F)   To authorize and expend the village appropriation, contributed funds
or other public funds to remove or plant street trees and to carry out the
duties of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 94.19 COMMISSION ACTIONS SUBJECT TO BOARD OF TRUSTEES REVIEW.
   The actions and decisions of the Tree Commission shall be subject to review
by the Board of Trustees, either on its own motion or by appeal by any officer
of the village or by any person or entity aggrieved by any action or decision
of the Tree Commission.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 94.20 MINUTES OF COMMISSION ACTION OR DECISION TO BE FILED WITH VILLAGE CLERK
AS PREREQUISITE TO BECOMING EFFECTIVE.
   No action or decision of the Tree Commission shall become effective until
the minutes of the Tree Commission describing the action or decision are filed
in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 94.21 BOARD OF TRUSTEES REVIEW TO BE COMMENCED WITHIN 30 DAYS OF FILING.
   The review shall be commenced within 30 days after the minutes of the action
or decision of the Tree Commission have been filed in the office of the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 94.22 ACTIONS AND DECISIONS BECOME FINAL ON THIRTY-FIRST DAY AFTER FILING OF
MINUTES; POWER TO MODIFY OR RESCIND RETAINED.
   (A)   Unless a review has been commenced in accordance with §
94.20 above, the actions and decisions of the Tree Commission shall become
final on the thirty-first day following the filing of the minutes of the
actions or decisions in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, the Tree
Commission may modify or rescind any action or decision that has become final.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 94.23 FUNDING OF COMMISSION; MAINTENANCE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall annually appropriate a sum of money to be
expended by the Tree Commission to further the purpose of this chapter and to
carry out its duties. The amount of the annual village appropriation shall not
be less than $1 for each village resident as shown by the most recent census
made of the village by the United State Census Bureau.
   (B)   (1)   Contributed funds and other public funds shall be maintained by
the Village Treasurer in accounts separate from the annual village
appropriation. Unrestricted contributed funds and other public funds may be
expended in the discretion of the Tree Commission to carry out its duties and
further the purposes of this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Tree Commission to assure that
expenditures of restricted contributed funds and other public funds are made in
accordance with the restrictions made and accepted.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 94.24 ADVANCES AND REIMBURSEMENTS TO COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Upon the approval of the Tree Commission, an advance or reimbursement
of funds not exceeding $50 may be made to any Commissioner for necessary
expenses to carry out his or her duties under this chapter. Any single expense
of a Commissioner exceeding $50 shall be subject to the advance approval of the
Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, the total advances or
reimbursements to all Commissioners shall not exceed $150 in any village fiscal
year unless advance approval is made by the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
TREE PLANTING AND REMOVAL
§ 94.40 TREE PLANTING COSTS.
   When a street tree is planted, the cost of the planting shall be shared
equally by the village paying 50%. Upon failure of the property owner to pay
their share of planting, as above described, the charge be added onto the next
property tax statement with appropriate interest from the date of planting to
the date of levy of the next village tax.
(Ord. 2-1984, passed 2-27-1984)
§ 94.41 TREE REMOVAL COSTS.
   When a street tree is removed the cost of the removal be shared equally by
the village paying 50% thereof and the property owner or owners paying the
other 50%. That upon failure of the property owner to pay their share of
removal as above described, that the charge be added onto the next property tax
statement with appropriate interest from the date of removal to the date of
levy of the next village tax. (Ord. 4-1984, passed 8-27-1984)
MAINTENANCE OF TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 94.55 INJURY OR DEFACEMENT OF TREES UNLAWFUL.
   No person shall fix or attach a sign to any tree along the streets of the
village. No person shall willfully injure, damage or destroy any shade trees
planted along the streets, grass plots or sidewalks of the incorporated
village, nor injure or deface any building, fence or ornamental thing on the
village’s property or rights-of-way.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.56 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER OR OCCUPANT TO KEEP INTERSECTION VISIBILITY
CLEAR AND PREVENT INTERFERENCE WITH USE OF STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   No person, whether as an owner or occupant of any corner
premises in the village, shall cause, suffer or permit any fence, shrubbery,
hedge, trees or low-hanging branches there from to be erected, planted or
maintained on the premises in such a manner as to obstruct the view by motor
vehicle operators of other motor vehicles approaching from intersecting
streets.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public Works to
determine in each instance whether and where any such obstruction exists, and
it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk, at his or her direction, to notify
the owner or occupant of any premises affected hereby, by ordinary mail
addressed to the owner or occupant, requiring the person to remove the
obstruction within five days of the notice.
   (B)   No owner or occupant of any real property in the village shall plant,
place, grow, build or erect or permit another to plant, place, grow, build or
erect any shrubs, bushes, plants, trees, flowers or other vegetation, fence,
wall, hedge or other structure which shall obstruct or interfere with the use
of streets, sidewalks, thoroughfare or intersection of the same within the
village. Therefore all shrubs, bushes, plants, trees, flowers of other
vegetation, fences, walls, hedges or other structures shall be built, trimmed,
cut, altered or modified in a manner which shall not obstruct or interfere with
the use of streets, sidewalks, pathways or another vehicular or pedestrian
passages along public streets or thoroughfares or intersections of the same
within the village. Failure to comply with this provision shall constitute a
violation of this provision, and the owner of occupant is subject to the
penalties as stated in §
10.99, and additionally the owner may be charged and assessed in accordance
with Chapter 2.
   (C)   On a corner lot in the village within the triangular area determined
as provided in this section, no wall or fence or others structure shall be
erected to a height in excess of two feet, and no vehicles or object or any
other obstruction of a height in excess of two feet shall be parked or placed
and no hedge or shrub or other growth shall be maintained at a height in excess
of two feet, except that trees whose branches are trimmed away to a height of
at least ten feet above the curb level or pavement level where there is no curb
shall be permitted. The triangular area shall be determined by two points, one
on each intersecting street line, each of which points is 50 feet from the
intersection of the street lines.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.57 FAILURE OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE.
   In the event of failure to comply with the requirements of this subchapter
after the notice, the Superintendent of Public Works may enter upon the
premises as such person with the others as he or she may require and remove or
alter the obstruction accordingly.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
CHAPTER 95: WEEDS AND GRASS
Section
   
95.01   Weeds, long grasses, poisonous or harmful growths prohibited
   
95.02   Weeds, long grasses, poisonous or harmful growths required to be cut
   
95.03   Notice, failure to comply
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 WEEDS, LONG GRASSES, POISONOUS OR HARMFUL GROWTHS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No property owner or lessor shall permit weeds, long grass or growths
which are harmful, poisonous or detrimental to health to grow on real property
owned in the village.
   (B)   The growth can be harmful to health, constitute an unsightly condition
and harbor insects and animals that may be hazardous.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 WEEDS, LONG GRASSES, POISONOUS OR HARMFUL GROWTHS REQUIRED TO BE CUT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, either as
owner, occupant, lessee, agent, tenant or otherwise of any real property within
the village to permit weeds, long grass or other harmful, poisonous or
detrimental growths to be raised on their property.
   (B)   By May 15 of each year, weeds, long grass or other harmful growths
shall be cut and shall not be allowed to grow to a height greater than six
inches.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. 4-2005, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 NOTICE, FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Upon due notice by the village given to parties defined in §
95.02 above to cut, trim or remove the weeds, long grass or harmful growths,
those persons upon whom notice is given shall, within five days after service
cut, trim or remove the growth and upon their neglect or failure to comply with
the notice shall be deemed to have violated this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter for which a
penalty is not set out shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person defined in §
95.02 in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than $150 for each
offense. In addition to the above penalties, the Village Board of Trustees may
cause the weeds, long grass or harmful growth to be cut, trimmed and removed or
otherwise eliminated and assess the expense as a lien upon the property whereon
the same is found. The charge, if unpaid, shall constitute a special assessment
upon the property wherein the same is found and shall be added to the village
tax thereon.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4) (Ord. 4-2005, passed 9-26-2005)
CHAPTER 96: NOXIOUS ODORS
Section
   
96.01   Noxious odors prohibited
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 NOXIOUS ODORS PROHIBITED.
   The owners, lessees, tenants, occupants and managers of every building,
place of business, storage yard, establishment or vehicle upon or in which
materials, supplies or products are used, stored or handled shall cause those
materials, supplies, products, rubbish, dirt and refuse to be removed, stored,
carried, loaded and handled in a manner that the materials, supplies, products,
rubbish, dirt and refuse shall not emit offensive or noxious odors or be
discharged or blown by the wind from any such building, place of business,
storage yard, establishment or vehicle to the detriment or annoyance of any
person not being therein or thereupon engaged.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-2)
CHAPTER 97: PARKS
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Rules and prohibited activities
   
97.04   Hours of public use
   
97.05   Permits
   
97.06   Amendments
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
   The Village of Franklinville recognizes the importance that parks and
recreation areas play in the quality of life of its residents. Control of the
use of public parks and recreation areas and park facilities is desirable in
order to provide safe and wholesome recreational opportunities and to maximize
access to the parks and recreation areas by the general public and others. It
is the purpose of this chapter to establish rules and regulations governing the
use of public parks and recreation areas owned and/or operated by the village.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKS. The grounds, buildings therein, water therein and any other property
necessary for the operation thereof, and constituting a part thereof, which is
now or may hereafter be maintained, operated and controlled by the Village of
Franklinville including but not limited to Park Square, Pat McGee Park.
Riverside Park, Grandtree and Arboretum Memorial Park.
   PERMIT. Any written license issued by or under the authority of the village
permitting the performance of a specific act or acts, or the conduct of a
particular use, function, program, or activity within a park, parks, portion or
facility thereof.
   PERSONS. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or association of
persons; the singular number shall include the plural.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 97.03 RULES AND PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle,
including a snowmobile or motorcycle within or upon parklands, other than those
areas constructed and maintained as road surface, public parking areas or areas
designated and signed as motor vehicle, snowmobile, or motorcycle areas, unless
such person has been issued an authorization by permit.
   (B)   Horses. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a horse, under
his or her control, to enter or occupy parklands, other than those areas
constructed and maintained as road surface, public parking areas, or designated
and signed as a horse trail, unless such person has been issued authorization
by permit.
   (C)   Fires. Fires of any kind shall not be permitted in any parklands
within the village unless done so in an established and designated metal fire
pit provided by the village.
   (D)   Garbage. No person shall bring into, or dump, deposit or leave in or
on, any park, public property or public facility, any bottles, broken glass,
ashes, paper, boxes, can, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse or other trash.
No such refuse or trash shall be placed in any water, fountain or stream in or
contiguous to any park, or left anywhere on the grounds thereof, but shall be
placed in proper receptacles where these are provided. Where receptacles are
not so provided, all such refuse or waste shall be carried away from the park
by the person who is responsible for its presence and shall be properly
disposed of elsewhere.
   (E)   Dogs. Dogs shall be permitted in any parkland only if such dog is on a
leash and under the care and control of a competent person. It is an offense
for any person with a dog under his or her care and control to fail to
immediately remove and dispose in a waste container or by other sanitary means,
any fecal matter deposited by such dog in any parklands.
   (F)   Disorderly conduct.  No person shall engage in loud, boisterous
threatening, abusive, insulting or indecent language, or engage in any
disorderly conduct or behavior tending to a breach of the public peace, in or
on any park, public property or public facility.
   (G)   Vandalism.  No person shall destroy, injure, damage, remove or cut
live or dead trees, shrubbery, plants or constructed improvements, or attach,
fasten or erect wires, ropes, signs or notices in or on any park, public
property or public facility.
   (H)   The use of or being under the influence of any illegal drug or
substance in any village park.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 97.04 HOURS OF PUBLIC USE.
   (A)   Parks and recreation areas are open to the public between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other than village
personnel conducting village business therein, to occupy or be present in any
park or recreation area during any hours in which a park or recreation area is
not open to the public unless written permission has been previously obtained
from the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 97.05 PERMITS.
   (A)   Use of village parks may be reserved by application. The Clerk may
issue a permit to secure the use of parklands for a specified time period. Any
person or persons issued a permit shall abide by the terms and conditions of
the permit.
   (B)   Upon written application, the village may by resolution, issue a
permit for the use of parks which contradict the provisions of this law. Any
person or persons issued a permit shall abide by the terms and conditions of
the permit.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 97.06 AMENDMENTS.
   The Village Board of Trustees may, from time to time, by resolution rather
than local law, establish such rules and regulations as it deems advisable
governing the use and operation of areas designated as a village park.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall constitute an offense punishable by
a fine not to exceed:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $260 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $750 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
      (3)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   The Village Police Department, Building Inspector, any employee of the
Department of Public Works or any other village employee or official designated
by resolution of the Board of Trustees shall enforce all provisions established
by this chapter, Any police officer having jurisdiction in the Village of
Franklinville may without a warrant, arrest any offender whom he or she may
detect is in violation of any of the provisions of the above sections, and take
the persons so arrested forthwith before a Magistrate having competent
jurisdiction, and he or she shall have at all times a right to enter the
premises of any building, structure or enclosure in any village park which may
be leased or set aside for the private or exclusive use of any person for the
purpose of arresting violators hereof, and may use all necessary means to
attain that end.
(Ord. 1-2011, passed 4-11-2011)
CHAPTER 98: NOISE
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Unreasonable noise prohibited
   
98.03   Determination of unreasonable noise
   
98.04   Prohibited acts
   
98.05   Exceptions
   
98.06   Enforcement
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:
   PROPERTY BEING USED FOR NONRESIDENTIAL PURPOSES. Any property, including
vacant land, that is not used for residential purposes, as defined herein.
   PROPERTY BEING USED FOR RESIDENTIAL PURPOSES. Property that contains one or
more dwelling units, including but not limited to single-family attached or
detached dwelling units, multiple dwellings, hotels, motels, senior citizen
housing, adult residential care facilities, nursing homes, dormitories,
sororities, and fraternities.
   REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY LINE. The imaginary line, including its vertical
extension, that separates one parcel of real property from another, or the
vertical and horizontal boundaries of a dwelling unit located within a
multiple-dwelling-unit building.
   SOUND-EMITTING DEVICE. Any device, instrument, mechanism, equipment or
apparatus that emits any sounds discernible to the human ear.
   SOUND-REPRODUCTION DEVICES. Any device, instrument, mechanism, equipment or
apparatus for the amplification of any sounds from any radio, phonograph, tape
player, compact disc player, musical instrument, television, loudspeaker or
other sound-making or sound-producing device, or any device or apparatus for
the reproduction or amplification of the human voice or other sound.
   STATIONARY NOISE SOURCE. Any device, fixed or movable, that is located or
used on geographically defined real property other than a public right-of-way.
   UNREASONABLE NOISE.
      (1)   The use of any sound-reproduction device outside of a structure
whereby the sound emitted from such device is audible beyond the property line
of the premises beyond which it is being used, between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. Sunday thru Thursday and 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Friday and
Saturday, or audible at a distance of 50 feet beyond the property line of the
premises upon which it is being used, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. Sunday thru Thursday and 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday.
      (2)   The use or operation of any sound-reproduction device inside a
structure so as to result in the sound, or any part thereof, emitted from such
device to be projected therefrom outside the structure whereby the sound
emitted from such device is audible beyond the property line of the premises
beyond which it is being used, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Sunday thru Thursday and 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday, or
audible at a distance of 50 feet beyond the property line of the premises upon
which it is being used, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Sunday
thru Thursday and 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday.
      (3)   The use and operation of any sound-reproduction device in a vehicle
which would constitute a threat to the safety of pedestrians or vehicle
operators or where conditions of overcrowding or any street repair or any other
physical conditions are such that the use of a sound-reproduction device would
deprive the public of the right to the safe, comfortable, convenient and
peaceful enjoyment of a public street, park or place for public purpose and
would constitute a threat to the safety and welfare of the public. Said noise
disturbance is deemed to be in violation of this section if it can be heard
from a distance of greater than 50 feet.
      (4)   The use or operation of any sound-reproduction device in a vehicle
which would constitute a threat to the safety of pedestrians or vehicle
operators.
      (5)   The use or operation of any sound-reproduction device within 500
feet of any school, church or courthouse while the same is in session so as to
interfere with the function of such facility, provided that conspicuous signs
are displayed indicating the location of such facility.
      (6)   The use or operation of any sound-reproduction device within 50
feet of any hospital, nursing home or medical facility so as to interfere with
the function of such facility or so as to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose
of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities while confined to or being
treated at such facility, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed
indicating the location of such facility.
      (7)   The outdoor use or operation of any powered tool or equipment,
including but not limited to saws, sanders, drills, grinders, lawn mowers or
tractors, leaf blowers, snow blowers or any other garden tools or equipment, on
property being used for residential purposes, between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
      (8)   The outdoor use or operation of any powered tool or equipment,
including but not limited to saws, sanders, drills, grinders, lawn mowers or
tractors, leaf blowers, snow blowers or any other garden tools or equipment
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on property being used for
residential purposes and at any time on property being used for nonresidential
purposes which disturbs the quiet, comfort or repose of a reasonable person of
normal sensitivities.
      (9)   The use or operation of any audible burglar alarm or motor vehicle
burglar alarm, unless the operation of such alarm shall be terminated within
ten minutes after such alarm is first activated.
      (10)   The operation of any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
rating in excess of 10,000 pounds, or any auxiliary equipment attached to such
motor vehicle, for a period longer than 15 minutes in any hour while the
vehicle is stationary for reasons other than traffic congestion, so that the
sound emanated therefrom is audible on property being used for residential
purposes, between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following day.
This provision shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles or to public
utility vehicles actually engaged in emergency operations.
      (11)   The use or operation, repair, rebuilding, modifying or testing of
any motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, go-cart, minibike or all-terrain
vehicle on property being used for residential purposes so as to disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities.
      (12)   The use or operation of a refuse-collecting vehicle anywhere
which, when collecting or compacting, projects sound that is audible on
property being used for residential purposes, between the hours of 11:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
      (13)   The owning, possessing or harboring of any animal or bird that
shall make sounds which are audible on property being used for residential
purposes for a continued duration in excess of 15 minutes or which shall
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities.
      (14)   The conduct of any construction activities, including but not
limited to the erection, demolition, assembling, altering, installing or
equipping of buildings, public or private roadways, roads, premises, parks,
utility lines or other property, including related activities such as land
clearing, grading, earthmoving, excavating, blasting, filling or landscaping,
so as to project a noise therefrom which is audible on a property being used
for residential purposes, between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the
following day.
      (15)   The use of any sound-emitting device inside or outside of a
structure whereby the sound emitted from such device is audible beyond the
property line of the premises upon which it is being used, between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday thru Thursday and 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
Friday and Saturday, or audible at a distance of 50 feet beyond the property
line of the premises upon which it is being used, between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Sunday thru Thursday and 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Friday
and Saturday.
      (16)   The making of any noise for advertising purposes in any street or
public place or by means of aircraft; the advertisement or calling attention to
any advertisement, article, business, calling or profession upon any street,
sidewalk or entrance to a place of business by means of any horn, megaphone,
siren, bell radio or any other sound-producing or sound-amplifying mechanism,
instrument or device.
(Ord. 4-2023, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 98.02 UNREASONABLE NOISE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, cause to be made or
permit to be made any unreasonable noise within the geographic boundaries of
the Village of Franklinville or within those areas over which the village has
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 4-2023, passed 8-14-2023) Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.03 DETERMINATION OF UNREASONABLE NOISE.
   A determination as to the existence of unreasonable noise may be established
by the specific acts enumerated in the definition of unreasonable noise, as set
forth in §
98.01.
(Ord. 4-2023, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 98.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The following acts and the causes thereof are declared to be in violation of
this chapter.
   (A)   The use of any sound-reproduction device outside of a structure
whereby the sound emitted from such device is audible beyond the property line
of the premises beyond which it is being used, between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. Sunday thru Thursday and 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Friday and
Saturday, or audible at a distance of 50 feet beyond the property line of the
premises upon which it is being used, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. Sunday thru Thursday and 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday.
   (B)   The use or operation of any sound-reproduction device inside a
structure so as to result in the sound, or any part thereof, emitted from such
device to be projected therefrom outside the structure whereby the sound
emitted from such device is audible beyond the property line of the premises
beyond which it is being used, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
Sunday thru Thursday and 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday, or
audible at a distance of 50 feet beyond the property line of the premises upon
which it is being used, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Sunday
thru Thursday and 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday.
   (C)   The use and operation of any sound-reproduction device in a vehicle
which would constitute a threat to the safety of pedestrians or vehicle
operators or where conditions of overcrowding or any street repair or any other
physical conditions are such that the use of a sound-reproduction device would
deprive the public of the right to the safe, comfortable, convenient and
peaceful enjoyment of a public street, park or place for public purpose and
would constitute a threat to the safety and welfare of the public. Said noise
disturbance is deemed to be in violation of this section if it can be heard
from a distance of greater than 50 feet.
   (D)   The use or operation of any sound-reproduction device in a vehicle
which would constitute a threat to the safety of pedestrians or vehicle
operators.
   (E)   The use or operation of any sound-reproduction device within 500 feet
of any school, church or courthouse while the same is in session so as to
interfere with the function of such facility, provided that conspicuous signs
are displayed indicating the location of such facility.
   (F)   The use or operation of any sound-reproduction device within 50 feet
of any hospital, nursing home or medical facility so as to interfere with the
function of such facility or so as to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of a
reasonable person of normal sensitivities while confined to or being treated at
such facility, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed indicating the
location of such facility.
   (G)   The outdoor use or operation of any powered tool or equipment,
including but not limited to saws, sanders, drills, grinders, lawn mowers or
tractors, leaf blowers, snow blowers or any other garden tools or equipment, on
property being used for residential purposes, between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (H)   The outdoor use or operation of any powered tool or equipment,
including but not limited to saws, sanders, drills, grinders, lawn mowers or
tractors, leaf blowers, snow blowers or any other garden tools or equipment
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on property being used for
residential purposes and at any time on property being used for nonresidential
purposes which disturbs the quiet, comfort or repose of a reasonable person of
normal sensitivities.
   (I)   The use or operation of any audible burglar alarm or motor vehicle
burglar alarm, unless the operation of such alarm shall be terminated within
ten minutes after such alarm is first activated.
   (J)   The operation of any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating
in excess of 10,000 pounds, or any auxiliary equipment attached to such motor
vehicle, for a period longer than 15 minutes in any hour while the vehicle is
stationary for reasons other than traffic congestion, so that the sound
emanated therefrom is audible on property being used for residential purposes,
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following day. This
provision shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles or to public utility
vehicles actually engaged in emergency operations.
   (K)   The use or operation, repair, rebuilding, modifying or testing of any
motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, go-cart, minibike or all-terrain vehicle
on property being used for residential purposes so as to disturb the quiet,
comfort or repose of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities.
   (L)   The use or operation of a refuse-collecting vehicle anywhere which,
when collecting or compacting, projects sound that is audible on property being
used for residential purposes, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of
the following day.
   (M)   The owning, possessing or harboring of any animal or bird that shall
make sounds which are audible on property being used for residential purposes
for a continued duration in excess of 15 minutes or which shall disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities.
   (N)   The conduct of any construction activities, including but not limited
to the erection, demolition, assembling, altering, installing or equipping of
buildings, public or private roadways, roads, premises, parks, utility lines or
other property, including related activities such as land clearing, grading,
earthmoving, excavating, blasting, filling or landscaping, so as to project a
noise therefrom which is audible on a property being used for residential
purposes, between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. of the following day.
   (O)   The use of any sound-emitting device inside or outside of a structure
whereby the sound emitted from such device is audible beyond the property line
of the premises upon which it is being used, between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. Sunday thru Thursday and 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Friday and
Saturday, or audible at a distance of 50 feet beyond the property line of the
premises upon which it is being used, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. Sunday thru Thursday and 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday.
   (P)   The making of any noise for advertising purposes in any street or
public place or by means of aircraft; the advertisement or calling attention to
any advertisement, article, business, calling or profession upon any street,
sidewalk or entrance to a place of business by means of any horn, megaphone,
siren, bell radio or any other sound-producing or sound-amplifying mechanism,
instrument or device.
(Ord. 4-2023, passed 8-14-2023) Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following sounds shall not be deemed to be in violation of this chapter:
   (A)   The sound created by bells or chimes associated with a church,
synagogue or any other place of public worship.
   (B)   The sound created by any governmental agency or by the use of public
warning devices.
   (C)   The sound created by public utilities in carrying out the operations
of their functions.
   (D)   The sound created by sporting events of any public organization or
private school, or carnival, fair, exhibition or parade, provided that such
event shall take place between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
   (E)   The use or operation of vehicles and equipment owned by the Village of
Franklinville as described herein while being used in the performance of the
usual and customary duties by an employee of the Village of Franklinville.
(Ord. 4-2023, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 98.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Police Department of the Village of
Franklinville.
(Ord. 4-2023, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a violation and shall be punishable by a minimum fine not less than
$50 and a maximum fine of $250 or imprisonment for not more than 15 days, or
both. Each day that such violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense
punishable as such. This chapter shall be enforced by the Village of
Franklinville Police Department.
(Ord. 4-2023, passed 8-14-2023)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
      
112.   JUNK, SECONDHAND AND USED MATERIAL SELLERS
      
113.   GAMES OF CHANCE
      
114.   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY RENTALS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Soliciting prohibited; exception for farmer, disabled veteran
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 SOLICITING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR FARMER, DISABLED VETERAN.
    All hawking, peddling, vending or soliciting, except the peddling of meats,
fish, fruit or farm produce by farmers and persons who produce those
commodities or an honorably discharged soldier, sailor or marine, who is,
crippled as a result of injury received while in the naval or military service
of the United States, or the holder of a license granted pursuant to N.Y. Gen.
Bus. Law § 32, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
CHAPTER 111: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
   
111.01   Permit required for vehicle for hire
   
111.02   Permit expiration and renewal
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR VEHICLE FOR HIRE.
   The running of automobiles or other vehicles for the transportation of
persons over or upon the streets of a village for hire, soliciting either on
private property or on the public highway, or running therefor or for hotels,
boats, lodging houses or garages, without first obtaining a license from the
Clerk of the village is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 PERMIT EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   All licenses granted pursuant to this chapter are hereby fixed at the sum of
$25 per year and shall expire on June 1 following their issuance and shall be
renewed each year.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
CHAPTER 112: JUNK, SECONDHAND AND USED MATERIAL SELLERS
Section
   
112.01   Junk, secondhand and used materials defined
   
112.02   Business permit required
   
112.03   Conditions of operation
   
112.04   Permit expiration and renewal
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 JUNK, SECONDHAND AND USED MATERIALS DEFINED.
   The following materials shall be deemed to be JUNK, SECOND HAND MATERIALS
and USED MATERIALS within the meaning of this chapter, to wit: Junk of any
kind, used or second hand materials of any kind, including rags, paper,
rubbish, bottles, glassware, crockery, bags, cloth, rubber, iron, brass,
copper, silver, clothing, furniture, used motor vehicles or the parts thereof
or any repaired, reconstructed, renewed, renovated, partly ruined or damaged
material, merchandise or personal property. This definition, however, shall not
be deemed to be exclusive. Second hand materials and articles of similar kind
and character shall be deemed to be included within the foregoing definition.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1)
§ 112.02 BUSINESS PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in or carry on a retail or
wholesale business of buying, selling, storing, collecting, distributing or
dealing in any of the materials named in §
112.01 above, nor conduct what is known as a junk shop without first procuring
a written permit from the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall conduct or carry on any business
described in this chapter in such a manner as to unduly disturb the peace and
quiet of the neighborhood.
   (B)   All premises used for any of the business aforesaid shall at all times
be kept in a cleanly and wholesome condition and in full compliance with all
the ordinances of the village and in accordance with the reasonable rules,
regulations and directions of the Board of Health and the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 PERMIT EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   All licenses granted pursuant to this chapter are hereby fixed at the sum of
$25 per year and shall expire on June 1 following their issuance and shall be
renewed each year.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a penalty not exceeding
$25 for any offense and in addition thereto violation thereof shall constitute
disorderly conduct and the person violating the same shall be a disorderly
person.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5)
CHAPTER 113: GAMES OF CHANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Title and construction
   
113.02   Effective date
Regulations
   
113.20   Permit required
   
113.21   When permitted
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 TITLE AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   This local law is enacted pursuant to the authority of N.Y. Gen. Mun.
Law Art. 9-A, and shall be known as the Games of Chance Law of the village.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1)
   (B)   (1)   The words and terms used in this chapter shall have the same
meaning as such words and terms are used in N.Y. Gen. Mun. Law Art. 9-A, unless
otherwise provided herein or unless the context requires a different meaning.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFFICER. The Chief of Police of the village.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Franklinville.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2)
§ 113.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon the filing thereof with the
Secretary of State and after approval thereof by the voters of the village
voting thereon at a special election to be held on August 23, 1977.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-5)
REGULATIONS
§ 113.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Games of chance may be conducted within the territorial limits of the
village by an authorized organization, after the organization has obtained a
license therefor in accordance with the provisions, requirements and
limitations of N.Y. Gen. Mun. Law Art. 9-A, the rules and regulations of the
State Racing and Wagering Board and this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 113.21 WHEN PERMITTED.
   The conduct of games of chance shall be permitted on the first day of the
week, commonly known and designated as Sunday, except that no games of chance
shall be conducted on Easter Sunday, Christmas Day or New Year's Eve as
provided in N.Y. Gen. Mun. Law § 195.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4)
CHAPTER 114: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY RENTALS
Section
   
114.01   Landlord registration
   
114.02   Violations; enforcement
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 LANDLORD REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration required. The owner of a property constituting a rental
property shall register the same with the Code Enforcement Office within 90
days of the effective date of this chapter. The registration form shall be
known as a "landlord registration" and shall be signed and affirmed by the
property owner of record, and, if applicable, the managing agent.
      (1)   Any acquisition of property constituting a rental property shall
require the new owner to register the same with the Code Enforcement office
within 15 days of the date of grant or transfer by filing a landlord
registration and shall be signed and affirmed by the property owner of record,
and, if applicable, the managing agent.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement office shall supply a form for use as the
landlord registration which shall be completed and filed by the property owner
and shall include:
         (a)   Property description. A description of the premises, including:
address, number of units, number of floors, total number of bedrooms, the term
for which the units are rented or leased, whether the units are currently
occupied, the name listed on the property deed, and any other identifying
information requested by Code Enforcement;
         (b)   Owner information. The owner's name, physical address, mailing
address, and primary and secondary voice telephone numbers;
         (c)   Designation of managing agent. If a managing agent is required
pursuant to this chapter then the owner shall provide the name, business
address, business telephone number, and fax number of the managing agent;
         (d)   Insurance information. The name, address, and business telephone
number of the insurance provider, along with proof of current insurance
coverage for both liability and fire; and
         (e)   Certificate of occupancy. The certificate of occupancy number
and issue date.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to offer any unit for rent, or
to rent any unit, or to allow any rental unit to be occupied without having
first registered pursuant to this section as required herein within the time
prescribed for such registration. Failure to receive actual notice of the
registration deadline shall not be a defense for failure to register rental
property.
      (4)   Failure to maintain the landlord registration in compliance with
this section shall cause any certificate of occupancy issued relative to the
subject property to be deemed void.
   (B)   The landlord registration shall be signed and sworn to under penalty
of perjury by the property owner; if such owner is a corporation, an officer
thereof shall sign for the corporation; if such owner is a partnership, a
partner thereof shall sign for the partnership. If a managing agent is
designated, the owner's signature shall be acknowledgement of the authority of
the managing agent to receive notices related to the property in the owner's
place and stead, and receipt of such by the managing agent shall be deemed
actual notice to the property owner.
   (C)   Any landlord registration statement or designation of a managing agent
shall be deemed prima facia proof of the statement contained therein, in any
criminal or civil prosecution instituted by the village or by any proper
prosecutorial agency against the owner or managing agent of the subject rental
property.
   (D)   Managing agent.
      (1)   Any property owner may designate a managing agent for any property
subject to the landlord registration, in which case the managing agent must
also sign and affirm the landlord registration form as filed with the Code
Enforcement office.
      (2)   A property owner must designate a managing agent for any property
subject to the landlord registration, if:
         (a)   The property owner is not a natural person;
         (b)   The property owner does not reside within 20 miles of the
Village of Franklinville; or
         (c)   The property owner does not reside in New York State.
      (3)   A managing agent must be:
         (a)   A natural person;
         (b)   Over the age of 18; and
         (c)   Actually reside within 20 miles of the village, or have a
regular place of business within the village.
   (E)   The owner shall, at all times, keep this information updated and shall
amend the landlord registration to reflect any change in the required
information within 15 days of such change. Failure to comply with the updating
requirements shall be a violation by the owner and such failure shall cause the
certificate of occupancy to be deemed void.
   (F)   Failure to provide full and complete information, or provision of
inaccurate or false information, in the landlord registration shall be deemed
non-compliance and shall be a violation of the landlord registration
requirements, unless the same shall be corrected and completed within the
filing period, such failure shall cause the certificate of occupancy to be
deemed void.
   (G)   Any designation of a managing agent shall cease to be effective upon
the death or judicially declared incompetency of the managing agent and shall
require an updated landlord registration be filed as in the Village Code
Enforcement Office,
   (H)   Designation of a managing agent in no way relieves the property owner
of liability under the code for any violations related to the property. The
property owner, at all times, remains solely responsible for compliance with
all code requirements related to the property.
   (I)   If a managing agent is designated, the landlord registration shall
also be signed by the managing agent and such signature shall be
acknowledgement of accepting responsibility to receive notices related to the
property on behalf of the owner.
(Ord. 4-2024, passed 10-28-2024) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (a)   Enforcement. The Code Enforcement Office is authorized to make
inspections of property, to respond to complaints, to issue notice(s) of
violation(s) and to issue appearance tickets, where necessary to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   Complaints of violations.
      (1)   Any person may file a complaint with the Code Enforcement Office
that a violation of this chapter may have taken place or is allegedly taking
place. All complaints shall be in writing and shall specify the property on
which the alleged violation has occurred.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Office shall record and investigate any such
written complaint.
      (3)   The Code Enforcement Office shall also investigate any alleged
violation that it has reason to believe has occurred or is occurring.
   (c)   Inspection. Whenever a complaint has been filed, or whenever it shall
appear that the provisions of this chapter are being violated, the Code
Enforcement Office shall investigate the complaint. Except in cases where the
alleged violation is in plain view and/or where no entry is necessary, or
except in cases where an imminent peril exists, the Code Enforcement Office
shall obtain approval from an owner, lessee, agent, tenant or other person with
authority to make an inspection of the property.
(Ord. 4-2024, passed 10-28-2024) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter is an offense punishable by a fine not to
exceed the sum of $250. Each week that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 4-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
Dog Walking
   
130.01   Feces required to be removed; exception for blind persons
   
130.02   Appearance ticket; criminal complaint; hearing
 
   
130.99   Penalty
DOG WALKING
§ 130.01 FECES REQUIRED TO BE REMOVED; EXCEPTION FOR BLIND PERSONS.
   (A)   Any person owning, harboring, walking or in charge of a dog who allows
the dog to defecate on public property, or on any private property without the
permission of the property owner, shall remove all feces immediately after it
is deposited by the dog. All feces removed in accordance with this section
shall be placed in a suitable bag or other container which closes, and removed
for lawful disposal.
   (B)   The provisions of this local law shall not apply to blind persons
using dogs as guides.
(Ord. 3-2005, passed 7-25-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 APPEARANCE TICKET; CRIMINAL COMPLAINT; HEARING.
   (A)   Any police officer of the village or other designee of the Board of
Trustees who observes a violation of this section is hereby authorized to issue
an appearance ticket setting forth a brief description of the circumstances of
the violation.
   (B)   Any person who observes a violation of this section may appear before
the local criminal court and sign an information (criminal complaint). The
justice shall summon the person who allegedly violated this section of the
local law to appear in person at a hearing, at which both the complainant and
the alleged violator shall have an opportunity to be represented by counsel and
to present evidence.
(Ord. 3-2005, passed 7-25-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
Disorderly Conduct
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct defined, prohibited
Discharge of Weapons
   
131.15   Prohibition against weapon discharge; exceptions
Littering
   
131.30   Littering prohibited
   
131.31   Littering from vehicle prohibited
Consumption of Alcohol
   
131.45   Purpose
   
131.46   Definitions
   
131.47   Prohibited conduct
Sex Offender Registration
   
131.60   Title and intent
   
131.61   Definitions
   
131.62   Registration requirements
   
131.63   Update of registration information required
   
131.64   Sex offender registry
   
131.65   Location restrictions
   
131.66   Background and address checks
   
131.67   Village limitation of liability
 
   
131.99   Penalty
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT DEFINED, PROHIBITED.
   A person is guilty of disorderly conduct when, with intent to cause public
inconvenience, annoyance or alarm, or recklessly creating a risk thereof:
   (A)   He or she engages in fighting or in violent, tumultuous or threatening
behavior;
   (B)   He or she makes unreasonable noise;
   (C)   In a public place, he or she uses abusive or obscene language, or
makes an obscene gesture;
   (D)   Without lawful authority, he or she disturbs any lawful assembly or
meeting of persons;
   (E)   He or she obstructs vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
   (F)   He or she congregates with other persons in a public place and refuses
to comply with a lawful order of the police to disperse; or
   (G)   He or she creates a hazardous or physically offensive condition by any
act which serves no legitimate purpose.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS
§ 131.15 PROHIBITION AGAINST WEAPON DISCHARGE; EXCEPTIONS.
   In accordance with the police power granted to it for the promotion of the
health, comfort, safety and welfare of the society and in particular the
residents of the village, it shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any
weapon, including but not limited to, a gas or air gun, spring propelled gun,
cross-bow, long bow, compound bow, wrist rocket or sling shot, within the
corporate limits of the village, except when in discharge of an official duty
or police function or in self-defense.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
LITTERING
§ 131.30 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall litter, sweep, throw or cast, or direct, suffer or permit
any servant, agent or employee, or any other person under his or her control,
to litter, sweep, throw or cast any ashes, garbage, papers, rubbish, refuse or
litter of any kind whatsoever, in or upon any street, public place, vacant lot
or area.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.31 LITTERING FROM VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   No person operating, or in charge of or riding in any vehicle, shall cast,
throw, drop, spill or scatter or permit to be cast, thrown, dropped, spilled or
scattered therefrom any dirt, sand, gravel, building materials, garbage,
bottles, metal containers, rubbish, trash of any description, refuse, litter or
any other matter dangerous to animals, persons or to the health and safety of
any person, in or upon any street sidewalk, public place, private or public
property.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
131.99
CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL
§ 131.45 PURPOSE.
   The use of alcoholic beverages within public places and areas in the village
must be adequately controlled and regulated so as to prevent public disorder,
littering and other acts that affect the health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the village.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 131.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Includes beer, wine, liquor and all other alcoholic
beverages as defined in N.Y. Alco. Bev. Cont Law § 3.
   CONTAINER. Any bottle, can, glass, cup or similar article containing any
alcoholic beverages. For the purpose of the local law, a CONTAINER shall be
deemed open if the bottler’s, brewer’s or distiller’s original seal has been
broken.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A place to which the public or a substantial group of persons
has access, including but not limited to highways, streets, shopping plazas,
parking lots, transportation facilities, schools, places of amusement, parks,
playgrounds, parking areas, hallways, lobbies and any other places open or used
by the general public. PERMITTED PUBLIC PLACES shall be those public places
wherein the use and consumption of alcoholic beverages is authorized pursuant
to a permit or license issued pursuant to the Alcoholic Beverage Control Law.
The issuance of the permit deems the permit holder responsible for the use of
alcoholic beverages and releases the village from any liability.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006)
§ 131.47 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall carry, transport or have in his or her possession in
any public place, other than permitted public places, any open, resealed or
partly empty container containing an alcoholic beverage of any kind or
description.
   (B)   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage in a public place other
than a permitted public place as defined in this local law.
(Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006) Penalty, see §
131.99
SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION
§ 131.60 TITLE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Title. The title of this subchapter shall be the “Sexual Offenders
Registration Act.”
   (B)   Legislative findings and intent.
      (1)   The Village Board finds that one of the highest priorities of local
government is the protection of the health and safety of its citizens. This is
especially true for children and other vulnerable members of society. The
Village Board further finds that convicted sex offenders pose a significant
continuing risk to society. Moreover, as the tragic murder of Jessica Lunsford
in Florida in spring 2005 and other such events have shown, recidivism among
convicted sexual offenders is a continuing problem.
      (2)   Recently, residents of the village have been advised that there are
residing in village a number of convicted sex offenders. At least some of these
sex offenders have registered as required by N.Y Correct. Law Art. 6-C,
commonly known as “Megan’s Law.” Some of these individuals have been
categorized by the State Department of Corrections as Level II sex offenders
who have been determined to be of moderate risk of committing another sex
crime. Some of these individuals have been categorized as Level III sex
offenders who have been determined to be of a high risk to commit another
sexual crime. However, the Village Board finds that some sex offenders fail to
register or fail to update their registration information when they move from
one location to another.
      (3)   The Village Board finds that the protection of the victims and
potential victims of sexual offenders in the village is a matter of unique
local concern not fully and adequately addressed by state law. The Village
Board finds that the disclosures required and the limitations contained herein
will protect the citizens of the village and will provide to employers who
contract with the village information that will assist these employers in
protecting children who may come into proximity with a sex offender in the
scope of employment.
      (4)   The Village Board finds that the village has not assessed and
cannot assess the risk of recidivism of any particular sex offender or class of
sex offenders and has made no determination of dangerousness of any particular
sex offender or class of sex offenders. Rather, the Board finds that this
subchapter is remedial in nature and designed to fill certain gaps in state law
as well as to provide protections for residents of the village who receive
certain services from the village. The Board further finds this subchapter to
be the most narrowly tailored means of fulfilling its compelling interest in
the safety of its citizens. Finally, the Board does not intend for any person
to use the information required by this subchapter to harm or injure any
registrant under the law.
(Ord. 8-2006, passed 10-23-2006)
§ 131.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT. Any person 18 years of age or older.
   CHILD or CHILDREN. Persons under 18 years of age. The singular and plural
shall include one another. If the applicable statute defining a crime against a
CHILD refers to a child younger than 18, the younger age shall control.
   DAY CARE CENTER. In or on or within any building, structure, athletic
playing field, playground or land contained within the real property line of a
program or facility caring for children by a licensed childcare provider. This
shall include family and group childcare homes.
   DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTIONS. The New York State Department of Corrections.
   EMPLOYER. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation, business
trust, legal representative or organized group of persons paying wages or any
form of compensation to any person for services that directly or indirectly
benefit the individual, partnership, association, corporation, business trust,
legal representative or organized group of persons.
   EXTENDED-STAY ESTABLISHMENT. Any hotel, motel, rooming house, inn, rooming
unit, bed-and-breakfast, residence inn, country inn, motor court, RV park or
motor lodge that lets or provides any space for occupancy by any person. Any
place of business that provides services or utilities to motor homes,
recreational vehicles, trucks with campers or any other motor vehicle in which
an individual does nor may sleep overnight is an EXTENDED-STAY ESTABLISHMENT
under this subchapter.
   FPO. The Franklinville Police Department.
   HOMELESS ADULT. Any adult who has been in the village for more than 24 hours
or intends to be in village for more than 24 hours without a residence or place
of lodging.
   HOMELESS SHELTER. Any structure that provides temporary housing to a
homeless adult.
   INTERNET. An interactive computer service or system or an information
service, system or access software provider that provides or enables computer
access by multiple users to a computer server and includes, but is not limited
to, an information service, system or access software provider that provides
access to a network system commonly known as the INTERNET, or any comparable
system or service and also includes, but is not limited to, a World Wide Web
page, news group, message board, mailing list, or chat area on any interactive
computer service or system or other on-line service. The FPO WEBSITE shall mean
any Internet site made available by the FPD to the public, including any link
to the website of the village.
   OUTSIDE NEW YORK. Anywhere outside the geographical borders of the State of
New York or any federal enclave, Indian trust lands or reservations located
inside the geographical borders of New York.
   PARK. An area of land set aside for public use, enjoyment, recreation;
owned, managed and maintained by the municipality.
   PLAY GROUNDS. An outdoor area set aside for recreation and play, especially
by children, and often containing recreational equipment such as slides and
swing.
   REGISTRANT. Any person required to register under this subchapter.
   REGISTRATION YEAR. One year from the date of first registration under this
subchapter.
   RESIDENT. Any person who lives in the village in any apartment or home, has
a usual place of abode in the village, is domiciled in the village or
temporarily present in the village and staying at a homeless shelter or an
extended-stay establishment.
   RESPONSIBLE ADULT. An adult who is not a sex offender.
   SCHOOL. A licensed or accredited public, charter, private or religious
school that offers instruction to students in kindergarten through any grade up
to grade 12.
   SCHOOL GROUNDS. In or on or within any building, structure, athletic playing
field, playground or land contained within the real property boundary line of a
public or private elementary, parochial, intermediate, junior high, vocational
or high school.
   SEX OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as the term is defined in N.Y. Correct.
Law § 168-a, Subdivision 1.
   SEX OFFENDER VIOLATION. A violation of any law defined as a sex offense in
N.Y. Correct. Law § 168-a, Subdivision 2.
   SEX OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in N.Y. Correct.
Law § 168-a, Subdivision 2.
(Ord. 8-2006, passed 10-23-2006)
§ 131.62 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Sex offenders who reside in the village and who are required to
register with the Department of Corrections pursuant to N.Y. Correct. Law Art.
6-C must register with FPD.
      (2)   A sex offender must register with FPD within ten days after being
released from incarceration, or ten days from the date of sentencing if not
incarcerated, for a sex offender violation. A registrant under this section
must provide FPD with the following information:
         (a)   His or her legal name, any other names or aliases he or she has
used or is using and any new names he or she has applied for in the last year;
         (b)   His or her date of birth;
         (c)   His or her Social Security number;
         (d)   His or her current address, the address of any other residences
he or she owns or the address of any other real property he or she owns or
leases and the address of any other locations or places of lodging where the
sex offender intends to stay or does in fact stay for more than three
consecutive days at any time or an aggregate of ten or more days in a
registration year. Homeless shelters and extended-stay establishments must be
included in the disclosure required pursuant to this division (d). Pursuant to
this division (A) above, the registrant must provide a description and location
of any and all rented or owned spaces to which the registrant claims a right to
privacy or a right to exclude others, including, but not limited to storage
buildings;
         (e)   His or her place of employment and the name and telephone number
of a contact person who knows his or her location at any and all times during
employment hours or other times he or she performs work in the scope of his or
her employment duties;
         (f)   His or her driver’s license number and the license plate number,
vehicle identification number and description by make and model of all vehicles
registered to him or her, owned by him or her, driven by him or her during
employment or otherwise available to him or her with regularity by consent from
another; and
         (g)   A list of any and all sex offense violations of which he or she
has been convicted or to which he or she has entered a plea of guilty.
      (3)   As an alternative to the registration information to be gathered in
division (A)(2) above, the FPD may rely on the information as is gathered and
provided by the state to the village pursuant to N.Y. Correct. Law Art. 6-C.
   (B)   Within five days from the effective date of this subchapter, a sex
offender employed by an employer located in the village shall notify FPD that
he is a registered sex offender. At the time a sex offender applies for or
receives an offer of employment by an employer where the sex offender will be
working substantially within the village, the sex offender shall notify the
employer that he or she is a registered sex offender. All sex offenders shall
provide the employer or prospective employer with the current conditions of
probation in writing including, if applicable, any conditions of probation that
require the sex offender to stay away from vulnerable populations or conditions
the sex offender’s contact with vulnerable populations.
(Ord. 8-2006, passed 10-23-2006)
§ 131.63 UPDATE OF REGISTRATION INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any sex offender who provides inaccurate information to the FPD
commits a separate violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   In the event of any change in registration information or addition of
new information that would have been required in the initial or subsequent
registration other than a change of address or employment governed by division
(C) or (D) below, the registrant must notify FPD and provide new valid
information within three days of the time the new information becomes known or
should be known by the registrant.
   (C)   A sex offender who is required to register under this subchapter and
elects to change the address of any place of lodging including but not limited
to, a residence, extended-stay establishment or homeless shelter, must notify
FPD of the prospective change before the change occurs.
   (D)   A sex offender who is required to register under this subchapter and
changes his or her place of employment must notify FPD ten days before the
voluntary change occurs or five days after the change is forced or compelled.
Sex offenders must provide the name and telephone number of a new contact
person within ten days of the time new work begins.
   (E)   When a sex offender registers under this subchapter, FPD may take and
retain his or her photograph and a set of fingerprints. Additionally, FPD may
record and retain the person’s shoe size, a DNA sample, dental imprints and a
description of tattoos, scars and other identifying features that would assist
in identifying the sex offender, as determined by the FPD. As an alternative,
the FPD may rely for DNA and other identifying information on data bases
provided by the state.
   (F)   Following the initial registration, registrants, except homeless
adults, are required to annually renew the registration before December 31 of
each subsequent calendar year for 20 years. Homeless adults residing from time
to time in homeless shelters must verify registration data in writing every 90
days as long as they are in village on a form provided by FPD. Sex offenders
who have been convicted of two or more sex offenses must register for life.
   (G)   If any person receives a deferred sentence from any court for a sex
offense that would otherwise trigger registration under this subchapter, that
person must register as if convicted unless he or she obtains an order from a
court of competent jurisdiction which, after an evidentiary hearing on the
issue, rules that registration is not required on the grounds that registration
would grossly prejudice his or her rights. If the charges are dismissed against
the person at the completion of the deferred sentence, the person does not have
to renew registration in subsequent registration years.
   (H)   Any sex offender currently incarcerated in a correctional institution
and temporarily at large and free to move about in the village is required to
register under this subchapter ten days before each release date. This division
(H) includes but is not limited to persons on probation, parole, furlough, work
release, weekend sentences or any similar program that results in or causes the
person to be outside the confines of the institution for any reason.
(Ord. 8-2006, passed 10-23-2006)
§ 131.64 SEX OFFENDER REGISTRY.
   (A)   FPD may maintain a local registry of sex offenders registered under
this subchapter. The village may maintain a database of sex offenders distinct
from any registry of sex offenders maintained by the state. Registration under
any registration program maintained by the state does not exempt a sex offender
from registration under this subchapter.
   (B)   The village will make available and disseminate sex offender
registration information as authorized by state law on the FPD’s own website on
the Internet for any sex offender classified as a Level II or Level III sex
offender by the State Department of Corrections. Inclusion of a sex offender in
FPD’s data base and website is based solely on the fact of a prior conviction
and not based on any assessment of the current degree of dangerousness posed by
any particular sex offender.
   (C)   The website will conspicuously include the following statement: “The
village’s decision to post sex offenders on this website is based on the fact
that the sex offender was convicted of a sex offense in the past. The village
has not assessed the specific risk posed by any particular individual sex
offender or class of sex offenders and has made no determination regarding the
current dangerousness or degree of dangerousness of any individual sex offender
or class of sex offenders. The main purpose of providing this data on the
Internet is to make the information more easily available and accessible, not
to warn about any specific individual.”
(Ord. 8-2006, passed 10-23-2006)
§ 131.65 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   After the effective date of this subchapter, sex offenders shall not newly
occupy any real property, acquire any real property by lease or otherwise or
establish a place of lodging within one-fourth of a mile of a school, day-care
center, playground, park or school grounds.
(Ord. 8-2006, passed 10-23-2006)
§ 131.66 BACKGROUND AND ADDRESS CHECKS.
   (A)   Village contractors. All persons or entities that enter into contracts
with the village and employ any person that may be alone with a child within
the scope of the performance of the contract shall conduct a background search
of any and all such employees and compare the background search to any
applicable registration information available on the FPD’s website and the sex
offender hotline maintained by the state. Any failure by the contractor to
comply is a material breach of the contract and entitles the village to
terminate the contract. This division includes but is not limited to 501(C)(3)
entities and charitable entities. Any person or entity to which this division
applies shall notify FPD immediately if that person or entity has or obtains
any information about any registrant that does not conform with the information
the registrant provided to the village pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Address certification checks. FPD may conduct address verification
checks to substantiate that registrants are living where they claim to live.
The check shall verify that the claimed address exists and that the registrant
in fact lives at the claimed address. If FPD is unable to verify the address,
the registrant may be contacted by mail or otherwise and ordered to submit a
sworn affidavit to FPD that the registrant in fact lives at the claimed
address. FPD may contact and interview any person living or located near the
claimed address. The provisions of this division are in addition to any other
lawful investigation FPD may undertake.
(Ord. 8-2006, passed 10-23-2006)
§ 131.67 VILLAGE LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter creates or shall create a cause of action against
the village not already authorized under existing law. Without limitation, the
village is not liable to any person harmed who claims that notice under this
subchapter may have prevented the harm.
(Ord. 8-2006, passed 10-23-2006)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates §
131.01 shall be fined not less than $100 nor more than $250.
   (C)   Any person committing an offense of unlawful discharge of a weapon
within the corporate limits of the village in violation of §
131.15, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine not less than
$100 nor more than $250.
   (D)   A violation of §§
131.30 or
131.31 shall constitute disorderly conduct, and a person violating this local
law shall be and hereby is declared a disorderly person subject to penalties as
stated in §
10.99.
   (E)   Violations of §§
131.45,
131.46 or
131.47 shall constitute a violation as defined in N.Y. Penal Law Art. 10, §
10.00(3). The penalty for violation of this local law shall be subject to
penalties as stated in §
10.99.
   (F)   Each violation of §§
131.60 through
131.67 by a sexual offender shall be punishable by a fine of $250 and/or 15
days in jail. Each day that a registrant should have registered or supplemented
his or her registration but failed to do so shall constitute a separate
offense. It is the intent of this Board that violations of §§
131.60 through
131.67 should not be treated by the courts as lesser included offenses that
merge into a violation of N.Y. Correct. Law Art. 6-C. The village shall also be
entitled to injunctive relief to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 4-2005, passed 9-26-2005; Ord. 2-2006, passed 3-27-2006; Ord. 8-2006,
passed 10-23-2006)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
152.   ZONING
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
155.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Purpose and intent
   
150.002   Definitions
   
150.003   Code Enforcement Officer and Inspectors
   
150.004   Unsafe buildings, structures, and equipment and conditions of
imminent danger
   
150.005   Intermunicipal agreements
   
150.006   Fee schedule
Building Permits
   
150.020   Building permits required
   
150.021   [Reserved.]
   
150.022   [Reserved.]
   
150.023   Applications for building permits
   
150.024   Construction documents
   
150.025   Issuance of builidng permits
   
150.026   Building permits to be displayed
   
150.027   Work to be in accordance with construction documents
   
150.028   Time limits
   
150.029   Revocation or suspension of building permits
   
150.030   Time for payment of fee
Construction Inspections
   
150.045   Work to remain accessible and exposed
   
150.046   Elements of work to be inspected
   
150.047   Remote inspections
   
150.048   Inspection results
   
150.049   Time for payment of fee
Stop Work Orders
   
150.060   Authority to issue stop work orders
   
150.061   Content of stop work orders
   
150.062   Service of stop work orders
   
150.063   Effect of stop work order
   
150.064   Remedy not exclusive
Certificates of Occupancy and Certificates of Compliance
   
150.075   Certificates of occupancy and certificates of compliance required
   
150.076   Issuance of certificates of occupancy and certificates of compliance
   
150.077   Contents of certificates of occupancy and certificates of compliance
   
150.078   Temporary certificate of occupancy
   
150.079   Revocation or suspension of certificates
   
150.080   Time for payment of fee
Operating Permits
   
150.095   Operating permits required
   
150.096   Applications for operating permits
   
150.097   [Reserved]
   
150.098   Inspections
   
150.099   Multiple activities
   
150.100   Duration of operating permits
   
150.101   Revocation or suspension of operating permits
   
150.102   Time for payment of fee
Fire Safety and Property Maintenance Inspections
   
150.115   Inspections required
   
150.116   Remote inspections
   
150.117   Inspections permitted
   
150.118   OFPC inspections
   
150.119   Time for payment of fee
Complaints and Notifications
   
150.130   Complaints
   
150.131   Notification regarding fire or explosion
Condition Assessments of Parking Garages
   
150.145   Definitions
   
150.146   Condition assessments; general requirements
   
150.147   Initial condition assessment
   
150.148   Periodic condition assessments
   
150.149   Additional condition assessments
   
150.150   Condition assessment reports
   
150.151   Review condition assessment reports
   
150.152   Retention and availability of reports
   
150.153   Other rights and obligations
Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria
   
150.165   Determination of criteria
   
150.166   Records
Record Keeping; Program Review and Reporting
   
150.180   Records required to be kept permanently
   
150.181   Records open to the public
   
150.182   Annual report to the Board of Trustees
   
150.183   Annual report to the Secretary of State
   
150.184   Compliance with state requests for records
Violations; Enforcement
   
150.195   Orders to remedy
   
150.196   Appearance tickets
   
150.197   Injunctive relief
   
150.198   Remedies not exclusive
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter provides for the administration and enforcement of the New York
State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code (the Uniform Code) and the
State Energy Conservation Construction Code (the Energy Code) in this village.
This chapter is adopted pursuant to N.Y. Mun. Home Rule Law § 10. Except as
otherwise provided in the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, other state law, or
other section of this chapter, all buildings, structures, and premises,
regardless of use or occupancy, are subject to the provisions of this chapter.
This chapter amends any prior local law regarding building construction and
fire prevention.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSEMBLY AREA. An area in any building, or in any portion of a building,
that is primarily used or intended to be used for gathering 50 or more persons
for uses including, but not limited to, amusement, athletic, entertainment,
social, or other recreational functions; patriotic, political, civic,
educational, or religious functions; food or drink consumption; awaiting
transportation; or similar purposes.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A building permit, construction permit, demolition permit,
or other permit that authorizes the performance of work. The term BUILDING
PERMIT shall also include a building permit which is renewed, amended, or
extended pursuant to any provision of this local law.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A document issued by the village stating that
work was done in compliance with approved construction documents and the Codes.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by the village certifying that
the building or structure, or portion thereof, complies with the approved
construction documents that have been submitted to, and approved by the village
and indicating that the building or structure, or portion thereof, is in a
condition suitable for occupancy.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Code Enforcement Officer appointed pursuant to
§
150.003(B).
   CODE ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL. Includes the Code Enforcement Officer and all
Inspectors.
   CODES. The Uniform Code and Energy Code.
   ENERGY CODE. The New York State Energy Conservation Construction Code
adopted pursuant to N.Y. Energy Law Art. 11.
   FCNYS. The 2020 Fire Code of New York State as currently incorporated by
reference in 19 NYCRR Part 1225.
   FIRE SAFETY AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE INSPECTION. An inspection performed to
determine compliance with the applicable provisions of 19 NYCRR Part 1225 and
the publications incorporated therein by reference and the applicable
provisions of 19 NYCRR Part 1226 and the publications incorporated therein by
reference.
   HAZARDOUS PRODUCTION MATERIALS. A solid, liquid, or gas associated with
semiconductor manufacturing that has a degree-of-hazard rating in health,
flammability, or instability of Class 3 or 4, as ranked by NFPA 704 (Standard
Systems for Identification of the Hazards of Materials for Emergency Response),
and which is used directly in research, laboratory, or production processes
which have, as their end product, materials that are not hazardous.
   INSPECTOR. An inspector appointed pursuant to §
150.003(D).
   MOBILE FOOD PREPARATION VEHICLES. Vehicles that contain cooking equipment
that produces smoke or grease-laden vapors for the purpose of preparing and
serving food to the public. Vehicles intended for private recreation shall not
be considered mobile food preparation vehicles.
   OPERATING PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to §§
150.095 through
150.102. The term OPERATING PERMIT shall also include an operating permit which
is renewed, amended, or extended pursuant to any provision of this chapter.
   ORDER TO REMEDY. An order issued by the Code Enforcement Officer pursuant to
§
150.195.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The person to whom a building permit has been issued.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, limited partnership, business trust, estate, trust, association,
or any other legal or commercial entity of any kind or description.
   PMCNYS. The 2020 Property Maintenance Code of New York State as currently
incorporated by reference in 19 NYCRR Part 1226.
   RCNYS. The 2020 Residential Code of New York State as currently incorporated
by reference in 19 NYCRR Part 1220.
   REPAIR. The reconstruction, replacement, or renewal of any part of an
existing building for the purpose of its maintenance or to correct damage.
   STOP WORK ORDER. An order issued pursuant to §§
150.060 through
150.064.
   SUGARHOUSE. A building used, in whole or in part, for the collection,
storage, or processing of maple sap into maple syrup and/or maple sugar.
   TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate issued pursuant to §
150.078.
   UNIFORM CODE. The New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code,
Subchapter A of Chapter XXXIII of Title 19 of the NYCRR, adopted pursuant to
N.Y. Executive Law Art. 18.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Franklinville.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.003 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER AND INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Office of Code Enforcement Officer is hereby created. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall administer and enforce all the provisions of the
Uniform Code, the Energy Code, and this chapter. The Code Enforcement Officer
shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To receive, review, and approve or disapprove applications for
building permits, certificates of occupancy, certificates of compliance,
temporary certificates of occupancy, and operating permits, and the plans,
specifications, and construction documents submitted with such applications;
      (2)   Upon approval of such applications, to issue building permits,
certificates of occupancy, certificates of compliance, temporary certificates
of occupancy, and operating permits, and to include in terms and conditions as
the Code Enforcement Officer may determine to be appropriate building permits,
certificates of occupancy, certificates of compliance, temporary certificates
of occupancy, and operating permits;
      (3)   To conduct construction inspections; inspections to be made prior
to the issuance of certificates of occupancy, certificates of compliance,
temporary certificates of occupancy, and operating permits; fire safety and
property maintenance inspections; inspections incidental to the investigation
of complaints; and all other inspections required or permitted under any
provision of this local law;
      (4)   To issue stop work orders;
      (5)   To review and investigate complaints;
      (6)   To issue orders pursuant to §
150.195;
      (7)   To maintain records;
      (8)   To collect fees as set by the Board of Trustees of the village;
      (9)   To pursue administrative enforcement actions and proceedings;
      (10)   In consultation with this village's attorney, to pursue such legal
actions and proceedings as may be necessary to enforce the Uniform Code, the
Energy Code, and this chapter, or to abate or correct conditions not in
compliance with the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, or this chapter; and
      (11)   To exercise all other powers and fulfill all other duties
conferred upon the Code Enforcement Officer by this chapter.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be appointed by the Village Board
of Trustees. The Code Enforcement Officer shall possess background experience
related to building construction or fire prevention and shall, within the time
prescribed by law, obtain such basic training, in-service training, advanced
in-service training, and other training as the State of New York shall require
for code enforcement personnel, and the Code Enforcement Officer shall obtain
certification from the Department of State pursuant to the Executive Law and
the regulations promulgated thereunder.
   (C)   In the event that the Code Enforcement Officer is unable to serve as
such for any reason, another individual shall be appointed by the Village Board
of Trustees to serve as Acting Code Enforcement Officer. The Acting Code
Enforcement Officer shall, during the term of their appointment, exercise all
powers and fulfill all duties conferred upon the Code Enforcement Officer by
this chapter.
   (D)   One or more Inspectors may be appointed by the Village Board of
Trustees to act under the supervision and direction of the Code Enforcement
Officer and to assist the Code Enforcement Officer in the exercise of the
powers and fulfillment of the duties conferred upon the Code Enforcement
Officer by this chapter. Each Inspector shall, within the time prescribed by
law, obtain such basic training, in-service training, advanced in-service
training, and other training as the State of New York shall require for code
enforcement personnel, and each Inspector shall obtain certification from the
Department of State pursuant to the Executive Law and the regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   (E)   The compensation for the Code Enforcement Officer and Inspectors shall
be fixed from time to time by the Board of Trustees of this village.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.004 UNSAFE BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, AND EQUIPMENT AND CONDITIONS OF
IMMINENT DANGER.
   Unsafe buildings, structures, and equipment and conditions of imminent
danger in this village shall be identified and addressed in accordance with the
procedures established by
Chapter 151 and
Chapter 154 of this municipal code, as now in effect or as hereafter amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.005 INTERMUNICIPAL AGREEMENTS.
   The Board of Trustees of this village may, by resolution, authorize the
Mayor to enter into an agreement, in the name of this village, with other
governments to carry out the terms of this chapter, provided that such
agreement does not violate any provision of the Uniform Code, the Energy Code,
Part 1203 of Title 19 of the NYCRR, or any other applicable law.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.006 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   A fee schedule shall be established by resolution of the Board of
Trustees of this village. Such fee schedule may thereafter be amended from time
to time by like resolution.
   (B)   The fees set forth in, or determined in accordance with, such fee
schedule or amended fee schedule shall be charged and collected for the
submission of applications, the issuance of building permits, amended building
permits, renewed building permits, certificates of occupancy, certificates of
compliance, temporary certificates, operating permits, fire safety and property
maintenance inspections, and other actions of the Code Enforcement Officer
described in or contemplated by this chapter.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 150.020 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A building permit shall be required for any work which must conform to the
Uniform Code and/or the Energy Code, including, but not limited to, the
construction, enlargement, alteration, improvement, removal, relocation, or
demolition of any building or structure or any portion thereof, and the
installation of a solid fuel burning heating appliance, chimney, or flue in any
dwelling unit. No person shall commence any work for which a building permit is
required without first having obtained a building permit from the village.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.021 [RESERVED.]
§ 150.022 [RESERVED.]
§ 150.023 APPLICATIONS FOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   Applications for a building permit shall be made in writing on a form
provided by or otherwise acceptable to the Code Enforcement Officer. The
application shall be signed by the owner of the property where the work is to
be performed or an authorized agent of the owner. The application shall include
such information as the Code Enforcement Officer deems sufficient to permit a
determination by the Code Enforcement Officer that the intended work complies
with all applicable requirements of the Uniform Code and the Energy Code. The
application shall include or be accompanied by the following information and
documentation:
   (A)   A description of the location, nature, extent, and scope of the
proposed work;
   (B)   The tax map number and the street address of any affected building or
structure;
   (C)   The occupancy classification of any affected building or structure;
   (D)   Where applicable, a statement of special inspections prepared in
accordance with the provisions of the Uniform Code; and
   (E)   At least two sets of construction documents (drawings and/or
specifications) which:
      (1)   Describe the location, nature, extent, and scope of the proposed
work;
      (2)   Show that the proposed work will conform to the applicable
provisions of the Codes;
      (3)   Show the location, construction, size, and character of all
portions of the means of egress;
      (4)   Show a representation of the building thermal envelope;
      (5)   Show structural information including but not limited to braced
wall designs, the size, section, and relative locations of structural members,
design loads, and other pertinent structural information;
      (6)   Show the proposed structural, electrical, plumbing, mechanical,
fire-protection, and other service systems of the building;
      (7)   Include a written statement indicating compliance with the Energy
Code;
      (8)   Include a site plan, drawn to scale and drawn in accordance with an
accurate boundary survey, showing the size and location of new construction and
existing structures and appurtenances on the site, distances from lot lines,
the established street grades and the proposed finished grades, and, as
applicable, flood hazard areas, floodways, and design flood elevations; and
      (9)   Evidence that the documents were prepared by a licensed and
registered architect in accordance with N.Y. Education Law Art. 147 or a
licensed and registered professional engineer in accordance with N.Y. Education
Law Art. 145 and practice guidelines, including but not limited to the design
professional's seal which clearly and legibly shows both the design
professional's name and license number and is signed by the design professional
whose name appears on the seal in such a manner that neither the name nor the
number is obscured in any way, the design professional's registration
expiration date, the design professional's firm name (if not a sole
practitioner), and, if the documents are submitted by a professional
engineering firm and not a sole practitioner professional engineer, the firm's
certificate of authorization number.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.024 CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   Construction documents will not be accepted as part of an application
for a building permit unless they satisfy the requirements set forth in §
150.023(E). Construction documents which are accepted as part of the
application for a building permit shall be marked as accepted by the Code
Enforcement Officer in writing or by stamp, or in the case of electronic media,
an electronic marking.
   (B)   One set of the accepted construction documents shall be retained by
the Code Enforcement Officer, and one set of the accepted construction
documents shall be returned to the applicant to be kept at the work site so as
to be available for use by the code enforcement personnel. However, the return
of a set of accepted construction documents to the applicant shall not be
construed as authorization to commence work, nor as an indication that a
building permit will be issued. Work shall not be commenced until and unless a
building permit is issued.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.025 ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   An application for a building permit shall be examined to ascertain whether
the proposed work is in compliance with the applicable requirements of the
Uniform Code and Energy Code. The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a
building permit if the proposed work is in compliance with the applicable
requirements of the Uniform Code and Energy Code.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.026 BUILDING PERMITS TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Building permits shall be visibly displayed at the work site and shall
remain visible until the authorized work has been completed.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.027 WORK TO BE IN ACCORDANCE WITH CONSTRUCTION DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   All work shall be performed in accordance with the construction
documents which were submitted with and accepted as part of the application for
the building permit. The building permit shall contain such a directive.
   (B)    The permit holder shall immediately notify the Code Enforcement
Officer of any change occurring during the course of the work. The building
permit shall contain such a directive. If the Code Enforcement Officer
determines that such change warrants a new or amended building permit, such
change shall not be made until and unless a new or amended building permit
reflecting such change is issued.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.028 TIME LIMITS.
   Building permits shall become invalid unless the authorized work is
commenced within six months following the date of issuance. Building permits
shall expire 12 months after the date of issuance. A building permit which has
become invalid or which has expired pursuant to this section may be renewed
upon application by the permit holder, payment of the applicable fee, and
approval of the application by the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.029 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   If the Code Enforcement Officer determines that a building permit was issued
in error because of incorrect, inaccurate or incomplete information, or that
the work for which a building permit was issued violates the Uniform Code or
the Energy Code, the Code Enforcement Officer shall revoke the building permit
or suspend the building permit until such time as the permit holder
demonstrates that:
   (A)   All work then completed is in compliance with all applicable
provisions of the Uniform Code and the Energy Code; and
   (B)   All work then proposed to be performed shall be in compliance with all
applicable provisions of the Uniform Code and the Energy Code.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.030 TIME FOR PAYMENT OF FEE.
   The fee specified in or determined in accordance with the provisions set
forth in §
150.006 must be paid at the time of submission of an application for a building
permit, for an amended building permit, or for renewal of a building permit.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
CONSTRUCTION INSPECTIONS
§ 150.045 WORK TO REMAIN ACCESSIBLE AND EXPOSED.
   (A)   Work shall remain accessible and exposed until inspected and accepted
by the Code Enforcement Officer or by an Inspector authorized by the Code
Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   The permit holder shall notify the Code Enforcement Officer when any
element of work described in §
150.046 is ready for inspection.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.046 ELEMENTS OF WORK TO BE INSPECTED.
   The following elements of the construction process shall be inspected, where
applicable:
   (A)   Work site prior to the issuance of a building permit;
   (B)   Footing and foundation;
   (C)   Preparation for concrete slab;
   (D)   Framing;
   (E)   Structural, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, fire-protection, and
other similar service systems of the building;
   (F)   Fire resistant construction;
   (G)   Fire resistant penetrations;
   (H)   Solid fuel burning heating appliances, chimneys, flues, or gas vents;
   (I)   Inspections required to demonstrate Energy Code compliance, including
but not limited to insulation, fenestration, air leakage, system controls,
mechanical equipment size, and, where required, minimum fan efficiencies,
programmable thermostats, energy recovery, whole-house ventilation, plumbing
heat traps, and high-performance lighting and controls;
   (J)   Installation, connection, and assembly of factor manufactured
buildings and manufactured homes; and
   (K)   A final inspection after all work authorized by the building permit
has been completed.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.047 REMOTE INSPECTIONS.
   At the discretion of the Code Enforcement Officer or Inspector authorized to
perform construction inspections, a remote inspection may be performed in lieu
of an in-person inspection when, in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer
or such authorized Inspector, the remote inspection can be performed to the
same level and quality as an in-person inspection and the remote inspection
shows to the satisfaction of the Code Enforcement Officer or by such authorized
Inspector that the elements of the construction process conform with the
applicable requirements of the Uniform Code and Energy Code. Should a remote
inspection not afford the Code Enforcement Officer or such authorized Inspector
sufficient information to make a determination, an in-person inspection shall
be performed.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.048 INSPECTION RESULTS.
   After inspection, the work or a portion thereof shall be noted as
satisfactory as completed, or the permit holder shall be notified as to the
manner in which the work fails to comply with the Uniform Code or Energy Code,
including a citation to the specific code provision or provisions that have not
been met. Work not in compliance with any applicable provision of the Uniform
Code or Energy Code shall remain exposed until such work shall have been
brought into compliance with all applicable provisions of the Uniform Code and
the Energy Code, reinspected, and found satisfactory as completed.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.049 TIME FOR PAYMENT OF FEE.
   The fee specified in or determined in accordance with the provisions set
forth in §
150.006 must be paid prior to or at the time of each inspection performed
pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
STOP WORK ORDERS
§ 150.060 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE STOP WORK ORDERS.
   The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue stop work orders
pursuant to this subchapter. The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a stop
work order to halt:
   (A)   Any work that is determined by the Code Enforcement Officer to be
contrary to any applicable provision of the Uniform Code or Energy Code,
without regard to whether such work is or is not work for which a building
permit is required, and without regard to whether a building permit has or has
not been issued for such work;
   (B)   Any work that is being conducted in a dangerous or unsafe manner in
the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer, without regard to whether such
work is or is not work for which a building permit is required, and without
regard to whether a building permit has or has not been issued for such work;
or
   (C)   Any work for which a building permit is required which is being
performed without the required building permit, or under a building permit that
has become invalid, has expired, or has been suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.061 CONTENT OF STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Stop work orders shall:
   (A)   Be in writing;
   (B)   Be dated and signed by the Code Enforcement Officer;
   (C)   State the reason or reasons for issuance; and
   (D)   If applicable, state the conditions which must be satisfied before
work will be permitted to resume.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.062 SERVICE OF STOP WORK ORDERS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall cause the stop work order, or a
copy thereof, to be served on the owner of the affected property (and, if the
owner is not the permit holder, on the permit holder) personally or by U.S.
Postal Service certified mail, U.S. Postal Service registered mail, United
Parcel Service with proof of delivery or Federal Express with proof of
delivery.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be permitted, but not required, to
cause the stop work order, or a copy thereof, to be served on any builder,
architect, tenant, contractor, subcontractor, construction superintendent, or
their agents, or any other person taking part or assisting in work affected by
the stop work order, personally or by U.S. Postal Service certified mail, U.S.
Postal Service registered mail, United Parcel Service with proof of delivery or
Federal Express with proof of delivery, provided, however, that failure to
serve any person mentioned in this sentence shall not affect the efficacy of
the stop work order.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.063 EFFECT OF STOP WORK ORDER.
   Upon the issuance of a stop work order, the owner of the affected property,
the permit holder, and any other person performing, taking part in, or
assisting in the work shall immediately cease all work which is the subject of
the stop work order, other than work expressly authorized by the Code
Enforcement Officer to correct the reason for issuing the Stop Work Order.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.064 REMEDY NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   The issuance of a stop work order shall not be the exclusive remedy
available to address any event described in §
150.060, and the authority to issue a stop work order shall be in addition to,
and not in substitution for or limitation of, the right and authority to pursue
any other remedy or impose any other penalty under §§
150.195 through
150.198 and §
150.999 or under any other applicable local law or state law.
   (B)   Any such other remedy or penalty may be pursued at any time, whether
prior to, at the time of, or after the issuance of a stop work order.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY AND CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE
§ 150.075 CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY AND CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy or certificate of compliance shall be
required for any work which is the subject of a building permit and for all
structures, buildings, or portions thereof, which are converted from one use or
occupancy classification or subclassification to another.
   (B)   Permission to use or occupy a building or structure, or portion
thereof, for which a building permit was previously issued shall be granted
only by issuance of a certificate of occupancy or certificate of compliance.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.076 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY AND CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a certificate of occupancy or
certificate of compliance if the work which was the subject of the building
permit was completed in accordance with all applicable provisions of the
Uniform Code and Energy Code and, if applicable, that the structure, building
or portion thereof that was converted from one use or occupancy classification
or subclassification to another complies with all applicable provisions of the
Uniform Code and Energy Code. The Code Enforcement Officer or an Inspector
authorized by the Code Enforcement Officer shall inspect the building,
structure, or work prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or
certificate of compliance.
   (B)   In addition, where applicable, the following documents, prepared in
accordance with the provisions of the Uniform Code by such person or persons as
may be designated by or otherwise acceptable to the Code Enforcement Officer,
at the expense of the applicant for the certificate of occupancy or certificate
of compliance, shall be provided to the Code Enforcement Officer prior to the
issuance of the certificate of occupancy or certificate of compliance:
      (1)   A written statement of structural observations and/or a final
report of special inspections;
      (2)   Flood hazard certifications;
      (3)   A written statement of the results of tests performed to show
compliance with the Energy Code; and
      (4)   Where applicable, the affixation of the appropriate seals,
insignias, and manufacturer's data plates as required for factory manufactured
buildings and/or manufactured homes.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.077 CONTENTS OF CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY AND CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   A certificate of occupancy or certificate of compliance shall contain the
following information:
   (A)   The building permit number, if any;
   (B)   The date of issuance of the building permit, if any;
   (C)   The name (if any), address and tax map number of the property;
   (D)   If the certificate of occupancy or certificate of compliance is not
applicable to an entire structure, a description of that portion of the
structure for which the certificate of occupancy or certificate of compliance
is issued;
   (E)   The use and occupancy classification of the structure;
   (F)   The type of construction of the structure;
   (G)   The occupant load of the assembly areas in the structure, if any;
   (H)   Any special conditions imposed in connection with the issuance of the
Building Permit; and
   (I)   The signature of the Code Enforcement Officer issuing the certificate
of occupancy or certificate of compliance and the date of issuance.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.078 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall be permitted to issue a temporary
certificate of occupancy allowing the temporary occupancy of a building or
structure, or a portion thereof, prior to completion of the work which is the
subject of a building permit.
   (B)   However, in no event shall the Code Enforcement Officer issue a
temporary certificate of occupancy unless the Code Enforcement Officer
determines:
      (1)   That the building or structure, or the portion thereof covered by
the temporary certificate of occupancy, may be occupied safely;
      (2)   That any required fire and life safety components, such as fire
protection equipment and fire, smoke, carbon monoxide, and heat detectors and
alarms are installed and operational; and
      (3)   That all required means of egress from the structure have been
provided.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer may include in a temporary certificate of
occupancy such terms and conditions as he or she deems necessary or appropriate
to ensure the health and safety of the persons occupying and using the building
or structure and/or performing further construction work in the building or
structure.
   (D)   A temporary certificate of occupancy shall be effective for a period
of time, not to exceed six months, which shall be determined by the Code
Enforcement Officer and specified in the temporary certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   During the specified period of effectiveness of the temporary
certificate of occupancy, the permit holder shall undertake to bring the
building or structure into full compliance with all applicable provisions of
the Uniform Code and the Energy Code.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.079 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF CERTIFICATES.
   If the Code Enforcement Officer determines that a certificate of occupancy,
certification of compliance, or a temporary certificate of occupancy was issued
in error or on the basis of incorrect information, and if the relevant
deficiencies are not corrected to the satisfaction of the Code Enforcement
Officer within such period of time as shall be specified by the Code
Enforcement Officer, the Code Enforcement Officer shall revoke or suspend such
certificate.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.080 TIME FOR PAYMENT OF FEE.
   The fee specified in or determined in accordance with the provisions set
forth in §
150.006 must be paid at the time of submission of an application for a
certificate of occupancy, certificate of compliance, or for temporary
certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
OPERATING PERMITS
§ 150.095 OPERATING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Operating permits shall be required for conducting any process or
activity or for operating any type of building, structure, or facility listed
below:
      (1)   Manufacturing, storing, or handling hazardous materials in
quantities exceeding those listed in the applicable maximum allowable quantity
tables found in Chapter 50 of the FCNYS;
      (2)   Buildings, structures, facilities, processes, and/or activities
that are within the scope and/or permit requirements of the chapter or section
title of the FCNYS as follows:
         (a)   Chapter 22, "Combustible Dust-Producing Operations." Facilities
where the operation produces combustible dust;
         (b)   Chapter 24, "Flammable Finishes." Operations utilizing flammable
or combustible liquids, or the application of combustible powders regulated by
Chapter 24 of the FCNYS;
         (c)   Chapter 25, "Fruit and Crop Ripening." Operating a fruit- or
crop-ripening facility or conducting a fruit-ripening process using ethylene
gas;
         (d)   Chapter 26, "Fumigation and Insecticidal Fogging." Conducting
fumigation or insecticidal fogging operations in buildings, structures, and
spaces, except for fumigation or insecticidal fogging performed by the occupant
of a detached one-family dwelling;
         (e)   Chapter 31, "Tents, Temporary Special Event Structures, and
Other Membrane Structures." Operating an air-supported temporary membrane
structure, a temporary special event structure, or a tent where approval is
required pursuant to Chapter 31 of the FCNYS;
         (f)   Chapter 32, "High-Piled Combustible Storage." High-piled
combustible storage facilities with more than 500 square feet (including
aisles) of high-piled storage;
         (g)   Chapter 34, "Tire Rebuilding and Tire Storage." Operating a
facility that stores in excess of 2,500 cubic feet of scrap tires or tire
byproducts or operating a tire rebuilding plant;
         (h)   Chapter 35, "Welding and Other Hot Work." Performing public
exhibitions and demonstrations where hot work is conducted, use of hot work,
welding, or cutting equipment, inside or on a structure, except an operating
permit is not required where work is conducted under the authorization of a
building permit or where performed by the occupant of a detached one- or two-
family dwelling;
         (i)   Chapter 40, "Sugarhouse Alternative Activity Provisions."
Conducting an alternative activity at a sugarhouse;
         (j)   Chapter 56, "Explosives and Fireworks." Possessing,
manufacturing, storing, handling, selling, or using, explosives, fireworks, or
other pyrotechnic special effects materials except the outdoor use of sparkling
devices as defined by N.Y. Penal Law § 270;
         (k)   Section 307, "Open Burning, Recreational Fires and Portable
Outdoor Fireplaces." Conducting open burning, not including recreational fires
and portable outdoor fireplaces;
         (l)   Section 308, "Open Flames." Removing paint with a torch, or
using open flames, fire, and burning in connection with assembly areas or
educational occupancies;
         (m)   Section 319, "Mobile Food Preparation Vehicles." Operating a
mobile food preparation vehicle in accordance with the permitting requirements
established by this chapter;
      (3)   Energy storage systems, where the system exceeds the values shown
in Table 1206.1 of the FCNYS or exceeds the permitted aggregate ratings in
Section R327.5 of the RCNYS;
      (4)   Buildings containing one or more assembly areas;
      (5)   Outdoor events where the planned attendance exceeds 1,000 persons;
      (6)   Facilities that store, handle or use hazardous production
materials;
      (7)   Parking garages as defined in §
150.145;
      (8)   Buildings whose use or occupancy classification may pose a
substantial potential hazard to public safety, as determined by resolution
adopted by the Board of Trustees of this village; and
      (9)   Other processes or activities or for operating any type of
building, structure, or facility as determined by resolution adopted by the
Board of Trustees of this village.
   (B)   Any person who proposes to undertake any activity or to operate any
type of building listed in this section shall be required to obtain an
operating permit prior to commencing such activity or operation.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.096 APPLICATIONS FOR OPERATING PERMITS.
   (A)   An application for an operating permit shall be in writing on a form
provided by or otherwise acceptable to the Code Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   Such application shall include such information as the Code
Enforcement Officer deems sufficient to permit a determination by the Code
Enforcement Officer that quantities, materials, and activities conform to the
requirements of the Uniform Code.
   (C)   If the Code Enforcement Officer determines that tests or reports are
necessary to verify conformance, such tests or reports shall be performed or
provided by such person or persons as may be designated by or otherwise
acceptable to the Code Enforcement Officer, at the expense of the applicant.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.097 [RESERVED.]
§ 150.098 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer or an Inspector authorized by the Code
Enforcement Officer shall inspect the subject premises prior to the issuance of
an operating permit. Such inspections shall be performed either in-person or
remotely.
      (1)   Remote inspections in lieu of in-person inspections may be
performed when, at the discretion of the Code Enforcement Officer or an
Inspector authorized by the Code Enforcement Officer, the remote inspection can
be performed to the same level and quality as an in-person inspection and the
remote inspection shows to the satisfaction of the Code Enforcement Officer or
Inspector authorized by the Code Enforcement Officer that the premises conform
with the applicable requirements of the Uniform Code and the code enforcement
program.
      (2)   Should a remote inspection not afford the village sufficient
information to make a determination, an in-person inspection shall be
performed.
   (B)   After inspection, the premises shall be noted as satisfactory and the
operating permit shall be issued, or the operating permit holder shall be
notified as to the manner in which the premises fail to comply with either or
both of the Uniform Code and the code enforcement program, including a citation
to the specific provision or provisions that have not been met.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.099 MULTIPLE ACTIVITIES.
   In any circumstance in which more than one activity listed in §
150.095 is to be conducted at a location, the Code Enforcement Officer may
require a separate operating permit for each such activity, or the Code
Enforcement Officer may, in their discretion, issue a single operating permit
to apply to all such activities.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.100 DURATION OF OPERATING PERMITS.
   (A)   Operating permits shall be issued for a specified period of time
consistent with local conditions, but in no event to exceed as follows:
      (1)   Thirty days for tents, special event structures, and other membrane
structures;
      (2)   Sixty days for alternative activities at a sugarhouse;
      (3)   One year for the activities, structures, and operations determined
per §
150.095(A)(9); and
      (4)   One year for all other activities, structures, and operations
identified in subdivision (a) of this section.
   (B)   The effective period of each operating permit shall be specified in
the operating permit. An operating permit may be reissued or renewed upon
application to the Code Enforcement Officer, payment of the applicable fee, and
approval of such application by the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.101 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF OPERATING PERMITS.
   If the Code Enforcement Officer determines that any activity or building for
which an operating permit was issued does not comply with any applicable
provision of the Uniform Code, such operating permit shall be revoked or
suspended.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.102 TIME FOR PAYMENT OF FEE.
   The fee specified in or determined in accordance with the provisions set
forth in §
150.006 must be paid at the time submission of an application for an operating
permit, for an amended operating permit, or for reissue or renewal of an
operating permit.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
FIRE SAFETY AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE INSPECTIONS
§ 150.115 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Fire safety and property maintenance inspections of buildings and structures
shall be performed by the Code Enforcement Officer or an Inspector designated
by the Code Enforcement Officer at the following intervals:
   (A)   At least once every 12 months for buildings which contain an assembly
area;
   (B)   At least once every 12 months for public and private schools and
colleges, including any buildings of such schools or colleges containing
classrooms, dormitories, fraternities, sororities, laboratories, physical
education, dining, or recreational facilities; and
   (C)   At least once every 36 months for multiple dwellings and all
nonresidential occupancies.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.116 REMOTE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   At the discretion of the Code Enforcement Officer or Inspector
authorized to perform fire safety and property maintenance inspections, a
remote inspection may be performed in lieu of in-person inspections when, in
the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer or such authorized Inspector, the
remote inspection can be performed to the same level and quality as an in-
person inspection and the remote inspection shows to the satisfaction of the
Code Enforcement Officer or such authorized Inspector that the premises conform
with the applicable provisions of 19 NYCRR Part 1225 and the publications
incorporated therein by reference and the applicable provisions of 19 NYCRR
Part 1226 and the publications incorporated therein by reference.
   (B)   Should a remote inspection not afford the Code Enforcement Officer or
such authorized Inspector sufficient information to make a determination, an
in-person inspection shall be performed.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.117 INSPECTIONS PERMITTED.
   In addition to the inspections required by §
150.115, a fire safety and property maintenance inspection of any building,
structure, use, or occupancy, or of any dwelling unit, may also be performed by
the Code Enforcement Officer or an Inspector authorized to perform fire safety
and property maintenance inspections at any time upon:
   (A)   The request of the owner of the property to be inspected or an
authorized agent of such owner;
   (B)   Receipt by the Code Enforcement Officer of a written statement
alleging that conditions or activities failing to comply with the Uniform Code
or Energy Code exist; or
   (C)   Receipt by the Code Enforcement Officer of any other information,
reasonably believed by the Code Enforcement Officer to be reliable, giving rise
to reasonable cause to believe that conditions or activities failing to comply
with the Uniform Code or Energy Code exist; provided, however, that nothing in
this division shall be construed as permitting an inspection under any
circumstances under which a court order or warrant permitting such inspection
is required, unless such court order or warrant shall have been obtained.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.118 OFPC INSPECTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter or in any other provision of this chapter shall
supersede, limit, or impair the powers, duties and responsibilities of the New
York State Office of Fire Prevention and Control ("OFPC") and the New York
State Fire Administrator or other authorized entity under N.Y. Exec. Law § 156-
e and N.Y. Educ. Law § 807-b.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.119 TIME FOR PAYMENT OF FEE.
   The fee specified in or determined in accordance with the provisions set
forth in §
150.006 must be paid prior to or at the time each inspection performed pursuant
to this subchapter. This section shall not apply to inspections performed by
OFPC.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
COMPLAINTS AND NOTIFICATIONS
§ 150.130 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall review and investigate complaints
which allege or assert the existence of conditions or activities that fail to
comply with the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, this chapter, or any other local
law or regulation adopted for administration and enforcement of the Uniform
Code or the Energy Code.
   (B)   The process for responding to a complaint shall include such of the
following steps as the Code Enforcement Officer may deem to be appropriate:
      (1)   Performing an inspection of the conditions and/or activities
alleged to be in violation, and documenting the results of such inspection;
      (2)   If a violation is found to exist, providing the owner of the
affected property and any other person who may be responsible for the violation
with notice of the violation and opportunity to abate, correct or cure the
violation, or otherwise proceeding in the manner described in §§
150.195 through
150.198 and 150.999;
      (3)   If appropriate, issuing a stop work order;
      (4)   If a violation which was found to exist is abated or corrected,
performing an inspection to ensure that the violation has been abated or
corrected, preparing a final written report reflecting such abatement or
correction, and filing such report with the complaint.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.131 NOTIFICATION REGARDING FIRE OR EXPLOSION.
   The chief of any fire department providing firefighting services for a
property within this village shall promptly notify the Code Enforcement Officer
of any fire or explosion involving any structural damage, fuel-burning
appliance, chimney or gas vent.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
CONDITION ASSESSMENTS OF PARKING GARAGES
§ 150.145 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONDITION ASSESSMENT. An on-site inspection and evaluation of a parking
garage for evidence of deterioration of any structural element or building
component of such parking garage, evidence of the existence of any unsafe
condition in such parking garage, and evidence indicating that such parking
garage is an unsafe structure.
   DETERIORATION. The weakening, disintegration, corrosion, rust, or decay of
any structural element or building component, or any other loss of
effectiveness of a structural element or building component.
   PARKING GARAGE. Any building or structure, or part thereof, in which all or
any part of any structural level or levels is used for parking or storage of
motor vehicles, excluding:
      (1)   Buildings in which the only level used for parking or storage of
motor vehicles is on grade;
      (2)   An attached or accessory structure providing parking exclusively
for a detached one- or two-family dwelling; and
      (3)   A townhouse unit with attached parking exclusively for such unit.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. An individual who is licensed or otherwise authorized
under N.Y. Educ. Law Art. 145 to practice the profession of engineering in the
State of New York and who has at least three years of experience performing
structural evaluations.
   RESPONSIBLE PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. The professional engineer who performs a
condition assessment, or under whose supervision a condition assessment is
performed, and who seals and signs the condition assessment report. The use of
the term RESPONSIBLE PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER shall not be construed as limiting
the professional responsibility or liability of any professional engineer, or
of any other licensed professional, who participates in the preparation of a
condition assessment without being the responsible professional engineer for
such condition assessment.
   UNSAFE CONDITION. Includes the conditions identified as "unsafe" in section
304.1.1, section 305.1.1, and section 306.1.1 of the PMCNYS.
   UNSAFE STRUCTURE. A structure that is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, or
structurally unsafe, or is of such faulty construction or unstable foundation,
that partial or complete collapse is possible.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.146 CONDITION ASSESSMENTS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner operator of each parking garage shall cause such parking
garage to undergo an initial condition assessment as described in §
150.147, periodic condition assessments as described in §
150.148, and such additional condition assessments as may be required under §
150.149. Each condition assessment shall be conducted by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer.
   (B)   A written report of each condition assessment shall be prepared, and
provided to the village in accordance with the requirements of §
150.150.
   (C)   Before performing a condition assessment (other than the initial
condition assessment) of a parking garage, the responsible professional
engineer for such condition assessment shall review all available previous
condition assessment reports for such parking garage.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.147 INITIAL CONDITION ASSESSMENT.
   Each parking garage shall undergo an initial condition assessment as
follows:
   (A)   Parking garages constructed on or after August 29, 2018, shall undergo
an initial condition assessment following construction and prior to a
certificate of occupancy or certificate of compliance being issued for the
structure.
   (B)   Parking garages constructed prior to August 29, 2018, shall undergo an
initial condition assessment as follows:
      (1)   If originally constructed prior to January 1, 1984, then prior to
October 1, 2019;
      (2)   If originally constructed between January 1, 1984 and December 31,
2002, then prior to October 1, 2020; and
      (3)   If originally constructed between January 1, 2003 and August 28,
2018, then prior to October 1, 2021.
   (C)   Any parking garage constructed prior to the effective date of the
local law enacting this provision that has not undergone an initial condition
assessment prior to that effective date shall undergo an initial condition
assessment prior to six months after the effective date of this local law.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.148 PERIODIC CONDITION ASSESSMENTS.
   Following the initial condition assessment of a parking garage, such parking
garage shall undergo periodic condition assessments at intervals not to exceed
three years.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.149 ADDITIONAL CONDITION ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   If the latest condition assessment report for a parking garage
includes a recommendation by the responsible professional engineer that an
additional condition assessment of such parking garage, or any portion of such
parking garage, be performed before the date by which the next periodic
condition assessment would be required under §
150.147, the owner or operator of such parking garage shall cause such parking
garage (or, if applicable, the portion of such parking garage identified by the
responsible professional engineer) to undergo an additional condition
assessment no later than the date recommended in such condition assessment
report.
   (B)   If the village becomes aware of any new or increased deterioration
which, in the judgment of the Board of Trustees of the village, indicates that
an additional condition assessment of the entire parking garage, or of the
portion of the parking garage affected by such new or increased deterioration,
should be performed before the date by which the next periodic condition
assessment would be required under §
150.147, the owner or operator of such parking garage shall cause such parking
garage (or, if applicable, the portion of the parking garage affected by such
new or increased deterioration) to undergo an additional condition assessment
no later than the date determined by Board of Trustees of the village, to be
appropriate.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.150 CONDITION ASSESSMENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The responsible professional engineer shall prepare, or directly
supervise the preparation of, a written report of each condition assessment,
and shall submit such condition assessment report to the village within 60
days.
   (B)   Such condition assessment report shall be sealed and signed by the
responsible professional engineer, and shall include:
      (1)   An evaluation and description of the extent of deterioration and
conditions that cause deterioration that could result in an unsafe condition or
unsafe structure;
      (2)   An evaluation and description of the extent of deterioration and
conditions that cause deterioration that, in the opinion of the responsible
professional engineer, should be remedied immediately to prevent an unsafe
condition or unsafe structure;
      (3)   An evaluation and description of the unsafe conditions;
      (4)   An evaluation and description of the problems associated with the
deterioration, conditions that cause deterioration, and unsafe conditions;
      (5)   An evaluation and description of the corrective options available,
including the recommended timeframe for remedying the deterioration, conditions
that cause deterioration, and unsafe conditions;
      (6)   An evaluation and description of the risks associated with not
addressing the deterioration, conditions that cause deterioration, and unsafe
conditions;
      (7)   The responsible professional engineer's recommendation regarding
preventative maintenance;
      (8)   Except in the case of the report of the initial condition
assessment, the responsible professional engineer's attestation that he or she
reviewed all previously prepared condition assessment reports available for
such parking garage, and considered the information in the previously prepared
reports while performing the current condition assessment and while preparing
the current report; and
      (9)   The responsible professional engineer's recommendation regarding
the time within which the next condition assessment of the parking garage or
portion thereof should be performed. In making the recommendation regarding the
time within which the next condition assessment of the parking garage or
portion thereof should be performed, the responsible professional engineer
shall consider the parking garage's age, maintenance history, structural
condition, construction materials, frequency and intensity of use, location,
exposure to the elements, and any other factors deemed relevant by the
responsible professional engineer in their professional judgment.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.151 REVIEW CONDITION ASSESSMENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The village shall take such enforcement action or actions in response
to the information in such condition assessment report as may be necessary or
appropriate to protect the public from the hazards that may result from the
conditions described in such report. In particular, but not by way of
limitation, the village shall, by order to remedy or such other means of
enforcement as the village may deem appropriate, require the owner or operator
of the parking garage to repair or otherwise remedy all deterioration, all
conditions that cause deterioration, and all unsafe conditions identified in
such condition assessment report pursuant to §
150.150(B)(2) and (B)(3). All repairs and remedies shall comply with the
applicable provisions of the Uniform Code.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not limit or impair the right of the village to
take any other enforcement action, including but not limited to suspension or
revocation of a parking garage's operating permit, as may be necessary or
appropriate in response to the information in a condition assessment report.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.152 RETENTION AND AVAILABILITY OF REPORTS.
   (A)   The village shall retain all condition assessment reports for the life
of the parking garage.
   (B)   Upon request by a professional engineer who has been engaged to
perform a condition assessment of a parking garage, and who provides the
village with a written statement attesting to the fact that he or she has been
so engaged, the village make the previously prepared condition assessment
reports for such parking garage (or copies of such reports) available to such
professional engineer.
   (C)   The village shall be permitted to require the owner or operator of the
subject parking garage to pay all costs and expenses associated with making
such previously prepared condition assessment reports (or copies thereof)
available to the professional engineer.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.153 OTHER RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS.
   This subchapter shall not limit or impair the right or the obligation of the
village:
   (A)   To perform such construction inspections as are required by §§
150.045 through
150.049 (Construction Inspections);
   (B)   To perform such periodic fire safety and property maintenance
inspections as are required by §§
150.115 through
150.119 (Fire Safety and Property Maintenance Inspections); and/or
   (C)   To take such enforcement action or actions as may be necessary or
appropriate to respond to any condition that comes to the attention of the
village by means of its own inspections or observations, by means of a
complaint, or by any other means other than a condition assessment or a report
of a condition assessment.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
§ 150.165 DETERMINATION OF CRITERIA.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall determine the climatic and
geographic design criteria for buildings and structures constructed within this
village as required by the Uniform Code. Such determinations shall be made in
the manner specified in the Uniform Code using, where applicable, the maps,
charts, and other information provided in the Uniform Code.
   (B)   The criteria to be so determined shall include but shall not
necessarily be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Design criteria to include ground snow load; wind design loads;
seismic category; potential damage from weathering, frost, and termite; winter
design temperature; whether ice barrier underlayment is required; the air
freezing index; and the mean annual temperature;
      (2)   Heating and cooling equipment design criteria for structures within
the scope of the RCNYS. The design criteria shall include the data identified
in the design criteria table found in Chapter 3 of the RCNYS; and
      (3)   Flood hazard areas, flood hazard maps, and supporting data. The
flood hazard map shall include, at a minimum, special flood hazard areas as
identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in the flood insurance
study for the community, as amended or revised with:
         (a)   The accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM);
         (b)   Flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM); and
         (c)   Related supporting data along with any revisions thereto.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.166 RECORDS.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall prepare a written record of the climatic
and geographic design criteria determined pursuant to §
150.165, shall maintain such record within the office of the Code Enforcement
Officer, and shall make such record readily available to the public.
(Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
RECORD KEEPING; PROGRAM REVIEW AND REPORTING
§ 150.180 RECORDS REQUIRED TO BE KEPT PERMANENTLY.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall keep permanent official records of all
transactions and activities conducted by all Code Enforcement Personnel,
including records of:
   (A)   All applications received, reviewed and approved or denied;
   (B)   All plans, specifications and construction documents approved;
   (C)   All building permits, certificates of occupancy, certificates of
compliance, temporary certificates, stop work orders, and operating permits
issued;
   (D)   All inspections and tests performed;
   (E)   All statements and reports issued;
   (F)   All complaints received;
   (G)   All investigations conducted;
   (H)   All condition assessment reports received;
   (I)   All fees charged and collected; and
   (J)   All other features and activities specified in or contemplated by §§
150.004,
150.020 through
150.030,
150.045 through
150.049,
150.060 through
150.064,
150.075 through
150.080,
150.095 through
150.102,
150.115 through
150.119,
150.130,
150.131,
150.145 through
150.153,
150.165, and
150.166, inclusive.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.181 RECORDS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   All such records shall be public records open for public inspection during
normal business hours. All plans and records pertaining to buildings or
structures, or appurtenances thereto, shall be retained for at least the
minimum time period so required by state law and regulation.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.182 ANNUAL REPORT TO THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall annually submit to the Board of Trustees
of this village a written report and summary of all business conducted by the
Code Enforcement Officer and the Inspectors, including a report and summary of
all transactions and activities described in §§
150.180 and
150.181 and a report and summary of all appeals or litigation pending or
concluded.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.183 ANNUAL REPORT TO THE SECRETARY OF STATE.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall annually submit to the Secretary of
State, on behalf of this village, on a form prescribed by the Secretary of
State, a report of the activities of this village relative to administration
and enforcement of the Uniform Code.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.184 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REQUEST FOR RECORDS.
   The Code Enforcement Officer shall, upon request of the New York State
Department of State, provide to the New York State Department of State, true
and complete copies of the records and related materials this village is
required to maintain; true and complete copies of such portion of such records
and related materials as may be requested by the Department of State; and/or
such excerpts, summaries, tabulations, statistics, and other information and
accounts of its activities in connection with administration and enforcement of
the Uniform Code and/or Energy Code as may be requested by the Department of
State.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.195 ORDERS TO REMEDY.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to order in writing the
remedying of any condition or activity found to exist in, on or about any
building, structure, or premises in violation of the Uniform Code, the Energy
Code, or this chapter. An order to remedy shall be in writing; shall be dated
and signed by the Code Enforcement Officer; shall specify the condition or
activity that violates the Uniform Code, the Energy Code, or this chapter;
shall specify the provision or provisions of the Uniform Code, the Energy Code,
or this chapter which is/are violated by the specified condition or activity;
and shall include a statement substantially similar to the following:
      "The person or entity served with this Order to Remedy must completely
remedy each violation described in this Order to Remedy by [specify date],
which is thirty (30) days after the date of this Order to Remedy."
   (B)   The order to remedy may include provisions ordering the person or
entity served with such order to remedy:
      (1)   To begin to remedy the violations described in the order to remedy
immediately, or within some other specified period of time which may be less
than 30 days; to continue diligently to remedy such violations until each such
violation is fully remedied; and, in any event, to complete the remedying of
all such violations within 30 days of the date of such order to remedy; and/or
      (2)   To take such other protective actions (such as vacating the
building or barricading the area where the violations exist) which are
authorized by this chapter or by any other applicable statute, regulation,
rule, local law or ordinance, and which the Code Enforcement Officer may deem
appropriate, during the period while such violations are being remedied.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall cause the order to remedy, or a
copy thereof, to be served on the owner of the affected property personally or
by registered mail or certified mail within five days after the date of the
order to remedy. The Code Enforcement Officer shall be permitted, but not
required, to cause the order to remedy, or a copy thereof, to be served on any
builder, architect, tenant, contractor, subcontractor, construction
superintendent, or their agents, or any other person taking part or assisting
in work being performed at the affected property personally or by registered
mail or certified mail within five days after the date of the order to remedy;
provided, however, that failure to serve any person mentioned in this sentence
shall not affect the efficacy of the compliance order.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.196 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The Code Enforcement Officer and each Inspector are authorized to issue
appearance tickets for any violation of the Uniform Code.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.197 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   An action or proceeding may be instituted in the name of this village
in a court of competent jurisdiction, to prevent, restrain, enjoin, correct, or
abate any violation of, or to enforce, any provision of the Uniform Code, the
Energy Code, this chapter, or any term or condition of any building permit,
certificate of occupancy, certificate of compliance, temporary certificate,
stop work order, operating permit, order to remedy, or other notice or order
issued by the Code Enforcement Officer pursuant to any provision of this
chapter. In particular, but not by way of limitation, where the construction or
use of a building or structure is in violation of any provision of the Uniform
Code, the Energy Code, this chapter, or any stop work order, order to remedy or
other order obtained under the Uniform Code, the Energy Code or this chapter,
an action or proceeding may be commenced in the name of village, in the Supreme
Court or in any other court having the requisite jurisdiction, to obtain an
order directing the removal of the building or structure or an abatement of the
condition in violation of such provisions.
   (B)   No action or proceeding described in this section shall be commenced
without the appropriate authorization from the Board of Trustees of this
village.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.198 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   No remedy or penalty specified in this subchapter or §
150.999 shall be the exclusive remedy or remedy available to address any
violation described in such sections, and each remedy or penalty specified in
such sections shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for or
limitation of, the other remedies or penalties specified in this subchapter or
§
150.999, in §§
150.060 through
150.064 (Stop Work Orders), in any other section of this chapter, or in any
other applicable law.
   (B)   Any remedy or penalty specified in this subchapter or §
150.999 may be pursued at any time, whether prior to, simultaneously with, or
after the pursuit of any other remedy or penalty specified in such sections, in
§§
150.060 through
150.064, in any other section of this chapter, or in any other applicable law.
   (C)   In particular, but not by way of limitation, each remedy and penalty
specified in this subchapter or §
150.999 shall be in addition to, and not in substitution for or limitation of,
the penalties specified in N.Y. Exec. Law § 382(2), and any remedy or penalty
specified in this subchapter or §
150.999 may be pursued at any time, whether prior to, simultaneously with, or
after the pursuit of any penalty specified in N.Y. Exec. Law § 382(2).
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   In addition to such other penalties as may be prescribed by state law:
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any term,
condition, or provision of any building permit, certificate of occupancy,
certificate of compliance, temporary certificate, stop work order, operating
permit or other notice or order issued by the Code Enforcement Officer pursuant
to any provision of this chapter, shall be punishable by a fine of not more
than $200 per day of violation, or imprisonment not exceeding six months, or
both. The civil penalties provided by this division shall be recoverable in an
action instituted in the name of this village; and
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of the Uniform Code, the Energy
Code or this chapter, or any term or condition of any building permit,
certificate of occupancy, certificate of compliance, temporary certificate,
stop work order, operating permit or other notice or order issued by the Code
Enforcement Officer pursuant to any provision of this chapter, shall be liable
to pay a civil penalty of not more than $200 for each day or part thereof
during which such violation continues. The civil penalties provided by this
division shall be recoverable in an action instituted in the name of this
village.
(Ord. 3-2007, passed 3-26-2007; Am. Ord. 1-2019, passed 11-25-2019; Am. Ord. 4-
2022, passed 12-20-2022; Am. Ord. 3-2024, passed 10-28-2024)
CHAPTER 151: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Purpose; requirements
   
151.02   Title
   
151.03   Definitions
Investigation and Remediation
   
151.15   Investigation; report to Board of Trustees
   
151.16   Determination and order
   
151.17   Notice of order; contents
   
151.18   Service of notice; copy filed with County Clerk
   
151.19   Failure to comply with order
   
151.20   Assessment of remediation expenses
   
151.21   Emergency remediation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Unsafe buildings pose a threat to life and property in the village.
Buildings and structures may become unsafe by reason of damage by fire, the
elements, age or general deterioration.
   (B)   Vacant buildings not properly secured at doorways and windows also
serve as an attractive nuisance for young children who may be injured therein,
as well as point of congregation of vagrants and transients.
   (C)   A dilapidated building may also serve as a place of rodent infestation
thereby creating a health menace to the community.
   (D)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the safety, health,
protection and general welfare of persons and property in the village, by
requiring unsafe buildings be repaired or demolished and removed.
   (E)   All debris and contents from the demolished building shall be removed
from the property and disposed of properly.
   (F)   Building debris and contents shall not be buried within village
limits.
   (G)   Any and all basements, crawl spaces and the like shall be filled with
clean fille to grade level.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-1) (Ord. 6-2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 151.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as “Unsafe Buildings Law” of the village.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-2)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any building, structure or portion thereof used for residential
business or industrial purpose.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The building inspector of the village, or some other
person appointed by the Board of Trustees to enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
   DEBRIS. Any remnants of a building.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-3) (Ord. 6-2006, passed 8-28-2006)
INVESTIGATION AND REMEDIATION
§ 151.15 INVESTIGATION; REPORT TO BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   When, in his or her own opinion, or upon receipt of information that a
building:
   (A)   Is or may become dangerous or unsafe to the general public;
   (B)   Is open at the doorways and windows making it accessible to and an
object of attraction to minors under 18 years of age, as well as to vagrants
and other trespassers;
   (C)   Is or may become a place of rodent infestation;
   (D)   Presents any other danger to the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the public; or
   (E)   Is unfit for the purposes for which it may lawfully be used, he or she
shall cause or make an inspection thereof and report in writing to the Board of
Trustees his or her findings and recommendations in regard to its repair or
demolition and removal.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-4)
§ 151.16 DETERMINATION AND ORDER.
   The Board of Trustees shall thereafter consider the report and by resolution
determine if, in its opinion, the report so warrants, that the building is
unsafe and dangerous and order its repair if the same can be safely repaired or
its demolition and removal, and further order that a notice be served upon the
persons and in the manner provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-5)
§ 151.17 NOTICE OF ORDER; CONTENTS.
   The notice shall contain the following:
   (A)   A description of the premises;
   (B)   A statement of the particulars in which the building is unsafe or
dangerous;
   (C)   An order outlining the manner in which the building is to be made safe
and secure, or demolished and removed;
   (D)   A statement that the securing or removal of the building shall
commence within 30 days of the service of the notice, and shall be completed
within 60 days thereafter, unless for good cause shown, the time shall be
extended;
   (E)   A date, time and place for a hearing before the Board of Trustees in
relation to the dangerous or unsafe building, which hearing shall be schedules
not less than five business days from the date of service of the notice; and
   (F)   A statement that in the event of neglect or refusal to comply with the
order to secure or demolish and remove the building, the Board of Trustees is
authorized to provide for its demolition and removal, to assess all expenses
thereof against the land on which it is located and to institute a special
proceeding to collect the costs of demolition, debris removal and fill,
including legal expenses.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-6) (Ord. 6-2006, passed 8-28-2006)
§ 151.18 SERVICE OF NOTICE; COPY FILED WITH COUNTY CLERK.
   (A)   The notice shall be served:
      (1)   By the personal service of a copy thereof upon the owner, executor,
administrator, agent, lessee or any person having a vested or contingent
interest in the unsafe building as shown by the records of the receiver of
taxes (or Tax Collector) or of the County Clerk; or if no such person can be
reasonably found, by mailing the owner by registered mail a copy of the notice
directed to his or her last known address as shown by the above records; and
      (2)   By personal service of a copy of the notice upon any adult person
residing or occupying the premises if the person can be reasonably found and by
securely affixing a copy of the notice upon the unsafe building.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-7)
   (B)   A copy of the notice served, as provided herein, shall be filed in the
Office of the County Clerk of the County of Cattaraugus. Failure to so file
shall not invalidate any action taken by the Board or its lawful agents under
or according to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-8)
§ 151.19 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   In the event of the refusal or neglect of the person so notified to
comply with the order of the Board of Trustees and after the hearing, the Board
of Trustees shall provide for the demolition and removal of the building or
structure either by village employees or by contract except in emergency, as
provided by §
151.21 below.
   (B)   Any contract for demolition and removal of a building shall comply
with the requirements of N.Y. Gen. Mun. Law Art. 5-A.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-9)
§ 151.20 ASSESSMENT OF REMEDIATION EXPENSES.
   All expenses incurred by the village in connection with the proceeding to
repair and secure or demolish and remove the unsafe building, shall be assessed
against the land on which the building is located and shall be levied and
collected in the same manner as provided in N.Y. Vil. Law Art. 5, for the levy
and collection of a special ad valorem levy.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-10)
§ 151.21 EMERGENCY REMEDIATION.
   Where it reasonably appears that there is present a clear and imminent
danger to the life, safety or health of any person or property unless an unsafe
building is immediately repaired and secured or demolished, debris removed and
filled, the Board of Trustees may, by resolution, authorize the Building
Inspector to immediately cause the repair or demolition, debris removal and
fill of the unsafe building shall be a charge against the land on which it is
located and shall be assessed, levied and collected as provided in §
151.20 above.
(Prior Code, § 20-1-11) (Ord. 6-2006, passed 8-28-2006)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Rules of construction
   
152.004   Definitions
   
152.005   Minimum standards
   
152.006   Conflict of laws
   
152.007   Amendment to zoning code
   
152.008   Mandatory referral prior to passage
   
152.009   Existing agreements
   
152.010   Completion of projects where permit already issued
   
152.011   Compliance with regulations required
   
152.012   Requirement of building permit
   
152.013   Owner responsible for compliance
   
152.014   Lot use; public street access
Zoning Districts
   
152.025   Districts
   
152.026   Zoning map
   
152.027   District boundaries adopted by reference
   
152.028   Zoning of streets, alleys, public-ways, waterways and rights-of-way
   
152.029   Adoption of use regulation schedules
   
152.030   Schedule of permitted and special uses by district
   
152.031   Schedule of lot specifications and restrictions by district
   
152.032   Satellite television equipment and dish restrictions
   
152.033   Adult bookstore; adult entertainment business
Non-Conforming Buildings and Uses
   
152.045   Continuance of use permitted
   
152.046   Discontinuance of non-conforming use
   
152.047   Change of use
   
152.048   Repairs and alterations; extension; restoration
   
152.049   District changes
Supplemental Regulations
   
152.060   Application of supplemental regulations
   
152.061   Special uses identified; requirements for special use permit
   
152.062   Sign regulations
   
152.063   Requirements for off-street parking and loading
   
152.064   Sanitation
   
152.065   Excavation of clay, sand or gravel
   
152.066   Stripping of top soil
   
152.067   Mobile home restrictions; exceptions
   
152.068   Mobile home parks
   
152.069   Automobile salvage and junk yards
   
152.070   Temporary structures; permit
   
152.071   Community development projects
   
152.072   Fences; property barriers
   
152.073   Boat storage
   
152.074   Livestock
Administration
   
152.085   Building Inspector; powers and duties
   
152.086   Site plan approval
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
152.100   Organization of Board; rules of procedure
   
152.101   Zoning Board of Appeals procedure
   
152.102   Permitted actions by the Zoning Board of Appeals
   
152.103   Special use permits
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Zoning Ordinance of the
Village of Franklinville, Cattaraugus County, New York”.
(Prior Code, § 12-1-2) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of promoting the public health, safety, morals, comfort and
general welfare; conserving and protecting property and property values;
securing the most appropriate use of land; lessening or avoiding congestion in
the public streets and highways; and facilitating adequate but economical
provision of public improvements, all in accordance with a comprehensive plan,
the Village Board finds it necessary and advisable to regulate the location,
size and use of buildings and other structures percentages of lot area which
may be occupied; setback building lines; sizes of yards, courts and other open
spaces; and the use of land for trade, industry, residences, recreation or
other purposes, and for that purpose, divides the incorporated area of the
village into districts or zones.
(Prior Code, § 12-3-1) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.003 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Construction. In the construction of this chapter, the rules and
definitions contained in this section and §
152.004 below shall be observed and applied except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
   (B)   Rules. Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and
words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the
plural, the singular. The word SHALL is mandatory; the word MAY is permissive.
The word LOT shall include the words PLOT, PIECE and PARCEL; the word BUILDING
includes all other structures of every kind regardless of similarity to
buildings; and the phrase USED FOR shall include the phrases ARRANGED FOR,
DESIGNED FOR, INTENDED FOR, MAINTAINED FOR and OCCUPIED FOR.
(Prior Code, §§ 12-4-1, 12-4-2) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE or USE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   AGRICULTURE. Land, including necessary buildings and structures, that has as
its principal use the raising or keeping of livestock or the growing of crops
in the open.
   ALTERATIONS. As applied to a building or structure, a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities, or an
enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height, or the
moving from one location or position to another.
   AREA, BUILDING. The total of areas taken on a horizontal plane at the main
grade level of the principal building and all accessory buildings exclusive of
uncovered porches, terraces and steps.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR. The repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor
vehicles or parts thereof, including collision service, painting and steam
cleaning of vehicles.
   BILLBOARD. Any structure or portion thereof situated on private premises
upon which are signs or advertisements containing written or pictorial
information not directly related to the principal use of the land upon which it
is located.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Village Board of Trustees of the Village of
Franklinville, County of Cattaraugus, New York.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling in which more than three persons individually or
as families are housed or lodged for hire with or without meals. A ROOMING
HOUSE or a FURNISHED ROOMING HOUSE shall be deemed a BOARDING HOUSE.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a zoning lot after the minimum open
space requirements of this chapter have been complied with.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average elevation
of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the highest
point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line of mansard roofs, and to the
mean height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING PERMIT. The permit issued by the Building Inspector authorizing the
construction, extension or use of buildings.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the street line at a distance from
it, regulated by the front yard requirements set up in this chapter.
   COVERAGE. That percentage of the plot or lot area covered by the building
area.
   DUMP. A lot or land or part thereof used primarily for the disposal by
abandonment, dumping, burial, burning or any other means and for whatever
purpose of garbage, sewage, trash, refuse, junk, discarded machinery, vehicles
or parts thereof, or waste material of any kind.
   DWELLING. A building or structure or portion thereof, but not including a
house trailer or mobile home, designed or used exclusively for residential
occupancy, but not including hotels, motels, boarding or other such use of a
transient nature.
   DWELLING, ACCESSORY USE, COMMERCIAL. One or two dwelling units or a multiple
dwelling in a building or structure with commercial space, area or in a
commercial district. At least 50% of the area on the first floor on the street
front shall remain commercial nonresidential in such manner that 100% of the
first floor facing the street shall be commercial non-residential. See §
152.029 district use regulations, B-1 commercial district special use table.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A dwelling which is either rented, leased, let or hired
out, to be occupied or is occupied as the temporary or permanent residence or
home of three or more families living independently of each other, including
but not limited to the following: a tenement, flat house, maisonette apartment,
apartment house, apartment hotel, tourist house, bachelor apartment, studio
apartment, duplex apartment, kitchenette apartment, hotel, lodging house,
rooming house, boarding house, boarding and nursery school, furnished room
house, club, sorority house, fraternity house, college and school dormitory,
convalescent, old age or nursing homes or residences. It shall also include a
dwelling, two or more stories in height, and with five or more boarders,
roomers or lodgers residing with any one family. In addition to the zoning laws
of the village, a multiple dwelling must also comply with the provisions of
N.Y. Mult. Dwelling Law Art. 1 et seq. and the definitions set forth therein.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building or structure that contains one dwelling
unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building or structure that contains two dwelling
units.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof providing complete housekeeping
facilities for one family. Each dwelling unit shall have its own sleeping,
cooking and toilet facilities.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or governmental agencies of collection, communication,
transmission, distribution or disposal systems necessary for the furnishing of
adequate public service or for public health, safety or general welfare, but
not including buildings.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living together in one dwelling unit and
maintaining a common household, including domestic servants and gratuitous
guests, together with boarders, roomers or lodgers not in excess of the number
allowed by this chapter as an accessory use.
   FARM. An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products such
as vegetables, fruit trees and grain, and for the packing or storage of the
products produced on the premises, as well as for the raising thereon of the
usual farm poultry and farm animals, such as horses, cattle, sheep and swine,
subject to distance limitations from residential property and not including the
commercial feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals, the
commercial feeding of animals on open lots where no feed is raised on the
premises, or the commercial feeding of poultry broilers, or laboratory animals
such as mice, rats, rabbits and the like.
   FENCE. A linear structure constructed using maintenance-free material,
having a life span of 20 years or more. MAINTENANCE-FREE MATERIAL shall include
chain-link, stone or concrete wall, vinyl, PVC and pressure-treated lumber.
Rough-cut lumber or other untreated wood material is not deemed MAINTENANCE-
FREE.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. For the purpose of determining requirements for off-
street parking and off-street loading, the floor area shall mean the sum of the
gross horizontal areas of the several floors of the building, or portion
thereof, devoted to the use, including accessory storage areas located within
selling or working space, such as counters, racks or closets, any basement
floor area devoted to retailing activities, to the production or processing of
goods, or to business or professional offices.
   GASOLINE or FILLING STATION. Any area of land, including structures thereon,
that is used for the sale of gasoline or any other motor vehicle fuel and oil
and other lubricating substances, including any sale of motor vehicle
accessories, and which may or may not include facilities for lubricating,
washing or otherwise servicing motor vehicles, but not including major repairs,
collision service or painting.
   HOME OCCUPATION. 
      (1)   An accessory use of a dwelling by the residents thereof, which is
clearly secondary to the use of the dwelling for living purposes and does not
change the character thereof or have any exterior evidence of the secondary
use.
      (2)   No HOME OCCUPATION shall be permitted without a special use permit
of the Village Board.
      (3)   The Village Board is authorized to impose limitations on any
proposed home occupation to ensure that there will be no interference with the
normal peace and quiet of the neighborhood and its setting.
      (4)   The limitations must be reasonable, and may vary depending on the
nature of the HOME OCCUPATION.
      (5)   The limitations may include, but are not necessarily confined to:
         (a)   Establishing a certain percentage of floor area to the
occupation;
         (b)   Limiting the carrying of stock or merchandise;
         (c)   Limiting noise, fumes or dust;
         (d)   Controlling parking or access of commercial vehicles; and
         (e)   Any other reasonable limitation.
   HOTEL, MOTEL, INN, TOURIST or AUTO COURT. An establishment containing
lodging accommodations designed for use by transients, or travelers or
temporary guests, with no provision in the accommodations for cooking in any
individual room or suite.
   INSPECTOR, BUILDING. The administrative officer appointed by the Village
Board of Trustees to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNK YARD. A lot, land or structure or part thereof used primarily for the
collection, exchange, storage, packing, disassembly and or sale of waste, scrap
metal, paper, lumber, rags or similar materials, but not including pawn shops
and establishments for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture,
household equipment or clothing; purchase or storage of used motor vehicles or
salvaged machinery to be used for the purpose for which originally
manufactured.
   LINE, STREET. The dividing line between the street and the lot.
   LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An open hard-surface area of land
other than a street or a public way, the principal use of which is for the
standing, loading and unloading of motor vehicles, tractors and trailers, to
avoid undue interferences with public streets and alleys. The space shall not
be less than 12 feet in width, 65 feet in length and 14 feet in height,
exclusive of access aisle and maneuvering space.
   LOT. A portion or parcel of land considered as a unit, devoted to a certain
use or occupied by a building or a group of buildings that are united by a
common interest or use, and the customary accessories and open spaces belonging
to the same.
   LOT AREA. The net area contained within lots lines.
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
   LOT LINES. The property lines bounding a lot. The front LOT LINE shall be
the right-of-way line of the street or highway giving access to the lot. In the
case of a corner lot, the owner may designate either street LOT LINE as the
front LOT LINE.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which individually or as a part of a subdivision has
been officially recorded in the office of the Clerk of Cattaraugus County.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot.
   LOT, WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured
within the lot boundaries, or the minimum distance between the side lot lines
within the buildable area.
   MANUFACTURING. The making of goods and articles by hand or machine process.
Restricted MANUFACTURING shall be considered to be any manufacturing or
industrial processing which by the nature of the materials, equipment and
process utilized is to a considerable measure, clean, quiet and free of any
objectionable or hazardous element. All MANUFACTURING permitted in any district
shall comply with the performance requirements set forth herein.
   MOBILE HOME. A vehicle or portable structure used for dwelling or sleeping
purposes. A dependent mobile home is one which does not have a flush toilet and
a bath or shower.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A plot or parcel of ground containing a minimum of two
acres which is manifestly arranged and furnished to provide the space,
facilities and access for mobile homes as required herein.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A building, structure or use of land existing at the
time of enactment of this chapter, and which does not conform to the
regulations of the district or zone in which it is situated.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
   PUBLIC USE. Public parks, schools and administrative, cultural and service
buildings, not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the storage
and maintenance of equipment and material.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation or municipal department, duly
authorized to furnish under public regulation to the public, electricity, gas,
steam, telephone, transportation or water.
   RETAIL BUSINESS. Establishment where goods or services are sold or leased to
consumers or businesses, excluding smoke shops, adult bookstores, adult
entertainment establishments, licensed adult-use cannabis retail dispensaries
and adult-use cannabis on-site consumption sites.
   SEMI-PUBLIC USE. Churches, parochial schools, colleges, hospitals and other
institutions of an educational, religious, charitable or philanthropic nature.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. Any allowed dwelling or portion thereof that is available
for use or is used for accommodations or lodging of guests, paying a fee or
other consideration for a period of less than 30 consecutive days. Motels,
hotels, inns and bed and breakfasts are excluded from this definition.
   SIGN. Any advertisement, announcement, direction or communication produced
in whole or part by the construction, erection, affixing or placing of a
structure on any land or other structure, or produced by painting or posting on
or placing any printed, lettered, figured or colored material on any structure
or surface, but not including signs placed or erected by a village, town, city,
county or state agency for the purpose of showing street names, directions,
regulations or for other public purpose.
   SMOKE SHOP. A retail or wholesale establishment which maintains more than
15% of its retail floor space for the display, sale, distribution, delivery,
offering, furnishing or marketing of tobacco, tobacco products, tobacco
accessories, and/or accessories, marijuana, marijuana products, marijuana
accessories, vape, vape or vaping products, and/or vape or vaping accessories,
and/or any uses, products or accessories similar to those set forth in this
definition.
   SPECIAL USE. Any use of land or buildings, or both, described and permitted
herein, subject to the provisions of §
152.103 below.
   SPECIALIZED ANIMAL RAISING AND CARE. The use of land and/or buildings for
the raising and care of rabbits, dogs, birds, horses or other domestic animals
of a similar nature.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there is no floor above, then
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET. A public or private way which affords the principal means of access
to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change other than incidental repairs which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building or structure, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams and girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground, or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building thereon is designed, arranged
or intended or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
   UTILITY SHEDS. A structure for storage of only goods used in outside
building or ground maintenance or repair, containing no more than 144 square
feet, having a maximum height of ten feet, and located no closer than three
feet to the back or side lot line and no closer to the street than the back
side of the principal building on the lot, shall be allowed upon the issuance
of a permit by the Building Inspector.
   YARD. An unoccupied space open to the sky, on the same lot with a building
or structure.
   YARD, FRONT. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building
situated between the street line and a line connecting the parts of the
building setting back from and nearest to the street line, and extending to the
side lines of the lot.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and
lying between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
   YARD, SIDE. The part of the yard lying between the nearest line of the
principal building and a side lot line, and extending from the required front
yard (or from the front lot line, if there is no required front yard) to the
required rear yard.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. The Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of
Franklinville, County of Cattaraugus, New York.
   ZONING MAP. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as a part hereof,
designating Zoning Districts.
(Prior Code, § 12-4-3) (Ord. 1-1984, passed 1-23-1984; Ord. 1-2001, passed 5-2-
2001; Ord. 2-2002, passed 2-26-2002; Ord. 1-2004, passed 8-9-2004; Ord. passed
3-14-2022; Ord. 3-2023, passed 7-10-2023; Ord. 8-2024, passed 10-28-2024; Ord.
1-2025, passed 1-13-2025)
§ 152.005 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of the public health, safety, morals and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-1(a)) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.006 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter upon the use
of land or buildings or upon the bulk of buildings are either more restrictive
or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other provision
of this chapter or any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of
any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive (or which impose higher
standards or requirements) shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-1(b)) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.007 AMENDMENT TO ZONING CODE.
   All amendments to this chapter shall be in accordance with the provisions of
the N.Y. Vil. Law Art. 1 et seq. applicable thereto.
(Prior Code, § 12-12-1) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.008 MANDATORY REFERRAL PRIOR TO PASSAGE.
   In accordance with the laws of the state, all referrals required by NY
General Municipal Law §239-m and NY General Municipal Law §239-n, shall be
referred to the County Planning Board for review and comment prior to their
adoption or approval by the appropriate village authority.
(Prior Code, § 12-13-1) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.009 EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   This chapter is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant or any other
private agreement provided that where the regulations of this chapter are more
restrictive (or impose higher standards or requirements) than the easements,
covenants or other private agreements, the requirements of this chapter shall
govern.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-1(c)) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.010 COMPLETION OF PROJECTS WHERE PERMIT ALREADY ISSUED.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require any change in the plans,
construction or designated uses of any building for which a permit was duly
issued and on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the
adoption of this chapter and upon which building construction has been
diligently carried on. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to be the actual
placing of construction materials in their permanent position, fastened in a
permanent manner, except that where a basement or cellar is being excavated,
the excavation shall be deemed to be actual construction, or where demolition
or removal of an existing structure has been substantially begun preparatory to
rebuilding, the demolition and removal shall be deemed to be actual
construction; provided that actual construction work shall be diligently
carried on and the building completed within 18 months from the time this
chapter becomes effective. Similarly, whenever a district shall be changed
hereafter, the provisions of this section, with regard to previously issued
building permits, shall apply to building permits issued for construction in
the changed district prior to the time the amendment affecting the change
becomes effective.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-1(d)) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.011 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   Except as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   No building or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no
building or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered unless in
conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it
is located;
   (B)   No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed the
height, to accommodate or house a greater number of families, to occupy a
greater percentage of lot area, or to have narrower or smaller rear yards,
front yards, side yards, inner or outer courts than is specified herein for the
district in which the building is located;
   (C)   No part of a yard or other open space about any building required for
the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall be included
as a part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another
building; and
   (D)   No lot, yard, setback, parking area or other space shall be so reduced
in area, dimension or capacity as to make the area, dimension or capacity less
than the minimum required under this chapter. If already less than the minimum
required under this chapter, the area, dimension or capacity shall not be
further reduced.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-2(a)) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.012 REQUIREMENT OF BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   In addition to the site plan approval required as a provision of this
chapter, if applicable, no building or structure shall be erected, added to or
structurally altered until a building permit therefor has been issued by the
Building Inspector.
   (B)   All applications for permits shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the Building Code. In the event that no building code exists,
there shall be submitted with all applications for building permits two copies
of a layout or plot plan drawn to scale and showing the actual dimensions of
the lot to be built upon, the exact size and style of buildings to be erected,
estimated construction costs and value and other information as may be
necessary to determine and provide for the enforcement of this chapter. One
copy of the layout shall be returned when approved by the Building Inspector
together with the permit, to the applicant upon the payment of a fee.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-2(b)) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.013 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR COMPLIANCE.
   The final responsibility for the conforming of buildings and use to the
requirements of this chapter shall rest with owner or owners of the building or
use and the property on which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-2(c)) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.014 LOT USE; PUBLIC STREET ACCESS.
   (A)   Lot area and dimension.
      (1)   Contiguous parcels. When two or more parcels of land, each of which
lacks adequate area and dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the
requirements of the use district in which they are located, are contiguous and
are held in one ownership, they shall be used as one zoning lot for the use.
      (2)   Lots or parcels of land of record. Any single lot or parcel of
land, held in one ownership, which was of record at the time of adoption of
this chapter, that does not meet the requirements for minimum lot width and
area, may be utilized for a permitted use, provided that yards, courts or
usable open spaces are not less than 75% of the minimum required dimensions of
areas.
   (B)   Access to public street. Except as otherwise provided for in this
chapter, every building shall be constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel of
land which abuts upon an existing or platted street unless a permanent easement
of access to a public street was of record prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-5-3, 12-5-4) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.025 DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose and provisions of this chapter, the village is hereby
divided into the following types of districts:
   (A)   A-1 Agricultural District;
   (B)   S-1 Special District;
   (C)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District;
   (D)   R-2 Multiple-Family Residential District;
   (E)   R-3 Residential/Commercial District;
   (F)   B-1 Commercial District; and
   (G)   I-1 Industrial District.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-1) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.026 ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the aforesaid zoning districts are hereby established as
shown on the map entitled, “Zoning District Map of the Village of
Franklinville, New York, dated May 3, 1963,” which map accompanies and is made
a part of this chapter and shall have the same force and effect as if the
zoning map, together with all notations, references and other information shown
thereon, were fully set forth and described herein.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-2) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.027 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The district boundaries are adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-3) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.028 ZONING OF STREETS, ALLEYS, PUBLIC-WAYS, WATERWAYS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Where the center line of a street, alley, public-way, waterway or railroad
right-of-way serves as a district boundary, the zoning of those areas, unless
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same as that of
the abutting property up to the center line.
(Prior Code, § 12-6-4) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.029 ADOPTION OF USE REGULATION SCHEDULES.
   The requirements and limitations set forth in this subchapter in tables
entitled “schedule of permitted and special uses by district” and “schedule of
lot specifications and restrictions by district”, with all explanatory matter
thereof, are hereby made a part of this chapter and shall apply in the
respective districts as indicated.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-1) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.030 SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED AND SPECIAL USES BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The uses which are permitted in the specified zoning districts and for
which the Building (Zoning) Inspector may issue a permit, after Site Plan
Approval, if applicable, and the special uses requiring the approval and a
permit from the Village Board of Appeals are set forth in the following table
entitled "schedule of permitted and special uses by district".
   (B)   Uses not expressly listed under this section shall not be permitted
except by amendment to this chapter.
A-1 Agricultural S-1 Special District R-1 Residential District
Permitted Uses
A-1 Agricultural                        S-1 Special District R-1 Residential
                                                             District
Permitted Uses
Agriculture                             No permitted uses    Single-family
                                                             residences
Plant cultivation                       Parks                 
Forestry                                Essential services    
Public uses                             Accessory uses        
Public utilities                                             
Essential services                                           
Accessory uses                                               
Single-family residences                                     
Special Uses Requiring Board of Appeals Approval
Golf courses                            Agriculture          Golf courses
Cemeteries                              Forestry             Cemeteries
Radio and television towers             Parks                Home occupations
Feed and grain storage facilities       Essential services   Agriculture
Semi-public uses                        Accessory uses       Public uses
Seasonal farm produce roadside stands                       Semi-public uses
Commercial recreation facilities                             
Private recreation facilities                                
Excavation of natural products (See §                       
152.065)
R-2 Residential District R-3 Residential-Commercial District
Permitted Uses
R-2 Residential District                  R-3 Residential-Commercial District
Permitted Uses
Single-family residences                  Single-family residences
Two-family residences                     Two-family residences
Parks                                     Multiple dwellings
Public uses                               Tourist homes
Semi-public uses                          Parks
Essential services                        Public uses
Accessory uses                            Semi-public uses
                                         Essential services
                                         Accessory uses
Special Uses Requiring Board of Appeals Approval
Multiple dwellings                        Home occupations
Home occupations                          Retail businesses
Rest homes, nursing homes and sanitariums Motels
Nursery schools                           Mobile home parks
Child care clinics                         
Medical centers                            
Tourist homes                              
Professional activities                    
Short-term rentals                         
 
B-1: Historic Business B-2: Commercial/Residential B-3: General Business
District               District                    District
B-1: Historic Business    B-2: Commercial/           B-3: General Business
District                  Residential District       District
Permitted Uses:
Accessory structures or   Accessory structures or    Accessory structures or
accessory uses            accessory uses             accessory uses
Apartments over first     Apartments over first      Animal hospitals or
floor commercial          floor commercial           clinics
establishments            establishments
Banks                     Banks                      Banks
Business services         Business services          Business services
Entertainment facilities  Entertainment facilities   Commercial recreation
                                                     facilities
Essential services        Essential services         Entertainment facilities
Offices                   Hotels, motels or inns     Essential services
Personal services         Mortuaries                 Hotels, motels or inns
Professional activities   Offices                    Mortuaries
Public uses               Parks                      Multiple dwellings
Residential apartments on
all floors except first   Personal services          Offices
floor
Restaurants               Public uses                Personal services
Retail businesses         Public utilities           Professional activities
                          Residential apartments on
Semi-public uses          all floors except first    Public uses
                          floor
                         Restaurants                Public utilities
                                                     Residential apartments on
                         Retail businesses          all floors except first
                                                     floor
                         Semi-public uses           Restaurants
                         Single family residences   Retail businesses
                         Two-family residences      Semi-public uses
Special Uses:
                                                     Apartments over first
Bars, pubs or taverns     Wholesale businesses       floor commercial
                                                     establishments
Clubs                     Automotive sales and/or    Automotive sales and/or
                          automotive repair       automotive repair
Home occupations          Bars, pubs or taverns      Bars, pubs or taverns
Hotels, motels or inns    Car wash                   Childcare facilities
Outdoor advertising       Childcare facilities       Clubs
Short-term rentals        Clubs                      Commercial schools
                         Commercial schools         Drive-in commercial uses
                         Home occupations           Gas stations
                         Multiple dwellings         Lumber and building
                                                     material sales
                         Nursery schools            Nursery schools
                         Outdoor advertising        Outdoor advertising
                         Parking lot                Parking lot
                         Professional activities    Religious use/place of
                                                     worship
                         Religious use/place of     Rest homes, nursing homes,
                          worship                    sanitariums
                         Rest homes, nursing homes, Short-term rentals
                          sanitariums
                         Short-term rentals         Single family residence
                         Tourist homes               
 
I-1 Industrial District
Permitted Uses
I-1 Industrial District
Permitted Uses
Restricted manufacturing
Research and testing facilities
Food processing
Offices
Agriculture
Public uses
Public utilities
Essential services
Accessory uses
Uses Allowed by Special Use Permit
Adult bookstore
Adult entertainment establishment
General manufacturing
Wholesale businesses
Lumber and building material storage and sales
Fuel oil and gasoline storage
Feed and grain storage
Warehouses
Licensed adult-use cannabis retail dispensaries
Adult-use cannabis on-site consumption sites
Smoke shop
 
(Prior Code, § 12-7-2) (Ord. 1-2001, passed 5-2-2001; Ord. 2-2002, passed 2-26-
2002; Ord. passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 3-2023, passed 7-10-2023; Ord. 5-2024, passed
10-28-2024; Ord. 8-2024, passed 10-28-2024; Ord. 1-2025, passed 1-13-2025; Ord.
3-2025, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 152.031 SCHEDULE OF LOT SPECIFICATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS BY DISTRICT.
   The lot, yard, height and area requirements and limitations set forth in the
following table entitled “Schedule of lot specifications and restrictions by
district”, with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby made a part of this
chapter and shall apply in the respective districts as indicated.
   (A)   Agricultural A-1:
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Per dwelling unit: 18,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Other: ten acres.
      (2)   Minimum residential lot width: 100 feet.
      (3)   Minimum yard dimensions:
         (a)   Front - 1*: 50 feet;
         (b)   Side:
            1.   Residential: 50 feet total; 20 feet minimum; and
            2.   Non-residential: 50 feet each side.
         (c)   Rear: 50 feet.
      (4)   Maximum height: 35 feet;
      (5)   Maximum percent of lot coverage: 25%; and
      (6)   Minimum floor area for residential structures (per family): 1,000
square feet.
   (B)   Special S-1:
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Per dwelling unit: residences not permitted; and
         (b)   Other: all uses: minimum five acres.
      (2)   Minimum residential lot width;
      (3)   Minimum yard dimensions:
         (a)   Front - 1*: 100 feet; and
         (b)   Side:
            1.   Residential; and
            2.   Non-residential: 50 feet each side.
         (c)   Rear: 100 feet.
      (4)   Maximum height: 35 feet;
      (5)   Maximum percent of lot coverage: 25%; and
      (6)   Minimum floor area for residential structures (per family):
residences not permitted.
   (C)   Residential R-1:
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Per dwelling unit: 18,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Other: 18,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum residential lot width: 100 feet;
      (3)   Minimum yard dimensions:
         (a)   Front - 1*: 50 feet;
         (b)   Side:
            1.   Residential: 50 feet total; 20 feet minimum; and
            2.   Non-residential: 25 feet each side.
         (c)   Rear: 50 feet.
      (4)   Maximum height: 25 feet;
      (5)   Maximum percent of lot coverage: 25%; and
      (6)   Minimum floor area for residential structures (per family): 1,000
square feet.
   (D)   Residential R-2:
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Per dwelling unit: 5,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Other: 5,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum residential lot width: 50 feet;
      (3)   Minimum yard dimensions:
         (a)   Front - 1*: 30 feet;
         (b)   Side:
            1.   Residential: 15 feet total; seven feet minimum; and
            2.   Non-residential: ten feet each side.
         (c)   Rear: 30 feet.
      (4)   Maximum height: 25 feet;
      (5)   Maximum percent of lot coverage: 40%; and
      (6)   Minimum floor area for residential structures (per family): 800
square feet.
   (E)   Residential-Commercial R-3:
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Per dwelling unit: 5,000 square feet; and
         (b)   Other: 5,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum residential lot width: 50 feet;
      (3)   Minimum yard dimensions:
         (a)   Front - 1*: 48 feet from the center line of the street or
highway;
         (b)   Side:
            1.   Residential: 15 feet total; 7 feet minimum; and
            2.   Non-residential: ten feet each side 2*.
         (c)   Rear: 30 feet 2*.
      (4)   Maximum height: 25 feet;
      (5)   Maximum percent of lot coverage: 40%; and
      (6)   Minimum floor area for residential structures (per family): 650
square feet for a one bedroom unit; 800 square feet for a unit having more than
one bedroom.
   (F)   Commercial B-1:
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Per dwelling unit: residences not permitted; and
         (b)   Other: 5,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum residential lot width:
      (3)   Minimum yard dimensions:
         (a)   Front - 1*: 48 feet from the center line of the street or
highway;
         (b)   Side:
            1.   Residential; and
            2.   Non-residential: 2*.
         (c)   Rear: 2*.
      (4)   Maximum height: 50 feet;
      (5)   Maximum percent of lot coverage: 60%; and
      (6)   Minimum floor area for residential structures (per family or
dwelling unit: 650 square feet for a one-bedroom dwelling unit; 800 square feet
for a unit having more than one bedroom; a multiple dwelling shall comply with
the requirements of the Multiple Residence Law of the state.
   (G)   Industrial I-1:
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   Per dwelling unit: residences not permitted; and
         (b)   Other: one acre.
      (2)   Minimum residential lot width;
      (3)   Minimum yard dimensions:
         (a)   Front - 1*: 75 feet;
         (b)   Side:
            1.   Residential; and
            2.   Non-residential: 50 feet each side.
         (c)   Rear: 50 feet.
      (4)   Maximum height: 60 feet;
      (5)   Maximum percent of lot coverage: 25%; and
      (6)   Minimum floor area for residential structures (per family):
residences not permitted.
 
*1 Along any U.S. or State Highway and any designated primary County Highway,
no residential or accessory building shall be located within 75 feet of the
existing or proposed right-of-way line in Districts A-1, R-1, R-2 and I-1. In
Districts S-1, R-3, and B-I, the values shown in divisions (A) through (G)
above shall apply.
*2 New commercial uses shall not be located or conducted within 25 feet of any
lot line of any other lot in a Residential District.
 
(Prior Code, § 12-7-5) (Ord. 2-1994, passed 6-15-1994; Ord. 2-2002, passed 2-
26-2002; Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.032 SATELLITE TELEVISION EQUIPMENT AND DISH RESTRICTIONS.
   No television satellite equipment and dishes shall be located on any
property within the village within 40 feet of the curb line that parallels the
adjacent street. In the event there is no curbing, then the 40 feet shall be
measured from a point three feet from the edge of the paved portion of any
street or highway within the village.
(Prior Code, § 12-7-5) (Ord. 1-1985, passed 6-10-1985; Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.033 ADULT BOOKSTORE; ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.
   Adult bookstores and adult entertainment establishments, as defined herein,
may be approved in the Industrial District south of Elm Street, West of West
Avenue, West of Pennsylvania Avenue to the southern and western village limit
by the Village Board following a public hearing and provided that the minimum
standards and provisions specified below are maintained:
   (A)   The proposed use shall be operated in a manner that is consistent with
N.Y. Penal Law Part 1 et seq. relating to exposure, obscenity or lewdness;
   (B)   An adult bookstore or adult entertainment use shall not be operated
within 500 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue or place of worship;
      (2)   An historic district or historic building;
      (3)   A public or private elementary or secondary school, day care,
preschool or other uses of a similar nature;
      (4)   A boundary of any residential district; or
      (5)   A public park, municipal building or community center.
   (C)   No adult use defined in this section shall be operated within 1,000
feet of another adult bookstore or adult entertainment establishment or on the
same lot or parcel of land;
   (D)   An adult bookstore or adult entertainment establishment shall not be
operated in the same building, structure or portion thereof containing another
adult bookstore or adult entertainment establishment;
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure as part of the premises where an
adult bookstore or adult entertainment establishment is conducted to the
nearest property line of the premises of any of the uses specified in divisions
(B)(1) through (5) above, identified above or to another adult bookstore or
adult entertainment establishment;
   (F)   All adult bookstores or adult entertainment establishments shall be
conducted in an enclosed building regardless of location or distance;
   (G)   No exterior sign shall contain any photographic or artistic
representation of the human body. Signage must conform to §
152.062(B). No larger than 12 square feet in area. Advertising via mobile signs
or upon vehicles is prohibited;
   (H)   All building openings, entries, windows, doors and the like,
associated with an adult bookstore or adult entertainment establishment shall
be located, covered or screened in such a manner as to prevent a view into the
interior of the building from any public right of way or adjacent property.
Sound within the building shall not be audible to a person passing by outside
the building;
   (I)   No adult bookstore or adult entertainment establishment use shall be
established in any building which is used in part for residential purposes;
   (J)   No residential use shall be established in any building which contains
an approved adult bookstore or adult entertainment establishment use; and
   (K)   Adequate landscaping shall be provided to minimize the visual impact
on adjacent sites of any structure containing an adult use.
(Ord. 1-2001, passed 5-2-2001; Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
NON-CONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES
§ 152.045 CONTINUANCE OF USE PERMITTED.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, any lawfully established use of a
building or land existing at the time of the enactment of this chapter or
amendments thereto may be continued although the use does not conform with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-1) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.046 DISCONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   Whenever any part of a building, structure or land occupied by a non-
conforming use is changed to or replaced by a use conforming to the provisions
of this chapter, the premises shall not thereafter be used or occupied by a
non-conforming use.
   (B)   Whenever a non-conforming use of a building or structure or part
thereof, has been discontinued, as evidenced by vacancy, for a period of 12
consecutive months, or whenever there is evident a clear intent on the part of
the owner to abandon a non-conforming use, the use shall not after being
discontinued or abandoned, be reestablished, and the use of the premises
thereafter shall be in conformity with the regulations of the district.
   (C)   Where no enclosed building is involved, voluntary discontinuance of a
non-conforming use for a period of six months shall constitute abandonment, and
shall not thereafter be used in a nonconforming manner.
   (D)   Non-conforming trailers or mobile homes located on a lot in any
district once removed, shall not be relocated on the lot or replaced with
another trailer or mobile home.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-2) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.047 CHANGE OF USE.
   The non-conforming use of any building, structure or portion thereof may be
changed, with the approval of the Board of Appeals, to a use of a more
restricted classification, and when so changed shall not thereafter be changed
to a less restricted classification.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-3) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.048 REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS; EXTENSION; RESTORATION.
   (A)   Normal maintenance of a non-conforming building is permitted. However,
the building may not be reconstructed or structurally altered during its life
to an extent exceeding in aggregate cost 25% of the assessed value of the
building unless changed to a conforming use.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-4)
   (B)   A non-conforming use shall not be extended, but the extension of a
lawful use to any portion of a non-conforming building, designed or manifestly
arranged for the use, which existed prior to the enactment of this chapter
shall not be deemed the extension of the nonconforming use.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-5)
   (C)   No building damaged by fire or other causes to the extent of more than
50% of its real value, computed through the use of the current assessed
valuation and equalization rate, shall be repaired or rebuilt except in
conformity with the regulations of this chapter. Application for a permit to
rebuild or restore the damaged portion of any non-conforming building, as
described in this section, shall be filed within six months of the day of the
damage. If approved, the permit for the rebuilding or restoration shall be
granted for a period of two years and shall not be renewable.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-6) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.049 DISTRICT CHANGES.
   Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be changed so as to transfer an
area from one district to another district of a different classification, the
foregoing provisions shall also apply to any nonconforming uses existing
therein.
(Prior Code, § 12-8-7) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.060 APPLICATION OF SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   In addition to all other requirements set forth in this chapter, the
following supplementary regulations shall apply, except as herein specified, in
all zoning districts created by this chapter and all amendments hereto.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-1) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.061 SPECIAL USES IDENTIFIED; REQUIREMENTS FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the site plan review process is to preserve and
enhance the character of a neighborhood, achieve compatibility with adjacent
development, mitigate potentially negative impacts on traffic, parking,
drainage and similar environmental concerns, improve the overall visual and
aesthetic quality of the village, and increase the capability of the Zoning
Code to adapt to a variety of unique circumstances.
   (B)   Applicability. Site plan review shall be required in accordance with
New York State Village Law. No building permit may be issued, or site
improvement work commence, until site plan approval has been granted.
   (C)   Site plan review shall be required for the following actions:
      (1)   New construction, excluding interior renovations and exterior
handicap access facilities.
      (2)   Demolition of existing structures greater than 500 square feet.
      (3)   Exterior alterations for which a building permit is required.
      (4)   New or expanded parking areas.
   (D)   The following actions are exempt from site plan review:
      (1)   Construction of a single- or two-family dwelling on a single lot.
      (2)   Construction of permitted accessory structures to single- and two-
family dwellings.
      (3)   Ordinary repair or maintenance or interior alterations to existing
structures or uses.
      (4)   Maintenance or replacement of existing sign structures or placement
of signs in all districts.
   (E)   Application requirements.
      (1)   A licensed professional engineer or registered land surveyor shall
prepare all site plan materials unless otherwise approved by the Village Board.
      (2)   Description or narrative of all proposed uses and structures,
including but not limited to hours of operation, number of employees, maximum
seat capacity, and proposed number of off-street vehicle and bicycle parking
spaces.
      (3)    A site plan drawn at a scale of one inch equals 20 feet or such
other scale as the Village Board may deem appropriate, on standard 24 inch by
36 inch sheets, with continuation on 8 ½ inch by 11 inch sheets as necessary
for written information.
      (4)   A certified land survey showing the boundaries of the applicant's
property under consideration in its current state plotted to scale with the
north point, scale, and date clearly indicated, or other document deemed
acceptable by the reviewing board.
      (5)   Plans indicating the following with regard to the property in
question, where applicable.
         (a)   The location of all properties, their ownership, uses thereon,
subdivisions, streets, easements, and adjacent buildings within 300 feet of the
property in question.
         (b)   The location and use of all existing and proposed structures on
the property in question, including all dimensions of height and floor area,
exterior entrances, and anticipated future additions and alterations.
         (c)   The location of all existing and proposed topography features,
including but not limited to, site grading, open spaces, woodlands,
watercourses, steep slopes, wetlands, floodplains, and watersheds.
         (d)   The location of existing and proposed landscaping, screening,
walls, and fences, including information regarding the size and type of plants
and building materials proposed.
         (e)   The location of existing and proposed public and private
streets, off-street parking areas, loading areas, driveways, sidewalks, ramps,
curbs, and paths. Such plans shall include considerations for vehicular,
pedestrian, and bicycle traffic circulation, parking, and access.
         (f)   The location of existing and proposed utility systems including
sewage or septic, water supply, telephone, cable, electric, and stormwater
drainage.
         (g)   Stormwater drainage systems shall include existing and proposed
drain lines, culverts, catch basins, headwalls, endwalls, hydrants, manholes,
and drainage swales.
         (h)   The location, height, intensity, and bulb type (sodium,
incandescent, etc.) of all external lighting fixtures. The direction of
illumination and methods to eliminate glare onto adjoining properties must also
be shown.
         (i)   The location, height, size, material, and design of all existing
and proposed signs.
         (j)   Elevations at a scale of one-quarter inch equals one foot for
all exterior facades of the proposed structure(s) and/or alterations to or
expansions of existing facades, showing design features and indicating the type
and color or materials to be used.
         (k)   Plans to prevent the pollution of surface or ground water,
erosion of soil both during and after construction, excessive runoff, excessive
raising or lowering of the water table, and flooding of other properties, as
applicable.
         (l)   A schedule for completion of each construction phase for
buildings, parking, and landscaped areas.
         (m)   Plans for disposal of construction and demolition waste, either
on-site or at an approved disposal facility.
      (6)   Full EAF pursuant to New York State Environmental Quality Review
Act.
      (7)   The Village Board may request additional information for a complete
assessment of the site plan.
      (8)   A letter from applicant stating that applicant will pay all village
review fees (engineering, technical, legal) associated with the site plan
application.
   (F)   The Village Board may waive any of the previously listed requirements
with the determination that they are unnecessary for a complete assessment of
the project.
   (G)   The Village Board may also request additional information beyond what
is listed in this section and may ask that it be presented in graphic form
accompanied by a written text, and/or prepared by a licensed professional if
such additional materials are deemed necessary for a complete assessment of the
site plan.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-2) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.062 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent and purpose of this section of the
zoning ordinance addressing signs is:
      (1)   Upon the adoption of this law, all new signs must comply with the
revised signage law;
      (2)   To set forth minimum standards regulating the design, erection,
display and maintenance of signs based on the use of land and intensity of
development permitted in the village; to reduce hazards caused by signs
overhanging or projecting onto public right-of-way, and by signs that impede or
distract traffic or otherwise interfere with public safety;
      (3)   To acknowledge that the reasonable display of signs is appropriate
as a public service and necessary to the conduct of competitive commerce and
industry;
      (4)   Fines will be incurred for non-compliance. Fees to be determined
from time to time by resolution of the Village Board of Trustees;
      (5)   To enhance and protect the natural beauty, historic and aesthetic
qualities and neighborhood values throughout the village; to insure the
tasteful display of signs in the high density commercial and residential area
along Route 16 and to secure economic stability in property values.
   (B)   General standards. The following general standards shall be adhered to
for all signs.
      (1)   Signs shall be maintained in a safe, legal, and non-deteriorated
condition at all times.
      (2)   Frames, poles, braces, supports, etc. must be kept painted and
maintained free of weeds, brush and debris.
      (3)   Removal and maintenance of signs.
         (a)   The Code Enforcement Officer (herein CEO) may cause any sign
which is an immediate peril to persons or property to be removed summarily and
without notice.
         (b)   Unsafe and unlawful signs must be removed or altered within five
days after notification by the CEO. In addition to any costs incurred pursuant
to this division, the violator may be subject to penalties defined by these
codes as well as other penalties to the maximum extent allowed by state law.
         (c)   Other damaged or deteriorated signs must be repaired or replaced
within 30 days. In addition to any costs incurred pursuant to the provisions of
this division, the violator may be subject to penalties defined by these codes
as well as other penalties to the maximum extent allowed by state law.
         (d)   When the sign display is no longer appropriate as a result of,
but not limited to the sale, transfer, conversion or demise of a business,
product, or person, the sign shall be removed within seven days.
         (e)   Any non-conforming, abandoned, unsafe or illegal sign existing
on or after the effective date of this section shall be removed or repaired, as
applicable, by the owner of the premises upon which such sign is located after
written notice as provided herein. Upon removal of any wall sign the surface
area of the facade shall within 30 days of removal be restored to a condition
substantially equivalent to the remaining portion of the face in appearance.
The CEO, upon determining that any such sign exists, shall notify the owner and
beneficial user of such sign in writing, to remove, or repair the said sign
within the time limits indicated in division (3)(a) through (d) above from the
date of such notice. Upon failure to comply with such notice within the
prescribed time, the CEO shall remove or cause removal of such sign, and shall
assess all costs and expenses incurred in the said removal against the property
on which such sign is located.
         (f)   If any sign is damaged or deteriorated beyond 25% as determined
by the CEO, the sign must be removed.
      (4)   Village approval shall in no way eliminate the need for a permit
from the New York State Department of Transportation (D.O.T.), when sign is
visible to traffic on a state primary route (e.g. Route 16).
      (5)   Although there is requirement that all signs must be professionally
made and lettered, it is expected that all signs will be attractive and not
emanate a "homemade" or amateurish appearance.
      (6)   Signs not requiring a permit will not be charged a permit fee. A
permit fee in the amount to be determined from time to time by the Village
Board.
      (7)   Off premise signs will be limited to no more than a total of three.
      (8)   At this time, the Sign Committee is the Village Planning Board.
   (C)   Signs not permitted. The following signs will not be permitted in the
Village of Franklinville:
      (1)   Signs that constitute a traffic hazard. No sign or other
advertising structure as regulated by any of the provisions of this section
shall be erected at the intersection of any streets in such a manner as to
obstruct free and clear vision; or at any location where, by reason of
position, shape or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be
confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device or which makes use
of the words, "STOP", "LOOK", "DRIVE-IN", "DANGER" or other word, phrase,
symbol or character in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse
traffic.
      (2)   If the CEO's inspection finds that any sign or other advertising
structure regulated herein is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public,
or has been constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter, notice shall be given in writing by the CEO
to the beneficial user and if owner fails to remove or alter the structure so
as to comply with the standard herein set forth within five days after such
notice, such sign or other advertising structure may be removed or altered to
comply by the CEO at the expense of the owner of the property upon which it is
located. The CEO may cause any sign or other advertising structure which is an
immediate peril to persons or property to be removed summarily and without
notice.
      (3)   Indecent, pornographic, or defamatory signs that malign or
belittle, any of the following, but not limited to, a person, product,
institution, practice or belief.
      (4)   Signs that contain, flashing, moving, or animated parts.
      (5)   Signs in excess of 96 square feet (equivalent of 3 - 4 feet x 8
feet).
      (6)   Signs on the top of a roof of any building. Roof signs are to be
discouraged. However, on the buildings with multi-level roofs, signs may be
permitted on the lower roof provided the 20-foot maximum height is not
violated.
      (7)   Signs painted on sidewalks, streets, or curbs.
      (8)   Signs higher than the building identified or 20 feet from ground to
the top of the sign, whichever is less.
      (9)   Signs with more than two uprights for a sign with two faces, three
uprights for a three- faced sign, or four uprights for a sign with four faces
(i.e. square or rectangular).
      (10)   Vehicles on public property, solely for the purpose of displaying
an advertisement, with the exceptions in the cases, but not limited to buses,
taxis, sanitation trucks and commercial vehicles engaged in their ordinary
business.
   (D)   Signs not requiring a permit. The following types of signs shall not
require a permit, provided that any such sign is not illuminated and that no
more than one such sign shall be located on each street or road line of a lot:
      (1)   Temporary signs, consisting of:
         (a)   Signs of a temporary nature for special events, such as special
event posters, political posters, including lawn/estate sales, yard sales,
garage sales, banners, and similar signs, provided that such signs do not
overhang a public right-of-way and are not attached to trees or utility poles
and that consent of the property owner or occupant is obtained. Each such sign
must specify the name and address of the person or organization responsible for
its removal and shall be removed within 24 hours after the advertised event or
within 30 days from installation, whichever is earlier.
         (b)   Any signs of temporary nature, including painted or lettered
directly on a window or other necessary part of a building when the sign is
inside of the building.
      (2)   Signs required by law or needed for official government business or
public safety and installed by local, state or federal authority.
      (3)   Non-illuminated real estate signs not exceeding six square feet in
area which advertise the sale, rental or lease of the premises upon which signs
are located.
      (4)   Nameplates not exceeding one square foot in area, containing only
the name of the building and name of agent.
      (5)   Bulletin boards not exceeding 15 square feet in area, erected upon
the premises of a church, funeral home or public institution for the purpose of
displaying the name of the institution and its activities or services.
      (6)   Signs denoting the architect, engineer or contractor when placed
upon work under construction, and not exceeding 16 square feet in area, for the
designation of one individual or firm. For multiple designations, the sign may
be up to 32 square feet in area. In no event will more than one sign per
location be allowed, and it must be removed within 48 hours after the receipt
of the certificate of occupancy.
      (7)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and dates of
erection, provided that such signs do not exceed two square feet in area.
      (8)   Permanent signs to be painted or lettered directly on a window or
other necessary part of a building shall require application, review and
approval by the CEO and/or Sign Committee consistent with the size requirements
of this section.
      (9)   Neon signs in the window of a retail establishment not larger than
four square feet or 25% of the window area, whichever is less, provided that
the sign is lit only during the business hours.
      (10)   Sandwich board signs meeting the following criteria:
         (a)   No sandwich board sign shall be larger than six square feet in
area for each face or 48 inches in height or width. Such signs shall not be
higher than four feet above the adjacent sidewalk or curb.
         (b)   Sandwich board signs shall be designed and located so as not to
be an obstruction on any public space or walkway.
         (c)   Sandwich board signs shall not be illuminated and may be
displayed only between sunrise and sunset. While on display, such signs shall
be securely fastened so as to prevent accidental tipping or blowing over.
   (E)   Signs requiring a permit with approval of the CEO. The CEO may refer
to The Planning Committee for their approval in certain instances. Upon proper
application and payment of the required fee, the CEO may issue sign permits
for:
      (1)   Ground signs (other than a real estate developer's offering) which
meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Does not exceed 32 square feet in area.
         (b)   Set back behind the right-of-way line from the road.
         (c)   Only one sign per location is allowed. A location is defined as
follows:
            1.   As an entranceway to, or roadway bordering on, but not limited
to, a plaza, office complex, commercial multi-story building. All products and
services available at this location must utilize the one sign. This requirement
does not preclude the use of small traffic signs or appropriate wall signs for
identifying the occupants or services available in a particular portion of the
complex.
         (d)   For safety and appearance, no guide wires will be allowed.
         (e)   All letters, figures, characters or representations in cut-out
or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with, attached to, or superimposed
upon, any sign shall be safely and securely built, or attached to the sign
structure.
         (f)   Lighting shall be permitted on ground signs, provided that
illumination is concentrated upon the area of the sign so as to prevent glare
upon the street or adjacent property.
      (2)   Wall signs (other than real estate developer's offering) which
meets the following criteria:
         (a)   Does not exceed 32 square feet in area.
         (b)   Structure on which mounted is set back behind the right-of-way
line from the road.
         (c)   No wall sign shall cover, wholly or partially, any wall opening.
         (d)   No wall sign shall project beyond the ends or top of the
building wall to which it is attached, nor be set out more than one foot from
the face of the building to which it is attached.
         (e)   All letters, figures, characters, or representatives in cut-out
or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with, attached to or superimposed
upon any sign shall be safely and securely built or attached to the sign
structure.
         (f)   No wall sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to
prevent free ingress to, or egress from any door, window or fire escape.
      (3)   Movable or lighted mobile signs (other than a sandwich board).
Recognized civic organizations, which have been in existence one year or more,
may be issued a permit to advertise a special community event for a period not
to exceed one week prior to the event, and must be removed within 24 hours
after the event.
      (4)   Temporary cloth signs, banners, streamers advertising routine non-
special event business activities shall require application, review and
approval by the CEO for a sign permit as provided in this chapter. Temporary
cloth, banner or streamer signs exceeding 32 square feet shall be reviewed and
approved by the Sign Committee (Planning Board). No temporary cloth, banner,
streamer sign shall remain in place more than 30 days from installation.
      (5)   Temporary cloth signs, banners, streamers, etc., may be suspended
over, or placed on public property after review and approval by the Planning
Board. The Planning Board may require reasonable liability insurance coverage
for such installation. Such temporary signs shall be removed within 24 hours
after the advertised event or at the end of the season if a seasonal event is
advertised.
The regular permit fee and permit process is waived for signs in this category.
Such signs, banners, streamers/flags to be suspended over a public property
(sidewalk) shall hang no lower than eight feet above the public property.
Temporary cloth signs, banners or stream type signs not suspended over or
placed on public property and exceeding 32 square feet in size shall be
reviewed and approved by the Sign Committee (Planning Board) before authorizing
the CEO to issue a sign permit.
      (6)   Ground signs (other than a real estate developer's offering) in
excess of 32 square feet (but not to exceed 96 square feet) and containing one
or more variances from the standards listed in this section.
      (7)   Wall signs (other than real estate developer's offering) same as
ground signs.
      (8)   Developer's offering. A permit for a subdivision or planned unit
development (PUD) offering sign whether put in place by a real estate
developer, contractor or owner, may be issued for a period of six months. The
permit may be renewed without payment of an additional fee. These signs, which
are expected to be erected for a limited time only, must meet all applicable
sign requirements.
      (9)   Signs painted on buildings (including murals, and paintings).
      (10)   All projecting signs. Every projecting sign shall be placed so
that its lowest point shall be at least eight feet above ground level and the
distance of the vertical edge nearest the building shall not exceed three feet
from the face of the wall to which it is attached, or shall any sign or part
thereof extend nearer the curb line than one foot.
         (a)   All letters, figures, characters or representations in cut-out
or irregular form maintained in conjunction with attached to, or superimposed
upon, any sign shall be safely and securely built or attached to the sign
structure.
         (b)   No projecting sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so
as to prevent free ingress to, or egress from any door, window or fire escape.
         (c)   Lighting shall be permitted on projecting signs, provided that
illumination is concentrated upon the area of the sign so as to prevent glare
upon the street or adjacent property.
         (d)   Projecting signs exceeding 50 pounds in weight shall not be
attached to or supported by frame buildings or the wooden framework of a
building. No projecting sign shall be secured with wire, stripes of wood or
nails nor shall any projecting sign be hung or secured to any other sign.
      (11)   Hanging signs.
         (a)   Every hanging sign shall be placed so that its lowest point
shall be at least eight feet above grade level.
         (b)   All letters, figures, characters or representations in cut-out
or irregular form maintained in conjunction with attached to, or superimposed
upon, any sign shall be safely and securely built or attached to the sign
structure.
         (c)   Lighting shall be permitted on projecting signs, provided that
illumination is concentrated upon the area of the sign so as to prevent glare
upon the street or adjacent property.
         (d)   Hanging signs exceeding 50 pounds in weight shall not be
attached to or supported by frame buildings or the wooden framework of a
building. No projecting sign shall be secured with wire, strips of wood or
nails nor shall any projecting sign be hung or secured to any other sign.
      (12)   Awnings and canopies.
         (a)   Shall not exceed beyond a point 12 inches inside the curb line.
         (b)   The lowest portion thereof shall not be less than eight feet
above grade level.
         (c)   Construction of canopies. Canopies shall be constructed of
cloth, metal hood, or other approved materials. The framework of all canopies
shall be approved by the CEO.
         (d)   Construction of awnings. Awnings shall be constructed of cloth
or metal. However, all frames and supports shall be of metal. Every awning
shall be securely attached to and supported by the building.
         (e)   Advertising. No advertising shall be placed on any awning or
canopy, except the name of the owner and the business, industry or pursuit
conducted within the premises. Said advertising may be painted or otherwise
permanently placed in a space not exceeding eight inches in height on the front
and side portions thereof.
      (13)   News racks and vending machines.
         (a)   Purpose.
            1.   The uncontrolled placement of news racks and/or vending
machines in a public right-of-way presents an inconvenience and danger to the
safety and welfare of persons using such rights-of-way, including pedestrians,
persons entering and leaving vehicles and buildings and persons performing
essential utility, traffic control and emergency services.
            2.   News racks and/or vending machines located as to cause an
inconvenience or danger to persons using public right-of-way, and unsightly
news racks and/or vending machines located therein, constitute public
nuisances.
            3.   The provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and
enacted are in pursuance of and for the purpose of securing and promoting the
public health and general welfare of persons in the village.
         (b)   Word usage and definitions. For the purposes of this division,
the following words and phrases shall have the meanings given herein.
            CEO. Code Enforcement Officer.
            DISTRIBUTOR. Any person responsible for the installation, use or
maintenance of a newsrack in a public street.
            NEWS RACK.  Any self-service or coin-operated box, container,
storage unit or other dispenser installed, used or maintained for the display
and sale of newspapers, periodicals or other printed matter.
            ROADWAY. That portion of highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the curb or shoulder.
            SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines or
lateral lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for use by
pedestrians.
            SIGN.  
               a.   Any structure, display, device or representation which is
designed or used to advertise or call attention to any thing, person, business,
realty subdivision or development, activity or place and is visible from a
highway, street or other public right-of-way. This definition is not to be
restricted to traditional and familiar forms but will include any new and
evolving technologies such as, but not limited to, laser lights.
               b.   This definition shall not include holiday decorations; the
noncommercial use of any flag, emblem, insignia or other display of any nation
or political subdivision; traffic, safety, or similar regulatory devices;
scoreboards; or customary displays of merchandise or objects and materials
placed behind a store window.
            STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of the right-
of-way publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel, and it includes any alley or public
grounds in the village.
            VENDING MACHINE. A machine for storing a quantity of a small
article, as candy bars, soft drinks, or packs of cigarettes, and dispensing one
when a coin or coins are inserted.
         (c)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to erect, place, maintain or operate on any public street or
sidewalk or in any other public way or place in the village any newsrack
without first having obtained a permit from the Village Building Inspector/Code
Enforcement Officer specifying the exact location of such newsrack. One permit
may be issued to include any number of newsracks and shall be signed by the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-3) (Am. Ord. 1-2009, passed 2-9-2009; Ord. passed 3-14-
2022)
§ 152.063 REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, there shall
be no off-street parking and no loading requirements for properties located at
and described as:
ADDRESS SBL NO.
ADDRESS             SBL NO.
14 Park Square      40.062-4-11.1
16-18 Park Square   40.062-4-12
22 Park Square      40.062-4-15
26 Park Square      40.062-4-16
28 Park Square      40.062-4-17
30 Park Square      40.062-4-18
32 Park Square      40.062-4-19
34 Park Square      40.062-4-20
Elm Street          40.062-4-21.1
Elm Street          40.062-4-21.2
5 Elm Street        40.062-4-22
7 Elm Street        40.062-4-23
9 Elm Street        40.062-4-24
2 Park Square       40.063-4-1
4 Park Square       40.063-4-2
8 Park Square       40.063-4-3
10 Park Square      40.063-4-4
1 Pine Street       40.063-4-5
5 Pine Street       40.063-4-7
6 Elm Street        40.070-3-13
8 Elm Street        40.070-3-14
2 Elm Street        40.070-3-15
8 South Main Street 40.071-1-49
6 South Main Street 40.071-1-50
4 South Main Street 40.071-1-51
South Main Street   40.071-1-52
1 Park Square       40.071-1-1
3 Park Square       40.071-1-2
5 Park Square       40.071-1-3
7 Park Square       40.071-1-4
 
   (B)   In all districts, unless exempted as provided in division (A) of this
section, in connection with every residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional or other use, there shall be provided at any time any building or
structure is erected, enlarged or increased in capacity, off-street parking
spaces for automobiles in accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Each off-street parking space shall have an area of not less than
160 square feet exclusive of access drives or aisles and shall be of usable
shape and condition. A driveway of a minimum of eight feet wide and 40 feet
long, accessible to a single-family residence, may be used to provide two
parking spaces. All open off-street parking spaces, except when accessory to
single-family dwellings, shall be improved with a compact macadam base and
surfaced with all-weather dustless material;
      (2)   There shall be adequate provision for ingress and egress to all
parking spaces. Where a lot does not abut on a private or public access drive,
an access drive of not less than eight feet in width in the case of a dwelling
and not less than 18 feet in width in all other cases leading to the parking
area shall be required;
      (3)   The number of off-street parking spaces to be provided shall not be
less than the following:
Use Parking Spaces Required
                                                                      Parking
Use                                                                   Spaces
                                                                      Required
                                                                      Two per
Residential                                                           housekeeping
                                                                      unit
Rental units                                                          Two per
                                                                      rented unit
                                                                      One for each
                                                                      four seats
Church or school                                                      in principal
                                                                      gathering
                                                                      room
                                                                      One for
Restaurant                                                            every four
                                                                      seats
Golf course                                                           Six for each
                                                                      hole
Private club or lodge                                                 One for each
                                                                      ten members
Country club                                                          One for each
                                                                      five members
                                                                      One for
Theater                                                               every four
                                                                      seats
                                                                      One for
                                                                      every 300
Offices, clinics, wholesale establishments and business services      square feet
                                                                      of floor
                                                                      space
                                                                      One for
                                                                      every 100
Retail store or personal service establishment                        square feet
                                                                      of floor
                                                                      space
                                                                      One for each
                                                                      two
Industrial uses                                                       employees on
                                                                      the maximum
                                                                      working
                                                                      shift
                                                                      One for
                                                                      every three
Hospital                                                              beds and one
                                                                      for each two
                                                                      employees
                                                                      One for
                                                                      every three
Sanitarium convalescent home                                          beds and one
                                                                      for each two
                                                                      employees
                                                                      One for each
Dance hall, assembly or exhibition hall, night club, café or similar 100 square
recreation establishment                                              feet of
                                                                      floor area
Bowling alley                                                         Five for
                                                                      each alley
                                                                      One for each
Mortuary or funeral home                                              75 square
                                                                      feet of
                                                                      floor area
                                                                      One for each
Public swimming pool                                                  40 square
                                                                      feet of pool
                                                                      area
 
      (4)   Except in the case of a driveway to a single-family residence, no
parking space nor portion thereof established on the same zoning lot with a
building shall be located within a required front yard. No parking spaces nor
portion thereof established on a zoning lot without a building shall be located
closer to any street line than the front yard set back required for the
district in which the parking lot is located; and
      (5)   Every building having a gross floor area of 10,000 square feet or
more, requiring the loading or unloading of trucks, shall provide and maintain
at least one off-street loading space plus one additional space for each
additional 100,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof. Each
loading space shall be not less than 12 feet in width, 65 feet in length and 14
feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-4) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022; Ord. 5-2023, passed 9-11-2023)
§ 152.064 SANITATION.
   (A)   The dumping of garbage or rubbish shall only be permitted in locations
and under conditions approved by the Village Board and the County Department of
Health. Any new or modified facilities for the treatment, storage or disposal
of sewage, including excreta, bath, sink and laundry wastes or trade wastes,
shall be provided and installed in accordance with the rules, regulations and
standards of the State and County Department of Health.
   (B)   Careful consideration shall be given to the location and construction
of private water supplies to assure adequate protection of the supplies.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-5) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.065 EXCAVATION OF CLAY, SAND OR GRAVEL.
   A special permit for the excavation of clay, sand or gravel for commercial
purposes in an Agricultural Zone only may be granted by the Village Board with
the approval of the Village Planning Board, provided:
   (A)   The final slope of any material in any excavation does not exceed the
normal angle of repose of any such material;
   (B)   Neither the base nor the top of any such slope is nearer than 50 feet
to any street or lot line nor more than 50 feet above or below the level of the
street or lot line nearest thereto;
   (C)   The size and weight of vehicles and loads used in removal of the
products be specified by the Board of Appeals as necessary for protection of
the surface of the residential streets; and
   (D)   That a bond, in such sum as the Board of Appeals shall determine and
satisfactory to the Village Attorney as to form and sufficiency of guarantee,
is executed by the applicant to assure that at the expiration of the permit the
property will be suitably graded so as to minimize and conceal so far as
practicable the efforts of the excavation.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-6) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.066 STRIPPING OF TOP SOIL.
   No person shall strip, excavate or otherwise remove top soil for sale or use
other than on the premises from which the same shall be taken except in
connection with the construction or alteration of a six-foot building or paved
parking area on the premises and excavation or grading incidental thereto.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-7) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.067 MOBILE HOME RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions. Except as provided herein, no mobile home, trailer or
other habitable vehicle shall be permitted to locate in the village in other
than an approved mobile home park in a “R-3” Residential-Commercial District.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The maintenance and use of an approved mobile home existing in the
village on the effective date of this chapter may be continued providing the
mobile home is not removed from the premises or altered through the addition of
accessory structures.
      (2)   Individual trailers or mobile homes used solely for purposes of
vacation travel or recreation, owned by residents of the village, may be stored
on the property of the owner provided that no residence is taken therein or
business conducted therewith, and further provided the vehicle, while stored,
is effectively screened from general view.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-9) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.068 MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Where permitted in an “R-3” Residential-Commercial District, a mobile home
park shall conform to the following requirements:
   (A)   Shall be located on a well-drained site properly graded to insure
rapid drainage;
   (B)   Shall contain a minimum of two acres;
   (C)   Mobile home spaces shall be provided consisting of a minimum of 1,800
square feet for each space which shall be at least 32 feet wide and clearly
defined;
   (D)   There shall be at least a 15 foot clearance between individual mobile
homes housed and between mobile homes and any permanent structure on or
adjacent to the park;
   (E)   All mobile homes shall abut upon a driveway of not less than 20 feet
in width which shall have unobstructed access to a public street or highway;
   (F)   An adequate and tested supply of pure water for drinking and domestic
purposes shall be supplied to all mobile home spaces within the park;
   (G)   A combined sewage treatment and disposal system shall be provided as
recommended and approved by the County Health Department;
   (H)   Adequate garbage disposal facilities, as approved by the County Health
Department, shall be provided;
   (I)   The service facilities and buildings as required by state and county
health departments shall be included and maintained in the park;
   (J)   Every park shall have a fire protection plan approved by the fire
department having local jurisdiction; and
   (K)   Every park operator shall keep a complete register of occupants which
shall be available for inspection at all times by law enforcement and health
officials.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-10) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.069 AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE AND JUNK YARDS.
   The development, extension, maintenance or use of an automobile salvage yard
or junk yard shall be prohibited in the village.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-11) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.070 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES; PERMIT.
   (A)   Temporary buildings or trailers, other than buildings or trailers for
living purposes to be used in connection with construction work only, may be
permitted in any district during the period that the construction work is in
progress, but the temporary buildings shall be removed upon the completion of
the work.
   (B)   Permits for temporary, nonresidential, buildings shall be used for a
one-year period and must be renewed for continued use.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-12) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.071 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   In any Agricultural or Residential District there may be developed,
with the approval of the Village Planning Board, residential community
development projects.
   (B)   In those projects a greater freedom of design may be permitted with
respect to the use of land, area of lots and depth of yards, even though
compliance in all respects to the provisions of this chapter is not maintained,
providing:
      (1)   A complete plan for the area has been approved by the Village Board
and the County Health Department;
      (2)   The tract of land to be developed is not less than 15 acres in
area;
      (3)   The adjacent property will not be adversely affected;
      (4)   The plan is consistent with the intent and purposes of this
chapter; and
      (5)   The average lot area is not less than the lot acre requirements in
which the plan is located.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-13) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.072 FENCES; PROPERTY BARRIERS.
   (A)   A building permit shall be required for the construction or
reconstruction of all fences or property barriers.
   (B)   A property owner may construct a fence on the owner’s property only in
accordance with the following specifications.
      (1)   (a)   The fence must be constructed using maintenance-free material
having a life span of 20 years or more.
         (b)   Maintenance-free material shall include chain-link, stone or
concrete wall, vinyl, PVC and pressure treated lumber.
         (c)   Rough-cut lumber or other untreated wood material is not deemed
maintenance-free.
      (2)   Line fences may be erected on the property line, but shall not
encroach upon the property of another.
      (3)   No fence shall exceed a height of eight feet.
      (4)   No fence shall be erected within three feet of any village-
maintained sidewalk and the first eight feet of fence on either side of the
owner’s driveway, alley or sidewalk shall not exceed a height of four feet.
      (5)   No fence fronting a public street or highway, and running
approximately parallel thereto, shall exceed four feet in height.
      (6)   Any fence running approximately perpendicular to a publicly
maintained sidewalk, street or highway shall have a maximum height of four feet
for the first eight feet of the fence in closest proximity to the sidewalk,
street or highway.
      (7)   Shrubs and other trees placed as a continuous barrier shall conform
in height and distance to the standards set forth above, except the center of
the shrub or plant shall be placed from any publicly-maintained sidewalk at a
distance of three feet plus one-half the mature diameter of the shrub or plant.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-14) (Ord. 1-2004, passed 8-9-2004; Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.073 BOAT STORAGE.
   Boats of any nature owned by a resident of the village may be stored on the
property of the owner provided the boat, while stored, is effectively screened
from general view and further provided that no residence is taken therein or
business conducted therewith.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-15) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.074 LIVESTOCK.
   With the exception of existing farm facilities which have been constructed
and used for the purpose of housing or feeding livestock prior to the adoption
of this chapter, or a contiguous extension thereof, no facilities for the
permanent housing or feeding of livestock shall be permitted within 200 feet of
any residential district.
(Prior Code, § 12-9-16) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.085 BUILDING INSPECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by a Building Inspector who shall be
appointed annually by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the Building Inspector shall be:
      (1)   Examine and approve applications pertaining to the use of land,
buildings or structures when the applications conform with the provisions of
this chapter;
      (2)   Issue all zoning and building permits and keep permanent records
thereof;
      (3)   Conduct the inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land
as are necessary to determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   Receive, file and forward for appropriate action all applications
for special use, variations and amendments to this chapter which may be filed
in the zoning office;
      (5)   Maintain permanent and current records of the zoning ordinance,
including all maps, amendments, special uses and variations; and
      (6)   Collect, receipt and account for all fees chargeable under the
provisions of this chapter and pay all of the same into the village general
fund.
(Prior Code, § 12-10-1) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.086 SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   Except as provided herein, it shall be unlawful for an owner to use or to
permit the use of any structure or land or part thereof, hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted or enlarged, wholly or partly, until an application
is made to, and a site plan approval issued by, the Board of Trustees. Where
the approval of the County Department of Health or other authority is required,
a building permit shall not be issued until the approval has been granted in
writing. A site plan approval hereafter granted under the provisions of this
chapter shall expire two years from the date of issuance unless the proposed
structure or change in use has been completed, unless the site plan approval
has been extended by the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 12-10-2) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 152.100 ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AREA VARIANCE. The authorization by the Zoning Board of Appeals for the
use of land in a manner which is not allowed by the dimensional or physical
requirements of the applicable zoning regulations.
      USE VARIANCE. The authorization by the Zoning Board of Appeals for the
use of land for a purpose which is otherwise not allowed or is prohibited by
the applicable zoning regulations.
   (B)   Appointment of members. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of
five members. The Mayor shall appoint the Board of Appeals and the chairperson
thereof, subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees. In the absence of a
chairperson the Zoning Board of Appeals may designate a member to serve as
acting chairperson. The Board of Trustees may provide for compensation to be
paid to experts, clerks and a secretary and provide for such other expenses as
may be necessary and proper, not exceeding the appropriation made by the Board
of Trustees for such purpose.
   (C)   Board of Trustees ineligible. No person who is a member of the Village
Board of Trustees shall be eligible for membership on the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
   (D)   Terms of members first appointed. The appointment of members to the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall be of terms so fixed that one member's term shall
expire at the end of the village official year in which such members were
initially appointed. The remaining members' terms shall be so fixed that one
member's term shall expire at the end of each official year thereafter. At the
expiration of each original member's appointment, the replacement member shall
be appointed by the Board of Trustees for a term which shall be equal in years
to the number of members of the board.
   (E)   Terms of members now in office. Members now holding office for terms
which do not expire at the end of a year shall, upon the expiration of their
term, hold office until the end of the year and their successors shall then be
appointed for terms which shall be equal in years to the number of members of
the board.
   (F)   Training and attendance requirements.
      (1)   Each member of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall complete, at a
minimum, four hours of training each year designed to enable such members to
more effectively carry out their duties. Training received by a member in
excess of four hours in any one year may be carried over by the member into
succeeding years in order to meet the requirements of this subdivision. Such
training shall be approved by the Board of Trustees and may include, but not be
limited to, training provided by a municipality, regional or county planning
office or commission, county planning federation, state agency, statewide
municipal association, college or other similar entity. Training may be
provided in a variety of formats, including but not limited to, electronic
media, video, distance learning and traditional classroom training.
      (2)   To be eligible for reappointment to such Zoning Board of Appeals
such member shall have completed the training promoted by the village pursuant
to this subdivision.
      (3)   The training required by this subdivision may be waived or modified
by resolution of the Board of Trustees when, in the judgment of the Board of
Trustees, it is in the best interest of the village to do so.
      (4)   No decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be voided or
declared invalid because of a failure to comply with this subdivision.
   (G)   Vacancy in office. If a vacancy shall occur otherwise than by
expiration of term, the Mayor shall appoint the new member for the unexpired
term.
   (H)   Removal of members. The Mayor shall have the power to remove, after
public hearing, any member of the Zoning Board of Appeals for cause. Any Zoning
Board of Appeals member may be removed for non-compliance with minimum
requirements relating to meeting attendance and training as established by the
Village Board of Trustees by local law.
   (I)   Chairperson duties. All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
be held at the call of the chairperson and at such other times as such board
may determine. Such chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting
chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   (J)   Alternate members.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees may, by local law or as a part of the local
law creating the Zoning Board of Appeals, establish alternate Zoning Board of
Appeals member positions for purposes of substituting for a member in the event
such member is unable to participate because of a conflict of interest.
Alternate members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the
Mayor, subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees, for terms established
by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals may designate an
alternate member to substitute for a member when such member is unable to
participate because of a conflict of interest on an application or matter
before the board. When so designated, the alternate member shall possess all
the powers and responsibilities of such member of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
Such designation shall be entered into the minutes of the initial Zoning Board
of Appeals meeting at which the substitution is made.
      (3)   All provisions of this section relating to Zoning Board of Appeals
member training and continuing education, attendance, conflict of interest,
compensation, eligibility, vacancy in office, removal, and service on other
boards, shall also apply to alternate members.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.101 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Meetings, minutes, records. Meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall be open to the public to the extent provided in Article 7 of the Public
Officers Law. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its
examinations and other official actions.
   (B)   Filing requirements. Every rule, regulation, every amendment or repeal
thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the Board
of Appeals shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk within five
business days and shall be a public record.
   (C)   Assistance to Zoning Board of Appeals. Such board shall have the
authority to call upon any department, agency or employee of the village for
such assistance as shall be deemed necessary and as shall be authorized by the
Board of Trustees. Such department, agency or employee may be reimbursed for
any expenses incurred as a result of such assistance.
   (D)   Hearing appeals. The jurisdiction of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
be appellate only and shall be limited to hearing and deciding appeals from and
reviewing any order, requirement, decision, interpretation, or determination
made by the administrative official charged with the enforcement of any local
law adopted pursuant to this article. Such appeal may be taken by any person
aggrieved, or by an officer, department, board or bureau of the village.
   (E)   Filing of administrative decision and time of appeal.
      (1)   Each order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination
of the administrative official charged with the enforcement of the zoning local
law shall be filed in the office of such administrative official within five
business days from the day it is rendered, and shall be a public record.
      (2)   An appeal shall be taken within 60 days after the filing of any
order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination of the
administrative official, by filing with such administrative official and with
the Zoning Board of Appeals a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof
and the relief sought. The administrative official from whom the appeal is
taken shall forthwith transmit to the Zoning Board of Appeals all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (F)   Stay upon appeal. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the administrative official charged with
the enforcement of such local law, from whom the appeal is taken, certifies to
the board of appeals, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with the
administrative official, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a
stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in
which case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining
order which may be granted by the Board of Appeals or by a court of record on
application, on notice to the administrative official from whom the appeal is
taken and on due cause shown.
   (G)   Hearing on appeal. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable
time for the hearing of the appeal or other matter referred to it and give
public notice of such hearing by publication in a paper of general circulation
in the village at least five days prior to the date thereof. The cost of
sending or publishing any notices relating to such appeal, or a reasonable fee
relating thereto, shall be borne by the appealing party and shall be paid to
the Village of Franklinville prior to the hearing of such appeal. Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person, or by agent or attorney.
   (H)   Time of decision. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall decide upon the
appeal within 62 days after the conduct of said hearing. The time within which
the Board of Appeals must render its decision may be extended by mutual consent
of the applicant and the Board.
   (I)   Filing of decision and notice. The decision of the Zoning Board of
Appeals on the appeal shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk within
five business days after the day such decision is rendered, and a copy thereof
mailed to the applicant.
   (J)   Notice to park commission and county planning board or agency or
regional planning council. At least five days before such hearing, the Zoning
Board of Appeals shall mail notices thereof to the parties, to the regional
state park commission having jurisdiction over any state park or parkway within
500 feet of the property affected by such appeal and to the county planning
board or agency or regional planning council as required by § 239-m of the
General Municipal Law, which notice shall be accompanied by a full statement of
such proposed action, as defined in subdivision one of § 239-m of the General
Municipal Law.
   (K)   Compliance with State Environmental Quality Review Act. The Zoning
Board of Appeals shall comply with the provisions of the State Environmental
Quality Review Act under Article 8 of the Environmental Conservation Law and
its implementing regulations as codified in title 6, part 617 of the New York
codes, rules and regulations.
   (L)   Rehearing. A motion for the Zoning Board of Appeals to hold a
rehearing to review any order, decision or determination of the board not
previously reheard may be made by any member of the board. A unanimous vote of
all Zoning Board of Appeals then present is required for such rehearing to
occur. Such rehearing is subject to the same notice provisions as an original
hearing. Upon such rehearing the Zoning Board of Appeals may reverse, modify or
annul its original order, decision or determination upon the unanimous vote of
all members then present, provided the board finds that the rights vested in
persons acting in good faith in reliance upon the reheard order, decision or
determination will not be prejudiced thereby.
   (M)   Voting requirements.
      (1)   Decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals. Except as otherwise
provided in division (L) of this section, every motion or resolution of a Board
of Appeals shall require for its adoption the affirmative vote of a majority of
all the members of the Zoning Board of Appeals as fully constituted regardless
of vacancies or absences. Where an action is the subject of a referral to the
county planning agency or regional planning council the voting provisions of §
239-m of the General Municipal Law shall apply.
      (2)   Default denial of appeal. In exercising its appellate jurisdiction
only, if an affirmative vote of a majority of all members of the Zoning Board
of Appeals is not attained on a motion or resolution to grant a variance or
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the enforcement
official within the time allowed by division (H) of this section, the appeal is
denied. The Zoning Board of Appeals may amend the failed motion or resolution
and vote on the amended motion or resolution within the time allowed without
being subject to the rehearing process as set forth in division (L) of this
section.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.102 PERMITTED ACTIONS BY THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Orders, requirements, decisions, interpretations, determinations. The
Zoning Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination appealed from
and shall make such order, requirement, decision, interpretation or
determination as in its opinion ought to have been made in the matter by the
administrative official charged with the enforcement of such local law and to
that end shall have all the powers of the administrative official from whose
order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination the appeal is
taken.
   (B)   Use variances.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, on appeal from the decision or
determination of the administrative officer charged with the enforcement of
such local law, shall have the power to grant use variances, as defined herein.
      (2)   No such use variance shall be granted by the Zoning Board of
Appeals without a showing by the applicant that applicable zoning regulations
and restrictions have caused unnecessary hardship. In order to prove such
unnecessary hardship the applicant shall demonstrate to the Board of Appeals
that for each and every permitted use under the zoning regulations for the
particular district where the property is located, (1) the applicant cannot
realize a reasonable return, provided that lack of return is substantial as
demonstrated by competent financial evidence; (2) that the alleged hardship
relating to the property in question is unique, and does not apply to a
substantial portion of the district or neighborhood; (3) that the requested use
variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the
neighborhood; and (4) that the alleged hardship has not been self-created.
      (3)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, in the granting of use variances,
shall grant the minimum variance that it shall deem necessary and adequate to
address the unnecessary hardship proved by the applicant, and at the same time
preserve and protect the character of the neighborhood and the health, safety
and welfare of the community.
   (C)   Area variances.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power, upon an appeal
from a decision or determination of the administrative official charged with
the enforcement of such local law, to grant area variances as defined herein.
      (2)   In making its determination, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall take
into consideration the benefit to the applicant if the variance is granted, as
weighed against the detriment to the health, safety and welfare of the
neighborhood or community by such grant. In making such determination the board
shall also consider: (1) whether an undesirable change will be produced in the
character of the neighborhood or a detriment to nearby properties will be
created by the granting of the area variance; (2) whether the benefit sought by
the applicant can be achieved by some method, feasible for the applicant to
pursue, other than an area variance; (3) whether the requested area variance is
substantial; (4) whether the proposed variance will have an adverse effect or
impact on the physical or environmental conditions in the neighborhood or
district; and (5) whether the alleged difficulty was self-created; which
consideration shall be relevant to the decision of the Board of Appeals, but
shall not necessarily preclude the granting of the area variance.
      (3)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, in the granting of area variances,
shall grant the minimum variance that it shall deem necessary and adequate and
at the same time preserve and protect the character of the neighborhood and the
health, safety and welfare of the community.
   (D)   Imposition of conditions. The Zoning Board of Appeals, in the granting
of both use variances and area variances, have the authority to impose such
reasonable conditions and restrictions as are directly related to and
incidental to the proposed use of the property. Such conditions shall be
consistent with the spirit and intent of the Zoning Ordinance, and shall be
imposed for the purpose of minimizing any adverse impact such variance may have
on the neighborhood or community.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.103 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   The Village Board may issue a special use permit for any of the
special uses listed in §
152.030 above, provided the special use complies with the general standards set
forth in this section and with the special requirements enumerated elsewhere
herein.
   (B)   Application for special use permits shall be made to the Village Board
through the Building Inspector and shall be accompanied by an application for
the necessary zoning and/or building permits, the prescribed fees and the
preliminary plans and lot layouts as the Building Inspector may deem necessary.
      (1)   A special use permit shall only be granted when the proposed use is
of such character, size and location that in general it will be in harmony with
the orderly development of the district in which the property is situated and
will not be detrimental to the orderly development of adjacent districts.
      (2)   A permit for a special use in a residential district shall only be
granted when it is clearly obvious that the special use will not impair the
use, enjoyment and value of adjacent residential properties and that any
vehicular traffic generated therewith will not be hazardous or otherwise
detrimental to the prevailing residential character of the neighborhood.
      (3)   A permit for a special use in a commercial or industrial district
shall only be granted when it is clearly obvious that such use will be
harmonious with the district in which its location is sought and will not
create undue pedestrian or vehicular traffic hazards or any display of signs,
noise, fumes or lights that will hinder the normal development of the district
or impair the use, enjoyment and value of adjacent land and buildings and does
not possess any of the following adverse conditions:
         (a)   Fire hazards. Any activity involving the use or storage of
flammable or explosive materials shall be protected by adequate fire fighting
and suppression equipment and by such other safety devices as are normally used
in the handling of the materials.
         (b)   Radioactivity or electrical disturbance. No activity shall emit
dangerous radioactivity or electrical disturbance at any point where it may
adversely affect other land uses in the village.
         (c)   Noise. Noise which is objectionable as determined by the
Planning Board shall be muffled or otherwise controlled except that air raid
sirens and related apparatus used solely for public purposes are exempt from
this requirement.
         (d)   Vibration. No vibration shall be permitted which is discernible
without instruments on any adjoining property.
         (e)   Smoke. Smoke shall not be emitted for longer than eight minutes
in any hour which is of a shade equal to or darker than No. 3 of the Standard
Ringleman Chart as issued by the U.S. Bureau of Mines.
         (f)   Odors. No malodorous gas or matter shall be permitted which is
discernible on any adjoining property.
         (g)   Air pollution. No pollution of air by flesh, dust, vapors or
other substance shall be permitted which is harmful to health, animals,
vegetation or other property, or which can cause excessive soiling.
         (h)   Glare. No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is
visible from any property outside an industrial district or from any public
thoroughfare.
         (i)   Erosion. No erosion, by either wind or water, shall be permitted
which will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
         (j)   Water pollution. No pollution of water by chemicals or other
substances shall be permitted which is unhealthful to animal or plant life as
determined by the County Health Department.
   (C)   Upon finding that the general standards and the special standards set
forth herein have been fully met, the Village Board may issue the special use
permit and in so doing may impose any conditions that it may deem necessary to
accomplish the reasonable application of the standards. Furthermore, it may
deny any such application which in its judgment is not in accordance with the
general or special standards. The Village Board may require, as a condition of
the issuance of any special use permit, that it shall be periodically renewed,
or the Board may issue a temporary special use permit, subject to adequate
guarantees that the use covered will be terminated at the end of the period
specified or the extension thereof as may be granted by the Village Board,
provided that any such renewal or extension shall be subject to the same
procedure as specified herein for the original issuance of the special permit
involved and shall be in conformity with aforesaid general and special
standards.
(Prior Code, § 12-11-4) (Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 3-14-2022)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Findings; purpose; objectives
   
153.002   Definitions
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Basis for establishing area
   
153.005   Interpretation of provisions; conflict of laws
   
153.006   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.007   Building Inspector appointed administrator of plan
Development Permit
   
153.020   Development permit required
   
153.021   Content of application
   
153.022   Certificate of elevation required
Administrator Duties and Responsibilities
   
153.035   Permit application review
   
153.036   Collection of base flood and floodway data
   
153.037   Prepare and maintain public records
   
153.038   Oversee all watercourse alterations
   
153.039   Interpret boundaries
   
153.040   Issue stop work orders
   
153.041   Conduct periodic inspections
   
153.042   Issue certificates of compliance
General Prevention Standards
   
153.055   Anchoring
   
153.056   Construction materials and methods
   
153.057   Utilities
   
153.058   Proposed subdivisions
   
153.059   Encroachments
Specific Prevention Standards
   
153.070   Residential construction
   
153.071   Nonresidential construction
   
153.072   Area without base flood elevations
   
153.073   Floodways
Variance
   
153.085   Conditions for variance
   
153.086   Procedure to obtain variance
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 FINDINGS; PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Findings. The Board of Trustees finds that the potential and/or actual
damages from flooding and erosion may be a problem to the residents of the
village, and that those damages may include: destruction or loss of private and
public housing, damage to public facilities, both publically and privately
owned, and injury to and lose of human life. In order to minimize the threat of
damages and to achieve the purposes and objectives hereinafter set forth, this
chapter is adopted.
   (B)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Regulate uses which are dangerous to health, safety and property
due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damages;
      (5)   Regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally
divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands; and
      (6)   Qualify and maintain for participation in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (C)   Objectives. The objectives of this local law are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      (7)   To provide that developers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard; and
      (8)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Local Administrator’s interpretation
of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or VO Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. This area may
be designated as Zone A, AE, AH, AO, Al-99, VO, VE or V1-30. It is also
commonly referred to as the BASE FLOODPLAIN or 100-YEAR FLOODPLAIN.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for support, shelter or enclosure for
occupancy or storage.
   CELLAR. Has the same meaning as BASEMENT.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. The area subject to high velocity waters
including, but not limited to, hurricane wave wash. The area is designated on a
FIRM as Zone V1 - 30, VE, VO or V.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the area of
special flood hazard.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), or shear walls.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of the community
published by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as part of a riverine
community’s flood insurance study. The FBFM delineates a regulatory floodway
along water courses studied in detail in the flood insurance study.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).  An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined but no water surface elevation is
provided.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the flood
boundary floodway map and the water surface elevations of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. Has the same meaning as REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOOR. The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement), i.e., top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood
flooring in wood frame construction.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such as a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding and ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest level including basement or cellar of the lowest
enclosed area. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable structures
placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved
property.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   MOBILE HOME. Has the same meaning as MANUFACTURED HOME.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
flood plain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this local law.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure, excluding land value, is above ground.
   100-YEAR FLOOD. Has the same meaning as BASE FLOOD.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height as determined by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a
flood insurance study or by other agencies as provided in §
153.036 below.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The initiation, excluding planning and design, of any
phase of a project; physical alteration of the property, and shall include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; installation of streets
and/or walkways; excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms. It also includes the placement and/or
installation on the property of accessory buildings (garages, sheds), storage
trailers and building materials. For manufactured homes the ACTUAL START means
affixing of the manufactured home to its permanent site.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas or
liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to commence when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local building, fire, health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure or contributing structure listed
on the National Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic
Places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this local law which
permits construction or use in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by
this chapter.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the village.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.004 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREA.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood
Insurance Study for the Village of Franklinville, of Cattaraugus County, New
York”, dated January, 1978, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps and
flood boundary floodway maps is hereby adopted and declared to be a part of
this chapter. The flood insurance study and maps are on file at the Village
Clerk’s office, 19 Penn Ave, Franklinville.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.005 INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS; CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted in response to revisions to the National Flood
Insurance Program effective October 1, 1986 and shall supersede all previous
laws adopted for the purpose of establishing and maintaining eligibility for
flood insurance.
   (B)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of
the public health, safety and welfare. Whenever the requirements of this
chapter is at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted
rules, regulations or ordinances, the most restrictive, or that imposing the
higher standards, shall govern.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.006 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this local law is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
Flood heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the area of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within those areas will be free from flooding
or flood damages.
   (C)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the village,
any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
for any flood damages that result fran reliance on this local law or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.007 BUILDING INSPECTOR APPOINTED ADMINISTRATOR OF PLAN.
   The Building Inspector is hereby appointed Local Administrator to administer
and implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit
applications in accordance with its provisions.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
§ 153.020 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A development permit shall be obtained before the start of construction or
any other development within the area of special flood hazard as established in
§
153.004 above. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms
furnished by the Local Administrator and may include, but not be limited to:
plans, in duplicate, drawn to scale and showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of
the foregoing.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.021 CONTENT OF APPLICATION.
   The following information is required where applicable:
   (A)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest floor
(including basement or cellar) of all structures;
   (B)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non- residential
structure will be flood-proofed;
   (C)   When required a certificate from a licensed professional engineer or
architect that the utility floodproofing will meet the criteria in §
153.057(A);
   (D)   Certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect that
the non-residential flood-proofed structure will meet the flood-proofing
criteria in §§
153.070 through
153.072 below; and
   (E)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.022 CERTIFICATE OF ELEVATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon placement of the lowest floor, or flood-proofing by whatever
means, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Local
Administrator a certificate of the elevation of the lowest floor, or flood-
proofed elevation, in relation to mean sea level.
   (B)   The elevation certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a licensed land surveyor or professional engineer and certified
by same. When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular building. The
floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision
of a licensed professional engineer or architect and certified by same.
   (C)   Any further work undertaken prior to submission and approval of the
certification shall be at the permit holder’s risk. The Local Administrator
shall review all data submitted. Deficiencies detected shall be cause to issue
a stop-work order for the project unless immediately corrected.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
§ 153.035 PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW.
   Duties of the Local Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Review all development permit applications to determine that the
requirements of this local law have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all development permit applications to determine that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;
   (C)   Review all development permit applications to determine if the
proposed development adversely affects the area of special flood hazard. For
the purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means physical damage to
adjacent properties. An engineering study may be required of the applicant for
this purpose.
      (1)   If there is no adverse effect, then the permit shall be granted
consistent with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   If there is an adverse effect, then flood damage mitigation
measures shall be made a condition of the permit.
   (D)   Review all development permits for compliance with the provisions of §
153.059 below.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.036 COLLECTION OF BASE FLOOD AND FLOODWAY DATA.
   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance with §
153.004, the Local Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
153.058(D) in order to administer §§
153.055 through
153.072 below.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.037 PREPARE AND MAINTAIN PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   Obtain and record the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea level,
of the lowest floor, including basement or cellar of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a basement or
cellar.
   (B)   For all new or substantially, improved floodproofed structures:
      (1)   Obtain and record the actual elevation, in relation to mean sea
level, to which the structure has been floodproofed; and
      (2)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §§
153.055 through
153.072 below.
   (C)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter including variances when granted and certificates of
compliance.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.038 OVERSEE ALL WATERCOURSE ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Environmental
Conservation prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of the notification to the Regional Director, Federal Emergency
Management Agency, Region II, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 10278.
   (B)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is not
diminished.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.039 INTERPRET BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The Local Administrator shall have the authority to make
interpretations when there appears to be a conflict between the limits of the
federally identified area of special flood hazard and actual field conditions.
   (B)   Base flood elevation data established pursuant to §
153.004 and/or §
153.036 above, when available, shall be used to accurately delineate the area
of special flood hazards.
   (C)   The Local Administrator shall use flood information from any other
authoritative source, including historical data, to establish the limits of the
area of special flood hazards when base flood elevations are not available.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.040 ISSUE STOP WORK ORDERS.
   (A)   All floodplain development found ongoing without an approved permit
shall be subject to the issuance of a stop work order by the Local
Administrator. Disregard of a stop work order shall be subject to the penalties
described in §
153.999 below.
   (B)   All floodplain development found noncompliant with the provisions of
this law and/or the conditions of the approved permit shall be subject to the
issuance of a stop work order by the Local Administrator. Disregard of a stop
work order shall be subject to the penalties described in §
153.999 below.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.041 CONDUCT PERIODIC INSPECTIONS.
   The Local Administrator and/or the developer’s engineer or architect shall
make periodic inspections at appropriate times throughout the period of
construction in order to monitor compliance with permit conditions and enable
the inspector to certify that the development is in compliance with the
requirements of either the development permit or the approved variance.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.042 ISSUE CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use or occupy or to permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises, or both, or part thereof hereafter
created, erected, changed, converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in
its use or structure until a certificate of compliance has been issued by the
Local Administrator stating that the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   All other development occurring within the designated flood hazard
area will have upon completion a certificate of compliance issued by the Local
Administrator.
   (C)   All certifications shall be based upon the inspections conducted
subject to §
153.041 and/or any certified elevations, hydraulic information, floodproofing,
anchoring requirements or encroachment analysis which may have been required as
a condition of the approved permit.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987) Penalty, see §
153.999
GENERAL PREVENTION STANDARDS
§ 153.055 ANCHORING.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All manufactured hares shall be installed using methods and practices
which minimize flood damage. Manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored
to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Manufactured hates shall be
elevated to or above the base flood elevation or two feet above the highest
adjacent grade when no base flood elevation has been determined. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use of over-the-top or
frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.056 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.057 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water fran entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding. When designed for location below the base flood elevation, a
professional engineer’s or architect’s certification is required.
   (B)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system
   (C)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters.
   (D)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.058 PROPOSED SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed developments (including proposals for manufactured home
parks and subdivisions) greater than either 50 lots or five acres.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.059 ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   All proposed development in riverine situations where no flood
elevation data is available (unnumbered A Zones) shall be analyzed to determine
the effects on the flood carrying capacity of the area of special flood hazards
set forth in §
153.035(C) above. This may require the submission of additional technical data
to assist in the determination.
   (B)   In all areas of special flood hazard in which base flood elevation
data is available pursuant to §§
153.036 or
153.058(D) above and no floodway has been determined the cumulative effects of
any proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, shall not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one font at any point.
   (C)   In all areas of the special flood hazard where floodway data is
provided or available pursuant to §
153.036 the requirements of §
153.073, shall apply.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
SPECIFIC PREVENTION STANDARDS
§ 153.070 RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data
has been provided as set forth in §
153.004 above and §
153.036, the following standards are required.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements of any resident
structure shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement or cellar, elevated to or
above the base flood elevation; and
      (2)   Have fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject
to flooding designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a licensed professional
engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all the openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the lowest adjacent finished grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with louvers, valves, screens or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of flood
waters.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.071 NONRESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential structure, together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities, shall either: have the lowest floor, including
basement or cellar, elevated to or above the base flood elevation; or be
floodproofed so that the structure is watertight below the base flood level
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water.
   (B)   All structural components located below the base flood level must be
capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of
buoyancy.
      (1)   If the structure is to be elevated, fully enclosed areas below the
base flood elevation shall be designed to automatically (without human
intervention) allow for the entry and exit of flood waters for the purpose of
equalizing hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a licensed professional engineer or a
licensed architect or meet the following criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the lowest adjacent finished grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with louvers, valves, screens or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of flood
waters.
      (2)   If the structure is to be floodproofed:
         (a)   A licensed professional engineer or architect shall develop and/
or review structural design, specifications and plans for the construction, and
shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice to make the structure watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, with structural components
having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and
effects of buoyancy; and
         (b)   A licensed professional engineer or licensed land surveyor shall
certify the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the
structure is floodproofed.
      (3)   The Local Administrator shall maintain on record a copy of all the
certificates noted in this section.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.072 AREA WITHOUT BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   New construction or substantial improvements of structures including
manufactured homes shall have the lowest floor including basement elevated to
or above the base flood elevation as may be determined in §
153.036 or two feet above the highest adjacent grade where no elevation data is
available.
   (A)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures, including
manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated
at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade next to the proposed
foundation of the structure.
   (B)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to
flooding shall be designed to automatically (without human intervention) allow
for the entry and exit of flood waters for the purpose of equalizing
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a licensed professional engineer or a
licensed architect or meet the following criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
      (2)   The bottom of all the openings shall be no higher than one foot
above the lowest adjacent finished grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with louvers, valves, screens or other
coverings or openings provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.073 FLOODWAYS.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard are areas designated as
floodways (see definition in §
153.002). The floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to high velocity
flood waters carrying debris and posing additional threats from potential
erosion forces. When floodway data is available for a particular site as
provided by §
153.004 above and §
153.036, all encroachments including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development are prohibited within the limits of the
floodway unless a technical evaluation demonstrates that the encroachments
shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
VARIANCE
§ 153.085 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing §
153.086(D)(1) through (12) below have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures and contributing structures listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without
regard to the contributing structures procedures set forth in the remainder of
this section.
   (C)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria of divisions (A), (D), (E) and (F) of this section are
met; and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threat to
public safety.
   (D)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances shall only be issued upon receiving written justification:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted for a building with the
lowest floor below the base flood elevation shall be given written notice that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from lowest floor elevation.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.086 PROCEDURE TO OBTAIN VARIANCE.
   (A)   The Zoning Board, as established by the village, shall hear and decide
appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the
Local Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Zoning Board may appeal the
decision to the Supreme Court pursuant to Article 78 of the Civil Practice Law
and Rules.
   (D)   In passing upon the applications, the Zoning Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program of that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The costs to local governments and the dangers associated with
conducting search and rescue operations during periods of flooding;
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (12)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including search and rescue operations, maintenance and
repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and
water systems and streets and bridges.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (D) above and the
purposes of this chapter, the Zoning Board may attach the conditions to the
granting of variances as it deans necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (F)   The Local Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions including technical information and report any variances to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency upon request.
(Ord. 1-1987, passed 4-13-1987)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 154: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
   
154.01   Intent
   
154.02   Conflicts with other regulations
   
154.03   Enforcement; penalties for offenses
§ 154.01 INTENT.
   (A)   Adoption of New York State Property Maintenance Code.
      (1)   The Property Maintenance Code of New York State, intended to apply
statewide and constitute regulations considered enforceable municipal
requirements, when and as adopted by a municipality, shall apply to all
existing residential and nonresidential structures and all existing premises,
and shall constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises,
structures, equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating,
sanitation, protection from the elements, life safety, safety from fire and
other hazards, and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of
owners, operators and occupants; and the occupancy of existing structures and
premises.
      (2)   The Property Maintenance Code is intended to provide minimum
statewide requirements to safeguard public safety, health, and general welfare
insofar as they are affected by the occupancy, use and maintenance of
structures and premises. The purpose of this chapter is to adopt such statewide
regulations and authorize local enforcement of such requirements in the
village.
   (B)   Findings. The Village Board of Trustees finds that:
      (1)   Unkept, unsanitary, and otherwise improperly maintained premises
and structures within the village, in addition to the obvious hazards they pose
to the public health, safety and welfare, adversely affect the value, utility
and habitability of property within the village as a whole and can potentially
cause substantial damage as well as blight to adjoining and nearby properties.
      (2)   Inadequately maintained property may substantially reduce the value
of adjoining properties and neighborhoods.
      (3)   If one or any number of properties are unkept, unsightly,
unsanitary and/or dangerous, the habitability and economic well-being in the
village, as a whole, is also materially and adversely affected.
   (C)   Authorization.
      (1)   This chapter authorizes the village and its municipal
administration all necessary and proper powers to remedy unkept, unsightly,
unsanitary and improperly maintained or substandard structures or premises that
may be found to exist within the village, and to otherwise enforce the Property
Maintenance Code and charge the costs and disbursements of such action in
correcting violations to those responsible parties as a civil judgment and
against the properties themselves as a special assessment. This chapter is an
exercise of the village's inherent police powers, and it shall be liberally
construed to effect a purpose to protect the health, welfare and general well-
being of inhabitants within the community.
      (2)   In order to protect the general health, welfare and safety of
residents and visitors in the village, and to promote the general welfare of
the community, the Village Board of Trustees hereby adopts the Property
Maintenance Code of the State of New York in its current version, and as such
statewide regulations may be amended from time to time. Copies of the
provisions of the New York State Property Maintenance Code shall be on file
with the Village Clerk and shall be made available to members of the general
public upon request.
(Ord. 3-2022, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 154.02 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Where differences may occur between any provisions of this chapter and other
referenced standards (e.g., the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and
Building Code), it is intended that in such instances the more stringent
provisions shall apply. Any repairs, additions or alterations to a structure,
changes of occupancy, changes in use or increase in intensities of use of
properties and the general maintenance and occupancy of properties in the
village shall be in accordance with the procedures and provisions of the New
York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code and National Fire
Protection Association regulations or other referenced standards. This chapter
shall not impair the enforcement of any alleged violations of any other village
ordinance, code, local law, or other regulation existing prior to December 2,
2022, the effective date of Ordinance No. 3-2022, and any such violations shall
be governed and shall continue to be punishable to the full extent of the law
under the provisions of those ordinances, codes, local laws or regulations in
effect at the time any violation is alleged to have been committed.
(Ord. 3-2022, passed 11-28-2022)
§ 154.03 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES FOR OFFENSES.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer or other officer duly authorized by the
Village Board of Trustees shall be authorized to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Such authorized person acting as Code Enforcement Officer, upon proper
notification and with sufficient cause, shall be authorized, upon probable
cause, to enter a structure or premises at reasonable times to inspect for a
violation of this chapter. Prior to entering into a space not otherwise open to
the general public, the Code Enforcement Officer shall make a reasonable effort
to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the structure
or premises, present proper identification and request entry for inspection. If
requested entry is refused or not obtained, the Code Enforcement Officer shall
pursue other recourse for authorized inspection as provided by law.
   (C)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Under circumstances where the Code Enforcement Officer determines
that there have been one or more violations of this chapter and there are
sufficient grounds to believe that a violation has occurred, notification shall
be provided to the owner and to any occupant person or persons alleged to be
responsible. The notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of the property sufficient for
identification;
         (c)   Include a statement of the conditions and reason or reasons upon
which the notice is being issued, with a specification of the provision, rule,
regulation, or statutory requirement(s) alleged to be violated; and
         (d)   Include a description of the requirements to remedy the alleged
violation(s), specifying the repairs, improvements, or other actions necessary
to bring the structure and/or premises into compliance with the provisions of
this chapter, and a reasonable deadline within which to accomplish satisfactory
compliance.
      (2)   Such written notification shall be deemed to be properly served
when a copy is either delivered to the owner personally or, in the absence of
personal service, sent by certified mail in a postpaid, sealed envelope
addressed to the owner at the owner’s address of record. Under circumstances
where the certified mailing is returned as refused or it is determined to be
undeliverable to the indicated addressee, a copy of the notification shall be
posted in a conspicuous place in or about the structure or premises affected by
the notice. Where service of process cannot reasonably be peacefully
accomplished in any manner provided herein, the Code Enforcement Official shall
be authorized to effectuate service of process of the notification through use
of any uniformed law enforcement person in any manner permitted by the New York
State Civil Practice Laws and Rules. Service of the specified notice in any of
the foregoing methods upon the owner, the owner’s agent, upon an occupant or
upon any person responsible for the structure or premises shall constitute
satisfactory service of notification of violation upon the owner.
   (D)   In addition to such sanctions or penalties prescribed by state law for
violations of the New York State Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code, or
for violations of any other provisions of this code or any term or condition of
any building permit, certificate of occupancy, certificate of compliance,
temporary certificate, stop-work order, operating permit or other notice or
order issued by the village pursuant to any provision of this code or this
chapter, any violations of this chapter shall provide for a sanction to be
imposed by a court of competent jurisdiction by any of the following civil
remedies or any combination thereof:
      (1)   A civil monetary penalty in an amount up to $1,000 per violation
for each day or part thereof in which the violation or violations continue;
and/or
      (2)   Such order by a court of competent jurisdiction requiring a
violator to remedy or remediate such violation(s) within a court-designated
period of time to bring the property into compliance.
   (E)   Each day that a violation of this chapter continues after due notice
has been served shall be deemed a separate offense and the alleged
circumstances shall be considered a continuing violation until the violation is
corrected, and the violator shall be subject to any of the above civil
remedies, or any combination thereof, for each day that the property, structure
or premises remains in violation.
   (F)   In the event that any owner fails to comply in a timely manner with
any order of the Code Enforcement Officer requiring remediation of the alleged
violation, in addition to any remedy to which the village may otherwise be
entitled to by the provisions of this chapter, the village shall be authorized
to engage the services of a private contractor to perform whatever actions are
necessary to bring the structure or premises into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter . Prior to engaging a private contractor, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall provide written notice to the owner advising of the
Code Enforcement Officer’s intent to engage a private contractor for that
purpose.
   (G)   The owner shall have a period of ten days from the date of the mailing
of the notice to either arrange to perform the required work or actions to
bring the structure or premises into compliance, or, in the alternative, the
owner shall be afforded an opportunity to file an appeal letter with the
Village Clerk, appealing the decision of the Code Enforcement Officer. The
Village Board of Trustees shall process the appeal by giving written
acknowledgment to the property owner and written notification to all property
owners within 500 feet of the subject premises concerning the appeal.
   (H)   The Village Board of Trustees shall forthwith schedule a public
hearing within 60 days of receipt of the owner’s appeal for the purpose of
considering whether to either uphold the decision of the Code Enforcement
Officer, or to vacate or modify the decision of the Code Enforcement Officer
with respect to the alleged violation of this chapter and requirements imposed
to remedy the alleged violation. At the public hearing, the owner shall be
entitled to be represented by legal counsel, the owner shall be entitled to a
full due process hearing on the appeal. The Village Board of Trustees shall
consider all aspects of the alleged violation and orders to remedy, and members
of the public shall also be afforded an opportunity to be heard on the matter.
Within ten days after the conclusion of the hearing on appeal, the Village
Board of Trustees shall render a written decision. The owner/appellant shall
thereafter fully comply with the Village Board of Trustees’ decision or may
appeal the village’s “final determination” as provided in state statute.
   (I)   Under such circumstances where the village incurs costs and expenses
in order to bring an alleged violator or their structure or premises into
compliance with this chapter, the village shall have the authority to assess
all expended costs and disbursements incurred against the property and to
recover same as a civil judgment against the owner(s) or occupant(s) found to
be in violation hereof. The assessment of costs and disbursements, which shall
be considered in addition to any civil monetary penalty or sanction imposed by
a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be collected in the same manner as a
civil judgment, may be added to the premises’ real property taxes, and may be
collected as provided by law.
   (J)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the village from
seeking judicial or equitable relief from a court of competent jurisdiction to
abate violations of this chapter. No remedy or penalty specified in this
chapter shall be considered an exclusive remedy. The village shall have
available all methods or remedy available in law or equity to address any
violation described in this chapter. Each remedy or penalty specified herein
shall be in addition to, and not in substitution or limitation of, any other
remedies or civil penalties specified in this chapter or in any other
applicable law.
(Ord. 3-2022, passed 11-28-2022)
CHAPTER 155: HISTORIC PRESERVATION
Section
   
155.01   Legislative intent and purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Historic Preservation Commission
   
155.04   Certificate of appropriateness for alteration, demolition, or new
construction affecting landmarks or historic districts
   
155.05   Criteria and designation of landmarks or historic districts
   
155.06   Historic district
   
155.07   Interior landmark
   
155.08   Scenic landmark
   
155.09   Notice and hearing requirements for proposed designation
   
155.10   Notice of public hearing; multiple properties proposed for designation
   
155.11   Affirmative maintenance and repair requirement
   
155.12   Enforcement and violations
   
155.13   Approval authority; advisory authority
   
155.14   Compliance with New York State Certified Local Government Requirements
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 LEGISLATIVE INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The Franklinville Village Board of Trustees (“Village Board of Trustees”)
finds that there exist within the Village of Franklinville places, sites,
structures and buildings of historic or architectural significance, antiquity,
uniqueness of exterior design or construction, which should be conserved,
protected and preserved to maintain the architectural character of the village
to contribute to the aesthetic value of the village and to promote the general
good, welfare, health and safety of the village and its residents. The purpose
of this chapter is to promote the general welfare by providing for the
identification, protection, enhancement, perpetuation, and use of buildings,
structures, signs, features, improvements, sites, and areas within the village
that reflect special elements of the village’s historical, architectural,
cultural, economic or aesthetic heritage for the following reasons:
   (A)   To foster public knowledge, understanding, and appreciation in the
beauty and character of the village and in the accomplishments of its past;
   (B)   To ensure the harmonious, orderly, and efficient growth and
development of the village;
   (C)   To enhance the visual character of the village by encouraging new
design and construction that complements the village’s historic buildings;
   (D)   To protect and promote the economic benefits of historic preservation
to the village, its inhabitants and visitors;
   (E)    To protect property values in the village;
   (F)   To promote and encourage continued private ownership and stewardship
of historic structures;
   (G)   To identify as early as possible and resolve conflicts between the
preservation of historic landmarks/districts and alternative land uses; and
   (H)   To conserve valuable material and energy resources by ongoing use and
maintenance of the existing built environment.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases have the following
meaning:
   ACQUISITION. The act or process of acquiring fee title or other interest in
real property, including acquisition of development rights or remainder
interest.
   ADDITION. Any act or process that changes one or more of the exterior
architectural features of a building or structure by adding to, joining with or
increasing the size or capacity of the building or structure.
   ALTERATION. Any act or process, other than demolition or preventative
maintenance, that changes the exterior appearance of significant historical or
architectural features, or the historic context of a designated landmark,
including, but not limited to, exterior changes, additions, new construction,
erection, reconstruction, or removal of the building or structure, or grading.
   APPROPRIATE. Especially suitable or compatible.
   ARCHITECTURAL SIGNIFICANCE. The quality of a building or structure based on
its date of erection, style and scarcity of same, quality of design, present
condition and appearance or other characteristics that embody the distinctive
characteristics of a type, period or method of construction.
   BUILDING. Any construction created to shelter any form of human use, such as
a house, garage or barn, and which is permanently affixed to the land. Building
may also refer to a historically related complex, such as a house and a barn.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person, or his or her designee, authorized to grant
permits for construction, alteration, and demolition pursuant to the codes
adopted by the village.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. An official form issued by the Commission
stating that the proposed work on a designated historic landmark is compatible
with the historic character of the property and thus in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and therefore the proposed work may be completed as
specified in the certificate; and the village’s departments may issue any
permits needed to do the work specified in the certificate.
   CERTIFICATE OF ECONOMIC HARDSHIP. An official form issued by the Commission
when the denial of a certificate of appropriateness has deprived, or will
deprive, the owner of the property of all reasonable use of, or economic return
on, the property.
   CHANGE. Any alteration, demolition, removal or construction involving any
property subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   CHARACTER. Defined by form, proportion, structure, plan, style or material.
General character refers to ideas of design and construction such as basic plan
or form. Specific character refers to precise ways of combining particular
kinds of materials.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The person, or his or her designee, authorized and
certified to enforce the New York State Fire Prevention and Building Code. The
person, or his or her designee, who is also authorized by the Village Board of
Trustees to enforce this chapter, except where another official is expressly
authorized.
   COMMISSION. The Historic Preservation Commission established pursuant to
this chapter.
   COMPATIBLE. In harmony with location, context, setting, and historic
character.
   CONSTRUCTION. The act of constructing an addition to an existing structure
or the erection of a new principal or accessory structure on a lot or property.
   DEMOLISH. Any act or process that removes or destroys in whole or in part a
building, structure, or resource.
   DEMOLITION PERMIT. A permit issued by the building official allowing the
applicant to demolish a building or structure, after having received a
certificate of demolition approval from the Commission.
   EVALUATION. The process by which the significance and integrity of a
building, structure, object, or site is judged by an individual who meets the
professional qualification standards published by the National Park Service at
36 CFR Part 61 as determined by the State Historic Preservation Office, using
the designation criteria outlined in §
155.05.
   EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES. The architectural style, design, general
arrangement and components of all of the outer surfaces of any building or
structure.
   FEATURE. Elements embodying the historical significance or architectural
style, design, general arrangement and components of all of the exterior
surfaces of any landmark or historic resource, including, but not limited to,
the type of building materials, and type and style of windows, doors, or other
elements related to such landmark or historic resource.
   HISTORIC CONTEXT. A unit created for planning purposes that groups
information about historic properties based on a shared theme, specific time
period and geographical area.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT - LOCAL. An area designated as a historic district by this
historic preservation chapter, and which contains within definable geographic
boundaries a significant concentration, linkage or continuity of sites,
buildings, structures, or objects united historically or aesthetically by plan
or physical development. An historic district designated under this chapter
shall not be construed as a zoning district of the village and nothing
contained herein shall be construed as authorizing the Commission to adopt a
law, by-law or regulation that regulates or limit the height and bulk of
buildings, regulates and determine the area of yards, courts and other open
spaces, regulates density of population or regulates or restricts the locations
of trades and industries or creates zoning districts for any such purpose.
   HISTORIC FABRIC. Original or old building materials (masonry, wood, metals,
marble) or construction.
   HISTORIC INTEGRITY. The retention of sufficient aspects of location, design,
setting, workmanship, materials, feeling or association for a property to
convey its historic significance.
   HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, district, site, structure or object
significant in American history, architecture, engineering, archeology or
culture at the national, state, or local level.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION. The Historic Preservation Commission
appointed by the Village Board of Trustees.
   HISTORIC PROPERTY. A district, site, building, structure, or object
significant in American history, architecture, engineering, archeology, or
culture at the national, state, or local level.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE. Any evaluated building, structure, object, or site that
potentially meets the designation criteria outlined herein.
   HISTORIC RESOURCES SURVEY. The process of systematically identifying,
researching, photographing, and documenting historic resources within a defined
geographic area, and the resulting list of evaluated properties that may be
consulted for future designation. For the purpose of this chapter,  all surveys
shall be conducted in accordance with the Secretary of the Interior's Standards
and Guidelines.
   HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE. The quality of a place, site, building, district or
structure based upon its identification with historic persons or events in the
village.
   INTEGRITY. The authenticity of a property's historic identity, evidenced by
the survival of physical characteristics that existed during the property's
historic or prehistoric period.
   INTERIOR LANDMARK. Interior landmarks are noted for the portions of their
interior that are open to the public.
   INVENTORY. A list of historic properties determined to meet specified
criteria of significance.
   LANDMARK. Any building, structure or site that has been designated as a
"landmark" by the Village Board of Trustees, pursuant to procedures described
in § 155.05 that is worthy of preservation, restoration or rehabilitation
because of its historic or architectural significance.
   LANDMARK ALTERATION PERMIT. A permit approving an alteration to or
demolition of a landmark, or demolition of a historic resource listed in the
heritage resource inventory pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   LISTING. The formal entry or registration of a property.
   MAINTAIN. To keep in an existing state of preservation or repair.
   MINOR WORK. Any change, modification, restoration, rehabilitation, or
renovation of the features of an historic resource that does not materially
change the historic characteristics of the property.
   MOVE. Any relocation of a building or structure on its site or to another
site.
   NATIONAL REGISTER CRITERIA. The established criteria for evaluating the
eligibility of properties for inclusion in the National Register of Historic
Places.
   NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES. The official inventory of the nation's
historic properties, districts, sites, districts, structures, objects and
landmarks which are significant in American history, architecture, archaeology,
and culture, maintained by the Secretary of the Interior under the authority of
the Historic Sites Act of 1935 and the National Historic Preservation Act of
1966 (16 USC. 470 et seq., 36 CFR Sections 60, 63, as may be amended).
   NON-CONTRIBUTING. A feature, addition or building, structure, object or site
which does not add to the sense of historical authenticity or evolution of an
historic resource or landmark or where the location, design, setting,
materials, workmanship, history, and/or association of the feature, addition or
building, structure, object or site has been so altered or deteriorated that
the overall integrity of that historic resource or landmark has been
irretrievably lost.
   OBJECT. Constructions that are primarily artistic in nature or are
relatively small in scale and simply constructed. Although it may be moveable
by nature or design, an object is associated with a specific setting or
environment. Examples include boundary markers, mileposts, fountains,
monuments, and sculpture. This term may include landscape features.
   OWNER. Those individuals, partnerships, corporations, or public agencies
holding fee simple title to property, as shown on the records of the
Cattaraugus County Clerk.
   PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE. The length of time when a property was associated
with important events, activities, or persons, or attained characteristics
which qualify it for landmark status. Period of significance usually begins
with a date when significant activities or events began giving the property its
historic significance; this is often a date of construction.
   PRESERVATION. The act or process of applying measures necessary to sustain
the existing form, integrity, and materials of an historic property. Work,
including preliminary measures to protect and stabilize the property, generally
focuses upon the ongoing maintenance and repair of historic materials and
features rather than extensive replacement and new construction. New exterior
additions are not within the scope of this treatment; however, the limited and
sensitive upgrading of mechanical, electrical, and plumbing systems and other
code-required work to make properties functional is appropriate within a
preservation project.
   PREVENTATIVE MAINTENANCE. Any work to prevent deterioration or damage to the
structural integrity or any exterior feature of a landmark or historic resource
that does not involve a change in design, material or exterior appearance. Such
work includes, but is not limited to, painting, roof repair, foundation or
chimney work, or landscape maintenance.
   PROPERTY TYPE. A grouping of individual properties based on a set of shared
physical or associative characteristics.
   REHABILITATION. The act or process of making possible a compatible use for a
property through repair, alterations, and additions while preserving those
portions or features of the property which convey its historical, architectural
and cultural values.
   REPAIR. Acts of ordinary maintenance that do not include a change in the
design, material, form, or outer appearance of a resource, such as repainting.
This includes methods of stabilizing and preventing further decay, and may
incorporate replacement-in-kind or refurbishment of materials on a building or
structure.
   RESTORATION. The act or process of accurately depicting the form, features,
and character of a property as it appeared at a particular period of time by
means of the removal of features from other  periods in its history and
reconstruction of missing features from the restoration period. The limited and
sensitive upgrading of mechanical, electrical, and plumbing systems and other
code-required work to make properties functional is appropriate within a
restoration project.
   RETAIN. The act of keeping an element, detail or structure and continuing
the same level of repair to aid in the preservation of elements, sites, and
structures.
   REVERSIBLE. An addition which is made without damage to the project's
original condition.
   SCENIC LANDMARK. Scenic landmarks encompass structures that are not
buildings, such as bridges, piers, parks, cemeteries, sidewalks, clocks, and
trees.
   SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR'S STANDARDS FOR THE TREATMENT OF HISTORIC
PROPERTIES. Principles developed by the National Park Service (36 CFR 68.3, as
may be amended) to help protect historic properties by promoting consistent
preservation practices and providing guidance to historic building owners and
building managers, preservation consultants, architects, contractors, and
project reviewers on how to approach the treatment of historic properties. The
Secretary of the Interior Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties
may also be referred to in this chapter as "Secretary of the Interior's
Standards."
   SIGNIFICANT. Having particularly important associations within the contexts
of architecture, history and culture. The location of a significant event, a
prehistoric or historic occupation or activity, or a building or structure,
whether standing, ruined or vanished, where the location itself maintains
historical or archaeological value regardless of the value of any existing
buildings, structures or other objects. Examples of a site are a battlefield,
designed landscape, trail, or camp site.
   STABILIZATION. The act or process of applying measures designed to
reestablish a weather resistant enclosure and the structural stability of an
unsafe or deteriorated property while maintaining the essential form as it
exists at present.
   STRUCTURE. Any assemblage of materials forming a construction framed of
component structural parts for occupancy or use, including buildings.
   STYLE. A type of architecture distinguished by special characteristics of
structure or ornament and often related in time; also a general quality of
distinctive character.
   UNDERTAKING. Any project or other action involving the expansion,
modification, development or disposition of the physical plant or any site or
building.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 155.03 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Village of
Franklinville Historic Preservation Commission (Commission).
   (A)   Membership. The Commission shall consist of five members.
   (B)   Appointments. Members of the Commission shall be appointed by the
Mayor of the Village of Franklinville (“Mayor”) subject to approval of the
Village Board of Trustees. No person appointed to the Commission can also serve
as a member of the Village Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Term of office. The terms for all members of the Commission shall be
staggered and fixed so that the term of one member shall expire at the end of
the calendar year in which all such Commission members were initially
appointed. The terms of the remaining members shall be so fixed that one term
shall expire at the end of each calendar year thereafter. At the expiration of
the term of each member first appointed, his or her successor shall be
appointed for a term which shall be equal in years to the number of members of
the Commission.
   (D)   Qualifications. To the extent possible, Commission members shall be
required to have the following expertise:
      (1)   At least one shall be a historian;
      (2)   At least one shall be a state-licensed real estate professional;
      (3)   At least one shall have demonstrated significant interest in and
commitment to the field of preservation planning as evidenced either by
involvement in a local or regional historic preservation group, employment or
volunteer activity in the field of preservation planning, or other serious
interest in the field; and,
      (4)   All members shall have a known interest in historic preservation
and planning within the village.
      (5)   In the event that the Village Board of Trustees determines that any
of the positions described in divisions (D)(1) through (D)(3) of this section,
cannot be filled by persons so qualified, the Village Board of Trustees may
fill any such position by appointing persons qualified under division (D)(4) of
this section.
   (E)   Vacancies. Vacancies occurring in the Commission other than by
expiration of term of office shall be filled by appointment of the Mayor
subject to approval of the Village Board of Trustees. Any such appointment
shall be for the unexpired portion of the term of the replaced member, and the
appointment must be made in accordance with the criteria established above for
original appointments.
   (F)   Reappointment. Members may serve for no more than a maximum of two
full three-year terms before stepping down from the Commission. A previous
appointee may be reappointed after a two-year hiatus from the Commission. Each
member shall serve until the appointment of a successor, or until they serve
two consecutive three-year terms. The term limits imposed by this division may
be waived or modified upon recommendation of the Commission when, in the
judgment of the Village Board of Trustees, it is in the best interest to do so.
   (G)   Compensation. Members shall serve without compensation.
   (H)   Training and attendance requirements.
      (1)   Each member of the Commission shall complete, at a minimum, four
hours of training each year designed to enable such members to more effectively
carry out their duties. Training received by a member in excess of four hours
in any one year may be carried over by the member into succeeding years in
order to meet this requirement. Such training shall be approved by the Village
Board of Trustees and may include, but not be limited to, training provided by
a municipality, regional or county planning office or commission, county
planning federation, state agency, statewide municipal association, college or
other similar entity. Training may be provided in a variety of formats,
including but not limited to, electronic media, video, distance learning and
traditional classroom training. The village shall pay for the training.
      (2)   To be eligible for reappointment to the Commission, a member shall
have completed the training approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (3)   The training may be waived or modified by resolution of the Village
Board of Trustees when, in the judgment of the Village Board of Trustees, it is
in the best interest to do so.
      (4)   No decision of the Commission shall be voided or declared invalid
because of a failure to comply with this division.
      (5)   Organization.
         (a)   Chairperson; designation and duties.
            1.   The Village Board of Trustees may designate the chairperson of
the Commission. In the absence of the Village Board of Trustees' designation,
the chairperson of the Commission shall be designated by vote of an affirmative
majority of the members of the Commission.
            2.   The chairperson shall have the right to vote in all matters
before the Commission.
            3.   All meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of
the chairperson and at such other times as the Commission may determine by
affirmative vote. Such chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting
chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
         (b)   Secretary. The Village Board of Trustees shall appoint a
secretary to serve as secretary to the Commission. At the time of service, the
secretary shall not also serve as member of the Commission. The secretary shall
keep a record of all resolutions, proceedings, and actions of the Commission,
as well as attendance of Commission members.
         (c)   Quorum. A simple majority of the Commission members shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. An affirmative majority
vote of the full Commission is required to approve any resolution, motion or
other matter before the Commission.
      (6)   Records and annual report.
         (a)   Records. The Commission shall be subject to the provisions of
the Public Officers Law, including Article 7 related to the Open Meetings Law.
The Commission records shall be readily available to the public. The vote or
failure to vote of each Commission member shall be recorded. If any Commission
member abstains from voting based on a conflict of interest or otherwise, the
member must also state his or her reason(s) or ground(s) for doing so on the
record.
         (b)   Annual reports. The Commission shall submit an annual report of
its activities to the Village Board of Trustees and make such recommendations
to the Village Board of Trustees as the Commission deems necessary to carry out
the purposes of this chapter.
   (I)   Promulgation of regulations; meetings.
      (1)   Regulations. The Commission may recommend to the Village Board of
Trustees regulations relating to any subject matter over which the Commission
has jurisdiction under this chapter. Any such recommendation may be adopted by
local law of the Village Board of Trustees.
      (2)   By-laws; meetings. The Commission may approve by-laws that are
consistent with the regulations adopted by the Village Board of Trustees. Such
by-laws shall provide for the time and place of holding regular meetings; and
may provide for the calling of special meetings by the chairperson or by
written request of at least two members of the Commission. Regular meetings
shall be held at least once a month. All regular or special meetings of the
Commission shall be consistent with the notice provisions of the New York Open
Meetings Law and shall be open to the public.
   (J)   Committees. The Commission may, in its by-laws, establish permanent or
ad hoc committees consisting of two current members of the Commission for
assignments assigned to it by the full Commission.
   (K)   Powers and duties of the Historic Preservation Commission.
      (1)   General and advisory powers. The Commission shall, from time to
time:
         (a)   Review any local laws or regulations, including existing
landmarks or historic preservation laws or regulations in the village and
recommend to the Village Board of Trustees any changes and/or amendments
thereto;
         (b)   Recommend to the Village Board of Trustees additional
regulations to be adopted by local law that may be necessary for the Commission
to conduct its business, consistent with the scope and intent of this chapter;
         (c)   Recommend to the Village Board of Trustees specific criteria for
regulations to be adopted by local law that identify and catalogue significant
historic landmarks, and from time to time advise it on suggested changes
thereto;
         (d)   Recommend to the Village Board of Trustees landmarks and
historic districts to be adopted by local law, and from time to time changes
thereto;
         (e)   Maintain an inventory of locally-designated historic resources
or districts within the village and publicize the inventory which shall, at a
minimum, be consistent with the requirements to become and remain a certified
local government as set forth by the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation
and Historic Preservation;
         (f)   Recommend to the Village Board of Trustees additional criteria
to be adopted in local law to be used when evaluating applications for a
certificate of appropriateness;
         (g)   Recommend to the Village Board of Trustees proposals for the
acquisition of preservation easements or other interests in real property;
         (h)   Conduct investigations, prepare maps, reports and
recommendations in connection with its advisory authority relating to the
planning, development and administration of the village landmarks preservation
policies, regulations and local law as needed, provided the total expenditures
of said Commission shall not exceed the appropriation provided by the Village
Board of Trustees together with any public or private grant funding received by
the Village Board of Trustees for the Commission to undertake its landmarks
preservation powers and duties;
         (i)   Report on matters referred to it by the Village Board of
Trustees. The Village Board of Trustees may by resolution provide for the
referral to the Commission for a report on any matter or class of matters that
impact the municipality's landmarks preservation local law, policies,
regulations or administrative processes before final action is taken thereon by
the Village Board of Trustees or other office of the village having final
authority over said matter. The Village Board of Trustees may further stipulate
that final action thereon shall not be taken until the Commission has submitted
its report thereon, or has had a reasonable time, to be fixed by the Village
Board of Trustees in said resolution, to submit the report;
         (j)   Provide advice and guidance to property owners and government
agencies concerning historic preservation issues;
         (k)   Adopt rules for the conduct of Commission business;
         (l)   Recommend to the Village Board of Trustees approval or
disapproval of any demolition, relocation, new construction, or exterior
alteration affecting designated properties; and
         (m)   Recommend designation of a historic district under this historic
preservation chapter and that historic district is not to be construed as a
zoning district under the village zoning laws. Nothing contained in this
historic preservation chapter shall be construed as authorizing the Commission
to adopt a law, by-law or regulation that regulates or limits the height and
bulk of buildings, regulates and determines the area of yards, courts and other
open spaces, regulates density of population or regulates or restricts the
locations of trades and industries or creates zoning districts for any such
purpose.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 155.04 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR ALTERATION, DEMOLITION, OR NEW
CONSTRUCTION AFFECTING LANDMARKS OR HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   No person shall carry out any exterior alteration, restoration,
reconstruction, demolition, new construction or moving of a landmark or
property within an historic district, nor shall any person make any material
change in the appearance of such a property, including, but not limited to, its
light fixtures, signs, sidewalks, fences, steps, paving or other exterior
elements visible from a public street or alley which affects the appearance and
cohesiveness of the historic district, without first obtaining a certificate of
appropriateness from the Village Board of Trustees, after recommendation from
the Commission.
   (B)   When determining whether or not a certificate of appropriateness will
be granted, the Village Board of Trustees and the Commission shall not consider
changes to interior spaces, unless they are open to the public. The Village
Board of Trustees and the Commission shall have discretion to consider whether
the proposed alteration, repair or renovation which is the subject of the
certificate of appropriateness is visible from a public street or alley. The
Commission's decisions shall be based upon the following principles:
      (1)   Properties which contribute to the character of the historic
district shall be retained, with their historic features altered as little as
possible;
      (2)   Any alteration of existing properties shall be compatible with its
historic character, as well as with the surrounding district;
      (3)   New construction shall be compatible with the district in which it
is located.
      (4)   In applying the principles of compatibility, the Commission shall
consider the following factors:
         (a)   The general design, character and appropriateness to the
property of the proposed alteration or new construction;
         (b)   The scale of the proposed alteration or new construction in
relation to the property itself, surrounding properties, and the neighborhood;
         (c)   Texture and materials of the proposed alteration or new
construction, as well as the materials' inherent color, and their relation to
similar features of other properties in the neighborhood;
         (d)   Visual compatibility with surrounding properties, including
proportion of the property's front facade, proportion and arrangement of
windows and other openings within the facade, roof shape, and the rhythm of
spacing of properties on streets, including setback; and
         (e)   The importance of historic, architectural or other features to
the significance of the property.
   (C)   Application procedure for certificate of appropriateness. Prior to the
commencement of any work requiring a certificate of appropriateness, the owner
shall file an application for such a certificate with the Historic Preservation
Commission. The application shall contain:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
      (2)   Location and photographs of property;
      (3)   Elevation drawings of proposed changes, if available;
      (4)   Perspective drawings, including relationship to adjacent
properties, if available;
      (5)   Where the proposal includes signs or lettering, a scale drawing
showing the type of lettering to be used, all dimensions and colors, a
description of materials to be used, method of illumination and a plan showing
the sign's location on the property;
      (6)   Sample(s) of color and/or materials to be used;
      (7)   Any other customary and reasonable information which the Village
Board of Trustees and Commission may deem necessary in order to visualize the
proposed work.
   (D)   Commission recommendation; public hearing; Village Board
determination.
      (1)   The Commission may recommend approval, approval with modifications
or denial of the application within 62 days of the submission of the
application.
      (2)   After receipt or recommendation from the Commission, the Village
Board of Trustees shall hold a public hearing on the application.
      (3)   All decisions of the Village Board of Trustees shall be in writing.
A copy shall be sent to the applicant and a copy filed with the Village Clerk's
office for public inspection.
      (4)   Expiration of approval shall be 24 months from the date of issuance
of the certificate of appropriateness, unless work has commenced. This may be
extended by the Village Board for good cause.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.05 CRITERIA AND DESIGNATION OF LANDMARKS OR HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   The Commission shall delineate landmarks or historic districts and recommend
them to the Village Board of Trustees for designation under local law.
   (A)   Individual landmark. The Commission may recommend that the Village
Board of Trustees delineate an individual property as an individual landmark if
it:
      (1)   Exemplifies or possesses special character, or historic or
aesthetic interest of value as part of the political, economic, or social
history of the village;
      (2)   Is identified with persons or events significant in local, state,
or national history;
      (3)   Embodies the distinguishing characteristics of a type, period or
method of construction or design style, or is a valuable example of the use of
indigenous materials or craftsmanship; or is representative of the work of a
designer, architect or builder;
      (4)   Represents an established and familiar visual feature of the
community by virtue of its unique location or singular physical characteristic,
represents an established and familiar visual feature of the community; or
      (5)   Has yielded or may be likely to yield information important in
prehistory or history.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 155.06 HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   The Commission may recommend to the Village Board of Trustees designation of
a group of properties within the village as an historic district if a majority
of properties therein:
   (A)   Contain properties which meet one or more of the criteria for
designation as a landmark and which may have within its boundaries other
properties or structures that, while not of such historic and/or architectural
significance to be designated as landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the
overall visual characteristics of the landmark or landmarks located within the
historic district; and
   (B)   Constitute a unique section of the village by reason of possessing
those qualities that would satisfy such criteria.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 155.07 INTERIOR LANDMARK.
   The Commission may recommend that the Village Board of Trustees delineate
the interior of a property as an interior landmark if such interior has special
historical or aesthetic interest or value as part of the development, heritage
or cultural characteristics of the village, state or nation and:
   (A)   It is customarily open or accessible to the public; or
   (B)   It is an interior into which the public is customarily invited.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 155.08 SCENIC LANDMARK.
   The Commission may recommend designation or delineation a landscape feature
or group of features. Recommendations for designation must be accompanied by
such historical and architectural information as is required by the Commission
to make an informed recommendation concerning the application, together with
any fee set by the Village Board of Trustees. The boundaries of each landmark,
interior landmark, scenic landmark or historic district shall be specified in
detail with reference to the tax map identification number and shall be filed,
in writing, in the Office of the Franklinville Village Clerk (“Village Clerk”)
and there made available for review by the public.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 155.09 NOTICE AND HEARING REQUIREMENTS FOR PROPOSED DESIGNATION.
   The Commission shall recommend that the Village Board of Trustees delineate
individual landmarks or historic districts in the following manner:
   (A)   Initiation of proposed designation. Designation of an individual
historic landmark or historic district may be proposed by the Commission, by
the owner of the property, or by any resident of the village;
   (B)   Public hearing; general notice.
      (1)   Within a reasonable time after receipt of a full application or
other matter referred to it, the Commission shall schedule a public hearing on
all proposed resource, individual, landmark or historic district designations.
Public notice of any such hearing shall be given by publication in the official
village newspaper at least 15 days prior to the public hearing date.
      (2)   The Commission shall require submission of written comments on the
application prior to designation of any landmark, interior landmark, scenic
landmark or historic district.
      (3)   The Commission, property owners, and any interested parties may
present testimony or documentary evidence at the hearing which will become part
of a record regarding the historic, architectural, or cultural importance of
the proposed resource, individual, landmark or historic district.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 155.10 NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING; MULTIPLE PROPERTIES PROPOSED FOR
DESIGNATION.
   (A)   Notice of public hearing for a proposed designation involving no more
than ten properties shall be sent by certified mail/return receipt requested or
courier service with proof of delivery or personal service with proof of
delivery to the owners of properties located within the area of the proposed
historic district at least 15 days prior to the date of the public hearing.
Such notice shall include a description of the properties proposed for
designation and state the time and place where any public hearing to consider
such designation will be held by the Commission.
   (B)   Work moratorium. Once the Commission has issued notice of a proposed
designation it may recommend to the Village Board of Trustees that a moratorium
be put in place, prohibiting any work relating to the individual landmark or
district proposed for designation as long as the proposed designation is under
active consideration by the Commission and until the Commission has made its
decision on designation.
   (C)   Commission record. The Commission shall compile a public record in
support of its delineation of a resource, landmark or historic district. In
addition to testimony or documentary evidence received at any public hearing,
the record may also contain reports, public comments, expert testimony, or
other evidence offered outside of the hearing, but submitted for the
Commission's consideration by the date of the hearing. At a minimum, the record
of the delineation shall contain the application, Commission and/or staff
reports, any comments made on the application at the public hearing, and the
Commission's recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees to approve,
approve with modifications, or deny the application requesting designation.
   (D)   Village Board of Trustees decision. Within 62 days after the close of
the public hearing, the Village Board of Trustees shall by resolution undertake
a designation in whole or in part, or shall disapprove in entirety, setting
forth in writing the reasons for the decision. Notice of the Village Board of
Trustees' designation shall be sent by the Village Clerk to the applicants and
owners of a designated property by certified mail return receipt requested or
in the case of an approved historic district, notice shall be sent by the
Commission to the applicants and owners of all properties within the approved
district by certified mail return receipt requested.
   (E)   The Commission may agree with the applicant in writing to extend the
time period within which a recommendation will be made.
   (F)   The Village Clerk shall forward notice of each property designated as
an individual landmark and the boundaries of each designated historic district
to the Franklinville Village Building Department and the Commission.
   (G)   Failure to send notice. Failure to send any notice by mail to any
property owners where the address of such owner is not a matter of property tax
records shall not invalidate any proceedings in connection with the proposed
designation.
   (H)   Amendment or rescission. The Commission may amend or rescind any
designation of an individual landmark or historic district in the same manner
and procedure as followed for designation.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 155.11 AFFIRMATIVE MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Ordinary maintenance; repair.
      (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance and repair of any exterior architectural feature of a historic
landmark or property within a historic district that does not involve a change
in design, building materials, color or outward appearance.
      (2)   The Commission may evaluate and decide, without public hearing,
whether or not proposed work constitutes ordinary maintenance and repair or
requires a certificate of appropriateness.
   (B)   No owner or person with an interest in real property designated as an
individual landmark or included within an historic district shall permit the
property to fall into a serious state of disrepair. Maintenance shall be
required, consistent with the Property Maintenance Code of New York State
Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code and all other applicable local
regulations.
   (C)   Every owner or person in charge of an improvement on a landmark site
or in an historic district shall keep in good repair:
      (1)   All of the exterior portions of such improvements and all interior
portions thereof which, if not so maintained, may cause or tend to cause the
exterior portions of such improvement to deteriorate, decay or become damaged
or otherwise to fall into a serious state of disrepair. Examples of types of
prohibited disrepair include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Deteriorated or crumbling exterior plasters, mortar or facades;
         (b)   Deteriorated or inadequate foundation;
         (c)   Defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports or any
structural floor members of insufficient size to carry imposed loads with
safety;
         (d)   Deteriorated walls or other vertical structural supports that
split, lean, list or buckle due to defective material or deterioration;
         (e)   Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports or other
horizontal members which sag, split or buckle due to defective material or
deterioration or are of insufficient size to carry imposed loads;
         (f)   Ineffective or inadequate waterproofing of exterior walls,
exterior chimneys, roofs, foundations or floors, including windows or doors,
which may cause or tend to cause deterioration, decay or damage;
         (g)   Defective or insufficient weather protection for roofs,
foundation or exterior wall covering, including lack of paint or weathering due
to lack of paint or other protective covering, which may cause or tend to cause
deterioration, decay or damage;
         (h)   Fireplaces or chimneys which list, bulge or settle due to
defective material or deterioration or are of insufficient size or strength to
carry imposed loads with safety;
         (i)   Any fault or defect in the building or structure which renders
it not properly watertight or otherwise compromises the life and character of
the building or structure.
      (2)   Interiors. Every owner or person in charge of an improvement to an
interior landmark shall keep in good repair:
         (a)   All portions of such interior landmark; and
         (b)   All other portions of the improvement which, if not so
maintained, may cause or tend to cause the interior landmark contained in such
improvement to deteriorate, decay, or become damaged or otherwise to fall into
a serious state of disrepair.
      (3)   Every owner or person in charge of a scenic landmark shall keep in
good repair all portions thereof.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.12 ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All work performed pursuant to a certificate of appropriateness issued
under this chapter shall conform to the requirements expressly stated in the
certificate or reasonably implied therefrom. It shall be the duty of the
building inspector to periodically inspect any such work to assure compliance
with the certificate and all applicable law. In the event any requirement
included in the certificate of appropriateness has not been met, or upon
notification of that fact by the Historic Preservation Commission, the building
inspector shall issue a stop work order and all work shall immediately cease.
No further work shall be undertaken on the project as long as a stop work order
is in effect.
   (B)   Any owner or person in charge of a property who demolishes, alters,
constructs, or permits a designated property to fall into a serious state of
disrepair in violation of this chapter in the absence of a certificate of
appropriateness, a finding of economic hardship, or other approval by the
Commission, may be required by the Franklinville Village Board to restore the
property and its site to its appearance prior to the violation.
   (C)   If, in the judgment of the Commission, a violation of this chapter
exists that will result in a detrimental effect upon the life and character of
a designated historic resource, landmark, property or on the character of a
historic district as a whole, the Commission shall notify the Village Code
Enforcement Officer. If, upon investigation, the Village Code Enforcement
Officer finds non- compliance with the requirements of the Property Maintenance
Code of the New York State Fire Prevention and Building Code, or any other
applicable law or regulation, the Village Code Enforcement Officer shall order
such remedies as are necessary and consistent with this chapter and shall
provide written notice thereof to the secretary of the Commission.
   (D)   The Commission shall notify the Village Board of Trustees of an
enforcement matter arising under this chapter and shall refer it to the Village
Attorney. Action to enforce this chapter shall be brought by the Village
Attorney or other attorney designated by the Village Board of Trustees. Civil
remedies authorized under this chapter shall be in addition to and not in lieu
of any criminal prosecution and penalty.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 155.13 APPROVAL AUTHORITY; ADVISORY AUTHORITY.
   Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Village Board
of Trustees shall have final approval power for all approvals, permits or other
binding actions set forth herein. The Commission shall be advisory only for all
approvals, permits or other binding actions set forth herein.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 155.14 COMPLIANCE WITH NEW YORK STATE CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT
REQUIREMENTS.
   This chapter, the Village Board of Trustees, the Commission and all
applicable village officials shall comply with the regulations required by the
New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation to be a
Certified Local Government.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter is deemed an offense punishable by a fine,
imprisonment or both, as follows:
   (A)   First offense. A first conviction for violation of this chapter may
result in a fine not exceeding $350 or imprisonment for a period not to exceed
six months, or both;
   (B)   Second offense. A second conviction for violation of this chapter, if
the occurrence that leads to conviction began within a period of five years
from the date of first conviction, may result in a fine not less than $350 nor
more than $700 or imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, or both;
   (C)   Third offense. A conviction for a third or subsequent offense all of
which were committed within a period of five years from when the occurrence
leading to the first conviction began, shall include a fine of not less than
$700 nor more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a period not to exceed six
months, or both.
   (D)   In addition to any penalties imposed under this chapter, continued
violations of this chapter shall be punishable in any other manner provided
under other local regulations, and state and federal law.
(Ord. 1-2024, passed 2-12-2024)
TITLE XVII: VILLAGE JUSTICE COURT
   Chapter
      
170.   ESTABLISHMENT OF THE VILLAGE JUSTICE COURT
CHAPTER 170: ESTABLISHMENT OF THE VILLAGE JUSTICE COURT
Section
   
170.001   Purpose and intent
   
170.002   Offices established
   
170.003   Jurisdiction
   
170.004   Non-judicial personnel
§ 170.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The Village Board of Trustees hereby finds and determines that the best
interests of the village, its residents and its property owners would be served
by the establishment of the Village Justice Court, pursuant to N.Y. Village Law
§ 3-301, having the powers and duties prescribed in the N.Y. Uniform Justice
Court Act. The Village Board of Trustees further hereby finds and determines
that the establishment of the Village Justice Court will better enable the
village to enforce its laws.
(Ord. 2-2024, passed 2-24-2024)
§ 170.002 OFFICES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Village Justice Court of the Village of Franklinville is hereby
established.
   (B)   There shall be one elected Village Justice for the village for a term
of four years. The Mayor shall appoint, subject to the approval of the Village
Board of Trustees, an initial Village Justice who may serve until a Village
Justice has been elected and qualified.
   (C)   The Mayor shall appoint, subject to the approval of the Village Board
of Trustees, one Associate Village Justice who shall serve when requested by
the Village Justice or in the absence or inability of the Village Justice to
serve. The term of the Village Justice shall for two years, to run concurrently
with the term of the Village Justice.
   (D)   The Village Justice and Associate Village Justice shall serve with
compensation as determined by the Village Board of Trustees at its annual
organizational meeting.
(Ord. 2-2024, passed 2-24-2024; Ord. 2-2025, passed 1-27-2025)
Cross-reference:
   Residency requirement for full-time employee, see §
30.03
§ 170.003 JURISDICTION.
   The Village Justice Court shall have such jurisdiction as is permitted by
the N.Y. Uniform Justice Court Act and other laws of the state, county and
village.
(Ord. 2-2024, passed 2-24-2024)
§ 170.004 NON-JUDICIAL PERSONNEL.
   The Village Board of Trustees may appoint by resolution such non-judicial
employees or officers as may be required to discharge the powers and duties of
a Village Justice Court in accordance with the procedures provided by law and
to provide for the compensation of such employees or officers. The Village
Board of Trustees is empowered to secure such systems and services as may be
required for the operation and conduct of the Village Justice Court and to
provide for the payment thereof in accordance with the law.
(Ord. 2-2024, passed 2-24-2024)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING
TABLE I: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
2-   10-15- District regulations changed for the premises located at 69 South Main Street,
1974 1974   owned by Mosler Safe Company and bounded on the north by O’Hara, east by South
            Main Street, south by Pennsylvania Avenue and west by Pennsylvania Avenue
3-   10-7-  District designation changed from R-2 Residential District to B-1 Commercial
1975 1975   District, for the premises located at the corner of North Main Street and North
            Academy Street, presently owner by Border Oil Company, Box 373, East State Road
            Affects property located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Riggs
2-   10-10- Street and North Main Street, within the village, being the entire property now
1980 1980   owned and occupied by Donald Ehrhart and his wife, and commonly designated as
            28 North Main Street
            Zoning property Light Industrial Commercial: part of Lot No. 39, Township 4,
1-   10-13- Range 4, beginning at a point in the southeasterly line of Mount Pleasant
1980 1980   Avenue at the northwesterly corner of lands conveyed to Robert P. McCutchen and
            wife by deed recorded in Liber 702 of Deeds at page 436
3-   6-26-  Affects property located on the west side of Willow Street at the south end
1987 1987   thereof and as described in a deed recorded September 1, 1978 in Liber 786 of
            Deeds at page 434
            Reclassifies property located on the east side of South Main Street at its
2-   11-9-  intersection with Second Avenue and is listed as Parcel No. 40.071-3-1 on the
1992 1992   Tax Map for that areas of the village from Residential R-2 to Residential/
            Commercial R-3
1-   5-2-   Affects the area bounded on the south by a line approximately parallel with the
1994 1994   south bounds of the village line, and amends district boundaries
            Amends a schedule in the Zoning Ordinance, the distance in column Front, row
2-   6-15-  Residential- Commercial R-3, shall be 48 feet from the center line of the
1994 1994   highway; the distance in column Front, row Commercial B-1, shall be 48 feet
            from the centerline of the highway
            Industrial zone: a parcel of land at the southeast quadrant of the intersection
4-   9-28-  of West Avenue and Franklin Street, having about 89 feet of frontage along the
1998 1998   south bounds of Franklin Street, and about 303 feet of frontage along the east
            bounds of West Avenue
3-   6-24-  Exempts parcels of land located within a B-1 Commercial District from Ord. 2-
2002 2002   2002
1-   2-28-  Amends the zoning regulations by adding provisions for specific land in a
2005 2005   Residential- Commercial (R-3) District and in an Industrial Zone (I-1)
1-   3-14-  Reclassifies property commonly referred to as 83 North Main Street from
2022 2022   Multiple-Family Residential (R-2) to Commercial (B-1)
6-   10-28- Amending the village zoning map to be as shown on the map in Section 3 of the
2024 2024   ordinance.
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to New York State Law
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CONTROL LAW
 
Alco. Bev. Cont Law Reference Code Section
3                             131.46
                              
 
REFERENCES TO CORRECTION LAW
 
Correct. Law Reference Code Section
Art. 6-C               131.62,
                       131.99
168-a, Subdivision 1   131.61
168-a, Subdivision 2   131.61
                       
 
REFERENCES TO EDUCATION LAW
 
Educ. Law Reference Code Section
807-b               150.117
Art. 145            150.023,
                    150.145
Art. 147            150.023
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ENERGY LAW
 
Energy Law Reference Code Section
Art. 11           150.002
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ENVIRONMENTAL CONSERVATION LAW
 
Envtl. Conserv. Law Reference Code Section
27-0903                       50.01
Art. 8                        152.101
Art. 53                       94.02
                              
 
REFERENCES TO EXECUTIVE LAW
 
Exec. Law Reference    Code Section
156-e                  150.118
301(1), (7), (15), (2) 32.01
382(2)                 150.198
Art. 18                150.002
                       
 
REFERENCES TO GENERAL BUSINESS LAW
 
Gen. Bus. Law Reference Code Section
32                      110.01
                        
 
REFERENCES TO GENERAL MUNICIPAL LAW
Gen. Mun. Law Reference Code Section
Gen. Mun. Law Reference Code Section
103                     32.01,
                        32.03
103(1)                  32.01
136                     92.01
195                     113.21
239-m                   152.008,
                        152.101
239-n                   152.008
451                     50.32
Art. 5-A                151.19
Art. 9-A                113.01,
                        113.20
                        
 
REFERENCES TO FINANCE LAW
 
Finance Law Reference Code Section
163                   32.01,
                      32.03
                      
 
REFERENCES TO LABOR LAW
 
Finance Law Reference Code Section
Article 8             32.03
Article 9             32.03
                      
 
REFERENCES TO MULTIPLE DWELLING LAW
 
Mult. Dwelling Law Reference Code Section
Art. 1 et seq.               152.004
                             
 
REFERENCES TO MUNICIPAL HOME RULE LAW
 
Mun. Home Rule Law Reference Code Section
10                           150.001
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PARKS AND RECREATION LAW
Parks and Rec. Law Reference Code Section
Parks and Rec. Law Reference Code Section
21.05                        70.15
Art. 25                      70.16
25.05                        70.15
25.05(2)(a)                  70.16
25.05(2)(b)                  70.16
25.09                        70.15,
                             70.16
                             
 
REFERENCES TO PENAL LAW
 
Penal Law Reference Code Section
Part 1 et seq.      152.033
Art. 10, § 10.00(3)131.99
Article 145         52.999
270                 150.095
                    
 
REFERENCES TO PUBLIC HEALTH LAW
 
Public Health Law Reference Code Section
§ 4801, Subdivision 2      52.005
                            
 
REFERENCES TO REAL PROPERTY TAX LAW
 
Real. Prop Tax Law Reference Code Section
1402(3)                      31.01
                             
 
REFERENCES TO SANITARY CODE
 
Sanitary Code Reference Code Section
Part 5                  52.005
Part 5, § 5-1.31       52.010
                        
 
REFERENCES TO VILLAGE LAW
 
Village Law Reference Code Section
Art. 1 et seq.        152.007
3-300(2)(b)           30.03
3-301                 170.001
Art. 5                151.20
                      
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Code Section
Prior Code Code Section
1-1-1      70.01
1-1-2      70.99
1-2-1      Ch. 72, Sch. I
1-3-3      Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-3-2      Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-3-4      Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-3-5      71.02
1-4-1      Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-4-3      Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-4-4      Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-4-5      71.04
1-4-6      Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-4-8      Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-6-3      Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-10-1     70.02
1-10-2     70.02
1-10-3     70.99
1-11-1     71.01
1-11-2     71.03
1-12-1     Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-13-1     71.15
1-13-2     71.16
1-13-3     71.17
1-14-1     Ch. 73, Sch. I
3-1-1      51.001
3-2-1      51.015
3-2-2      51.016
3-2-3      51.017
3-2-4      51.017
3-2-5      51.018
3-2-6      51.019
3-3-3      51.032
3-3-4      51.033
3-3-6      51.035
3-3-7      51.036
3-4-1      51.050
3-4-2      51.051
3-4-3      51.052
3-4-4      51.053
3-4-5      51.054
3-4-6      51.055
3-4-7      51.056
3-4-8      51.057
3-4-9      51.058
3-4-10     51.059
3-4-11     51.060
3-4-12     51.061
3-4-13     51.062
3-4-14     51.063
3-5-1      51.075
3-5-2      51.076
3-5-3      51.077
3-5-4      51.078
3-5-5      51.079
3-5-6      51.080
3-5-7      51.081
3-5-8      51.082
3-5-9      51.083
3-5-10     51.084
3-5-11     51.085
3-6-1      51.100
3-6-3      51.101
3-6-4      51.102
3-7-1      51.115
3-7-2      51.116
3-7-3      51.116
3-7-4      51.117
3-7-5      51.118
3-7-6      51.118
3-7-7      51.119
3-7-8      51.120
3-7-9      51.121
3-8-1      51.135
3-8-2      51.136
3-8-3      51.137
3-8-4      51.138
3-8-5      51.139
3-9-1      51.200
3-9-2      51.999
3-9-3      51.201
3-11-1     51.150
3-11-2     51.151
3-11-3     51.152
3-11-4     51.153
6-1-1      110.01
6-1-2      111.01
6-1-3      110.99
6-1-3      111.99
6-2-1      112.01
6-2-2      112.02
6-2-3      112.03
6-2-4      111.02
6-2-4      112.04
6-2-5      112.99
7-1-1      50.01
7-1-2(A)   50.15
7-1-2(B)   50.16
7-1-2(C)   50.17
7-1-3      50.18
7-1-4      50.19
7-1-5      50.20
7-1-6      50.21
7-1-7      50.24
7-1-8      50.40
7-1-9      50.02
7-1-10     50.41
7-1-11     50.42
7-1-12     50.22
7-1-13     50.23
7-1-14     50.25
7-1-15     50.03
7-1-17(A)  50.04
8-1-1      91.001
8-1-2      91.001
8-1-3      91.002
8-1-4      91.015
8-1-5      91.016
8-1-6      91.015
8-1-7      91.015
8-2-1      91.031
8-2-2      91.032
8-2-3      91.033
8-2-4      91.034
8-2-5      91.035
8-2-6      91.036
8-2-7      91.037
8-2-8      91.038
8-2-9      91.038
8-2-10(a)  91.038
8-2-10(b)  91.039
8-2-11     91.040
8-3-1      91.055
8-3-2      91.056
8-3-3      91.057
9-1-1      96.01
9-1-2      96.99
10-1-1     95.01
10-1-2     95.02
10-1-3     95.03
10-1-4     95.99
11-1-1     113.01
11-1-2     113.01
11-1-3     113.20
11-1-4     113.21
11-1-5     113.02
12-1-2     152.001
12-3-1     152.002
12-4-1     152.003
12-4-2     152.003
12-4-3     152.004
12-5-1(a)  152.005
12-5-1(b)  152.006
12-5-1(c)  152.009
12-5-1(d)  152.010
12-5-2(a)  152.011
12-5-2(b)  152.012
12-5-2(c)  152.013
12-5-3     152.014
12-5-4     152.014
12-6-1     152.025
12-6-2     152.026
12-6-3     152.027
12-6-4     152.028
12-7-1     152.029
12-7-2     152.030
12-7-5     152.031,
           152.032
12-8-1     152.045
12-8-2     152.046
12-8-3     152.047
12-8-4     152.048
12-8-5     152.048
12-8-6     152.048
12-8-7     152.049
12-9-1     152.060
12-9-2     152.061
12-9-3     152.062
12-9-4     152.063
12-9-5     152.064
12-9-6     152.065
12-9-7     152.066
12-9-9     152.067
12-9-10    152.068
12-9-11    152.069
12-9-12    152.070
12-9-13    152.071
12-9-14    152.072
12-9-15    152.073
12-9-16    152.074
12-10-1    152.085
12-10-2    152.086
12-11-4    152.103
12-12-1    152.007
12-13-1    152.008
13-1-1     90.01
13-1-2     90.01
13-1-3     90.99
13-2-1     90.02
13-2-2     90.99
20-1-1     151.01
20-1-2     151.02
20-1-3     151.03
20-1-4     151.15
20-1-5     151.16
20-1-6     151.17
20-1-7     151.18
20-1-8     151.18
20-1-9     151.19
20-1-10    151.20
20-1-11    151.21
21-1-1     70.15
21-1-2     70.15
21-1-3     70.16
21-1-4     70.99
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
2-1974   10-15-1974  TSO, Table I
3-1975   10-7-1975   TSO, Table I
4-1975   12-2-1975   Ch. 73, Sch. I
2-1978   9-25-1978   Ch. 73, Sch. I
2-1980   10-10-1980  TSO, Table I
1-1980   10-13-1980  TSO, Table I
3-1980   12-22-1980  30.20 –
                     30.31
1-1984   1-23-1984   152.004
                     94.01 –
                     94.03,
2-1984   2-27-1984   94.15-
                     94.24,
                     94.40
4-1984   8-27-1984   94.41
1-1985   6-10-1985   152.032
                     153.001 –
                     153.007,
                     153.020-
                     153.022,
                     153.035-
1-1987   4-13-1987   153.042,
                     153.055-
                     153.059,
                     153.070-
                     153.073,
                     153.085,
                     153.086
3-1987   6-26-1987   TSO, Table I
3-1989   6-26-1989   92.01
2-1990   11-16-1990  92.02
1-1991   2-25-1991   Ch. 73, Sch. I
2-1992   11-9-1992   TSO, Table I
1-1994   5-2-1994    TSO, Table I
2-1994   6-15-1994   152.031,
                     TSO, Table I
2-1997   3-10-1997   Ch. 73, Sch. I
4-1998   9-28-1998   TSO, Table I
2-1999   4-26-1999   30.03
2-2000   3-8-2000    30.45
                     152.004,
1-2001   5-2-2001    152.030,
                     152.033
3-2001   11-26-2001  Ch. 73, Sch. I
1-2002   1-28-2002   31.01 –
                     31.05
                     152.004,
2-2002   2-26-2002   152.030,
                     152.031
3-2002   6-24-2002   TSO, Table I
                     30.01,
4-2002   11-25-2002  30.02,
                     30.04-
                     30.08
1-2004   8-9-2004    152.004,
                     152.072
1-2005   2-28-2005   TSO, Table I
                     71.99,
2-2005   3-28-2005   Ch. 72, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. I
3-2005   7-25-2005   130.01,
                     130.02
4-2005   9-26-2005   95.02,
                     95.99
                     131.01,
4-2005   9-26-2005   131.15,
                     131.99
                     91.030,
                     93.001-
                     93.008,
                     93.020-
                     93.024,
                     93.035-
                     93.046,
                     93.060-
                     93.062,
2-2006   3-27-2006   93.075-
                     93.082,
                     93.999,
                     94.55-
                     94.57,
                     94.99,
                     131.30,
                     131.31,
                     131.45-
                     131.47,
                     131.99
                     93.095 –
4-2006   6-12-2006   93.102,
                     93.999
                     151.01,
6-2006   8-28-2006   151.03,
                     151.17,
                     151.21
                     70.30 –
7-2006   9-10-2006   70.32,
                     70.99
                     131.60 –
8-2006   10-23-2006  131.67,
                     131.99
1-2007   1-22-2007   Ch. 72, Sch. II
                     51.018,
                     51.019,
                     51.030-
                     51.034,
                     51.051-
                     51.053,
                     51.056,
                     51.058,
                     51.060,
2-2007   2-12-2007   51.063,
                     51.079,
                     51.080,
                     51.116,
                     51.119,
                     51.120,
                     51.153,
                     51.165-
                     51.173,
                     51.185,
                     51.186
                     150.001 –
                     150.006,
                     150.020,
                     150.023 –
                     150.030,
                     150.045,
                     150.046,
                     150.048,
                     150.049,
                     150.060 –
                     150.064,
                     150.075 –
                     150.080,
3-2007   3-26-2007   150.095,
                     150.096,
                     150.098 –
                     150.102,
                     150.115,
                     150.117 –
                     150.119,
                     150.130,
                     150.131,
                     150.180 –
                     150.184,
                     150.195 –
                     150.198,
                     150.999
1-2008   4-14-2008   71.03,
                     71.05
1-2009   2-9-2009    152.062
                     52.001 –
                     52.008,
                     52.010 –
                     52.012,
                     52.020 –
                     52.027,
                     52.030 –
                     52.037,
                     52.040 –
                     52.043,
                     52.045 –
2-2009   3-23-2009   52.048,
                     52.060,
                     52.065,
                     52.070,
                     52.071,
                      52.080 –
                     52.084,
                     52.090 –
                     52.092,
                     52.100 –
                     52.103,
                     52.999
3-2009   8-10-2009   30.03
                     97.01 –
1-2011   4-11-2011   97.06,
                     97.99
2-2011   5-23-2011   50.30 –
                     50.37
1-2016   3-28-2016   32.01 –
                     32.04
                     150.001 –
                     150.006,
                     150.020,
                     150.023 –
                     150.030,
                     150.045,
                     150.046,
                     150.048,
                     150.049,
                     150.060 –
                     150.064,
                     150.075 –
                     150.080,
1-2019   11-25-2019  150.095,
                     150.096,
                     150.098 –
                     150.102,
                     150.115,
                     150.117 –
                     150.119,
                     150.130,
                     150.131,
                     150.180 –
                     150.184,
                     150.195 –
                     150.198,
                     150.999
1-2020   4-13-2020   93.035,
                     93.060
1-2022   3-14-2022   TSO, Table I
                     152.001 –
                     152.014,
                     152.025 –
                     152.033,
                     152.045 –
                     152.049,
—      3-14-2022   152.060 –
                     152.074,
                     152.085,
                     152.086,
                     152.100 –
                     152.103,
                     152.999
                     52.023,
2-2021   11-8-2021   52.026,
                     52.033
3-2022   11-28-2022  154.01 –
                     154.03
                     150.001 –
                     150.006,
                     150.020,
                     150.023 –
                     150.030,
                     150.045,
                     150.046,
                     150.048,
                     150.049,
                     150.060 –
                     150.064,
                     150.075 –
                     150.080,
4-2022   12-20-2022  150.095,
                     150.096,
                     150.098 –
                     150.102,
                     150.115,
                     150.117 –
                     150.119,
                     150.130,
                     150.131,
                     150.180 –
                     150.184,
                     150.195 –
                     150.198,
                     150.999
2-2023   5-22-2023   33.01
3-2023   7-10-2023   152.004,
                     152.030
                     98.01 –
4-2023   8-14-2023   98.06,
                     98.99
5-2023   9-11-2023   152.063
                     155.01 –
1-2024   2-12-2024   155.14,
                     155.99
2-2024   2-24-2024   170.001 –
                     170.004
                     150.001 –
                     150.006,
                     150.020,
                     150.023 –
                     150.030,
                     150.045,
                     150.046,
                     150.048,
                     150.049,
                     150.060 –
                     150.064,
                     150.075 –
                     150.080,
3-2024   10-28-2024  150.095,
                     150.096,
                     150.098 –
                     150.102,
                     150.115,
                     150.117 –
                     150.119,
                     150.130,
                     150.131,
                     150.180 –
                     150.184,
                     150.195 –
                     150.198,
                     150.999
                     114.01,
4-2024   10-28-2024  114.02,
                     114.99
5-2024   10-28-2024  152.030
6-2024   10-28-2024  TSO, Table I
7-2024   10-28-2024  Ch. 72, Sch. III
8-2024   10-28-2024  152.004,
                     152.030
1-2025   1-13-2025   152.004,
                     152.030
2-2025   1-27-2025   170.002
3-2025   7-14-2025   152.030
                    
 
