CITY CODE
of
CARLIN, NEVADA
1975
Code current through:
Ord. 257, passed 11-8-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Carlin, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 257, passed 11-8-2023. Ordinances of the City adopted after
said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that they
are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in order to
ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been amended,
superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
CARLIN CITY ORDINANCE NO. 80
AN ORDINANCE FOR CODIFYING AND COMPILING THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF
CARLIN; REPEALING CERTAIN GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF CARLIN; PROVIDING
FOR PERPETUAL CODIFICATION, DISTRIBUTION OF CODIFICATION, DEFINITIONS AND
CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS, INCORPORATION OF A COPY OF THE CITY CHARTER, PENALTIES
WITH WORK REQUIREMENTS, AND REPEALING AND SAVINGS CLAUSES; AND PROVIDING OTHER
MATTERS PROPERLY RELATING THERETO:
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COUNCILMEN OF THE CITY OF CARLIN:
SECTION 1: Enactment of Carlin City Code. The Carlin City Code prepared by
Sterling Codifiers, Inc. and hereby approved and accepted in its published form
on the date hereof is hereby adopted and enacted as the law of the City of
Carlin.
SECTION 2: Upon passage of this Ordinance, two (2) copies of the Carlin City
Code adopted and enacted hereby shall be filed with the Librarian of the
Supreme Court Law Library, and thereafter the same shall be received in all
Courts of this State as an authorized compilation of the general municipal
ordinances of the City of Carlin. These copies shall be supplemented as
hereinafter provided.
SECTION 3: One copy of this Carlin City Code shall be filed in the office of
the City Clerk of the City of Carlin as part of this Ordinance and shall be
perpetually retained in the City Clerk's Office without supplementation or
alteration as the original Carlin City Code adopted and enacted by this
Ordinance. Such official copy shall be available for inspection by the public
in the office of the City Clerk and shall be received as prima facie evidence
in all courts and places without further proof as the original Carlin City Code
adopted by this Board.
One further copy of this Carlin City Code shall be filed in the office of the
City Clerk of the City of Carlin which the City Clerk shall keep currently
supplemented as provided in this Ordinance, and which shall be available for
inspection by the public in the office of the City Clerk, and which shall be
received as prima facie evidence in all courts and places without further proof
as the Carlin City Code as supplemented.
SECTION 4: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification and
supplementation, the loose-leaf type of binding for the Carlin City Code and to
supply continuous supplemental service each newly adopted ordinance of the City
of Carlin of a general nature, amending, altering, adding to or deleting the
provisions of this Carlin City Code shall, within thirty (30) days following
the date of passage and adoption be printed with proper code title, chapter and
section numbers, excluding from the ordinances the titles, enacting clauses,
signatures, attestations and other formal parts, and such supplement to this
Code so prepared shall be inserted in its proper place in the Carlin City Code
by the City Clerk of the City of Carlin. Two (2) copies of the supplements as
prepared shall be submitted to the Librarian of the Supreme Court Law Library
for insertion in the copies of the Carlin City Code on file. Copies of such
supplements shall be made available to the public on such terms and at such
price or charge as the City Manager shall determine from time to time.
SECTION 5: The Carlin City Code shall have incorporated therein as part thereof
a copy of the City Charter of the City of Carlin as amended and extended,
together with all further amendments, extensions, supplements and changes
thereto.
SECTION 6: If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance
shall for any reason be held to be invalid, unenforceable, or unconstitutional
by any court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity, unenforceability or
unconstitutionality of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not
effect any remaining provisions of this Ordinance.
This Ordinance having been posted in two (2) conspicuous places for a period of
one week and read in full on July 9, 1975, and having been voted upon and
adopted on August 13, 1975, became in full force and effect on August 20, 1975.
   DATED at Carlin, Nevada, August 13, 1975.
   The foregoing ordinance was introduced in written form on July 9, 1975, and
read aloud at the regular meeting of the City Council on August 13, 1975, at
which time Motion to Adopt was made by Councilman Charles Chambers; seconded by
Eugene Haub; voting ayes 5; nayes 0.
Wanda Borden   MAYOR
Peter J. Aiazzi   COUNCILMAN
Alfred Barredo   COUNCILMAN
Charles H. Chambers   COUNCILMAN
Eugene L. Haub   COUNCILMAN
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Interpretations
1-1-5: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the council this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Carlin. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the Carlin city code, and it is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be kept up to date as provided
in section
1-1-3 of this chapter under the direction of the proper city official, acting
for the said city council. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (1975 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1975 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. (1975 Code)
1-1-4: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code the
following rules shall be observed:
   (A)   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
(1975 Code)
1-1-5: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council.
(1975 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in
force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), from which are
excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city; and all special ordinances. (1975 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1975 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding so far as practicable, if any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city herein
repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1975 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this code, or any part thereof. The city council hereby declares that it would
have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context may be
repugnant thereto. (1975 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Carlin, County of Elko, state of Nevada.
CODE: Unless otherwise specifically stated shall mean this city code.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Carlin".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
KNOWINGLY: The word "knowingly" imports only a knowledge that the facts exist
which brings the act or omission within the provisions of this code. It does
not require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
NEGLIGENT: The word "negligent", as well as "neglect", "negligence" and
"negligently" imports a want of such attention to the nature of probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in
acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Carlin".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of such
building or land.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation in his or its own capacity or as administrator, conservator,
executor, trustee, receiver or other representative appointed by the court.
Whenever the word "person" is used in any section of this code prescribing a
penalty or fine as applied to partnerships or associations, the word shall
include the partners or members thereof, and such word as applied to
corporations shall include the officers, agents or employees thereof who are
responsible for any violation of said section.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies the
whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The word "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: The words "written" or "in writing" may include printing
and any other mode of representing words and letters, but when the written
signature of any person is required by law to any official or public writing or
bond required by law, it shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or
in case he is unable to write, by his proper mark. (1975 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections,
including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: License
1-4-3: Application
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Except as provided in Title 8, Chapter 1, any person convicted of a violation
of any section of this code which does not otherwise provide for a specific
penalty shall be punished by the imposition of a fine not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by a sentence of confinement in the city or
county jail not to exceed six (6) months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 120, 2-10-1982, eff. 2-17-1982; amd. Ord. 255, 12-15-2022)
1-4-2: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him by the city may be revoked by a court of
competent jurisdiction or by the city council. (1975 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION:
Except as provided in Title 8, Chapter 1, the penalty provided in this chapter
shall be applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a
part of each and every separate section. Except as provided in Title 8, Chapter
1, any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any
duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense or violation shall be deemed committed upon
each day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues,
unless otherwise specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense, provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1975 Code; amd.
Ord. 255, 12-15-2022)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1975
Code)
CHAPTER 5
CITY CHARTER
SECTION:
1-5-1: City Charter
1-5-1: CITY CHARTER:
The following material comprises the Carlin city charter:
   ASSEMBLY BILL NO. 776 – COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENT AFFAIRS
   March 22, 1971
   Referred to Committee on Government Affairs
   SUMMARY – Incorporates City of Carlin in Elko County.
   Fiscal Note: No. (BDR S-383)
AN ACT incorporating the City of Carlin, in Elko County, Nevada; defining the
boundaries thereof; and providing other matters properly relating thereto.
The People of the State of Nevada, represented in Senate and Assembly, do enact
as follows:
   SECTION 1. The charter of the City of Carlin is as follows. Each section of
the charter shall be deemed to be a section of this act for the purpose of any
subsequent amendment.
   ARTICLE I
   Incorporation of City; General Powers; Boundaries;
   Annexations; City Offices
   Section 1.010    Legislative intent.
   1. In order to provide for the orderly government of the City of Carlin and
the general welfare of its citizens the legislature hereby establishes this
charter for the government of the City of Carlin. It is expressly declared as
the intent of the legislature that all provisions of this charter be liberally
construed to carry out the express purposes of the charter and that the
specific mention of particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any
way the general powers necessary to carry out the purposes of the charter.
   2. Any powers expressly granted by this charter are in addition to any
powers granted to a city by the general law of this state. All provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes which are applicable generally to cities (not
including, unless otherwise expressly mentioned in this charter, chapter 265,
266 or 267 of NRS) which are not in conflict with the provisions of this
charter apply to the City of Carlin.
   Sec. 1.020    Incorporation of city.
   1. All persons who are inhabitants of that portion of the State of Nevada
embraced within the limits set forth in section 1.030 shall constitute a
political and corporate body by the name of "City of Carlin" and by that name
they and their successors shall be known in law, have perpetual succession and
may sue and be sued in all courts.
   2. Whenever used throughout this charter, "city" means the City of Carlin.
   Sec. 1.030    Description of territory. The territory embraced in the city
is that certain land situated in Elko County described as follows: Beginning at
the Northeast corner of Section 23, T. 33 N., R. 52 E., M.D.B. & M., thence 3
miles west to the Northwest corner of Section 21, thence south 3 miles to the
Southwest corner of Section 33, thence east 3 miles to the Southeast corner of
Section 35, thence north 3 miles to the Northwest corner of Section 23, the
place of beginning; all in T. 33 N., R. 52 E., M.D.B. & M.
   Sec. 1.040    Annexations. The city may annex territory by following the
procedure provided for the annexation of cities in those sections of chapter
268 of NRS, as amended from time to time, which apply to counties having a
population of less than 200,000.
   Sec. 1.050    Elective offices.
   1. The elective officers of the city consist of:
      (a) A mayor.
      (b) Four councilmen.
   2. Such officers shall be elected as provided by this charter.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 1.060    Elective Offices: Vacancies. Except as otherwise provided in
NRS 268.325:
   1. A vacancy in the board of councilmen or in the office of mayor must be
filled by a majority vote of the members of the board of councilmen within 30
days after the occurrence of the vacancy. A person may be selected to fill a
prospective vacancy in the board before the vacancy occurs. In such a case,
each member of the board, except any member whose term of office expires before
the occurrence of the vacancy, may participate in any action taken by the board
pursuant to this section. The appointee must have the same qualifications as
are required of the elective official.
   2. No such appointment extends beyond the first Monday in January after the
next municipal election, at which election the:
   (a) Office must be filled for the remaining unexpired term; or
   (b) Successor to the previously vacated seat will be selected, as
appropriate.
(SB 121, 2-20-2007)
   Sec. 1.070    Mayor And Councilmen Not To Hold Other Office.
   1. The mayor and councilmen shall not:
      (a) Hold any other elective office or employment with Elko County or the
city, except as provided by law or as a member of a board or commission for
which no compensation is received.
      (b) Be elected or appointed to any office created by or the compensation
for which was increased or fixed by the board of councilmen until 1 year after
the expiration of the term for which such person was elected.
   2. Any person holding any office prescribed by subsection 1 shall
automatically forfeit his office as mayor or councilman.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 1.080    Appointive Offices.
   1. The board of councilmen of the city may appoint the following officers:
      (a) City clerk.
      (b) City treasurer.
      (c) Chief of police.
      (d) City engineer.
      (e) City attorney.
      (f) City auditor.
(g) Municipal judge, if the office of justice of the peace of Carlin township
ceases to exist.
   2. The board of councilmen shall establish such other offices as it may deem
necessary.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 1.090    Appointive Officers: Duties; Salary. All appointive officers
of the city shall:
   1. Perform such duties as may be designated by the board of councilmen.
   2. Receive such salary as may be designated by the board of councilmen.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 1.100    Officials' Performance Bond. The board of councilmen may
require from all officers and employees of the city constituted or appointed
under this charter, except councilmen, sufficient security for the faithful and
honest performance of their respective duties.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 1.110    Oath Of Office. Every person elected or appointed to fill any
office shall subscribe to the official oath as provided by the board of
councilmen. Every such person shall swear or affirm that he is not under any
direct or indirect obligation to vote for, appoint or elect any person to any
office, position or employment in the city government.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   ARTICLE II
   Legislative Department
   Sec. 2.010    Board Of Councilmen: Qualifications; Election; Term Of Office;
Salary.
   1. The legislative power of the city is vested in a board of councilmen
consisting of four councilmen and a mayor.
   2. The mayor and councilmen must be:
   (a) Bona fide residents of the city for at least 2 years prior to their
election.
   (b) Qualified electors within the city.
   3. All councilmen, including the mayor, must be voted upon by the registered
voters of the city at large and, except as otherwise provided in section 5.010,
shall serve for terms of 4 years.
   4. The mayor and councilmen first holding office under this charter shall
each receive a monthly salary of $35 during the terms for which they were
elected, selected or appointed. Thereafter, subject to the provisions of
subsection 5 of section 2.090, the mayor and councilmen shall receive a salary
in an amount fixed by the board of councilmen.
(SB 121, 2-20-2007)
   Sec. 2.020    Board Of Councilmen: Contracts. Members of the board of
councilmen may vote on any lease, contract or other agreement which extends
beyond their terms of office.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 2.030    Board Of Councilmen: Duties Concerning Departments.
   1. The board of councilmen shall control and supervise the departments of
the city and may establish such rules and regulations as may be necessary for
the administration of such departments.
   2. The mayor shall designate from among the board of councilmen members to
act as:
      (a) Superintendent of public safety.
      (b) Superintendent of streets and public works.
      (c) Superintendent of water and utilities.
      (d) Superintendent of health and sanitation.
   3. The mayor shall be known as the superintendent of finance and revenue.
   4. The duties of each department shall be designated by the board of
councilmen.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 2.040    Board Of Councilmen: Discipline Of Members, Other Persons;
Subpena Power.
   1. The board of councilmen may:
   (a) Provide for the punishment of any member for disorderly conduct
committed in its presence.
   (b) Order the attendance of witnesses and the production of all papers
relating to any business before the board of councilmen.
   2. If any person ordered to appear before the board of councilmen fails to
obey such order:
   (a) The board of councilmen or any member thereof may apply to the clerk of
the district court for a subpena commanding the attendance of the person before
the board of councilmen.
   (b) Such clerk may issue the subpena, and any peace officer may serve it.
   (c) If the person upon whom the subpena is served fails to obey it, the
court may issue an order to show cause why such person should not be held in
contempt of court and upon hearing of the matter may adjudge such person guilty
of contempt and punish him accordingly.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 2.050    Meetings: Quorum.
   1. The board of councilmen shall hold at least one regular meeting each
month, and by ordinance may provide for additional regular meetings.
   2. A majority of all members of the board of councilmen constitutes a quorum
to do business, but a lesser number may meet and recess from time to time, and
compel the attendance of the absent members.
   3. Except as otherwise provided by law, all sessions and all proceedings of
the board of councilmen shall be public.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 2.060    Meetings: Special.
   1. Special meetings may be held on call of the mayor or by a majority of the
board of councilmen, by giving a minimum of 6 hours' notice of such special
meeting to each member of the board of councilmen prior to the meeting.
   2. At a special meeting:
      (a) No contract involving the expenditure of money may be made or claim
allowed unless notice of the meeting called to consider such action is posted
at two public bulletin boards within the city at least 2 days before such
meeting.
      (b) No business may be transacted except such as has been stated in the
call of the meeting.
      (c) No ordinance may be passed except an emergency ordinance, or one
specified in section 7.030.
   (AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 2.070    Meetings: Time and place; rules. The board of councilmen may:
   1. Fix the time and place of its meetings and judge the qualifications and
election of its own members.
   2. Adopt rules for the government of its members and proceedings.
   Sec. 2.080    Oaths and affirmations. The mayor, each councilman and the
city clerk may administer oaths and affirmations relating to any business
pertaining to the city before the board of councilmen or to be considered by
the board of councilmen.
   Sec. 2.090    Powers of board of councilmen: Ordinances, resolutions and
orders.
   1. The board of councilmen may make and pass all ordinances, resolutions and
orders not repugnant to the Constitution of the United States or the State of
Nevada, or to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes or of this charter,
necessary for the municipal government and the management of the affairs of the
city, and for the execution of all the powers vested in the city.
   2. When power is conferred upon the board of councilmen to do and perform
anything, and the manner of exercising such power is not specifically provided
for, the board of councilmen may provide by ordinance the manner and details
necessary for the full exercise of such power.
   3. The board of councilmen may enforce ordinances by providing penalties not
to exceed those established by the legislature for misdemeanors.
   4. The board of councilmen shall have such powers, not in conflict with the
express or implied provisions of this charter, as are conferred generally by
statute upon the governing bodies of cities organized under a special charter.
   5. The board of councilmen shall not pass any ordinance increasing or
diminishing the salary of any elective officer during the term for which he is
elected or appointed.
   Sec. 2.100    Ordinances: Passage by bill; amendments; subject matter; title
requirements.
   1. No ordinance may be passed except by bill and by a majority vote of the
whole board of councilmen. The style of all ordinances shall be as follows:
"The Board of Councilmen of the City of Carlin does ordain:".
   2. No ordinance shall contain more than one subject, which shall be briefly
indicated in the title. Where the subject of the ordinance is not so expressed
in the title, the ordinance is void as to the matter not expressed in the
title.
   3. Any ordinance which amends an existing ordinance shall set out in full
the ordinance or sections thereof to be amended, and shall indicate matter to
be omitted by enclosing it in brackets and shall indicate new matter by
underscoring or by italics.
   Sec. 2.110    Ordinances: Enactment procedure; emergency ordinances.
   1. All proposed ordinances when first proposed shall be read to the board of
councilmen by title and referred to a committee for consideration, after which
an adequate number of copies of the proposed ordinance shall be filed with the
city clerk for public distribution. Except as otherwise provided in subsection
3, notice of such filing shall be posted at two public bulletin boards in the
city at least 1 week prior to the adoption of the ordinance. The board of
councilmen shall adopt or reject the ordinance or an amendment thereto, within
30 days from the date of such posting.
   2. At the next regular meeting or adjourned meeting of the board of
councilmen following the proposal of an ordinance and its reference to
committee, such committee shall report such ordinance back to the board of
councilmen. Thereafter, it shall be read as first introduced, or as amended,
and thereupon the proposed ordinance shall be finally voted upon or action
thereon postponed.
   3. In cases of emergency or where the ordinance is of a kind specified in
section 7.030, by unanimous consent of the board of councilmen, final action
may be taken immediately or at a special meeting called for that purpose, and
no notice of the filing of the copies of the proposed ordinance with the city
clerk need be posted.
   4. All ordinances shall be signed by the mayor, attested by the city clerk,
and shall be posted, together with the names of the councilmen voting for or
against passage, at two public bulletin boards in the city for at least 1 week
before the ordinance shall become effective. The board of councilmen may, by
majority vote, order the publication of the ordinance in full in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city in lieu of posting.
   5. The city clerk shall record all ordinances in a book kept for that
purpose, together with the affidavits of posting and publication by the
publisher.
   Sec. 2.120    Codification of ordinances; publication of code.
   1. The board of councilmen may codify and publish a code of its municipal
ordinances in the form of a municipal code, which code may, at the election of
the board of councilmen, have incorporated therein a copy of this charter and
such additional data as the board of councilmen may prescribe. When such code
is published, two copies shall be filed with the librarian at the Nevada state
library, and thereafter the code shall be received in all courts of this state
as an authorized compilation of the municipal ordinances of the city.
   2. The ordinances in the code shall be arranged in appropriate chapters,
articles and sections, excluding the titles, enacting clauses, signature of the
mayor, attestations and other formal parts.
   3. The codification shall be adopted by an ordinance and shall not contain
any substantive changes, modifications or alterations of existing ordinances;
and the only title necessary for the ordinance shall be, "An ordinance for
codifying and compiling the general ordinances of the City of Carlin."
   4. The codification may be amended or extended by ordinance.
   Sec. 2.130    Powers of board of councilmen: Public property, buildings.
   1. The board of councilmen may:
      (a) Control the property of the corporation.
      (b) Erect and maintain all buildings necessary for the use of the city.
      (c) Purchase, receive, hold, sell, lease, convey and dispose of property,
wherever situated, for the benefit of the city, improve and protect such
property, and do all other things in relation thereto which natural persons
might do.
   2. The board of councilmen may not, except as otherwise specifically
provided by this charter or any other law, mortgage, hypothecate or pledge any
property of the city for any purpose.
   Sec. 2.140    Powers of board of councilmen: Eminent domain. The board of
councilmen may condemn property for the public use in the manner prescribed by
chapter 37 of NRS, as amended from time to time.
   Sec. 2.150    Powers of board of councilmen: Licensing, regulation and
prohibition of businesses, trades and professions.
   1. The board of councilmen may:
   (a) Regulate all businesses, trades and professions.
   (b) Fix, impose and collect a license tax for revenue upon all businesses,
trades and professions.
   2. No person licensed by an agency of the State of Nevada to practice any
trade or profession except gaming may be denied a license to conduct his
profession.
   3. The board of councilmen may establish any equitable standard to be used
in fixing license taxes required to be collected pursuant to this section.
   Sec. 2.160    Powers of board of councilmen: Police ordinances.
   1. The board of councilmen may enact and enforce such local police
ordinances as are not in conflict with the general laws of the State of Nevada.
   2. Any offense made a misdemeanor by the laws of the State of Nevada shall
also be deemed to be a misdemeanor in the city whenever such offense is
committed within the city.
   Sec. 2.170    Powers of board of councilmen: Fire protection; regulation of
explosives, inflammable materials; fire codes and regulations. The Board of
councilmen may:
   1. Organize, regulate and maintain a fire department.
   2. Provide for the appointment of a fire chief and prescribe his duties.
   3. Regulate or prohibit the storage of any explosive, combustible or
inflammable material in or transported through the city, and prescribe the
distance from any residential or commercial area where it may be kept.
   4. Establish, by ordinance, a fire code and other regulations necessary to
carry out the purpose of this section.
   Sec. 2.180    Powers of board of councilmen: Public health; board of health;
regulations. The board of councilmen may:
   1. Provide for safeguarding public health in the city.
   2. Create a board of health and prescribe the powers and duties of such
board.
   3. Provide for the enforcement of all regulations and quarantines
established by the board of health by imposing adequate penalties for
violations thereof.
   Sec. 2.190    Powers of board of councilmen: Buildings; construction and
maintenance regulations; building and safety codes. The board of councilmen
may:
   1. Regulate all matters relating to the construction, maintenance and safety
of buildings, structures and property within the city.
   2. Adopt any building or safety code necessary to carry out the provisions
of this section and establish such fees as may be necessary.
   Sec. 2.200    Powers of board of councilmen: Zoning and planning.
   1. The board of councilmen may:
   (a) Divide the city into districts and regulate and restrict the erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings,
structures or land within such districts.
   (b) Establish and adopt ordinances and regulations relating to the
subdivision of land.
   2. The board of councilmen shall carry out the provisions of subsection 1 in
the manner prescribed by chapter 278 of NRS, as amended from time to time.
   Sec. 2.210    Powers of board of councilmen: Rights-of-way, parks, public
buildings and grounds and other public places. The board of councilmen may:
   1. Lay out, maintain, alter, improve or vacate all public rights-of-way in
the city.
   2. Regulate the use of public parks, buildings, grounds and rights-of-way
and prevent the unlawful use thereof.
   3. Require landowners to keep the adjacent streets, sidewalks and public
parks, buildings and grounds free from encroachments or obstructions.
   4. Regulate and prevent in all public places:
   (a) The distribution and exhibition of handbills or signs.
   (b) Any practice tending to annoy persons passing in such public places.
   (c) Public demonstrations and processions.
   5. Prevent riots or any act tending to promote riots in any public place.
   Sec. 2.220    Powers of board of councilmen: Golf course. The board of
councilmen may:
   1. Acquire, establish and maintain any golf course, driving range,
clubhouse, pro shop and other facility related thereto.
   2. Cooperate with any nonprofit corporation or association formed under the
laws of the State of Nevada for the purpose of engaging in such activities by:
   (a) Donating, leasing or selling lands, buildings, improvements and personal
property to such corporations or associations.
   (b) Donating funds and acquiring membership in such corporations or
associations.
   Sec. 2.230    Powers of board of councilmen: Traffic control. The board of
councilmen may, by ordinance, regulate:
   1. All vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic within the city and provide
generally for the public safety on public streets and rights-of-way.
   2. The length of time for which vehicles may be parked upon the public
streets and publicly owned parking lots.
   Sec. 2.240    Powers of board of councilmen: Parking meters; off-street
public parking facilities.
   1. The board of councilmen may acquire, install, maintain, operate and
regulate parking meters at the curbs of the streets or upon publicly owned
property made available for public parking. The parking fees to be charged for
the use of the parking facilities regulated by parking meters shall be fixed by
the board of councilmen.
   2. Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the board of councilmen may
acquire property within the city by any lawful means except eminent domain for
the purpose of establishing off-street public parking facilities for vehicles.
The board of councilmen may, after an election is held in conformity with the
provisions of chapter 350 of NRS concerning municipal bond elections, as
amended from time to time, and the proposal for the issuance of the bonds is
approved as therein provided, issue revenue bonds for the purpose of acquiring
such property and erecting such improvements thereon as may be proper. The
board of councilmen may, in such bonds, pledge the on-street parking revenues,
the general credit of the city, or both, to secure the payment of the principal
and interest thereon.
   Sec. 2.250    Powers of board of councilmen: Railroads. The board of
councilmen may:
   1. License, regulate or prohibit the location, construction or laying of
tracks of any railroad or street car in any public right-of-way.
   2. Grant franchises to any person or corporation to operate a railroad or
street car upon public rights-of-way and adjacent property.
   3. Declare a nuisance and require the removal of the tracks of any railroad
or streetcar in any public right-of-way.
   4. Condemn rights-of-way for any public purpose across any railroad right-
of-way.
   5. Prescribe the length of time any public right-of-way may be obstructed by
trains standing or moving thereon.
   6. Require railroad companies to fence their tracks and to construct cattle
guards and crossings and to keep them in repair.
   Sec. 2.260    Powers of board of councilmen: Nuisances. The board of
councilmen may:
   1. Determine by ordinance what shall be deemed nuisances.
   2. Provide for the abatement, prevention and removal of such nuisances at
the expense of the person creating, causing or committing such nuisances.
   3. Provide that such expense of removal shall be a lien upon the property
upon which the nuisance is located. Such lien shall:
   (a) Be perfected by filing with the county recorder a statement by the city
clerk of the amount of expenses due and unpaid and describing the property
subject to the lien.
   (b) Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of general
taxes.
   (c) Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on account
of the nonpayment of general taxes.
   (d) Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes.
   4. Provide any other penalty or punishment of persons responsible for such
nuisances.
   Sec. 2.270    Powers of board of councilmen: Animals and poultry. The board
of councilmen may:
   1. Fix, impose and collect an annual per capita tax on all animals and
provide for the capture and disposal of all animals on which the tax is not
paid.
   2. Regulate or prohibit the running at large and disposal of all kinds of
animals and poultry.
   3. Establish a pound, appoint a poundkeeper and prescribe his duties.
   4. Prohibit cruelty to animals.
   Sec. 2.280    Powers of board of councilmen: Abatement of noxious insects,
rats and disease-bearing organisms. The board of councilmen may take all steps
necessary and proper for the extermination of noxious insects, rats and other
disease-bearing organisms, either in the city or in territory outside the city
but so situated that such insects, rats and disease-bearing organisms migrate
or are carried into the city.
   Sec. 2.290    Powers of board of councilmen: Sanitary sewer facilities. The
board of councilmen may:
   1. Provide for a sanitary sewer system or any part thereof, and obtain
property therefor either within or without the city.
   2. Sell any product or byproduct thereof and acquire the appropriate outlets
within or without the city and extend the sewerlines thereto.
   3. Establish sewer fees and provide for the enforcement and collection
thereof.
   Sec. 2.300    Powers of board of councilmen: Provision of utilities. The
board of councilmen may:
   1. Provide, by contract, franchise or public enterprise, for any utility to
be furnished to the city for the residents thereof.
   2. Provide for the construction of any facility necessary for the provision
of such utilities.
   3. Fix the rate to be paid for any utility provided by public enterprise.
Any charges due for services, facilities or commodities furnished by any
utility owned by the city is a lien upon the property to which the service is
rendered and shall be perfected by filing with the county recorder of Elko
County a statement by the city clerk of the amount due and unpaid and
describing the property subject to the lien. Each such lien shall:
   (a) Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of general
taxes.
   (b) Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on account
of the nonpayment of general taxes.
   (c) Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes.
   Sec. 2.310    Powers of board of councilmen: Cemeteries; acquisition and
maintenance. The board of councilmen may, by any lawful means, acquire and
maintain property for public use as a cemetery.
   Sec. 2.320    Powers of board of councilmen: Television franchises.
   1. The board of councilmen may contract with, authorize or grant a franchise
to, any person, company or association to construct, maintain and operate a
television installation system which requires the use of city property or that
portion of the city dedicated to public use for the maintenance of cables or
wires underground, on the surface or on poles for the transmission of the
television picture.
   2. Any franchise granted shall require a time within which actual
construction shall be commenced, time within which distribution of television
shall be completed, and posting of a bond in an amount to be set by the board
of councilmen to assure compliance therewith.
   ARTICLE III
   Executive Department
   Sec. 3.010    Mayor: Duties; vice president.
   1. The mayor shall:
   (a) Serve as a member and ex officio president of the board of councilmen
and preside over its meetings.
   (b) Serve as the chief executive officer of the city.
   (c) Perform such emergency duties as may be necessary for the general
health, welfare and safety of the city.
   (d) Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or by the
provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes which apply to a mayor of a city
organized under the provisions of a special charter.
   2. The board of councilmen shall elect one of its members to be vice
president. Such person shall:
   (a) Hold such office and title, without additional compensation, during the
term for which he was elected.
   (b) Perform the duties of mayor during the absence or disability of the
mayor.
   (c) Act as mayor until the next municipal election if the office of mayor
becomes vacant.
   Sec. 3.020    City clerk: Duties. The city clerk shall:
   1. Keep the corporate seal and all books and papers belonging to the city.
   2. Attend all meetings of the board of councilmen and keep an accurate
journal of its proceedings, including a record of all ordinances, bylaws and
resolutions passed or adopted by it. After approval at each meeting of the
board of councilmen, the city clerk shall attest the journal after it has been
signed by the mayor.
   3. Sign all warrants issued.
   4. Number and countersign all licenses issued by the city. All licenses
shall be in a form devised by the city clerk and approved by the board of
councilmen.
   5. Enter upon the journal the result of the vote of the board of councilmen
upon the passage of ordinances, or of any resolution appropriating money,
abolishing licenses or increasing or decreasing the rates of licenses.
   6. Act as ex officio city treasurer if so designated by the board of
councilmen.
   7. Perform such other duties as may be required by the board of councilmen.
   Sec. 3.030    City clerk's bond; performance bonds. The city clerk shall be
liable and accountable on his official bond for the performance of his duties
under the provisions of this charter, and the board of councilmen may require
from him such additional security as may be necessary from time to time.
   Sec. 3.040    City attorney: Qualifications; duties.
   1. The city attorney shall be a duly licensed member of the State Bar of
Nevada but he need not be a resident of the city.
   2. The city attorney shall be the legal officer of the city and shall
perform such duties as may be designated by ordinance or otherwise directed by
the board of councilmen.
   Sec. 3.050    County assessor to be ex officio city assessor; duties.
   1. The county assessor of Elko County shall be ex officio city assessor of
the city. The county assessor shall perform such duties for the city without
additional compensation.
   2. Upon request of the ex officio city assessor, the board of councilmen may
appoint and set the salary of a deputy city assessor to perform such duties
relative to city assessments as may be deemed necessary.
   Sec. 3.060    Chief of police: Police officers.
   1. In case of an emergency or a vacancy in the office of chief of police,
the board of councilmen may appoint the constable of Carlin Township (if such
office exists) to act as chief of police, and may fix, allow and pay a
reasonable compensation for such services.
   2. The chief of police may, subject to approval of the board of councilmen,
appoint and supervise such police officers as may be deemed necessary.
   Sec. 3.070    City officers: Duties restricted and altered. The board of
councilmen may prescribe by ordinance the powers and duties of all city
officers, where such powers and duties have not been established by this
charter, and may add to, alter or restrict such powers and duties.
   Sec. 3.080    City officers: Absence from office. If any appointive officer
removes his office from the city, or absents himself therefrom for more than 30
days without leave of the board of councilmen, his office shall be declared
vacant by the board of councilmen and the vacancy filled by appointment as
provided in this charter.
   Sec. 3.090    City Officers: Collection And Disposition Of Moneys.
   1. All taxes, fines, forfeitures or other moneys collected or recovered by
any officer or person pursuant to the provisions of this charter or of any
valid ordinance of the city shall be paid by the officer or person collecting
or receiving them to the city clerk, who shall dispose of them in accordance
with the ordinances, regulations and procedures established by the board of
councilmen.
   2. The board of councilmen may by proper legal action collect all moneys
which are due and unpaid to the city or any office thereof, and the board of
councilmen may pay from the general fund all fees and expenses necessarily
incurred by it in connection with the collection of such moneys.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 3.100    Removal Of Officers. If any officer is adjudged guilty of
misfeasance, nonfeasance or malfeasance in office, by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the board of councilmen may declare the office vacant and fill
the vacancy so caused, as provided by law.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   ARTICLE IV
   Judicial Department
   Sec. 4.010    Municipal Court. There shall be a municipal court of the city
to which the provisions of chapters 5 and 266 of NRS, relating to municipal
courts, as amended from time to time, shall apply.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 4.020    Municipal Court: Justice Of Peace Of Carlin Township Ex
Officio Municipal Judge; Qualifications Of Municipal Judge; Salary.
   1. The municipal court shall be presided over by the justice of the peace of
Carlin township as ex officio municipal judge.
   2. If the office of justice of the peace of Carlin township ceases to exist
the municipal court shall be presided over by a municipal judge appointed by
the board of councilmen. The municipal judge so appointed shall be:
   (a) A resident of the city for a continuous 1-year period immediately
preceding his appointment.
   (b) A qualified elector for a continuous 1-year period immediately preceding
his appointment.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 4.030    Disposition Of Fines. All fines and forfeitures for the
violation of ordinances shall be paid into the treasury of the city in the
manner to be prescribed by the board of councilmen.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 4.040    Additional Imprisonment To Satisfy Fine Or Forfeiture.
Whenever a person is sentenced to both fine and imprisonment, or to pay a
forfeiture in addition to imprisonment, he shall be confined in the city or
county jail, whichever is designated in his sentence of imprisonment, for an
additional period of 1 day for each $4 of the amount until such fine or
forfeiture is satisfied. He shall not be imprisoned beyond the maximum sentence
for the offense for which he is confined.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   ARTICLE V
   Elections
   Sec. 5.010    General Municipal Elections.
   1. On the Tuesday after the first Monday in June 2007, there must be elected
by the qualified voters of the city, at a general election to be held for that
purpose, two councilmen, both of whom hold office until their successors have
been elected and qualified pursuant to subsection 3.
   2. On the Tuesday after the first Monday in June 2007, there must be elected
by the qualified voters of the city, at a general election to be held for that
purpose, a mayor and two councilmen, all of whom hold office until their
successors have been elected and qualified pursuant to subsection 4.
   3. On the Tuesday after the first Monday in November 2008, and at each
successive interval of 4 years thereafter, there must be elected by the
qualified voters of the city, at a general election to be held for that
purpose, two councilmen, both of whom hold office for a period of 4 years and
until their successors have been elected and qualified.
   4. On the Tuesday after the first Monday in November 2010, and at each
successive interval of 4 years thereafter, there must be elected by the
qualified voters of the city, at a general election to be held for that
purpose, a mayor and two councilmen, all of whom hold office for a period of 4
years and until their successors have been elected and qualified.
(SB 121, 2-20-2007)
   Sec. 5.015   Filing Of Declarations Of Candidacy.
   1. A candidate to be voted for at the general election must file a
declaration of candidacy with the city clerk as provided by the election laws
of this state. The city clerk shall charge and collect from the candidate and
the candidate must pay to the city clerk, at the time of filing the declaration
of candidacy, a filing fee in an amount fixed by the city council by ordinance
or resolution.
   2. If, due to the death or ineligibility of or withdrawal by a candidate, a
vacancy occurs in a nomination after the close of filing and any applicable
period for withdrawal of candidacy, the candidate's name must remain on the
ballot for the general election and, if elected, a vacancy exists.
(AB 81, 6-17-2011)
   Sec. 5.020    Applicability Of State Election Laws; Elections Under Board Of
Councilmen's Control; Voting Precincts.
   1. All elections held under this charter shall be governed by the provisions
of the election laws of this state, so far as such laws can be made applicable
and are not inconsistent herewith.
   2. The conduct of all municipal elections shall be under the control of the
board of councilmen. For the conduct of municipal elections, for the prevention
of fraud in such elections, and for the recount of ballots in cases of doubt or
fraud, the board of councilmen shall adopt by ordinance all regulations which
it considers desirable and consistent with law and this charter.
   3. There shall be but one voting precinct in the city. All elective officers
shall be elected by the voters of the city at large.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 5.030    Qualifications, Registration Of Voters.
   1. Every person who resides within the city at the time of holding any
municipal election, and whose name appears upon the official register of voters
in and for the city, is entitled to vote at each municipal election, and for
all officers to be voted for and on all questions that may be submitted to the
people at any such elections, except as otherwise provided in this article.
   2. Nothing in this charter shall be so construed as to deny or abridge the
power of the board of councilmen to provide for supplemental registration.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 5.040    Names On Ballots.
   1. The full names of all candidates, except those who have withdrawn, died
or become ineligible before the close of filing and any applicable period for
withdrawal of candidacy, must be printed on the official ballots without party
designation or symbol.
   2. If two or more candidates have the same surname or surnames so similar as
to be likely to cause confusion and:
   (a) None of them is an incumbent, their middle names or middle initials, if
any, must be included in their names as printed on the ballot; or
   (b) One of them is an incumbent, the name of the incumbent must be listed
first and must be printed in bold type.
(SB 263)
   Sec. 5.050    Ballots For Ordinances And Charter Amendments. An ordinance
for charter amendment to be voted on in the city shall be presented for voting
by ballot title. The ballot title of a measure may differ from its legal title
and shall be a clear, concise statement describing the substance of the measure
without argument or prejudice. Below the ballot title shall appear the
following question: "Shall the above described (ordinance) (amendment) be
adopted?" The ballot or voting machine or device shall be so marked as to
indicate clearly in what manner the voter may cast his vote, either for or
against the ordinance or amendment.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 5.060    Availability Of Lists Of Registered Voters. If, for any
purpose relating to a municipal election or to candidates or issues involved in
such election, any organization, group or person requests a list of registered
voters of the city, the department, office or agency which has custody of the
official register of voters shall either permit the organization, group or
person to copy the voters' names and addresses from the official register of
voters or furnish such a list.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 5.070    Watchers And Challengers. A candidate is entitled upon written
application to the election authorities at least 5 days before the election to
appoint two persons to represent him as watchers and challengers at each
polling place where voters may cast their ballots for him. A person so
appointed has all the rights and privileges prescribed by watchers and
challengers under the election laws of this state. The watchers and challengers
may exercise their rights throughout the voting and until the ballots have been
counted.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 5.080    Voting Machines. The board of councilmen may provide for the
use of mechanical or other devices for voting or counting the votes not
inconsistent with law or regulations of the secretary of state.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 5.090    Election Returns; Canvass; Certificates Of Election; Entry Of
Officers Upon Duties; Tie Vote Procedure.
   1. The election returns from any municipal election shall be filed with the
city clerk, who shall immediately place such returns in a safe or vault, and no
person is permitted to handle, inspect or in any manner interfere with such
returns until canvassed by the board of councilmen.
   2. The board of councilmen shall meet on the first Tuesday after any
election and canvass the returns and declare the result. The election returns
must then be sealed and kept by the city clerk for 6 months, and no person
shall have access thereto except on order of a court of competent jurisdiction
or by order of the board of councilmen.
   3. The city clerk, under his hand and official seal, shall issue to each
person declared to be elected a certificate of election. The officers so
elected shall qualify and enter upon the discharge of their respective duties
on the first Monday in:
   (a) July next following their election for those officers elected in June
2007.
   (b) January next following their election for those officers elected in
November 2008 and November of every even-numbered year thereafter.
   4. If any election should result in a tie, the board of councilmen shall
summon the candidates who received the tie vote and determine the tie by lot.
The clerk shall then issue to the winner a certificate of election.
(SB 121, 2-20-2007)
   Sec. 5.100    Contest Of Election. A contested election for any municipal
office shall be determined according to the law of the state regulating
proceedings in contested elections in political subdivisions.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   ARTICLE VI
   Local Improvements
   Sec. 6.010    Local Improvement Law. The board of councilmen, on behalf of
the city and in its name, without any election, may from time to time acquire,
improve, equip, operate and maintain:
   1. Curb and gutter projects;
   2. Drainage projects;
   3. Off-street parking projects;
   4. Overpass projects;
   5. Park projects;
   6. Sanitary sewer projects;
   7. Sidewalk projects;
   8. Storm sewer projects;
   9. Street projects;
   10. Underpass projects;
   11. Water projects;
   12. Underground utility and communication lines; and
   13. Any combination of such projects.
   Sec. 6.020    Local improvement law: Collateral powers. The board of
councilmen on behalf of the city for the purpose of defraying all the costs of
acquiring or improving any project authorized by section 6.010, or any portion
of the cost thereof not to be defrayed with moneys otherwise available
therefor, is vested with the powers granted to municipalities by chapter 271 of
NRS, as amended from time to time.
   ARTICLE VII
   Local Bonds and Franchises
   Sec. 7.010    Debt limit.
   1. The city shall not incur an indebtedness in excess of 20 percent of the
total assessed valuation of the taxable property within the boundaries of the
city.
   2. In determining any debt limitation under this section, there shall not be
counted as indebtedness:
   (a) Any revenue bonds, unless the full faith and credit of the city is also
pledged to their payment.
   (b) Any special assessment bonds, although a deficiency in the proceeds of
the assessments is required to be paid from the general fund to the city.
   (c) Any short-term securities issued in anticipation of and payable from
property taxes levied for the current fiscal year.
   Sec. 7.020    Acquisition, operation, sale or lease of municipal utilities.
   1. The city may, in the manner and for the purposes provided in this charter
and Nevada Revised Statutes as they apply to cities, grant franchises and
acquire in any manner any public utility, and hold, manage and operate it,
either alone or jointly, with any level of government or instrumentality or
subdivision thereof.
   2. The sale or lease of any municipal utility shall be made only pursuant to
the provisions of NRS 266.386 to 266.3867, inclusive.
   Sec. 7.030    Borrowing money.
   1. Subject to the limitations imposed by this article, the city may borrow
money for any corporate purpose, including without limitation any purpose
expressly authorized by this charter or by Nevada Revised Statutes for a city,
and for such purpose may issue bonds or other securities. The Local Government
Securities Law, as amended from time to time, applies to all securities so
issued, except for securities issued under section 6.020.
   2. The board of councilmen shall submit any proposal to borrow money, except
an emergency loan as defined and authorized by chapter 354 of NRS, as amended
from time to time, and except for any securities issued under section 6.020,
but including securities payable from pledged revenues, to the registered
voters of the city in the manner provided by NRS 350.010 to 350.070, inclusive,
as amended from time to time.
   3. Any property tax levied to pay the principal of or interest on such
indebtedness authorized under subsection 2 shall be levied upon all taxable
property within the city, as provided in NRS 350.590 to 350.602, inclusive, as
amended from time to time.
   4. Any ordinance pertaining to the sale or issuance of bonds or other
securities, including without limitation securities issued under section 6.020,
may be adopted in the same manner as is provided for cases of emergency. A
declaration by the board of councilmen in any ordinance that it is of this kind
shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud or gross abuse of discretion.
   Sec. 7.040    Franchises.
   1. Before granting any franchise the board of councilmen shall first adopt a
resolution setting forth fully and in detail the applicant for, purpose and
character of, terms and time and conditions of the proposed franchise. Such
resolution shall be posted at two public bulletin boards in the city for at
least 2 weeks succeeding its adoption.
   2. On the first regular meeting of the board of councilmen after the
expiration of the period of such posting, the board of councilmen shall proceed
to pass an ordinance for the granting of the franchise; but such franchise
shall be granted only on substantially the same terms and conditions as
expressed in the resolution as posted. Otherwise such ordinance shall be void.
   ARTICLE VIII
   Revenue
   Sec. 8.010    Municipal taxes.
   1. The board of councilmen shall annually, at the time prescribed by law for
levying taxes for state and county purposes, levy a tax not exceeding 3 percent
upon the assessed value of all real and personal property within the city,
except as otherwise provided in the Local Government Securities Law and the
Consolidated Local Improvements Law, as amended from time to time. The taxes so
levied shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner and by the
same officers, exercising the same functions, as prescribed in the laws of the
State of Nevada for collection of state and county taxes. The revenue laws of
the state shall, in every respect not inconsistent with the provisions of this
charter, be applicable to the levying, assessing and collecting of the
municipal taxes.
   2. In the matter of the equalization of assessments, the rights of the city
and the inhabitants thereof shall be protected in the same manner and to the
same extent by the action of the county board of equalization as are the state
and county.
   3. All forms and blanks used in levying, assessing and collecting the
revenues of the state and counties shall, with such alterations or additions as
may be necessary, be used in levying, assessing, and collecting the revenues of
the city. The board of councilmen shall enact all such ordinances as it may
deem necessary and not inconsistent with this charter and the laws of the state
for the prompt, convenient and economical collecting of the revenue.
   Sec. 8.020    Revenue ordinances. The board of councilmen shall have full
power to pass and enact all ordinances necessary to carry into effect the
revenue laws in the city and to enlarge, fix and determine the powers and
duties of all officers in relation thereto.
   ARTICLE IX
   Miscellaneous Provisions
   Sec. 9.010    Severability of provisions. If any portion of this charter is
held to be unconstitutional or invalid for any reason by the decision of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portion of this charter. The legislature hereby declares that it
would have passed the charter and each portion thereof, irrespective of the
portion which may be deemed unconstitutional or otherwise invalid.
   Sec. 9.020    Effect of enactment of charter.
   1. All rights and property of every kind and description which were vested
in the incorporated town of Carlin prior to the enactment of this charter shall
be vested in the City of Carlin on the effective date of this charter. No right
or liability, either in favor of or against such corporation existing at the
time of becoming incorporated under this charter, and no action or prosecution
shall be affected by such change, but it shall stand and progress as if no
change had been made.
   2. Whenever a different remedy is given by this charter, which may properly
be made applicable to any right existing at the time of such incorporated town
so becoming incorporated under this charter, such remedy shall be cumulative to
the remedy before provided, and used accordingly.
   3. All ordinances and resolutions in effect in the incorporated town prior
to the effective date of this charter shall, unless in conflict with the
provisions of this charter, continue in full force and effect until amended or
repealed.
   4. The enactment of this charter shall not be construed to repeal or in any
way affect or modify:
   (a) Any special, local or temporary law.
   (b) Any law or ordinance making an appropriation.
   (c) Any ordinance affecting any bond issue or by which any bond issue may
have been authorized.
   (d) The running of the statute of limitations in force at the time this
charter becomes effective.
   (e) Any bond of any public officer.
   5. The provisions of that certain act of the 56th session of the legislature
entitled "An act relating to the town of Carlin; providing for the improvement
and equipment of its sanitary sewer system; providing for the issuance of bonds
and other securities, constituting general obligations, to defray wholly or in
part the cost of the improvement and equipment of such facilities and
appurtenances; providing for the payment of such securities, the security
therefor, and other details in connection therewith; otherwise providing
powers, rights, privileges, immunities, liabilities, duties, disabilities and
other details in connection with the district, such facilities, such
securities, the taxes and other revenues for their payment, their proceeds,
other moneys, and pledges and liens pertaining thereto, including, without
limitation, by reference to the local government securities law; and providing
other matters properly relating thereto," shall apply to the city of Carlin in
all respects as if the legislature had therein specifically authorized the city
of Carlin to improve and equip its sanitary sewer system and to issue general
obligation securities therefor as provided in such act for the incorporated
town of Carlin.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
   Sec. 9.030    Designation Of First Board Of Councilmen, Mayor Under Charter;
Office Of Treasurer Of Unincorporated Town Abolished.
(Rep. by SB 121, 2-20-2007)
   SECTION 2. 1. This act shall become effective on July 1, 1971, only if the
commission form of government for the incorporated town of Carlin is
discontinued and terminated and the charter of the incorporated town of Carlin
adopted in 1925 (and all amendments thereto) are repealed by a majority vote of
the qualified electors of the incorporated town of Carlin voting on the
question of such abolishment and repeal pursuant to law at the town election
held May 4, 1971.
   2. After the canvass of the returns of the town election held May 4, 1971,
if it appears that the question of discontinuance and termination of the
commission form of government and repeal of the 1925 charter, as amended,
carried, the board of commissioners of the incorporated town of Carlin shall
issue a proclamation of such discontinuance, termination and repeal, a
certified copy of which shall be filed in the office of the secretary of state.
(AB 776, 3-22-1971)
CHAPTER 6
RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE BOARD OF COUNCILMEN
SECTION:
1-6-1: Regular Meetings
1-6-2: Special Meetings
1-6-3: Public Meetings
1-6-4: Presiding Officer
1-6-5: Call To Order
1-6-6: Roll Call
1-6-7: Reading Or Approval Of Minutes
1-6-8: Rules Of Debate
1-6-9: Addressing The Board
1-6-10: Addressing The Board After Motion Made
1-6-11: Manner Of Addressing Board; Time Limit
1-6-12: Filing Of Reports And Resolutions
1-6-13: Adjournment
1-6-1: REGULAR MEETINGS:
   (A)   Time: The board of councilmen shall hold regular meetings on the
second and fourth Wednesdays of each calendar month commencing at seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M.; provided, however, that when the day fixed for any regular meeting
of the board falls upon a day designated by law as a legal or national holiday,
such meeting shall be held at the same hour on the next succeeding day not a
holiday. (Ord. 111, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
   (B)   Place: All regular meetings of the board shall be held at the city
hall of the city of Carlin, or at such other place as may be designated by the
unanimous consent of the board of councilmen. If the meeting place is not the
city hall, notice of the place of such meeting shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at the city hall. (Ord. 81, 9-10-1975, eff. 9-17-1975)
1-6-2: SPECIAL MEETINGS:
Special meetings may be called as specified in and pursuant to the procedure
set forth in section 2.060 of the Carlin city charter. (Ord. 81, 9-10-1975,
eff. 9-17-1975)
1-6-3: PUBLIC MEETINGS:
All meetings of the board of councilmen, whether regular or special or called,
shall be open and public, and all persons shall be permitted to attend any
meeting of the board of councilmen. Provided, however, nothing contained herein
shall be construed to prevent the board of councilmen from holding executive
sessions to consider the appointment, employment or dismissal of a public
officer or employee or to hear complaints or charges brought against such
officer or employee by another public officer, person or employee unless such
officer or employee requests a public hearing. The board of councilmen may
exclude from any such public or private meeting, during the examination of a
witness, any or all other witnesses in the matter being investigated by the
board of councilmen. (Ord. 81, 9-10-1975, eff. 9-17-1975)
1-6-4: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The presiding officer of the board of councilmen shall be the mayor, or if the
mayor is absent from the city, sick or unable to perform the duties of his
office, the vice president. In case of the absence of both the mayor and the
vice president, the remaining councilmen shall elect one of their number to act
instead of the mayor or vice president. The presiding officer shall preserve
strict order and decorum at all regular and special meetings of the board. He
shall state every question coming before the board, announce the decision of
the board on all subjects and decide all questions of order, subject, however,
to an appeal to the board in which event a majority vote of the board shall
govern and conclusively determine such question of order. The presiding officer
shall vote on all questions the same as other councilmen, his name being called
last. In the event of a vote in an acting board consisting of four (4) members
including the mayor, which shall result in a vote of two (2) against two (2),
the manner in which the vote is cast by the mayor shall determine the question.
The mayor shall sign all ordinances and resolutions adopted by the board during
his presence. In the event of the absence of the mayor, the presiding officer
shall sign ordinances, or resolutions as then adopted. (Ord. 81, 9-10-1975,
eff. 9-17-1975)
1-6-5: CALL TO ORDER:
The mayor, or in his absence, the vice president shall take the chair at the
hour appointed for the meeting and shall immediately call the board to order.
In the absence of the mayor and vice president the city clerk shall call the
board to order, whereupon a temporary chairman shall be elected by the members
of the board present. Upon arrival of the mayor or vice president, the
temporary chairman shall immediately relinquish the chair upon conclusion of
the business immediately before the board. (Ord. 81, 9-10-1975, eff. 9-17-1975)
1-6-6: ROLL CALL:
Before proceeding with the business of the board of councilmen, the city clerk,
or the clerk's deputy, shall take the roll of the members, and the names of
those present shall be entered in the minutes. (Ord. 81, 9-10-1975, eff. 9-17-
1975)
1-6-7: READING OR APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Unless the reading of the minutes of the board of supervisors meeting is
requested by a member of the board, such minutes may be approved without
reading if the clerk has previously furnished each member with a synopsis
thereof. (Ord. 81, 9-10-1975, eff. 9-17-1975)
1-6-8: RULES OF DEBATE:
   (A)   Presiding Officer May Debate And Vote, Etc.: The mayor or vice
president or such other member of the board as may be presiding may move,
second and debate from the chair, subject only to such limitations of debate as
are by these rules imposed on all members and shall not be deprived of any of
the rights and privileges of a councilman by reason of his acting as the
presiding officer.
   (B)   Getting The Floor; Improper References To Be Avoided: Every member
desiring to speak shall address the chair, and, upon recognition by the
presiding officer, shall confine himself to the question under debate, avoiding
all personalities and indecorous language.
   (C)   Interruptions: A member, once recognized, shall not be interrupted
when speaking unless it be to call him to order, or as herein otherwise
provided. If a member, while speaking, be called to order, he shall cease
speaking until the question of order be determined, and, if in order, he shall
be permitted to proceed.
   (D)   Privilege Of Closing Debate: The councilman moving the adoption of an
ordinance or resolution shall have the privilege of closing the debate.
   (E)   Motion To Reconsider: A motion to reconsider any action taken by the
board may be made only on the day such action was taken. It may be made either
immediately during the same session, or at a recessed or adjourned session
thereof. Such motion must be made by one of the prevailing side, but may be
seconded by any member, and may be made at any time and have precedence over
all other motions or while a member has the floor; it shall be debatable.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any member of the board from
making or remaking the same or any other motion at a subsequent meeting of the
board. (Ord. 81, 9-10-1975, eff. 9-17-1975)
1-6-9: ADDRESSING THE BOARD:
Any person desiring to address the board shall first secure permission of the
presiding officer so to do. Provided, however, that under the following
headings of business, unless the presiding officer rules otherwise, any
qualified person may address the board without securing such prior permission:
   (A)   Written Communications: Interested parties or their authorized
attorney or representative may address the board by written communications in
regard to matters then under discussion.
   (B)   Oral Communications: Taxpayers or residents of the city, or their
authorized attorney or representative, may address the board by oral
communications on any matter over which the board has control; provided,
however, that preference shall be given to those persons who may have notified
the city manager, or in his absence the city clerk, in advance of their desire
to speak in order that the same may appear on the agenda of the board.
   (C)   Reading Of Protests, Etc.: Interested persons or their authorized
attorney or representative may address the board by reading of protests,
petitions, or communication relating to zoning, sewer and street proceedings,
hearings on protests, appeals and petitions, or similar matters, in regard to
matters then under consideration. (Ord. 81, 9-10-1975, eff. 9-17-1975)
1-6-10: ADDRESSING THE BOARD AFTER MOTION MADE:
After a motion is made for consideration by the board, no person shall address
the board without first securing the permission of the presiding officer so to
do. (Ord. 81, 9-10-1975, eff. 9-17-1975)
1-6-11: MANNER OF ADDRESSING BOARD; TIME LIMIT:
Each person addressing the board shall first give his name and address for the
records, and unless further time is granted by the presiding officer, shall
limit his address to five (5) minutes. All remarks shall be addressed to the
board as a body and not to any member thereof. No person, other than the mayor,
the members of the board and the person having the floor, shall be permitted to
enter into any discussion, either directly or through a member of the board,
without the permission of the presiding officer. No question shall be asked a
councilman except through the presiding officer. (Ord. 81, 9-10-1975, eff. 9-
17-1975)
1-6-12: FILING OF REPORTS AND RESOLUTIONS:
All reports submitted to the board of councilmen and resolutions passed by the
board of councilmen shall be filed with the clerk and entered on the minutes.
(Ord. 81, 9-10-1975, eff. 9-17-1975)
1-6-13: ADJOURNMENT:
A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and decided without debate. (Ord.
81, 9-10-1975, eff. 9-17-1975)
CHAPTER 7
ELECTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-7-1: Conducting Of City Elections
1-7-2: Candidates
1-7-3: Ballots
1-7-4: Absent And Early Voting Ballots
1-7-5: Registration
1-7-6: Sample Ballots And Voter Lists
1-7-7: Notices
1-7-8: Election Boards
1-7-1: CONDUCTING OF CITY ELECTIONS:
All city elections and the manner of holding the same shall be governed and
conducted in accordance with the Carlin city charter, this chapter, and the
laws of the state governing general elections, so far as the same can be made
applicable to such city elections, and except as herein provided, the rules and
regulations for the conduct of primary and general elections in all counties of
the state issued by the department of state, of the state pursuant to title 24,
Nevada Revised Statutes, so far as the same can be made applicable to city
elections, and except as herein provided. (Ord. 117, 5-13-1981, eff. 5-20-1981)
1-7-2: CANDIDATES:
A candidate for any office to be voted for at a general city election shall
file an affidavit of candidacy with the city clerk during regular business
hours of the city clerk. The city clerk shall charge and collect from each
candidate and each candidate shall pay to the city clerk, at the time of the
filing of the affidavit of candidacy, a filing fee as set by resolution of the
board of councilmen. All filing fees so collected by the city clerk shall be
deposited to the credit of the general fund of the city. No person shall be
deemed a candidate for office at such election or be entitled to have his name
placed upon the official ballot unless such person has filed such affidavit of
candidacy and paid the filing fee as set by the board of councilmen.
A candidate for any office to be voted for at a general city election must file
an affidavit of candidacy with the city clerk in accordance with the provisions
of Nevada Revised Statutes 293C.145.
The secretary of state shall prescribe the form for the affidavit of candidacy.
(Ord. 202, 3-12-2003)
1-7-3: BALLOTS:
Official general city election ballots shall contain the names of candidates
grouped alphabetically under the title of the office for which such candidates
file. In years in which the mayor will be elected, the candidates for mayor
shall be listed first, followed by the candidates for councilmen. At the top of
the general election ballot shall be printed "OFFICIAL BALLOT"; under that
shall be printed "CARLIN CITY GENERAL ELECTION"; and under that shall be
printed the date of the election. All other details relating to ballots shall
be controlled and governed by the laws of the state governing general election
laws, so far as the same may be applicable, and the rules and regulations, for
the conduct of primary and general elections, as amended from time to time,
issued by the state of Nevada so far as the same may be applicable. (Ord. 117,
5-13-1981, eff. 5-20-1981; amd. Ord. 202, 3-12-2003)
1-7-4: ABSENT AND EARLY VOTING BALLOTS:
Voting by absent ballot or early voting by personal appearance shall be
conducted as prescribed by the laws of the state in effect at the time of such
voting, as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 293C so far as such
laws are applicable to city elections. (Ord. 202, 3-12-2003)
1-7-5: REGISTRATION:
Every person who resides within the exterior boundaries of the city at the time
of holding any city election, and whose name appears upon the official register
of voters in and for the city, shall have the right to vote at each city
election, whether special, primary, or general, and for all officers to be
voted for and on all questions that may be submitted to the people at any such
primary, general, or special city election.
Registration of the electors or voters in the city shall be accomplished in the
manner provided in the election laws of the state, so far as the same can be
made applicable and which are not inconsistent herewith. Registration shall
close at the time specified in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 293C for the
close of registration for a general election. (Ord. 202, 3-12-2003)
1-7-6: SAMPLE BALLOTS AND VOTER LISTS:
Unless otherwise ordered by the board of councilmen, no list of electors
registered to vote at any city election need be published. The city clerk
shall, in accordance with the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 293C.530,
at least ten (10) days before any election, cause to be mailed to each
registered voter in the city a sample ballot for his precinct with a notice
informing the voter of the location of his polling place. If the location of
the polling place has changed since the last election:
   (A)   The city clerk shall mail a notice of the change to each registered
voter in the city not sooner than ten (10) days before mailing the sample
ballots; or
   (B)   The sample ballot must include a notice in bold type immediately above
the location which states:
NOTICE: THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE HAS CHANGED SINCE THE LAST ELECTION.
   (Ord. 202, 3-12-2003)
1-7-7: NOTICES:
Notice of close of registration shall be given by the city clerk at the time
and in the manner provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 293C. The
city clerk shall include in the notice of close of registration given pursuant
to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 293C a statement indicating the last date
and time on which persons may file affidavits of candidacy and pay the filing
fee for such election specified in this chapter. The city clerk shall publish
in a newspaper having a general circulation in the city, a copy of the
proclamation by the mayor, proclaiming such election pursuant to article V of
the Carlin city charter. Such copy of the proclamation shall be published once
a week for four (4) consecutive weeks, the first publication thereof to be made
within one week from the date of such proclamation. The city clerk shall post a
copy of such proclamation in the office of the city clerk within one week from
the date of such proclamation, and shall further post a copy of the notice of
close of registration to be given pursuant hereto in the office of the city
clerk within one week from the date of first publication of such notice of
close of registration. (Ord. 202, 3-12-2003)
1-7-8: ELECTION BOARDS:
Election boards shall be appointed as prescribed by the laws of the state in
effect at the time of such voting as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes 293C.
(Ord. 202, 3-12-2003)
CHAPTER 8
OFFICE OF CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-8-1: Office Created
1-8-2: Qualifications And Duties
1-8-3: Term Of Office And Method Of Removal
1-8-4: Salary
1-8-1: OFFICE CREATED:
Pursuant to the authority granted to the board of councilmen of the city in the
Carlin city charter, section 1.080, there is hereby established the appointive
office of city manager. The appointive office of city manager is in addition to
the existing appointive offices of city clerk, city treasurer, chief of police,
city engineer, city attorney, city auditor and municipal judge. (Ord. 184, 1-
22-1997)
1-8-2: QUALIFICATIONS AND DUTIES:
   (A)   The city manager shall be chosen by the mayor and city council on the
basis of executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to
actual experience or knowledge of accepted practices in respect to the duties
of a city manager. At the time of appointment the city manager need not be a
resident of the city or state, but may reside outside the city while in office
only with the approval of the city council. (Ord. 184, 1-22-1997)
   (B)   The city manager shall perform such administrative duties as the board
of councilmen may designate by job description approved by them including, but
not limited to, the following duties:
      (1)   Act as the chief administrative officer for the city;
      (2)   Present the annual budget for the city;
      (3)   Administer the approved annual budget for the city;
      (4)   Prepare agendas for all city council meetings;
      (5)   Supervise the purchasing for all departments of the city;
      (6)   Supervise transactions relating to the sale of city property
including city land sales; and
      (7)   See that all city ordinances are enforced, and that the provisions
of all franchises, leases, contracts, permits and other privileges granted by
the city are observed. (Ord. 193, 5-12-1999)
1-8-3: TERM OF OFFICE AND METHOD OF REMOVAL:
The city council shall appoint the city manager to serve at the pleasure of the
city council and the city manager may be removed from office by a majority vote
of the members of the city council with the mayor having a vote. In removing a
city manager the city council shall comply with all applicable city and state
laws. (Ord. 184, 1-22-1997)
1-8-4: SALARY:
The salary of the city manager shall be fixed by the board of councilmen by
motion. (Ord. 184, 1-22-1997)
CHAPTER 9
COURT FACILITIES ADMINISTRATIVE FEE
SECTION:
1-9-1: Short Title
1-9-2: Duration
1-9-3: Administrative Assessment
1-9-4: Exceptions
1-9-5: Addition To Fine
1-9-6: Installments
1-9-7: Special Revenue Fund
1-9-8: Regional Justice Center
1-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CARLIN ADMINISTRATIVE FEE
FOR COURT FACILITIES CODE. (Ord. 189, 9-24-1997)
1-9-2: DURATION:
This chapter shall be in effect for twenty five (25) years after its effective
date. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to offenses committed before
July 1, 1997. (Ord. 189, 9-24-1997)
1-9-3: ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT:
Whenever a defendant pleads guilty or guilty but mentally ill, or no contest or
is found guilty of a misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, the
municipal judge shall include in the sentence the sum of ten dollars ($10.00)
for each such misdemeanor or violation as an administrative assessment for the
provision of court facilities and render a judgment against the defendant for
the assessment. (Ord. 189, 9-24-1997)
1-9-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of section
1-9-3 of this chapter do not apply to:
   (A)   An ordinance regulating metered parking; or
   (B)   An ordinance that is specifically designated as imposing a civil
penalty or liability pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244.3575 or 268.019.
(Ord. 189, 9-24-1997)
1-9-5: ADDITION TO FINE:
The money collected for an administrative assessment for the provision of court
facilities must not be deducted from the fine imposed by the justice or judge
but must be taxed against the defendant in addition to the fine. The money
collected for such an administrative assessment must be stated separately on
the court's docket and must be included in the amount posted for bail. If the
defendant is found not guilty or the charges are dismissed, the money deposited
with the court must be returned to the defendant. If the judge cancels a fine
because the fine has been determined to be uncollectible, any balance of the
fine and the administrative assessment remaining unpaid shall be deemed to be
uncollectible and the defendant is not required to pay it. If a fine is
determined to be uncollectible, the defendant is not entitled to a refund of
the fine or administrative assessment he has not paid and the judge shall not
recalculate the administrative assessment. (Ord. 189, 9-24-1997)
1-9-6: INSTALLMENTS:
If the judge permits the fine and administrative assessment for the provision
of court facilities to be paid in installments, the payments must be applied in
the following order:
   (A)   To pay the unpaid balance of an administrative assessment imposed
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 176.059;
   (B)   To pay the unpaid balance of an administrative assessment for the
provision of court facilities pursuant to this chapter; and
   (C)   To pay the fine. (Ord. 189, 9-24-1997)
1-9-7: SPECIAL REVENUE FUND:
The money collected for administrative assessments for the provision of court
facilities in municipal courts must be paid by the clerk of the court to the
city treasurer on or before the fifth day of each month for the preceding
month. The city treasurer shall deposit the money received in a special revenue
fund. The city may use the money in the special revenue fund only to:
   (A)   Acquire land on which to construct additional facilities for the
municipal courts or a regional justice center that includes the municipal
courts.
   (B)   Construct or acquire additional facilities for the municipal courts or
regional justice center that includes the municipal courts.
   (C)   Renovate or remodel existing facilities for the municipal courts.
   (D)   Acquire furniture, fixtures and equipment necessitated by the
construction or acquisition of additional facilities or the renovation of an
existing facility for the municipal courts or a regional justice center that
includes the municipal courts. This subsection does not authorize the
expenditure of money from the fund for furniture, fixtures or equipment for
judicial chambers.
   (E)   Acquire advanced technology for use in the additional or renovated
facilities.
   (F)   Pay debt service on any bonds issued pursuant to subsection 3 of
Nevada Revised Statutes 350.020 for the acquisition of land or facilities or
the construction or renovation of facilities for the municipal courts or a
regional justice center that includes the municipal courts.
Any money remaining in the special revenue fund after five (5) fiscal years
must be deposited in the municipal general fund for the continued maintenance
of court facilities if it has not been committed for expenditure pursuant to a
plan for the construction or acquisition of court facilities or improvements to
court facilities. The city treasurer shall provide, upon request by a municipal
court, monthly reports of the revenue credited to and expenditures made from
the special revenue fund. (Ord. 189, 9-24-1997)
1-9-8: REGIONAL JUSTICE CENTER:
If money collected pursuant to this chapter is to be used to acquire land on
which to construct a regional justice center, to construct a regional justice
center or to pay debt service on bonds issued for these purposes, the county
and the participating cities shall, by interlocal agreement, determine such
issues as the size of the regional justice center, the manner in which the
center will be used and the apportionment of fiscal responsibility for the
center. (Ord. 189, 9-24-1997)
CHAPTER 10
FINGERPRINT SUBMISSION
SECTION:
1-10-1: Title
1-10-2: Investigations Required
1-10-3: National Background Check Authorized
1-10-4: Enabling State Law
1-10-5: Sets Of Prints
1-10-6: Transmission Of Prints
1-10-7: Private And Public Entity Investigations
1-10-8: Fitness Determinations
1-10-9: Subject Copy
1-10-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as FINGERPRINT SUBMISSION CODE.
(Ord. 228, 9-10-2008)
1-10-2: INVESTIGATIONS REQUIRED:
The council may set forth in the appropriate portion of this code or by
resolution any nonemployment required fingerprint based background
investigation requirements as may be permissible under applicable law. Wherever
fingerprint based background investigation requirements are found to exist,
they are deemed to be mandatory unless specifically waived by the council or,
if so authorized, the city manager. Without limitation, fingerprint based
background investigations are authorized for applications for business
licenses, peddlers' and solicitors' licenses, taxicab business licensing,
brothel licenses and work cards, sexually oriented business licenses, accessory
sexually oriented business licenses, sexually oriented business and escort work
cards, gaming licenses, bar/gaming/taxi cards and armed security licensing.
(Ord. 228, 9-10-2008)
1-10-3: NATIONAL BACKGROUND CHECK AUTHORIZED:
In those instances of required fingerprint based investigations authorized by
this chapter, a national criminal fingerprint based background check by the
federal bureau of investigation (FBI) is authorized hereby. In addition, the
subject of the fingerprint based investigation shall comply with any
authorization or release required by the FBI in furtherance of any such
investigation. (Ord. 228, 9-10-2008)
1-10-4: ENABLING STATE LAW:
Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010(1)(a) authorizes the city to request and
receive from the FBI information on the background and personal history of any
person with whom it intends to enter into a contract for personal services, or
who has applied to it for a license as required by any statute or local
ordinance which it has the power to grant or deny. (Ord. 228, 9-10-2008)
1-10-5: SETS OF PRINTS:
An applicant, volunteer or other person seeking to engage in an activity or
status requiring a fingerprint based background investigation by any city code
or resolution of the city council, shall submit, if required, two (2) sets of
his/her fingerprints taken by the Elko County sheriff's department or the
Carlin police department to be delivered to the requesting officer of the city
or the police department of the city. (Ord. 228, 9-10-2008)
1-10-6: TRANSMISSION OF PRINTS:
Upon receipt of the fingerprints and the appropriate fees, the police
department will transmit both sets of fingerprints and appropriate fees to the
department of public safety of the state of Nevada. The department of public
safety of the state of Nevada will compare the subject's fingerprints against
its criminal file for disqualifying conduct and, if necessary, submit the
fingerprints to the FBI for a comparison with nationwide records. The results
of the FBI will be returned to the department of public safety of the state of
Nevada, which will disseminate the state and national results to the police
department of the city. (Ord. 228, 9-10-2008)
1-10-7: PRIVATE AND PUBLIC ENTITY INVESTIGATIONS:
If an employer or organization is a private entity and this code or council
permits or requires city police department determinations, the police
department will render a fitness determination based upon the results of the
criminal background check and communicate its fitness determination to such
private employer or organization. If an employer or organization is a public
entity, the police department will: a) render a fitness determination based
upon the results of the criminal background check and communicate its fitness
determination to such public entity or b) disseminate the results of the
criminal background check to the proper city department or entity for a fitness
determination. (Ord. 228, 9-10-2008)
1-10-8: FITNESS DETERMINATIONS:
In rendering a fitness determination, the police department or appropriate city
department will decide whether the investigation subject has been convicted of:
a) a crime which bears upon his/her ability or fitness to serve in that
capacity; b) any felony or misdemeanor which involved force or the threat of
force, controlled substances, or was a sex related offense; or c) enumerated
disqualifiers. (Ord. 228, 9-10-2008)
1-10-9: SUBJECT COPY:
A record investigation subject may request and receive a copy of his/her
criminal history record information from the police department or appropriate
city department, except as otherwise provided by law. Should the record
investigation subject seek to amend or correct his/her record, he/she must
comply with the requirements of Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 179A. (Ord.
228, 9-10-2008)
CHAPTER 11
WHISTLE BLOWER PROTECTION
SECTION:
1-11-1: Definitions
1-11-2: Appointment And Authority Of Hearing Officer
1-11-3: Written Appeal By Officer Or Employee Who Claims Retaliatory Action Was
Taken
1-11-4: Procedures For Conduct Of Hearing On Written Appeal
1-11-5: Prohibitions And Application
1-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings:
IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION: Any action taken by a city of Carlin officer or
employee in the performance of his official duties, whether or not the action
is within the scope of his employment, which is:
   (A)   In violation of any city, state law or regulation;
   (B)   If the officer or employee is a local governmental officer or
employee, in violation of an ordinance of the local government;
   (C)   An abuse of authority;
   (D)   Of substantial and specific danger to the public health or safety; or
   (E)   A gross waste of public money.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT: City of Carlin.
LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL EMPLOYEE: Any person who performs public duties under the
direction and control of the local governmental officer for compensation paid
by or through the local government.
LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL OFFICER: A person elected or appointed to a position with
the local government that involves the exercise of a local governmental power,
trust or duty, including:
   (A)   Actions taken in an official capacity which involve a substantial and
material exercise of administrative discretion in the formulation of local
governmental policy;
   (B)   The expenditure of money of a local government; and
   (C)   The enforcement of laws and regulations of the state or a local
government.
REPRISAL OR RETALIATORY ACTION: Includes, but is not limited to:
   (A)   The denial of adequate personnel to perform duties;
   (B)   Frequent replacement of members of the staff;
   (C)   Frequent and undesirable change in the location of an office;
   (D)   The refusal to assign meaningful work;
   (E)   The wrongful issuance of letters of reprimand or evaluations of poor
performance;
   (F)   A wrongful demotion;
   (G)   A wrongful reduction in pay;
   (H)   The wrongful denial of a promotion;
   (I)   A wrongful suspension;
   (J)   A wrongful dismissal;
   (K)   A wrongful transfer; or
   (L)   Frequent changes in working hours or workdays. (Ord. 230, 5-27-2009)
1-11-2: APPOINTMENT AND AUTHORITY OF HEARING OFFICER:
   (A)   The city council will periodically appoint a hearing officer or a
panel of hearing officers from recommendations made by the city manager.
   (B)   If the hearing officer determines that the action taken was a reprisal
or retaliatory action, the hearing officer may issue an order directing the
proper person to desist and refrain from engaging in such action. (Ord. 230, 5-
27-2009)
1-11-3: WRITTEN APPEAL BY OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE WHO CLAIMS RETALIATORY ACTION WAS
TAKEN:
   (A)   A local governmental officer or employee who claims a reprisal or
retaliatory action was taken against him for disclosing information concerning
improper governmental action may file a written appeal pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 281 with the city clerk. The appeal must be:
      {'{'}1).   Filed within sixty (60) calendar days after the date the
alleged reprisal or retaliatory action took place;
      {'{'}1).   Filed within two (2) years of the disclosure of improper
governmental action; and
      {'{'}1).   Submitted on a form provided by the city clerk.
   (B)   The hearing officer may reject a form that is incomplete or otherwise
deficient as insufficient to commence the appeal. (Ord. 230, 5-27-2009)
1-11-4: PROCEDURES FOR CONDUCT OF HEARING ON WRITTEN APPEAL:
The provisions of this section govern the procedure for conducting a hearing
for a written appeal filed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 281 and
this chapter.
   (A)   A party may appear in person and may be represented by an attorney or
another person of his choice, if the party chooses not to represent himself.
   (B)   All testimony must be under oath administered by the hearing officer.
   (C)   The appeal must be heard in the following manner:
      (1)   The opening statement for the officer or employee.
      (2)   The opening statement for the employer, unless reserved.
      (3)   Presentation of the officer's or employee's case, followed by cross
examination. The city officer or employee must establish that:
         (a) He was an officer or employee on the date of the alleged reprisal
or retaliatory action;
         (b) He disclosed information concerning improper governmental action;
and
         (c) The alleged reprisal or retaliatory action was taken against him
within two (2) years after the date he disclosed the information concerning
improper governmental action.
      (4)   If the officer or employee establishes the facts set forth in
subsections (C)3(a), (C)3(b), and (C)3(c) of this section, presentation of the
employer's case, followed by cross examination, to establish that the employer
did not engage in the alleged reprisal or retaliatory action or that the action
was taken for a legitimate business purpose and was not the result of the
disclosure of information concerning improper governmental action by the
officer or employee.
      (5)   If the employer establishes a legitimate business purpose for the
alleged reprisal or retaliatory action, the officer or employee may introduce
evidence, followed by cross examination, to demonstrate that the stated
business purpose is a pretext for the reprisal or retaliatory action.
      (6)   The parties may respectively offer rebutting testimony only, unless
the hearing officer permits additional evidence upon the original cause.
      (7)   The closing argument for the city officer or employee.
      (8)   The closing argument for the employer.
      (9)   Submission of the appeal for a decision.
   (D)   The hearing officer shall convene the hearing at the time and place
specified for the purpose of hearing the appeal.
   (E)   Written notice of the time and place of the hearing must be given to
the parties at least ten (10) days in advance. The notice must contain the
information required for a party to request reasonable accommodation.
   (F)   The hearing officer shall provide reasonable accommodation to a party
with a disability who requests such accommodation within the time sufficient to
make the accommodation.
   (G)   Hearings may be continued beyond the period originally scheduled or
recessed until a future date which is agreeable to the hearing officer and the
parties if good cause is shown.
   (H)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (I) of this section, all
hearings on appeals must be open to the public.
   (I)   On the motion of either party, the hearing officer shall exclude from
the hearing room witnesses in the matter not at the time under examination
except the parties to the proceeding. No hearing may be closed to the public
except on motion of either party for good cause shown.
   (J)   A document or piece of physical evidence sought to be introduced
during the hearing must first be identified for the record and the hearing
officer may request the production of such records and the appearance of such
persons as he requires.
   (K)   The hearing officer shall determine the evidence upon the charges and
specifications as set forth by the appeal document only, and shall not consider
any additional evidence beyond the scope of the charges.
   (L)   An employer's or employee's past performance by way of an act or a
failure to act may be shown by competent evidence.
   (M)   All testimony and exhibits offered at the hearing must be relevant and
bear upon the matter in contention. Any testimony or exhibits which are
considered by the hearing officer as not meeting this criterion may properly be
excluded. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply and the hearing officer has
full discretion to admit or preclude evidence.
   (N)   The hearing officer shall also consider the objection of either side
to the introduction of evidence. Competence and relevance must be the primary
test in ruling on objections.
   (O)   Decision must be based on evidence presented. The hearing officer
shall be guided in his decision by the weight of the evidence as it appears to
him at the hearing.
   (P)   Any letter, paper or object offered in evidence must be properly
authenticated. The representative for the opposing party is entitled to examine
the exhibit when it is offered. (Ord. 230, 5-27-2009)
1-11-5: PROHIBITIONS AND APPLICATION:
   (A)   An officer or employee shall not directly or indirectly use or attempt
to use the officer's or employee's official authority or influence to
intimidate, threaten, coerce, command, influence or attempt to intimidate,
threaten, coerce, command or influence another city officer or employee or
another local governmental officer or employee, as applicable, in an effort to
interfere with or prevent the disclosure of information concerning improper
governmental action.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, use of official authority or
influence includes taking, directing others to take, recommending, processing
or approving any personnel action such as an appointment, promotion, transfer,
assignment, reassignment, reinstatement, restoration, reemployment, evaluation
or other disciplinary action.
   (C)   A city officer or employee shall not use these provisions to harass
another city officer or employee.
   (D)   These provisions do not prohibit an officer or employee from
initiating proper disciplinary procedures against another city officer or
employee or another local governmental officer or employee, as applicable, who
disclosed untruthful information concerning improper governmental action.
   (E)   These provisions are intended to be directory and preventive rather
than punitive, and do not abrogate or decrease the effect of any of the
provisions of state statutes or city code which define or prescribe punishments
with respect to the conduct of officers or employees. (Ord. 230, 5-27-2009)
CHAPTER 12
MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS SALARIES
SECTION:
1-12-1: Short Title
1-12-2: Salary Of The Mayor
1-12-3: Salary Of The Council Members
1-12-4: Separability
1-12-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS
SALARIES ORDINANCE. (Ord. 239, 7-23-2014, eff. 8-1-2014)
1-12-2: SALARY OF THE MAYOR:
The salary for the mayor of the city of Carlin, effective upon the election and
entering office of the mayor for the term of office subsequent to the present
term of office shall be three hundred eighty five dollars ($385.00) per month.
(Ord. 239, 7-23-2014, eff. 8-1-2014)
1-12-3: SALARY OF THE COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The salary for each member of the board of council members, effective upon the
election and entering office of four (4) council members for the terms of
office subsequent to the present terms of office of council members shall be
one hundred seventy five dollars ($175.00) per month. (Ord. 239, 7-23-2014,
eff. 8-1-2014)
1-12-4: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this chapter shall for any
reason be held to be invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, the invalidity, unenforceability or unconstitutionality
of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any remaining
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 239, 7-23-2014, eff. 8-1-2014)
CHAPTER 14
ESTABLISHING THE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER(S)
SECTION:
1-14-1: Definitions
1-14-2: Authority
1-14-3: Authority To Inspect
1-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                          The person or persons authorized by the city for, at
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: least in part, the purposes of enforcement of the
                          provisions of this chapter and the adopted codes.
                          (Ord. 252, 6-22-2022)
 
1-14-2: AUTHORITY:
The following officers and employees of the City are empowered to enforce all
provisions of the adopted codes, including the power to issue misdemeanor
citations for violations related to code enforcement matters as prescribed by
law and/or take other enforcement action authorized by City code or state law:
A.   Fire chief and their designee(s).
B.   Building inspectors (including supervising building inspectors, senior
building inspectors, and building inspectors).
C.   Police chief and their designee(s), which shall include the following:
   1.   All sworn personnel;
   2.   Code enforcement officers; and
   3.   Animal control officers.
D.   An employee designated pursuant to this section may exercise authority
only within the field of enforcement in which the employer works, pursuant NRS
171.17751(5). (Ord. 252, 6-22-2022)
1-14-3: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT:
City code enforcement officials are authorized to enter upon any property or
premises to ascertain whether the provisions of the City of Carlin Municipal
Code or applicable state codes are being obeyed, and to make any examinations,
inspections and surveys as may be necessary in the performance of their
enforcement duties. These may include the taking of photographs, samples or
other physical evidence. All inspections, entries, examinations and surveys
shall be conducted in a reasonable manner. If an owner, occupant or agent
refuses permission to enter or inspect, the enforcement official may seek an
administrative inspection warrant pursuant to the applicable procedures
provided for in the Nevada Code of Civil Procedure or any applicable process
established by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 252, 6-22-2022)
CHAPTER 13
COURT OF RECORD
SECTION:
1-13-1: Establishing Carlin Municipal Court As A Court Of Record
1-13-1: ESTABLISHING CARLIN MUNICIPAL COURT AS A COURT OF RECORD:
The Carlin municipal court is hereby established as a court of record of the
state of Nevada. (Ord. 243, 1-27-2016)
TITLE 2
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
2-1-1: Provisions
2-1-2: Amendments
2-1-3: Fire Zones Established; Map
2-1-4: Floodplain Areas; Land Use And Building Restrictions
2-1-5: Penalty
2-1-1: PROVISIONS:
Except as may be provided in the codes adopted pursuant to section 2-1-2, all
construction, alteration, or change in the use of a building or other structure
made within the city shall be in compliance with, in addition to the other
applicable provisions or amendments set forth by the Carlin board of
councilpeople through resolution, the latest edition of the international
residential code (“IRC First Print”) chapters 1 through 44 and Appendices A, B,
C, G, H, J and K, as adopted by the International Code Council, Inc. Sections
of the international residential code and/or appendices may be adopted, added
or deleted, in whole or in part, by resolution.
   (A)   Reference in the international residential code to the frost line
shall mean a minimum of thirty inches (30") below finish grade.
   (B)   All supplements to the international residential code, issued by the
International Code Council, Inc., between editions are hereby made a part of
the then current edition of the international residential code.
   (C)   In the event that any of the provisions of the latest edition of the
international residential code conflict with any provision of this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern and be controlling.
   (D)   No person shall erect or construct or proceed with the erection or
construction of any building or structure, add to, enlarge, alter, move, extend
or demolish any building or structure, or cause the same to be done without
first obtaining a building permit in the manner as required, and upon the
payment of fees and under the conditions as set forth in the international
building codes, or other applicable codes or provisions set forth by the Carlin
board of councilpeople. (Ord. 214, 2-22-2006; amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
2-1-2: AMENDMENTS:
All building construction work and the inspections thereof shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this code and with the 2018 edition of the
international residential code, (“IRC First Print”), chapters 1 through 44 and
Appendices A, B, C, G, H, J and K, and the following codes which are hereby
adopted by the city. Section(s) of the foregoing codes, including its
respective appendices, may be adopted, added, or deleted, in whole or in part,
by resolution, together with the specific additions and deletions which the
City may adopt, add, or delete, in whole or in part, by resolution.
   ICC electrical code
   International energy conservation code
   International existing building code
   International fuel gas code
   International mechanical code
   ICC performance code
   International plumbing code
   International private sewer disposal code
   International administrative code
   International urban-wildland interface code
   International zoning code
Equivalent adopted versions include the:
   1.   2018 International Building Code (“IBC First Print”), chapters 1
through 35 and Appendices C, E, J, and H.
   2.   2018 International Residential Code (“IRC First Print”), chapters 1
through 44 and Appendices A, B, C, G, H, J and K.
   3.   2018 International Existing Building Code (“IEBC First Print”),
chapters 1 through 16 and Appendices.
   4.   2018 International Energy Conservation Code (“IECC First Print”).
   5.   2018 International Fuel Gas Code (“IFGC First Print”), chapters 1
through 8 and Appendix A.
   6.   2018 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (“IWUIC First Print”),
chapter 5.
   7.   2018 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (“ISPSC”), chapters 1
through 11.
   8.   2018 Uniform Plumbing Code (“UPC First Print”), chapters 1 through 17
and Appendices A, B, D, E, I and L.
   9.   2018 Uniform Mechanical Code (“UMC First Print”), chapters 1 through
17.
   10.   2017 National Electrical Code (“NEC First Print”).
   11.   2018 National Fire Protection Association (“NFPA”) 54 and 2017 NFPA
58.
   12.   2018 International Fire Code.
   13.   2018 Northern Nevada Amendments by the Northern Nevada Chapters of the
International Code Council, with local amendments.
   14.   2017 ICC A117.1-2017 Standard for Accessible and Usable Buildings and
Facilities.
   15.   1997 Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings.
   16.   1997 Uniform Administrative Code. (Ord. 214, 2-22-2006; amd. Ord. 248,
12-3-2019)
2-1-3: FIRE ZONES ESTABLISHED; MAP:
   (A)   The entire incorporated area of the city is hereby declared to be and
is hereby established as a fire district and said fire district shall be known
and designated as fire zones 1, 2 and 3, and each such zone shall include such
territory or portions of the city as illustrated, outlined and designated on a
certain map on file in the office of the city clerk, being marked and
designated as "Fire Zones Of The City Of Carlin", which is hereby adopted as
the fire zoning map of the city for the application of the regulations included
in the building code.
   (B)   The map entitled "Fire Zones Of The City Of Carlin" shall be adopted
by resolution of the city council prior to filing in the office of the city
clerk, and changes in zone limits may be established by resolution of the
council whenever in its opinion a change is meritorious and in conformity with
the orderly development with land use in the city. Any such resolution shall be
in the form adopting a revised map designated as "Fire Zones Of The City Of
Carlin" and each such map shall bear the date of the resolution adopting same.
Resolutions to adopt a revised map designated as "Fire Zones Of The City Of
Carlin" may be introduced at any regular meeting of the city council, but final
action thereupon shall not be taken until the next regular meeting and a copy
of the revised map designated "Fire Zones Of The City Of Carlin" shall be
available to public inspection at all times during regular office hours of the
city at the city office, to and including the date of the meeting at which said
final action will be taken, and notice that the board will take final action
upon any and all such resolutions shall be posted at the city office at least
two (2) weeks prior to the date of the meeting at which said final action will
be taken. (Ord. 214, 2-22-2006)
2-1-4: FLOODPLAIN AREAS; LAND USE AND BUILDING RESTRICTIONS:
The city council hereby resolves to act in the following manner:
   (A)   Floodplain Control Measures:
      (1)   To assure the federal insurance administration that it will enact
as necessary, and maintain in force for those areas having flood or mudslide
hazards, adequate land use and control measures with effective enforcement
provisions consistent with the criteria set forth in section 1910 of the
national flood insurance program regulations.
      (2)   To vest the building official with the responsibility, authority
and means to:
         (a) Delineate or assist the administrator, at his request, in
delineating the limits of the areas having special flood (and/or mudslide)
hazards on available local maps of sufficient scale to identify the location of
building sites.
         (b) Provide such information as the administrator may request
concerning present uses and occupancy of the floodplain (and/or mudslide area).
         (c) Cooperate with federal, state and local agencies and private firms
which undertake to study, survey, map and identify floodplain or mudslide areas
and cooperate with neighboring communities with respect to management of
adjoining floodplain and/or mudslide areas in order to prevent aggravation of
existing hazards.
         (d) Submit on the anniversary date of the community's initial
eligibility an annual report to the administrator on the progress made during
the past year within the community in the development and implementation of
floodplain (and/or mudslide area) management measures.
      (3)   To appoint the building official of the city to maintain for public
inspection and to furnish upon request a record of elevations (in relation to
mean sea level) of the lowest floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures located in the special flood hazard areas. If
the lowest floor is below grade on one or more sides, the elevation of the
floor immediately above must also be recorded.
      (4)   Agree to take such other official action as may be reasonably
necessary to carry out the objectives of the program.
   (B)   Building Construction Restrictions:
      (1)   The building official shall review all building permits for new
construction or substantial improvements to determine whether proposed building
sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed building site is in
a location that has a flood hazard, any proposed new construction or
substantial improvement (including prefabricated and mobile homes) must:
         (a) Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
         (b) Use construction materials and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
         (c) Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage.
      (2)   The city planning commission shall review subdivision proposals and
other proposed new developments to assure that:
         (a) All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage;
         (b) All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical
and water systems are located, elevated and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage; and
         (c) Adequate drainage is provided so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      (3)   The city engineer shall require new or replacement water supply
systems and/or sanitary systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the systems
into floodwaters, and require on site waste disposal systems to be located so
as to avoid impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 214, 2-22-2006)
2-1-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and each such person shall be deemed guilty of
committing a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter including said
adopted codes is committed, continued or permitted. (Ord. 214, 2-22-2006)
CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Provisions
2-2-2: Nonliability Of City
2-2-3: Amendments
2-2-1: PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall be known as the plumbing code of the city of Carlin,
hereinafter "code", including the adoption of the 2018 edition of the uniform
plumbing code (“UPC First Print”), chapters 1 through 17, and, with appendices
A, B, D, E, I, and L and necessary administrative provisions.
Section(s) of the uniform plumbing code and/or appendices may be adopted,
added, or deleted, in whole or in part, by resolution. (Ord. 212, 2-22-2006;
amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
2-2-2: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
This chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the city any liability or
responsibility for damages to any person who suffers injury, asphyxiation, or
loss of life because of any defects in any gas appliance and/or house gas
piping or in the installation thereof, nor shall the city or any official or
employee thereof, be held as assuming any such liability or responsibility by
reason of the inspection authorized hereunder or certificate of inspection
issued by the plumbing inspector. Nor shall the city or any official or
employee thereof be held as assuming any liability or responsibility for
property damage, from any cause whatsoever, which may have been caused by gas
leakage, fire or explosion of any sort coming from or during the operation of
any gas appliance and/or house gas piping. (Ord. 212, 2-22-2006)
2-2-3: AMENDMENTS:
All plumbing construction work and the inspections thereof shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this code and with the 2018 edition of the
uniform plumbing code, or an edition that is later adopted by resolution, which
is hereby adopted by the city, including its respective appendices, together
with the specific additions and deletions which the City may adopt, add, or
delete, in whole or in part, by resolution. (Ord. 212, 2-22-2006; amd. Ord.
248, 12-3-2019)
CHAPTER 3
FENCES
SECTION:
2-3-1: Boundaries
2-3-2: Height
2-3-3: Construction Type; Restrictions
2-3-4: Right To Remove
2-3-1: BOUNDARIES:
All fences within the city limits shall be constructed not less than four feet
(4') in from the curb line in residential zoning and five feet (5') in from the
curb line in commercial zoning. (Ord. 49, 12-1-1958; amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
2-3-2: HEIGHT:
Within city limits, no fence shall be over four feet (4') in height along the
front of any yard. Side yard fences shall be no higher than four feet (4') from
the front fence intersection toward the rear yard for a distance of twenty feet
(20') or to the corner intersection of the house. Fencing may be no higher than
six feet (6') in height along side yards and rear yards. (Ord. 49, 12-1-1958;
amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
2-3-3: CONSTRUCTION TYPE; RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Barbed wire/hog wire fencing shall not be allowed in any zoning other
than RR&F and then only for securing allowable livestock.
   (B)   Electric Fences: The use of electric fences within the city limits is
prohibited.
   (C)   Chainlink Fences: Chainlink fencing may be used in any zoning.
   (D)   Corner parcels are considered to have two (2) front yards.
   (E)   Shrubbery/trees are considered fencing and must not exceed four feet
(4') in height along the front and corners of properties. (Ord. 49, 12-1-1958;
amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
2-3-4: RIGHT TO REMOVE:
The city has the right to require the removal of any fence from its property
upon which any fence is constructed pursuant to or in violation of this
chapter. If the city desires to have a fence removed from its property, it
shall give ten (10) days' written notice to the property owner or occupant of
the property on which such fence is erected, which notice shall provide that
said fence shall be removed within the time provided in said notice at the sole
expense of the property owner or occupant. Should the property owner or
occupant fail to remove the fence pursuant hereto and the written notice as
herein provided, the city may cause the fence to be removed at any time after
the expiration of the period of time as corner lot fencing layout, corner fence
must be placed twenty feet (20') back from corner of curb on a ninety degree
(90°) angle to allow for traffic visibility. Fencing height must not exceed
four feet (4').
Shrubbery is considered fencing when placed along the front and corners of
properties and must not exceed four feet (4') in height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/b17170a508033cc0799292aeb18b754deb918c85/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1682.png]
(Ord. 49, 12-1-1958; amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
CHAPTER 4
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Numbering Required
2-4-2: Specifications
2-4-3: Map Showing Street Numbers
2-4-4: Areas Designated For Numbers
2-4-5: Failure To Number
2-4-6: City To Number
2-4-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED:
Every person owning any building, or the agent thereof, shall, within thirty
(30) days after the effective date hereof, and within thirty (30) days after
the completion or occupation of a building, place or cause to be placed on or
over the door or gate used as an entrance to such building or adjacent to such
door or gate, so as readily to be seen from the street, the proper number of
such building as herein specified. (Ord. 13, 10-3-1932)
2-4-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
All entrances from streets to buildings and to separate apartments in buildings
shall be numbered, and it shall be unlawful for any person whether owner or
occupant of the building or any apartment therein to place, maintain or allow
to remain thereon any number other than the one required by this chapter. The
number placed upon any entrance shall be of a different color from the
background upon which it is placed, and each figure of such number shall be at
least four inches (4") in height and of appropriate width.
All numbers must be of substantial and permanent material and must be so placed
or affixed as not to be easily removed, or must be so painted upon such
entrance as not to be easily effaced. When such numbering is done by painting,
the paint must be renewed whenever, by action of the elements or otherwise, the
number is not readily readable. (Ord. 13, 10-3-1932; amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
2-4-3: MAP SHOWING STREET NUMBERS:
For all purposes herein set forth there is hereby adopted a certain map
entitled "Map of Carlin. City and Additions. Showing Street Numbers. 2011."
Unless herein otherwise specified, said map shall be the guide and shall
control the matter of numbering of houses, and all houses shall be numbered as
by this chapter required according to the numbers as adopted on said map. A
copy of said map shall at all times be kept on file by the city clerk, and said
clerk shall, without charge, render all necessary assistance and give out all
necessary information as to the requirements of said map and of this chapter as
to the numbering of houses within the city. The board of councilpeople shall
have the right from time to time, by resolution entered in their minutes, to
make changes and alterations in said map with regard to the requirements for
numbering, and such changes or alterations when duly adopted by the council by
resolution, and when duly noted on said map shall thereafter govern and control
the numbering of houses within the city. (Ord. 101, 6-13-1979, eff. 6-20-1979;
amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
2-4-4: AREAS DESIGNATED FOR NUMBERS:
First Street shall be the starting point for the numbers of all buildings
fronting on the streets beginning thereat and running respectively easterly and
westerly therefrom.
Main Street (being the street running parallel with and south of the Southern
Pacific Railroad tracks) shall be the starting point for the numbers of all
buildings fronting on streets beginning thereat and running therefrom in a
southerly direction.
Numbers of houses on Main Street or south thereof shall be prefixed by the word
"South" or by the letter "S".
Numbers of houses west of First Street shall be prefixed by the word "West" or
the letter "W".
On all streets having an easterly and westerly course and running easterly from
First Street, the numbering shall begin at their westerly ends and proceed
toward the east.
On such streets running westerly from First Street, the numbering shall begin
at their easterly ends and proceed toward the west, (the numbers being prefixed
by the word "West" or the letter "W", as above provided).
On all streets with an easterly and westerly course (except as herein or on
said map otherwise specifically provided), the numbers of lots abutting on the
northerly line of the street shall be even numbers, and the numbers of lots
abutting on the southerly line shall be odd numbers.
One hundred (100) numbers, or as many thereof as may be necessary, shall be and
are hereby allotted to the property frontage in each block between two (2) main
streets, the number 101 being the first number on the lot abutting on the
southerly line, and the number 102 being the first number on the lot abutting
on the northerly line on all streets with an easterly and westerly course. The
succeeding hundreds shall be allotted in similar manner consecutively to each
succeeding block.
When any street fails in its course to traverse certain blocks, one hundred
(100) numbers shall nevertheless be allotted to each block not traversed in the
same manner as if the street were continuous.
One number shall be allowed for each lot in each block; provided, however, that
where one house or building requiring one number only occupies two (2) or more
lots, the owner or agent shall only be required to employ one of such numbers.
The succeeding hundreds in numbering and progressing easterly and westerly from
First Street, as hereinabove provided, shall not be affected by the fact that
the streets and blocks involved pass from one named portion or addition of the
city to another named portion or addition.
The fixing of First Street as the starting point shall not be affected by the
fact that in certain portions of or additions to the city, the city is not
platted up to First Street. As an illustration, the blocks between First Street
and Second Street and fronting on School Street, Bush Street, Cedar Street,
Hamilton Street and Railroad Street all comprise the "One Hundred Block" on
their respective streets; the blocks between Second and Third Streets and
fronting on School Street, Bush Street, Cedar Street, Hamilton Street and
Railroad Street all comprise the "Two Hundred Block" on their respective
streets; the blocks between Third and Fourth Streets and fronting on School
Street, Bush Street, Cedar Street, Hamilton Street, Railroad Street and Main
Street comprise the "Three Hundred Block" on their respective streets; the
blocks between Fourth and Fifth Streets and fronting on Elm Street, Fir Street,
School Street, Bush Street, Cedar Street, Hamilton Street, Main Street and Camp
Street comprise the "Four Hundred Block" on their respective streets.
In cases where the lots run in length from east to west so that such lots abut
on streets having a northerly and southerly course, or in cases where the
houses have been constructed across lots so that their entrances abut on
streets having a northerly and southerly course, the numbering shall be from
south to north commencing at Railroad Street on all lots north thereof, and
shall be from north to south commencing at Main Street on all lots south
thereof. In the latter case the numbers shall be prefixed by the word "South"
or the letter "S".
In block no. 3, bounded by Hamilton, Railroad, Seventh and Eighth Streets, the
lots have special frontages and shall be numbered in accordance with the map on
file.
On lots 10, 11 and 12 of block 2 the houses have been constructed across the
lots and front on Eighth Street, and have been given special numbers as
provided on said map.
In block 1, bounded by Hamilton, Railroad, Ninth and Tenth Streets, the houses
have been built across lots 13, 14 and 15 and front on Ninth Street, and have
been given special numbers as provided on said map.
In block 37, bounded by Hamilton, Railroad, Tenth and Eleventh Streets, the
improvements have been built across lots 6, 7, 8 and 9, and across parts of
lots 10, 11, 12 and 13, and front on Tenth Street, and have been given special
numbers as provided in said map.
A similar condition applies to the following lots: lots 23 and 24 of block E at
the northwest corner of the intersection of Camp and Fifth Streets; lots 13,
14, 15 and 16 of block C at the northeasterly corner of the intersection of
Camp and Sixth Streets; lots 22, 23 and 24 of block C at the northwesterly
corner of the intersection of Camp and Seventh Streets; lots 23 and 24 of block
H at the northwesterly corner of the intersection of Oak and Seventh Streets;
lots 11 and 12 of block I at the southeasterly corner of the intersection of
Camp and Seventh Streets; lots 23 and 24 of block I at the northwesterly corner
of the intersection of Oak and Eighth Streets; lots 1 to 16 inclusive of block
43 fronting on Railroad Street, Puett's addition section 1; lot 1 of block 44,
and lots 1 to 5 inclusive of block 45 of Puett's addition section 1, fronting
on Thirteenth Street, and lots 10 to 27 inclusive of block 44, Puett's
addition, sections 1 and 2, fronting on Thirteenth Street. (Ord. 13, 10-3-1932)
2-4-5: FAILURE TO NUMBER:
In the event that any owner or agent shall refuse to number his house or
building in accordance with this chapter, the city council may cause notice to
be given to such person or agent of not less than five (5) days, and if such
person or agent still refuses to comply with the provisions of this chapter,
the council may cause the numbering to be painted or affixed as herein
provided, and assess the costs thereof against such owner or agent, and such
costs may be recovered in a civil proceeding, together with the costs, expenses
and a reasonable attorney fee involved in such proceeding. Such remedy shall be
cumulative and in addition to the remedy provided by the penal section of this
code. (Ord. 13, 10-3-1932)
2-4-6: CITY TO NUMBER:
The board of councilmen shall have the right (but it is not obligated so to do)
to cause the clerk or police chief or other person employed for the purpose to
cause the proper numbering to be indicated on all houses with paint or chalk or
stencil or other material not injurious to the premises, in order to indicate
to the owner the proper number to be placed upon his said premises, and in such
event the owner shall cause the premises to be numbered in accordance with such
marking. (Ord. 13, 10-3-1932)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
2-5-1: Provisions
2-5-2: Electrical Inspector
2-5-3: Duties Of Electrical Inspector
2-5-4: Authority Granted To Electrical Inspector
2-5-5: Amendments
2-5-6: Fees For Permits And Inspections
2-5-7: Inspection And Certificates
2-5-8: Connection To Installation
2-5-1: PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall be known as the electrical code of the city of Carlin,
hereinafter "code" including the adoption of the 2017 national electrical code
(“NEC First Print”) and necessary provisions.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all new construction, relocated
buildings, and to any alterations, repairs, or reconstruction, except as
provided for otherwise in this chapter. All electrical construction work,
electrical alterations or repair, installation and maintenance of overhead and
underground electrical supply and communication lines and the inspections
thereof shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and with the
2017 edition of the national electrical code along with supplements as adopted
by the National Fire Protection Association, 2018 National Fire Protection
Association (“NFPA”) 54 and 2017 NFPA 58, which are hereby adopted by the city.
Section(s) of the national electrical code and/or appendices may be adopted,
added, or deleted, in whole or in part, by resolution.
In the event that any residential use presently permitted in any commercially
or industrially zoned area, which is presently being used as a residence, is
converted to a commercial or industrial use, such building, structure or other
property must be rewired with electrical wiring and equipment which meets
commercial and industrial standards established pursuant to this chapter and
the national electrical code. (Ord. 213, 2-22-2006; amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
2-5-2: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
There is hereby created the office of electrical inspector. The person chosen
to fill the office of electrical inspector shall be competent, of good moral
character, shall be possessed of such executive ability as is requisite for the
efficient performance of his duties and shall have a thorough knowledge of the
standard materials and methods used in the installation of electric wiring,
devices, appliances and equipment; shall be well versed in approved methods of
electrical construction for safety to life and property, the statutes of the
state relating to electrical work, the rules and regulations issued under
authority of the statutes, and the national electrical code as adopted by this
chapter, for the installation and maintenance of overhead and underground
electrical supply and communication lines.
Any violation of the provisions of any section of this chapter by the
electrical inspector shall be sufficient cause for his removal from office but
he may be removed for other just cause.
The board of councilmen may delegate the duties of the electrical inspector to
the building official until such time as a full time electrical inspector is
required. (Ord. 213, 2-22-2006)
2-5-3: DUTIES OF ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
It shall be the duty of the electrical inspector to see that the provisions of
this chapter are enforced. He shall, upon application, grant permits for the
installation or alteration of electric wiring and equipment, and shall make
inspections of all new electrical installations and reinspections of all
electrical installations, all as provided in this chapter. He shall keep
complete records of all permits issued, inspections and reinspections made and
other official work performed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. He shall also keep on file a list of inspected electrical appliances
issued by or for Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., which list shall be
accessible for public reference during regular office hours.
The electrical inspector is empowered to employ, after receiving the approval
of the mayor and board of councilmen, any assistant inspectors and clerical
assistants necessary for the proper conduct of his office and the inspection
and reinspection of electrical installations as provided for in this chapter.
The salary of such assistants shall be determined by the mayor and board of
councilmen.
It shall be unlawful for the electrical inspector or any of his assistants to
engage in the business of the sale, installation or maintenance of electric
wiring or equipment, either directly or indirectly, and they shall have no
financial interest in any concern engaged in such business in the city at any
time while holding such office as herein provided for. (Ord. 213, 2-22-2006)
2-5-4: AUTHORITY GRANTED TO ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
The electrical inspector shall have the right, during reasonable hours, to
enter any building in the discharge of his official duties, or for purpose of
making any inspection, reinspection or test of the installation of electric
wiring and equipment contained therein, and shall have the authority to cut or
disconnect or order and enforce the disconnection of any wire in cases of
emergency where necessary for safety to life or property, or where such wire
may interfere with the work of the fire department. The electrical inspector is
hereby authorized to disconnect or order and enforce the discontinuance of
electrical service to any electrical wiring or equipment found to be dangerous
to life or property because they are defective or defectively installed until
such wiring and equipment and their installation have been made safe and
approved by the electrical inspector. The electrical inspector may delegate any
of his powers or duties to any of his assistants.
   (A)   Temporary Power:
      {'{'}1).   The administrative authority is hereby empowered and
authorized to permit and approve the temporary use of electrical current
through any wiring or equipment, subject to the limitations and restrictions
hereinafter prescribed in this section.
      {'{'}1).   No such temporary use of electric current shall be permitted
in any case where such use will be a hazard to life or property.
      {'{'}1).   No such temporary use of electrical current shall be permitted
for a longer period of time than is reasonably necessary to fully comply with
the provisions of this code, and such period of time shall not exceed ninety
(90) days. The administrative authority upon written request can grant an
extension of time.
   (B)   Construction Power: The administrative authority is hereby empowered
and authorized to permit and approve the use of electrical current through any
wiring or equipment for the purpose of construction. Permits for construction
power shall be issued only after the primary building permit has been issued.
Any wiring or equipment shall comply with the limitations and restrictions of
the electrical code. Construction power wiring and equipment must be removed
prior to the final building inspection. (Ord. 213, 2-22-2006)
2-5-5: AMENDMENTS:
All electrical construction work, electrical alterations or repair,
installation and maintenance of overhead and underground electrical supply and
communication lines and the inspections thereof shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter and with the latest edition of the national
electrical code along with supplements as adopted by the National Fire
Protection Association which is hereby adopted by the city, together with
specific additions and deletions which the City may adopt, add, or delete, in
whole or in part, by resolution. (Ord. 213, 2-22-2006; amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-
2019)
2-5-6: FEES FOR PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS:
Before any permit is granted for the installation or alteration of electric
wiring or equipment, the person making application for such permit shall pay to
the clerk a fee in such amount as specified by resolution of the board of
councilmen and on file with the city clerk. (Ord. 213, 2-22-2006)
2-5-7: INSPECTION AND CERTIFICATES:
Upon completion of the work which has been authorized by issuance of any
permit, except an annual permit, it shall be the duty of the person installing
the same to notify the electrical inspector, who shall inspect the installation
within twenty five (25) hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, of
the time such notice is given or as soon thereafter as practicable.
When a certificate of approval is issued authorizing the connection and use of
temporary work, such certificate shall be issued to expire at a time to be
stated therein and shall be revocable for cause by the electrical inspector.
A preliminary certificate of approval may be issued authorizing the connecting
and use of certain specific portions of an incompleted installation; such
certificate shall be revocable at the discretion of the electrical inspector.
When any part of a wiring installation is to be hidden from view by the
permanent placement of parts of the building, the person, firm or corporation
installing the wiring shall notify the electrical inspector and such parts of
the wiring installation shall not be concealed until they have been inspected
and approved by the electrical inspector or until twenty four (24) hours,
exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, shall have elapsed from the time
of such notification; provided, that on large installations, where the
concealment of parts of the wiring proceeds continuously, the person, firm or
corporation installing the wiring shall give the electrical inspector due
notice and inspections shall be made periodically during the progress of the
work.
At least once every three (3) months the electrical inspector shall visit all
premises where work may be done under annual permits and shall inspect all
electric wiring and equipment installed under such a permit since the date of
his last previous inspection and shall issue a certificate of approval for such
work as is found to be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, after
the fee required by section
2-5-6 of this chapter has been paid. If upon the inspection, the installation
is not found to be fully in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, the
electrical inspector shall at once forward to the person making the
installation, a written notice stating the defects which have been found to
exist and these defects shall be corrected and the inspector notified of such
correction. (Ord. 213, 2-22-2006)
2-5-8: CONNECTION TO INSTALLATION:
Except where work is done under an annual permit, it shall be unlawful for any
person to make connection from a source of electrical energy or to supply
electric service to any electric wiring or equipment for the installation of
which a permit is required until the certificate of approval, authorizing the
connection and use of such electrical wiring and equipment, has been issued by
the electrical inspector.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make connections from a source of
electrical energy or to supply electric service to any electric wiring or
equipment which has been disconnected or ordered to be disconnected by the
electrical inspector until a certificate of approval has been issued by him
authorizing the reconnection and use of such wiring, devices, appliances or
equipment.
It shall be unlawful for any person to make any electrical connection to any
electrical equipment until approval has been given by the inspector and a
notice of approval attached. The inspector is hereby authorized to disconnect
any electrical installation or equipment which has been connected before the
approval for service has been given. He shall thereupon attach a notice which
shall state that the wiring or apparatus has been disconnected by the
electrical inspector, and any person removing said notice or reconnecting said
wiring or apparatus before the same has been approved by the inspector, shall
be liable to the penalties provided in this code or in the charter.
Connections may be made to the service equipment before final approval of the
installation by the electrical inspector, provided that in such case the
serving agency shall seal the service disconnecting mains in the open position.
An exception shall be made in the case of range service (and elsewhere by
permission), but in every case where connection is made prior to approval for
service, a notice in writing of such connection shall be filed with the
electrical inspector. (Ord. 213, 2-22-2006)
CHAPTER 6
ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Adoption Of Uniform Code For The Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings
2-6-2: Copies Of Code Available
2-6-1: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
There is hereby adopted, for the purpose of providing a just, equitable and
practical method whereby buildings or structures which for any cause endanger
the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or welfare of the general
public or their occupants, may be required to be repaired, vacated or
demolished, the latest edition of the uniform code for the abatement of
dangerous buildings recommended by the international conference of building
officials, and the whole thereof, save and except any provisions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, such to become effective one week
after the final reading before the board of councilmen. Three (3) copies of the
latest edition being adopted shall be approved by the board of councilmen and
placed on file in the office of the city clerk. From the date on which such
filed editions of said code shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the city. The said code is hereby adopted as
the rules and regulations for abating dilapidated, defective buildings which
endanger life, health, property and public safety. In the event that any of the
provisions of the latest edition of the uniform code for the abatement of
dangerous buildings conflicts with any provisions of this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern and be controlling. All supplements
issued by the international conference of building officials between editions
and approved by the board of councilmen shall be filed in triplicate in the
office of the clerk of the city and shall become a part of this uniform code
for the abatement of dangerous buildings effective one week after public notice
of such filing is given by the posting of the notice in two (2) conspicuous
places in the city. (Ord. 150, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
2-6-2: COPIES OF CODE AVAILABLE:
Three (3) copies of this uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings,
with all amendments and supplements thereto hereafter adopted, shall be kept on
file in the office of the city clerk for use and examination by the public in
the office of the clerk. (Ord. 150, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
CHAPTER 7
INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
2-7-1: Provisions
2-7-2: Amendments
2-7-1: PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall be known as the international building code of the city of
Carlin, hereinafter "code", including the adoption of the 2018 international
building code (“IBC First Print”), chapters 1 through 35 and appendices C, E,
J, and H and necessary administrative provisions. Section(s) of the
international building code and/or appendices may be adopted, added, or
deleted, in whole or in part, by resolution.
All construction, alteration, or change in the use of a building or other
structure made within the city shall be in compliance with, in addition to the
other applicable codes or amendments set forth by the Carlin board of
councilpeople. (Ord. 217, 2-22-2006; amd .Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
2-7-2: AMENDMENTS:
All building construction work and the inspections thereof shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this code, which is hereby adopted by the
city, with the following specific deletions and additions:
Unless any such code has been specifically adopted by the city, and referenced
to an international code, including without limitation to the following, shall
be deemed to refer to the equivalent code, if any that has been adopted by the
city:
   1.   2018 International Building Code (“IBC First Print”), chapters 1
through 35 and Appendices C, E, J and H.
   2.   2018 International Residential Code (“IRC First Print”), chapters 1
through 44 and Appendices A, B, C, G, H, J and K.
   3.   2018 International Existing Building Code (“IEBC First Print”),
chapters 1 through 16 and Appendices.
   4.   2018 International Energy Conservation Code (“IECC First Print”).
   5.   2018 International Fuel Gas Code (“IFGC First Print”), chapters 1
through 8 and Appendix A.
   6.   2018 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (“IWUIC First Print”),
chapter 5.
   7.   2018 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code (“ISPSC”), chapters 1
through 11.
   8.   2018 Uniform Plumbing Code (“UPC First Print”), chapters 1 through 17
and Appendices A, B, D, E, I and L.
   9.   2018 Uniform Mechanical Code (“UMC First Print”), chapters 1 through
17.
   10.   2017 National Electrical Code (“NEC First Print”).
   11.   2018 National Fire Protection Association (“NFPA”) 54 and 2017 NFPA
58.
   12.   2018 International Fire Code.
   13.   2018 Northern Nevada Amendments by the Northern Nevada Chapter of the
International Code Council, with local amendments.
   14.   2017 ICC A1171.1-2017 Standard for Accessible and Useable Buildings
and Facilities.
   15.   1997 Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings.
   16.   1997 uniform administrative code.
Section(s) of the foregoing codes, including its respective appendices, may be
adopted, added, or deleted, in whole or in part, by resolution, together with
specific additions and deletions which the City may adopt, add, or delete, in
whole or in part, by resolution. (Ord. 217, 2-22-2006; amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-
2019)
CHAPTER 8
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
SECTION:
2-8-1: Provisions
2-8-2: Right Of Entry
2-8-3: Violations And Penalties
2-8-4: To Whom Permits May Be Issued
2-8-5: Application For Permit
2-8-6: Cost Of Permit
2-8-7: Amendments
2-8-1: PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall be known as the administrative code of the city of Carlin,
hereinafter "code" including the adoption of the 1997 uniform administrative
code. Section(s) of the administrative code and/or appendices may be adopted,
added, or deleted, in whole or in part, by resolution.
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all construction work, under the
provision of this title, shall be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter and with the uniform administrative code which is hereby adopted by the
city.
This administrative code applies to the following adopted codes:
   2018 International Building Code (“IBC First Print”), chapters 1 through 35
and Appendices C, E, J and H.
   2018 International Residential Code (“IRC First Print”), chapters 1 through
44 and Appendices A, B, C, G, H, J and K.
   2018 Uniform Plumbing Code (“UPC First Print”), chapters 1 through 17 and
Appendices A, B, D, E, I and L.
   2017 National Electrical Code.
   1997 Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings.
   1997 Uniform Administrative Code.
Except as if or otherwise indicated, all sections and chapters referenced
contained in this document are to the uniform administrative code, 1997
edition. Certain sections of the above referenced codes may be added or deleted
by resolution.
Certain provisions of this code may be parallel or similar to provisions of the
international building code, 2018 edition; the international residential code,
2018 edition; the uniform plumbing code, 2018 edition; the national electrical
code, 2017 edition; or other similar codes adopted by the city, or as may be
adopted, amended, or deleted by resolution. The provisions of this code and the
provisions of the other referenced codes shall be applied to the extent
possible. The building official shall have the discretion, in the interest of
convenience for the city or the public, to apply the provisions herein or
corresponding administrative provisions in any of the above referenced codes.
The following provisions are to be considered with the above codes as adopted
by this chapter:
   (A)   Whenever the term "administrative authority" is used in these
chapters, it shall be construed to mean the city engineer or their authorized
representative.
      Unless otherwise provided for by law, the office of the administrative
authority shall be part of the office of the city engineer.
   (B)   The administrative authority shall maintain public office hours
necessary to efficiently administer the provisions of this code and amendments
thereto and shall perform the following duties:
      1.   Require submission of, examine and check plans and specifications,
drawings, descriptions, and/or diagrams necessary to show clearly the
character, kind and extent of work covered by applications for a permit and
upon approval thereof shall issue the permit applied for.
      2.   Collect all fees for permits issued as provided by this code, issue
receipts therefor in duplicate, the duplicate copy of which shall be maintained
as a record of their office.
      3.   Administer and enforce the provisions of this code in a manner
consistent with the intent thereof and shall inspect all work authorized by any
permit to assure compliance with provisions of this code or amendments thereto,
approving, or condemning said work in whole or in part as conditions require.
      4.   Issue upon request a certificate of approval for any work approved
by their office.
      5.   Condemn and reject all work done or being done or materials used or
being used which do not in all respects comply with the provisions of this code
and amendments    thereto.
      6.   Order changes in workmanship and/or materials essential to obtain
compliance with all provisions of this code.
      7.   Investigate any construction or work regulated by this code and
issue such notices and orders as provided for in this code.
      8.   Keep a complete record of all the essential transactions of the
office.
      9.   Transfer all fees collected to the proper authority provided by law
to receive such funds.
      10.   Where, in any specific case, different sections of this code
specify different materials, methods of construction or other requirements, the
most restrictive shall govern. Where there is a conflict between a general
requirement and a specific requirement, the specific requirement shall be
applicable. (Ord. 215, 2-22-2006; amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
2-8-2: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The administrative authority and assistants shall carry proper credentials of
their respective office, upon exhibition of which they shall have the right of
entry, during usual business hours, to inspect any and all buildings and
premises in the performance of their duties. (Ord. 215, 2-22-2006)
2-8-3: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this code
shall therefore, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
Each separate day or any portion thereof during which any violation of this
code occurs or continues shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense, and
upon conviction thereof shall be punishable as herein provided.
The issuance or granting of a permit or approval of plans and specifications
shall not prevent the administrative authority from thereafter requiring the
correction of errors in said plans and specifications or from preventing
construction operations being carried on thereunder when in violation of this
code or of any other ordinance or from revoking any certificate of approval
when issued in error. Every permit issued by the administrative authority under
the provisions of this code shall expire by limitation and become null and
void, if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced within one hundred
eighty (180) days from the date of issuance of such permit, or if the work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work
is commenced for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days. Before such work
may be recommenced a new permit shall be first obtained to do so. (Ord. 215, 2-
22-2006)
2-8-4: TO WHOM PERMITS MAY BE ISSUED:
Any permit required by this code may be issued to any of the following persons:
   (A)   To a person holding an appropriate valid Nevada state contractors
license and an appropriate valid city of Carlin business license.
   (B)   To an owner of property who is building or improving a residential
structure on the property for his own occupancy and not intended for sale or
lease within one year after its completion.
Note: The city of Carlin requires that all general and subcontractors must
maintain a valid Nevada state contractor's license and an appropriate valid
city of Carlin business license. Any company or individual that bids work, not
hired on an hourly basis by a licensed contractor, must be licensed as stated
above. The administrative authority shall require a complete list of all
contractors prior to the issuance of the building permit and request an update
at any time until the certificate of occupancy is issued. (Ord. 215, 2-22-2006)
2-8-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person legally entitled to apply for and receive a permit shall state in
writing on the application form provided for that purpose. He shall give a
description of the character of the proposed scope of work, the location,
ownership, occupancy, and use of the premises in connection therewith. The
administrative authority may require plans, specifications or drawings and such
other information as deemed necessary.
If the administrative authority determines that the plans, specifications,
drawings, descriptions or information furnished by the applicant is in
compliance with the Carlin city code, he shall issue the permit applied for
upon payment of the required fee as hereinafter fixed. The issuance of the
permit shall not be taken as permission to violate any of the requirements of
the Carlin city code.
The permit when issued shall be for such installation as is described in the
application and no deviation shall be made from the installation so described
without the written approval of the administrative authority. (Ord. 215, 2-22-
2006)
2-8-6: COST OF PERMIT:
Such applicant shall pay for each permit issued at the time of issuance, a fee
as adopted through resolution by the Carlin board of councilmen.
Any person who shall commence any work for which a permit is required by this
code without first having obtained a permit therefor shall, if subsequently
permitted to obtain a permit, pay double the permit fee fixed by this section
for such work, provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to
emergency work when it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the
administrative authority that such work was urgently necessary and that it was
not practical to obtain a permit therefor before the commencement of the work.
In all such cases a permit must be obtained as soon as it is practical to do
so, and if there be an unreasonable delay in obtaining such permit, a double
fee as herein provided shall be charged. (Ord. 215, 2-22-2006)
2-8-7: AMENDMENTS:
The City may adopt, add, or delete additions and deletions to the
administrative code, in whole or in part, by resolution.
Subsection 202.9 Liability is amended by adding the following to the end of the
subsection to read as follows:
   This code shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any mechanical, electrical or plumbing system or equipment related
thereto for damages to person or property caused by any defect therein, nor
shall the city be held as assuming such liability by reason of the inspection
or the examination authorized herein or the certificate of approval or the
license and certificate thereof as herein provided or by the reason of the
approval or disapproval of any equipment authorized herein.
   Damages to any person who suffers injury, or loss of life because of any
defects in any mechanical, electrical or plumbing system or equipment, or in
the installation thereof, nor shall the city or any official or employee
thereof, be held as assuming any such liability or responsibility by reason of
the inspection authorized hereunder or certificate of inspection issued by the
administrative authority. Nor shall the city or any official or employee
thereof be held as assuming any liability or responsibility for property
damage, from any cause whatsoever, which may have been caused by fire or
explosion of any sort coming from or during the operation of any mechanical,
electrical or plumbing system or equipment.
Subsection 301.2.1 Building permits is amended to read as follows:
   2. Fences not over 6 feet high.
      Exceptions: (1) Fences, which are not over 4 feet in height measured from
the bottom of footing to the top of the fence and constructed of block, brick,
stone, rock or other similar materials.
   (2)   Any fence supported by a retaining wall when the overall height is
greater than six feet from the bottom of the retaining wall footing to the top
of the fence.
Subsection 301.2.1 Building permits is amended by amending number seven (7) to
read as follows:
   7.   Platforms, walks and driveways not more than 30 inches above grade and
not over any basement or story below, when built in conjunction with a building
that is classified as a group R, division 3 one-family or two-family dwelling,
or a U occupancy.
Subsection 301.2.1 Building permits is amended by adding number twelve (12) to
read as follows:
   12. Construction work on property owned by the United States or on property
owned by any other governmental entity, to the extent exempted by state law.
   Note: Exemption from the permit requirements of the code shall not be deemed
to authorize any work to be done in violation of the provisions of the
technical codes or any other city ordinances or regulations.
Section 301.3 Manufactured housing, travel trailer and recreational vehicle
permits.
Section 301.3 is added to read as follows:
   Section 301.3 Manufactured Housing, Travel Trailer And Recreational Vehicle
Permits.
   (A)   Manufactured Housing Installations (RMH Districts). Manufactured
housing installations are under the jurisdiction of the Nevada department of
business and industry. The units shall bear a seal from a recognized approved
agency.
   (B)   Travel Trailers Or Recreational Vehicles (RMH Districts). Travel
trailers or recreational vehicles are under the jurisdiction of the City of
Carlin.
Section 305.3 Inspection requests is amended to read as follows:
   305.3 Inspection Requests. It shall be the duty of the person doing the work
authorized by the permit to notify the administrative authority orally or in
writing that said work is ready for inspection. Such notification shall be
given not less than twenty four (24) hours before the work is to be inspected.
   It shall be the duty of the person requesting any inspections required
either by this code or the technical codes to provide access to and means for
inspection of the work.
   309.1 Use or occupancy is hereby amended by deleting both the first
paragraph thereof and the exception that follows and substituting for that
paragraph and exception the following paragraph:
   309.1 Use Or Occupancy. No building or structure shall be used or occupied,
and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a building or
structure or portion thereof shall be made until the building official has
approved the building or structure for occupancy, either by means of a
certification of occupancy or by the approval of a final inspection.
Section 309.3 is hereby amended by adding thereto a new paragraph, reading as
follows:
   For purposes of enforcing the code, existing buildings for which a
certification of occupancy has never been issued shall be determined to have
been issued a certificate. Nothing in this paragraph, however, shall be
construed to mean or imply that any such building complies with the
requirements and provisions of the technical codes. (Ord. 215, 2-22-2006; amd.
Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
CHAPTER 9
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
2-9-1: Provisions
2-9-2: Amendments
2-9-1: PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall be known as the mechanical code of the city of Carlin. The
2018 uniform mechanical code (“UMC First Print”), chapters 1 through 17, and
necessary administrative provisions is hereby adopted by the city. Section(s)
of the uniform mechanical code and/or appendices may be adopted, added, or
deleted, in whole or in part, by resolution. (Ord. 216, 2-22-2006; amd. Ord.
248, 12-3-2019)
2-9-2: AMENDMENTS:
All mechanical construction work and the inspections thereof shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this code, together with the specific
additions and deletions which the City may adopt, add, or delete, in whole or
in part, by resolution. (Ord. 216, 2-22-2006; amd. Ord. 248, 12-3-2019)
TITLE 3
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS; ILLUSTRATIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Construction Of Words
3-1-2: Definitions
3-1-3: Illustrations
3-1-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are defined as follows.
Verbs used in the present tense include the future; the singular noun includes
the plural, and the plural the singular; the word "lot" includes "plot" and
"parcel"; the word "building" includes "structure" and shall be construed as
being followed by the words "or part thereof"; the word "occupied" includes the
words "designed", "arranged" or "intended to be occupied". Where the verb "use"
is employed, it shall be construed as if followed by the words "or is intended,
arranged, designed, built, altered, converted, rented or leased to be used";
the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory. All distances and area refer
to measurements in a horizontal plane. The word "title" shall include
amendments thereto, including amendments to the zoning map. (Ord. 64, 11-17-
1971)
3-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
BUILDING: A structure forming a shelter for persons, animals or property and
having a roof. Where appropriate in the context the word "building" shall
include the principal accessory use or uses of the building.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building or structure devoted to a use
accessory to the principal use on the lot.
BUILDING, MAIN: A building in which is contained all or part of the principal
use of the lot.
CLINIC: A place for the examination and treatment of persons as outpatients by
physicians or dentists.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A building containing three (3) or more dwelling units,
not a hotel, apartment hotel or motel.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached building containing only one dwelling unit
and which is constructed under the residential building code and which also
includes manufactured homes and factory built homes developed to specific
standards in accordance with section
3-3-4 of this title and a residential facility for groups in which ten (10) or
fewer unrelated persons with disabilities reside, as defined by Nevada Revised
Statutes.
DWELLING UNIT: A room, or group of rooms, forming a habitable unit for one
family with the facilities which are used, or intended to be used for living,
sleeping, cooking and eating.
ERECT: To build, construct, reconstruct, move upon or conduct any physical
development of the premises required for a building. To excavate, fill, drain
and the like in preparation for building shall also be considered to erect.
FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single
nonprofit housekeeping unit, not including a group of five (5) or more persons
who are not within the second degree of kinship.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors
of a building excluding areas used for accessory garage purposes and such
basement and cellar areas as are devoted exclusively to uses accessory to the
operation of the building. All dimensions shall be taken from the exterior
faces of walls, including the exterior faces of enclosed porches.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The ratio of the gross floor area of a building, or buildings
on one lot to the total area of the lot.
JUNK: Worn out, cast off or discarded articles or material which is ready for
destruction, or has been collected or stored for salvage or conversion. Any
article or material which, unaltered or unchanged and without further
reconditioning, can be used for its original purpose as readily as when new,
shall not be considered junk.
LODGING HOUSE: A dwelling, or that part of a building, in which living space,
without kitchen facilities, is let to five (5) or more persons not within the
second degree of kinship. "Lodging House" shall include a rooming house,
boarding house or tourist home, but not a motel or hotel.
LOT: A parcel of land not divided by a street devoted or intended to be devoted
to a certain use, or occupied by a building or group of buildings and the open
spaces pertaining thereto. Where there is but one principal use on a premises,
the entire premises shall be considered to be one lot. A lot may or may not be
platted or recorded lot.
LOT AREA: The area of the lot, not including any area in a public or private
street, nor any water area more than ten feet (10') from the shoreline.
LOT CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of and abutting two (2) streets
that have an angle of intersection of not more than one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
LOT DEPTH: The mean dimension measured from the front lot line to the rear lot
line in the main direction of the side lot lines.
LOT LINE: The boundary of a lot that separates it from adjoining land. It may
or may not be the boundary of a lot in a recorded subdivision.
LOT WIDTH: The mean distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot mean direction of the side lot lines.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A portion of land within a residential mobile home zoned
district used or intended to be used for parking of one mobile home, including
required yards and parking area, attached or detached accessory building, and
open space.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park, designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home and one automobile.
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS: A mobile home or trailer means a vehicular
structure which is: a) built on a chassis or frame; b) designed to be used with
or without a permanent foundation; c) self-propelled, or capable of being drawn
or carried by a motor vehicle; d) used as a dwelling when permanently connected
to utilities; e) in an RMH-2 district containing not less than five hundred
eighty (580) square feet of useable living area, and having at least two (2)
doors which can be used as entrances or exits to or from the mobile home; and
f) in an RMH-3 district, containing not less than one thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet of useable living area, and having at least two (2) doors
which can be used as entrances or exits to or from the mobile home. This
definition is intended to include mobile homes as buildings, structures, and
residences, where applicable within all the provisions of this code.
A "mobile home park" means a parcel or tract of land having as its principal
use the rental, leasing or occupying of space by two (2) or more mobile homes
on a permanent, semipermanent, or overnight basis, including accessory
buildings, or uses customarily incidental thereto.
MOTEL OR TOURIST PARK: A building or group of buildings providing sleeping
accommodations intended primarily for transient traveling by automobile,
arranged with parking space adjacent, or close to each lodging, and with access
to the sleeping units directly from the outside, rather than through a lobby or
office.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: A building appurtenant to a conforming use that does
not comply with all regulations of this title as to location, floor area ratio,
parking facilities or loading facilities, which building was in existence and
lawful at the time said regulations became effective.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of a building or premises that does not conform under
the provisions of this title to the use regulations of the district in which it
is located, which use was in existence and lawful at the time said use
regulations became effective.
PARKING FACILITY: An area or structure located off the right of way of any
street, that is used for the parking of motor vehicles, including driveways and
aisle areas.
PROFESSION, RECOGNIZED: Architecture, engineering, law, medicine, dentistry or
other activity in which specialized services to clients are performed by
persons with a similar degree of training.
SIGN: A device for visual communication that is used for the purpose of
bringing the subject thereof to the attention of the public, but not including
any flag, badge or insignia of any government or governmental agency or of any
religious or nonprofit educational organization.
SIGN, AREA OF: The area of a freestanding or attached sign shall be considered
to include all lettering, wording and accompanying designs and symbols,
together with the background, whether open or enclosed, may be part of the
design, but for purpose of this title, shall not be considered part of the sign
area unless used for lettering, wording or symbols. When the sign consists of
individual letters or symbols attached to, or painted on the surface, building,
wall or window, the area shall be considered to be that of the smallest
rectangular or other regular shape which encompasses all of the letters and
symbols.
STREET: A way, alley, lane, court, sidewalk, public square or other place that
is part of a highway, including all of the right of way between property lines.
STREET FRONTAGE: The distance that a lot line abuts a public or private street.
STRUCTURE: A combination of materials assembled at a fixed location to give
support, or shelter, such as a building, bridge, trestle, tower, framework,
tank, tunnel, tent, stadium, reviewing stand, platform, bin, sign, flagpole and
the like. A fence or wall over six feet (6') high is considered a structure.
USE: The purpose for which land or building is occupied, maintained, arranged,
designed or intended.
USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use customarily incident to and conducted on the
same lot with the principal use of the building.
YARD, EXTERIOR SIDE: The street side yard on a corner lot. An exterior side
yard from the front yard line to the rear lot line.
YARD, FRONT: An open space extending across the full width of the lot and
bounded by the front lot line, the side lot lines and the nearest wall of the
main building.
YARD, SIDE: An open space extending from the front yard line to the rear yard
line and bounded further by the side lot line and the nearest wall of a main
building. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971; amd. Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980; Ord.
199, 11-14-2001; Ord. 210, 1-25-2006)
3-1-3: ILLUSTRATIONS:
Illustration Of Application Of Dimensional Requirements On Residential Lots:
Figure 2: Illustration Of Floor Area Ratio Of 1.0:
 
Elevation:
                                           1/2 lot cover
 1/2 lot cover          1/4 lot cover     1 floor and 1/4
  2 floors               4 floors          lot cover
                                           2 floors
Floor area ratio = FAR = Total floor space  
                         Total lot area
 
A FAR of 1.0 means that the floor space in the building may equal the lot area
to be built upon. There are no height restrictions, so where accessory uses
require land area assignments, buildings may account for FAR 1.0 by having more
than 1 story.
(Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
3-2-1: Purpose
3-2-2: Establishment Of Districts
3-2-3: Application Of Regulations
3-2-4: Enforcement
3-2-5: Board Of Adjustment; Appeals
3-2-6: Special Use Permits
3-2-7: Nonconforming Uses
3-2-8: Conflicting Terms
3-2-9: Amendments
3-2-10: Penalty
3-2-1: PURPOSE:
   (A)   The purpose of this zoning title is declared to be:
      (1)   To promote the public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   To encourage the most appropriate use of land.
      (3)   To prevent overcrowding on the land.
      (4)   To conserve the value of land and buildings.
      (5)   To lessen congestion of traffic.
      (6)   To prevent undue concentration of population.
      (7)   To provide for adequate light and air.
      (8)   To reduce hazard from fire and other danger.
      (9)   To assist in the economical provision of transportation, water
supply, sewage disposal, schools, parks and other public facilities.
      (10)   To preserve and increase the amenities of the city.
   (B)   In its interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be the minimum requirements adopted for the advancement of these
purposes. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-2-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS 1 :
   (A)   Purpose; Zoning Districts: For the purpose of this title, the city is
hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
   MINIMUM LOT SIZE
 
Rural residence and farming 2 acres (or more)
Neighborhood residence      7,500 square feet
Intermediate residence      5,000 square feet1
Commercial–1              5,000 square feet
Commercial–2              Floor area ratio 0.5
Light industrial            Floor area ratio 0.5
 
      (1)   1,200 square feet additional land per additional dwelling unit over
1 in the intermediate residential district.
   (B)   Rural Residence And Farming; Intent: To comprise lands devoted to
agriculture, related activities and other open uses. It is further intended to
constitute a "hold" district to retain land in less intensive use until the
time is appropriate for more intensive development so as to prevent scattered
development and the premature and costly extension of utility mains and
services related thereto, and to regulate development of the city so that it
occurs in stages according to market needs and progresses contiguously outward
from the developed urban area. Regulations are designed to limit uses to those
which are compatible with agriculture, to prevent encroachment by more
intensive uses, and to preserve the open space characteristics of the district.
   (C)   Neighborhood Residence; Intent: To comprise both single- family and
two-family residential dwellings. It is further intended to allow the
accommodation of public or quasi-public institutional uses through the "special
use permit" process.
   (D)   Intermediate Residence; Intent: To comprise both single- family and
two-family residential dwellings. It is further intended for multi-family
residential dwellings through the "special use permit" process and the
accommodation of public or quasi-public institutional uses through the "special
use permit" process.
   (E)   Commercial–1; Intent: To comprise all commercial uses customarily
found in a commercial area, including, but not limited to, retail and service
activities, office buildings, public and quasi-public land uses. It is further
intended for single-family, two-family, and multi-family residential dwellings.
   (F)   Commercial–2; Intent: To comprise all retail and service activities.
It is further intended for other limited commercial uses customarily found in a
commercial area with these uses being required to proceed through the "special
use permit" process.
   (G)   Light Industrial; Intent: To comprise all industrial uses of
manufactured products relating to building materials, equipment, machinery,
earthen products or salvage. (Ord. 172, 3-11-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See illustration of floor area ratio, section 3-1-3 of this title.
3-2-3: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
Except as hereinafter specified (nonconformance), no building, structure or lot
may be used except in conformance with these regulations.
   (A)   Application Of Title: This title shall apply to any change of use of
any building or structure or land when the same would amount to reconstruction,
extension or structural change.
   (B)   Exceptions: This title shall not affect any existing lawful buildings
or structures, nor land to the extent to which it is lawfully used on the
effective date hereof. However, nothing in this title shall prevent the
strengthening or restoring of a building, or any part thereof, to make it safe
for occupancy or use. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-2-4: ENFORCEMENT:
This title shall be enforced by the officer or board having the power of
enforcing the building regulations 1 , who shall issue no permit for a
building, structure or use which would be in violation of the provisions
hereof. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 2 of this code.
3-2-5: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; APPEALS:
There is hereby established a board of adjustment, which shall consist of the
mayor and council appointed in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 228 and
280.
An appeal to the board of adjustment from the order or decision of any
administrative officer or board under the provisions hereof shall be taken
within ten (10) days after the order or decision appealed from has been
rendered. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-2-6: SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
Where special authorization or exception by the board of councilmen is
permissible hereunder, the person desiring such authorization or exception
shall file a written application therefor with said council. Each application
shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount established by a schedule adopted by
resolution of the board of councilmen and filed in the office of the city
clerk. Where, in the opinion of the council such authorization or exception may
be granted if accompanied by appropriate conditions and safeguards, it shall
impose such conditions and safeguards and make them part of the permit.
No use permit under special use permit authorization by the board of councilmen
shall be authorized unless the council determines that the proposed use meets
the following requirements:
   (A)   The specific site is an appropriate location for such use;
   (B)   Will not be injurious or dangerous to the public health, or hazardous
to the public safety, because of undue traffic congestion, danger of fire or
other reasons;
   (C)   Will not produce noise, vibration, dust, smoke, odor, heat or glare
observable at the lot lines in amounts objectionable or detrimental to the
normal use of adjacent property; and
   (D)   If located in a neighborhood residence, or rural residence or farming
district, or in an intermediate residence district, will not be injurious to
the character or amenities thereof, because of its design or appearance. (Ord.
152, 1-14-1987, eff. 1-21-1987)
3-2-7: NONCONFORMING USES:
If a nonconforming use is changed to a use permitted in the district in which
it is located, it may not be changed again to any use prohibited in the
district. If a nonconforming use is changed to a more restricted use, it may
not be changed back to the previous use or to another less restricted use.
   (A)   Authorization: The city council may authorize a change, expansion,
restoration or resumption of a nonconforming use or building.
   (B)   Variances: The city council may vary the application of dimensional
controls of this title in specific cases wherein its enforcement would involve
practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and wherein desirable relief may
be granted without substantially derogating from the intent and purpose of this
title, but not otherwise upon proceedings brought and determined in accordance
with provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 278.300. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-2-8: CONFLICTING TERMS:
Whenever the terms of the sections and paragraphs set forth in this title are
in conflict with any adopted code or portion thereof, the specific language in
the sections and paragraphs of this title shall control. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-2-9: AMENDMENTS:
This title may be amended, supplemented or changed as to any regulations and
restrictions and the boundaries of any districts and zones herein declared, by
amendment hereto, after having given any and all notices of public hearing and
having held said public hearing, all as required by statute. (Ord. 64, 11-17-
1971)
3-2-10: PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
title or to cause, permit or suffer the same to be done. Any person violating
any of the provisions of this title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
In addition to prosecuting any such penal action as described in this section,
the city shall have the right, by any appropriate proceeding in any court of
competent jurisdiction, to prevent the commencement or prosecution of any
activities in violation of this title, and any owner of property in the city
claiming to be damaged by such violation may, in like manner, institute any
such proceedings. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
CHAPTER 3
REGULATION OF USES
SECTION:
3-3-1: District Uses
3-3-2: Table Of Use Regulations
3-3-3: Establishment Of Mobile Home Parks And Residential Mobile Homes
3-3-4: Development Standards For Manufactured And Factory Built Homes In
Residential Or Commercial–1 Zoned Areas
3-3-5: Amendments
3-3-6: Minimum Distance Between Residential Establishments
3-3-1: DISTRICT USES:
   (A)   Uses Regulated: In each district the use of land, buildings and
structures shall be regulated as set forth in section
3-3-2 of this chapter (table of use regulations), and as elsewhere provided in
this title.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: A use listed in section
3-3-2 of this chapter is permitted in any district where it is designated by
the letter "X".
   (C)   Special Provisions: The city council acting in accordance with the
provisions of section
3-2-6 of this title, may authorize a special permit for a special authorization
for any business or use listed in section
3-3-2 of this chapter in any district in which it is designated by the letter
"S" subject to any conditions or limitations set by the council 1 .
   (D)   Subject To Dimensional Requirements: Permitted uses shall be subject
also to dimensional requirements, off street parking and loading requirements
and such other controls as are set forth in this title.
   (E)   Split Lots: When a lot is situated in more than one district, for the
purpose of this title, the uses permitted in the least restricted district may
extend into the more restricted district for a distance of thirty feet (30').
   (F)   Corner Lots: On a corner lot facing two (2) streets, the required
front yard for the district in which the lot is located shall apply to both
street frontages.
   (G)   Accessory Buildings On Corner Lots: Accessory buildings located on
corner lots must be placed so as not to encroach upon either front yard. (Ord.
64, 11-17-1971)
 
Notes
1 1. Note: In the case of special use permits, the city council may recommend
  (or authorize) such permits after a duly advertised public hearing.
3-3-2: TABLE OF USE REGULATIONS:
                Rural     Neigh-    Inter-
Permitted Uses Residence borhood   mediate   Commer-  Commer-  Light
                And       Residence Residence cial–1 cial–2 Industrial
                Farming
                     Rural     Neigh-    Inter-
Permitted Uses      Residence borhood   mediate   Commer-  Commer-  Light
                     And       Residence Residence cial–1 cial–2 Industrial
                     Farming
Single-family        X         X         X         X        –      –
residence
Two-family residence X         X         X         X        –      –
Multiple-family      –       –       S         S        –      –
Church, parish
house, rectory,      S         S         S         S        S        S
convent, place of
worship
Religious, sectarian
or denominational,   S         S         S         S        S        S
education use
Public school or     S         S         S         S        S        S
public institute
Private, nonprofit
school, library or   S         S         S         S        S        S
institution
Manufactured or
factory
built home pursuant
to                   X         X         X         X        –      –
section
3-3-4 of this
chapter
Government
administration       X         X         X         X        X        X
building or police
or fire station
Public recreation or
water supply or      X         X         X         X        X        X
public agency use
Signs (as herein     X         X         X         X        X        X
permitted)
Uses accessory to
residence uses:
   The keeping of
   poultry,
   livestock or
a) other animals     X         –       –       –      –      –
   for commercial or
   house-
   hold use
   The keeping of
   dogs,
   cats, caged birds
   and
   household pets
   for
   personal
b) enjoyment.        X         X         X         X        –      –
   Household pets do
   not
   include 1 or more
   cows,
   sheep, mules,
   turkeys,
   geese, ducks or
   rabbits
   The keeping of
   boarders
   and the renting
   of rooms
   by a resident
c) family            X         X         X         X        –      –
   provided that the
   rooms
   are part of the
   main
   building
   The use of a
   dwelling
   by a resident as
   an
   office for the
   conduct
   of professional
   services
d) or any other      X         X         X         X        –      –
   customary
   home occupation
   provided
   there is no
   outward
   evidence of such
   use
   other than a
   permitted sign
   Dairy, poultry or
   livestock farm,
e) except            X         S         –       –      –      –
   fur farm or
   piggery
Nursery school or
agency               S         S         S         S        –      –
for daycare of
children
Boarding or lodging  S         –       S         S        –      –
house
Cemetery             S         –       S         S        –      –
Private club, with
restaurant and/or
bar,
lodge, organized
camp                 S         –       S         S        S        –
or other nonprofit
social or
recreational
use
Hotel, motel or inn  S         –       –       S        S        S
Commercial golf
course, except       X         –       –       S        S        –
miniature golf
Private greenhouse
more than 500 square X         –       S         S        –      –
feet or commercial
greenhouse
Market garden,
nursery              X         –       –       S        –      –
or farm
Salesroom or shop
for the sale of
orchard, garden or
nursery, greenhouse  X         –       –       S        S        –
or other farm
produce
primarily raised on
the premises
Commercial
automobile           –       –       –       S        S        –
parking facility
Commercial kennel,   S         –       –       S        S        –
animal hospital
Fur farm or piggery  S         –       –       –      –      –
Commercial picnic    S         –       –       S        –      –
grounds
Restaurant or other
building serving     –       –       –       S        S        S
food and/or liquor
Store for the sale   –       –       –       S        S        S
of retail goods
Showroom for
building
supplies (including
plumbing, heating    –       –       –       S        S        S
and
ventilating
equipment)
Convalescent or      S         S         S         S        S        –
nursing home
Hospital,
sanitorium,
philanthropic or     S         S         S         S        S        –
charitable
institution
Barber or beauty     –       –       –       X        X        –
shop
Hand service laundry
and dry cleaning     –       –       –       X        X        –
pick up station
Photographic studio
or other personal    –       –       –       X        X        –
service
establishment
Frozen food locker   –       –       –       X        X        –
Cabinet shop,
carpenter
shop, electrician
electronic and
appliance repair
shop,                –       –       –       X        X        X
painter,
paperhanger,
plumber, sign
painter
or upholsterer
Business or          –       –       –       X        X        X
professional office
Bank or financial    –       –       –       X        X        –
institution
Accessory uses
customarily          –       –       –       S        S        S
incidental
to a permitted use
Business services
not                  –       –       –       S        S        S
already listed
Open air display     –       –       –       S        S        S
area
Gasoline filling
station, public      –       –       –       S        S        S
garage
Bus station,
railroad             –       –       –       S        S        S
station
Retail sales where
more than 50 percent
of the space for
display of           –       –       –       S        S        S
merchandise
is not within the
structure
Rail freight         –       –       –       S        S        X
terminal
Motor freight
terminal             –       –       –       S        S        X
or bus storage yard
Indoor rental agency
for autos, trailers, –       –       –       S        S        –
etc.
Auto body or paint   –       –       –       S        S        X
shop
Sale of new or used
cars
in open lots outdoor –       –       –       S        S        S
rental agencies for
same
Mobile home or       (see section
tourist              3-3-3 of this chapter)
park
Wholesale business
or
storage in a roofed
structure, not       –       –       –       –      –      X
including
storage of flammable
liquids, gas,
explosives
Open lot storage of
new building
materials,
contractors'
equipment,
machinery or similar
materials (note: any
material, except     –       –       –       –      –      X
equip-
ment or machinery
stored in unenclosed
premises must be
surrounded by a sub-
stantial 7 foot high
tight fence)
Open lot storage of
coke, coal, sand or
other solid fuel or
similar material, or
storage of same in
silo where all dust
and dirt incident to
storage and handling –       –       –       –      –      X
must be effectively
confined to the
premises and there
shall be a 7 foot
wall
or tight fence as
above
Open lot storage or
baling of secondhand
lumber, or used
building
materials, metals,
scrap,
junk, paper, rags,
con-
tainers or salvage
materials, wrecking
or
dismantling motor
vehicles. Wholesale
storage of flammable –       –       –       –      –      S
liquids provided all
dust, dirt
incidental
to storage and
handling
must be effectively
confined to the
premises
and there shall be a
7
foot high wall or
tight
fence as above
Manufacturing,
assembly,
processing,
packaging or
other industrial
operation,
where all resulting
cinders,
dust fumes, gases,
odors,
smoke or vapor must
be
confined to the
premises,
or so disposed of as
to
avoid any air
pollution. No        –       –       –       –      –      X
noise, vibration or
flashing
may be perceptible
normally
without instruments
either at
a point more than
350 feet
from the premises,
or at any
point within the
nearest
residence district
more than
150 feet beyond the
nearest
boundary
Removal of soil,
including
clay, peat, sand,
gravel,
loam and similar
earth                S         –       –       –      –      S
products from the
premises
subject to the
bylaws of
the city pertaining
thereto
In the light
manufacturing
district, the
council may,
subject to the
provisions
of section
3-2-6 of this
title, authorize any
lawful use
hereinbefore         –       –       –       –      –      S
specifically
permitted
in said district
(including
manufacturing
processing
that cannot meet the
standards set forth
in
this section)
 
(Ord. 99, 3-14-1979; amd. Ord. 160, 5-25-1988, eff. 6-1-1988)
3-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF MOBILE HOME PARKS AND RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOMES:
   (A)   Districts: There is added to the existing land use districts in the
city, three (3) additional districts entitled "Residential Mobile Home
District-1 (RMH-1)", "Residential Mobile Home District-2 (RMH-2)", and
"Residential Mobile Home District-3 (RMH-3)". Definitions and all regulations
pertaining to these three (3) districts are set forth in chapter 8, entitled
"Mobile Home Parks and Residential Mobile Home Districts" of this title. (Ord.
122, 6-9-1982, eff. 6-16-1982)
   (B)   Official Zoning District Map:
      (1)   Establishment: The areas and boundaries of zoning districts are
hereby established as shown on the official Carlin zoning map which, together
with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
      (2)   Identification: The official Carlin zoning map shall be entitled
"Carlin Zoning Map", and identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by
the city clerk, bear the notations that it was adopted on the date this Carlin
zoning ordinance was passed, and bear the seal of the city. Regardless of the
existence of purported copies of the official Carlin zoning map which may, from
time to time, be made or published, the official Carlin zoning map, which shall
be located in the office of the city engineer, shall be the final authority as
to the current zoning status of land areas, buildings and other structures in
the city.
      (3)   Changes: If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
changes are made in district boundaries or in other matters portrayed on the
Carlin zoning map, such changes shall be made on said map promptly after the
amendment has been approved by the board of councilmen, together with an entry
signed by the city clerk certifying to the accuracy and date. No amendment to
this chapter which involves matter portrayed on the Carlin zoning map shall
become effective until after such change and entry have been made on said map.
No changes of any nature shall be made in the Carlin zoning map or matter shown
thereon except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. Any
unauthorized change of whatever kind of any person or persons shall be
considered a violation of this chapter and punishable as hereinafter provided.
      (4)   Replacement: In the event that the Carlin zoning map becomes
damaged, destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret due to the nature or number
of changes and additions, the board of councilmen may, by resolution, adopt a
new Carlin zoning map which shall supersede the former map. The new Carlin
zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the former map,
but no such correction shall have the effect of amending the original zoning
ordinance or any subsequent amendment thereof. The new Carlin zoning map shall
be identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by the city clerk, and
bear the seal of the city under the words:
This is to certify that this Carlin Zoning Map adopted the (date) supersedes
and replaces the Carlin Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of map being
replaced) as part of the Zoning Ordinance of the City of Carlin, Nevada.
      (5)   Interpretation: Where, due to scale, lack of detail or illegibility
of the Carlin zoning map, there is an uncertainty, contradiction, or conflict
as to the intended location of any district boundary shown thereon, the exact
location of such boundary shall be determined by the board of councilmen, who
in reaching its determination, shall apply the following standards:
         (a)   Zoning district boundary lines are intended to follow lot lines,
or be parallel or perpendicular thereto, and centerlines of streets, alleys,
rights of way, unless otherwise fixed by dimensions shown on the Carlin zoning
map.
         (b)   In subdivided property, or where a zoning district boundary
divides a lot, the exact location of such boundary shall be indicated by
dimensions shown on the Carlin zoning map.
         (c)   If, after application of the foregoing rules, uncertainty still
exists as to the exact location of a zoning district boundary, the board of
councilmen shall determine and fix the location of such boundary in accordance
with the purpose and intent of this chapter. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-
1980)
3-3-4: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED AND FACTORY BUILT HOMES IN
RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL–1 ZONED AREAS:
   (A)   Mobile homes shall be regulated by chapter 8, "Mobile Home Parks And
Residential Mobile Home Districts", of this title, in conjunction with the
official zoning district map.
   (B)   A manufactured or factory built home may be placed in an area zoned
rural residential and farming, neighborhood residential, intermediate
residential or commercial–1, or any other zoning district which recognizes
single-family dwelling as a "principal permitted use"; provided that all of the
following standards are complied with:
      (1)   At least seventy five percent (75%) of the home will be twenty
three feet (23') wide with a minimal living area of one thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet.
      (2)   The home has roofing materials which are customarily acceptable for
site built housing. Any roofing material may be used, provided it has the
appearance of nonmetallic shingle, shake or tile roof. Roofs shall have a
minimum slope of two to twelve (2:12) and minimum overhanging eaves of nine
inches (9").
      (3)   The home has siding materials which are customarily acceptable for
site built housing. Any siding material may be used, provided it has the
appearance of wood, masonry or horizontal metal siding. Reflection from siding
shall be no greater than that from siding coated with white gloss enamel.
      (4)   The home is permanently affixed to a foundation in accordance with
state and county guidelines and regulations which will qualify the home to be
placed on the real property tax rolls for the county. The foundation fascia
shall be aesthetically compatible with the manufactured or factory built home,
which means the fascia shall be an extension of the siding or be of materials
which are similar to the surrounding homes, and have been approved by the city.
      (5)   A building permit shall be obtained from the city to ensure that
the manufactured or factory built home is assembled on site to standards
regulating the anchoring of the structure to its foundation and other building
requirements.
      (6)   The home shall have a crawl space which corresponds to state and
county regulations and guidelines which are included in the information
governing the foundation.
      (7)   The home must be constructed and certified as either meeting the
home construction and safety standards of the U.S. department of housing and
urban development (HUD) or the building code.
      (8)   The manufactured or mobile home buyer/owner must also own or be
purchasing the land upon which the home will be sited.
      (9)   The owner or purchaser agrees to immediately declare the
manufactured or mobile home as real property under Nevada Revised Statutes
361.244 and to have this conversion from personal property to real property
recorded with the county assessor's office. Proof of this conversion must be
provided to the Carlin city office by the owner/purchaser.
      (10)   The lots shall conform to all applicable lot size, setback,
parking and other requirements of the residential zoning district.
      (11)   Accessory structures to manufactured or factory built housing
shall be constructed in compliance with the standards specified in the
residential zoning district; and
Further provided, that twenty (20) days prior to any such certification by the
inspector, application has been made at the office of the city clerk, together
with the payment of the required application fee and the posting of a payment
bond for the installation of the manufactured or factory built home within a
six (6) month period, and
Further provided, that if the manufactured or factory built home is placed in a
commercial–1 zoned area that all setback requirements and dimensional controls
for intermediate residentially zoned properties set forth in section
3-5-1 of this title are complied with.
      (12)   The manufactured or factory built home shall be manufactured
within the five (5) years immediately preceding the date on which it is affixed
to the residential lot.
      (13)   As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes, the provisions of this
section do not abrogate recorded restrictive covenants prohibiting manufactured
homes nor do the provisions apply within the boundaries of a historic district
established pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 384.005 and 384.100. An
application to place a manufactured home on a residential lot pursuant to this
section constitutes an attestation by the owner of the lot that the placement
complies with all covenants, conditions and restrictions placed on the lot and
that the lot is not located within a historic district. (Ord. 210, 1-25-2006)
3-3-5: AMENDMENTS:
The board of councilmen may, from time to time as the public necessity,
convenience, general welfare, or good zoning practice requires, change the
district boundaries, or reclassify the zoning of certain areas, or amend,
change, repeal, or supplement the regulations herein established. Such change
or amendment may be initiated by the board of councilmen or the planning
commission on its own motion, or by application of one or more owners of real
property within the area proposed to be changed.
   (A)   Applications: Applications for change of district boundaries,
reclassifications of the zoning of certain areas, or amendment of regulations
shall be filed with the city clerk by an owner of real property within the area
proposed to be changed. Such application shall be filed on a form provided for
the purpose, and shall be complete.
      (1)   Payment of a filing fee in an amount established by a schedule
adopted by resolution of the board of councilmen and filed in the office of the
city clerk.
      (2)   No part of the filing fee shall be returnable. Payment of filing
fee shall be waived when the change or amendment is initiated by the board of
councilmen or the planning commission, or when the petitioner is the city,
county, state, or federal government.
   (B)   Commission Public Hearing:
      (1)   Notice Of Hearing: The planning commission shall set a date for
public hearing of the petition by the commission. Such public hearing shall be
held only after a public notice of the time, date, and place of such hearing
has been published at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city at least ten (10) days prior to such hearing date, and the requirements of
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 241 have been complied with.
Such notice shall include a legal description of the property proposed to be
rezoned, statement of existing and proposed zoning of the property, and a
general description of any regulations proposed to be amended. In addition to
publication of such notice, it shall be mailed by certified mail to all
property owners within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundary of
the property requesting such zone change prior to the public hearing.
      (2)   Hearing: The commission shall hold its public hearing on the
application at which it shall review all proposed changes and amendments, and
shall hear all evidence offered by the petitioner and parties in interest. Such
hearing shall be held within sixty five (65) days from date of application
filing.
      (3)   Commission Action: Within forty (40) days after the public hearing
the planning commission shall file a written report with the board of
councilmen recommending that the application be granted as requested, granted
subject to specific conditions, or denied. The commission's recommendation
shall be transmitted to the city clerk and a copy mailed to the applicant.
Failure by the planning commission to file a report with the board of
councilmen shall be deemed approval by the planning commission.
   (C)   Board Of Councilmen's Public Hearing:
      (1)   Upon receipt of the planning commission's recommendation on the
application, the city clerk shall set a date for public hearing of the matter
by the board of councilmen, and shall give thirty (30) days' notice of hearing,
posted and published as required by law to the public and to the property
owners.
      (2)   The board of councilmen shall set at such public hearing on the
application, consider the planning commission's recommendation and hear all
evidence offered by the applicant and parties in interest.
      (3)   At the public hearing, or within fifteen (15) days thereafter, the
board of councilmen shall approve or deny the petition. If the board of
councilmen's decision is to approve the amendment, without conditions, or to
approve the amendment subject to conditions agreed to by the petitioner, the
zoning amendment shall be adopted and shall become effective as provided by
law. (Ord. 116, 3-11-1981, eff. 3-18-1981)
3-3-6: MINIMUM DISTANCE BETWEEN RESIDENTIAL ESTABLISHMENTS:
A minimum distance of at least one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320')
shall be required between residential establishments. A residential
establishment is defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 278.020(7)(d) as:
"Residential establishment" means: a) a home for individual residential care in
a community whose population is one hundred thousand (100,000) or more, b) a
halfway house for recovering alcohol and drug abusers or c) a residential
facility for groups.
   (A)   The definition of "individual residential care" is not applicable as
the population of Elko County is less than one hundred thousand (100,000).
   (B)   "Halfway house for recovering alcohol and drug abusers" is defined in
Nevada Revised Statutes as: "Halfway house for recovering alcohol and drug
abusers" means a residence that provides housing and a living environment for
alcohol and drug abusers and is operated to facilitate their reintegration into
the community, but does not provide treatment for alcohol or drug abuse. The
term does not include a facility for the treatment of abuse of alcohol or drugs
as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 449.00455.
   (C)   "Residential facility for groups" is defined in Nevada Revised
Statutes 449.017 as: Except as otherwise provided in subsection (B) of this
section, "residential facility for groups" means an establishment that
furnishes food, shelter assistance and limited supervision to an aged, infirm,
mentally retarded or handicapped person. The term does include:
      (1)   An establishment which provides care only during the day;
      (2)   A natural person who provides care for no more than two (2) persons
in his own home;
      (3)   A natural person who provides care for one or more persons related
to him within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity;
      (4)   A halfway house for alcohol and drug abusers; or
      (5)   A facility funded by a division or program of the department of
human resources. (Ord. 199, 11-14-2001)
CHAPTER 4
SIGN CODE
SECTION:
3-4-1: Short Title
3-4-2: Uniform Sign Code And Chapter 10 Of The Uniform Zoning Code
3-4-3: Definitions
3-4-4: Permit And Enforcement
3-4-5: General Provisions
3-4-6: Special Use Permit Signs
3-4-7: Abandoned Signs
3-4-8: Violation; Penalty
3-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CARLIN SIGN CODE. (Ord. 179, 11-8-1995)
3-4-2: UNIFORM SIGN CODE AND CHAPTER 10 OF THE UNIFORM ZONING CODE:
   (A)   Adoption Of The Uniform Sign Code: There is hereby adopted for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing signs, that certain code known as
the uniform sign code, together with all supplements, amendments and appendixes
recommended by the international conference of building officials being
particularly the latest edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except
such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, such to become
effective one week after posting notice of its adoption.
   (B)   Adoption Of Chapter 10 Of The Uniform Zoning Code: There is hereby
adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing signs, that
certain chapter of that certain code known as the uniform zoning code, together
with all supplements, amendments and appendixes recommended by the
international conference of building officials being particularly the latest
edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, such to become effective one week
after posting notice of its adoption.
   (C)   Amendments To The Uniform Sign Code: The following amendments to
section 103 – enforcement and section 1302 – regulations of the uniform sign
code are hereby made and adopted to make the code applicable to conditions in
the city:
Section 103.3 entitled Board Of Appeals, is hereby amended by adding the
following at the end of such section. "Notwithstanding any of the provisions of
the Uniform Sign Code, the Board of Councilmen shall have the power to review
and revise, amend or repeal any final order of the Board of Appeals on its own
motion. Such final order of the Board of Councilmen shall be considered a final
administrative order".
Section 1302.1 entitled Installation, is hereby amended by adding the following
sentence at the end thereof: "Every sign shall have a main disconnect or switch
located in the sign so as to be readily accessible or on the structure or
exterior of the building upon which the sign is constructed or which it is
attached".
   (D)   Amendments To The Uniform Zoning Code: The following amendments to
section 1006 – signs in manufacturing zones and section 1007 – general sign
regulations of the uniform zoning code are hereby made and adopted to make the
code applicable to conditions in the city:
Section 1006 entitled Signs In Manufacturing Zones, is hereby amended by
replacing manufacturing to read "industrial".
Section 1007.1 entitled Sign Illumination, is hereby amended by adding the
following sentence at the end thereof. "Every sign shall have a main disconnect
or switch located in the sign so as to be readily accessible or on the
structure or exterior of the building upon which the sign is constructed or
which it is attached".
   (E)   Applicability: From the date on which such filed edition of said code
shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the city. That said code is hereby adopted as the rules and
regulations for the governing of signs. In the event any of the provisions of
the latest edition of the uniform sign code conflict with any of the provisions
of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall govern and be
controlling.
   (F)   Copies Of Code Available: Three (3) copies of this uniform sign code
and chapter 10 of the uniform zoning code, with all supplements, amendments and
appendixes thereto, hereinafter adopted shall be kept on file in the office of
the city clerk of the city for use and examination by the public. (Ord. 179,
11-8-1995)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign that does not display a current advertising message,
which has not been maintained in good repair, or any sign structure no longer
supporting the sign for which it was designed.
ADMINISTRATOR: A building official of the city, capable of administrative work
and vested by the city council with the duty of administering the regulations
contained herein.
ADVERTISING DISPLAY: Copy, symbols, logotype or graphics on a sign.
ANIMATED SIGN: A sign that uses mechanical or electrical devices to simulate
the effect of motion.
ARCHITECTURAL GRAPHICS: A painted design, mural, relief or similar feature
which is incorporated into the architectural design of a building but conveys
no advertising message.
CIVIC DISPLAY: A temporary display erected on a public street or public
property in connection with a holiday, or civic event.
DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A sign or group of signs meant as a single display to give
information about the location of a business or building.
FLASHING SIGN: A sign that uses intermittent illumination.
FREESTANDING SIGN: A permanent sign exceeding six feet (6') in height and
supported by its structure apart from a building.
INFLATABLE SIGN: Any device that is supported by air pressure and used to
attract the attention of the public.
MERCHANDISING POSTER: A sign that is behind or on a display window to provide
information about a specific product, price or event.
MOBILE SIGN: Any sign attached to or supported by a vehicle including a
trailer; this definition does not apply to mass transit vehicle or taxicab.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign lawfully erected prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
OFF PREMISES SIGN: Any sign that advertises a business, activity or product not
located on the same site as the sign.
OFFICIAL SIGN: Any sign erected by a governmental agency.
ON PREMISES SIGN: Any sign that advertises a business, activity or product on
the same site as the sign.
POLITICAL SIGN: A sign that carries an advertising message supporting or
opposing a candidate or proposition.
PROJECT SALES: A sign erected for the purpose of promoting the sale or lease of
property in a residential, commercial or industrial area.
PROMOTION BANNER AND FLAGS: A temporary display erected on a place of business
or a public property in connection with a specific promotional activity.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A temporary sign offering for rent or sale the real property
on which it is located.
SUSPENDED SIGN: A sign supported from or below a building soffit or permanent
canopy. (Ord. 179, 11-8-1995)
3-4-4: PERMIT AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Required Permit: Except as otherwise provided in this section, it is
unlawful for any person to erect, enlarge, alter, except by normal maintenance,
or relocate within the city, any permanent sign without first having obtained a
sign permit and paying the permit fees.
   (B)   Application For Permit: Application for a sign permit shall be made on
forms provided by the city and shall include, or be accompanied by, the
following:
      (1)   Name, address, telephone number and notarized signature of the
property owner.
      (2)   Name, address, telephone number and notarized signature of the
applicant, i.e., the owner of the sign.
      (3)   Name, address and telephone number of the contractor, if any.
      (4)   A plot plan showing the boundaries of the parcel on which the sign
(s) is to be located.
      (5)   Drawings of the proposed sign(s) showing the design, dimensions,
mounting height, materials of construction and structural details; wind,
seismic, combined and allowable stress loads will be included with all
freestanding signs.
      (6)   Identification of all existing signs on the site, including their
size and location.
      (7)   Any other information deemed necessary by the planning board.
   (C)   Issuance Of Permit: When all requirements of this section have been
satisfied and all fees paid, a sign permit shall be issued by the city clerk.
   (D)   Permit Fees: Permit fees will be established by the city council by
resolution.
   (E)   Inspections: Any sign that is subject to this section shall be
inspected by the administrator to ensure compliance with this section.
   (F)   Suspension And Revocation: Any permit issued in error or in reliance
on a falsified application may be revoked by the city council. Any sign erected
or partially erected under a permit issued pursuant to a falsified application
may be ordered removed at the owner's expense. Signs that have been declared a
public nuisance by the planning commission shall have their permit revoked by
the city council and will be removed at the owner's expense.
   (G)   Enforcement: Any sign that is erected, enlarged, altered or relocated
without a valid sign permit is a violation of this chapter and is subject to
removal by the city at the owner's expense. (Ord. 179, 11-8-1995)
3-4-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Allowable Sign Area/Height: The allowable sign area shall apply to the
maximum surface area of all sign faces visible from any one point. The
allowable area and height will be determined by zoning district. To exceed the
allowable height and sign area, a special use permit is required.
   (B)   Location Of Signs: Signs located on private property shall not extend
across property lines into adjacent property or public right of way.
Freestanding or projecting signs may be located within or project into
setbacks, except no sign shall be located in any manner that would create a
hazard for traffic or pedestrians.
   (C)   Off Premises Signs: For any off premises sign that is proposed within
six hundred feet (600') of any highway classified by the state as part of the
interstate and primary highway system, a state sign permit must be obtained
prior to the issuance of a construction permit or sign certificate by the city.
(Ord. 179, 11-8-1995)
3-4-6: SPECIAL USE PERMIT SIGNS:
The following types of signs will require a special use permit:
   (A)   Off premises freestanding.
   (B)   Signs exceeding allowed display surface and/or height within
designated zoning districts. (Ord. 179, 11-8-1995)
3-4-7: ABANDONED SIGNS:
   (A)   Removal Of Abandoned Signs: Any sign or sign structure that has been
abandoned for a period of six (6) months shall be removed or restored to use at
the owner's expense within thirty (30) days after a notice of abandonment is
issued to the owner of the sign. Notice shall be given by the city clerk using
certified mail.
   (B)   Criteria For Establishing Abandonment: A sign or sign structure shall
be considered abandoned when any of the following occurs:
      (1)   Any copy thereon is out of date.
      (2)   Any business advertising thereon is no longer on the premises.
      (3)   Any product or service advertised thereon is no longer offered on
the premises.
      (4)   The structure no longer supports a sign or the sign no longer
contains an advertising display.
      (5)   A sign, structure or advertising display is visibly damaged or
partially missing. (Ord. 179, 11-8-1995)
3-4-8: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   (A)   Any of the following shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided for in this code:
      (1)   To erect, enlarge, alter, except by normal maintenance, or relocate
any sign in a way that is inconsistent with the provisions of this sign code
including the uniform sign code and chapter 10 of the uniform zoning code.
      (2)   To erect, enlarge, alter, except by normal maintenance, or relocate
any sign in a way that is inconsistent with any plan review governing such sign
for the parcel on which sign is located.
      (3)   To fail to remove any sign that is erected, enlarged, altered,
except by normal maintenance, or relocated for which the sign permit has
lapsed.
      (4)   For the continuance of a violation, each day shall be considered a
separate violation when applying the penalty portions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any sign installed or placed on any property in violation of the
requirements of this chapter shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   With respect to any sign that constitutes a hazard to the public or
an uncertified sign that has been installed or placed on public property or
within public right of way, the sign may be immediately removed and impounded.
The city clerk shall notify, by certified mail, the property owner and sign
owner of the impoundment of the sign. Such notice shall be given within five
(5) days after impoundment of the sign or within such additional time as may be
necessary in order to identify and locate such person or persons. The city must
keep the sign for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days after the date noted
on the certified mail receipt, during which time the owner or responsible
person may reclaim the sign. If the sign is not reclaimed by the end of this
time period, the sign may be destroyed.
      (2)   The city shall have the right to recover full costs of removal and
disposal of such sign from the owner of such sign or the owner of the property
on which it is located.
      (3)   Removal pursuant to this subsection may be accomplished by the city
or its authorized agent.
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. The city may
issue a citation and upon conviction seek imposition of fines in accordance
with the following schedule:
      (1)   Upon the first conviction, a minimum of two hundred dollars
($200.00);
      (2)   Upon the second conviction within a period of one year, a minimum
of five hundred dollars ($500.00);
      (3)   Upon each subsequent conviction within a period of one year, a
minimum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   (D)   Each sign erected, installed, altered, relocated or abandoned in
violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate violation when
applying the penalty portions of this chapter. (Ord. 179, 11-8-1995)
CHAPTER 5
DIMENSIONAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Table Of Dimensional Controls
3-5-1: TABLE OF DIMENSIONAL CONTROLS 1 :
Zoning   Minimum Minimum  Front Each Rear Floor
District Lot     Lot      Yard  Side Yard Area
         Size    Frontage       Yard      Ratio
Zoning              Minimum      Minimum  Front   Each      Rear    Floor
District            Lot          Lot      Yard    Side      Yard    Area
                    Size         Frontage         Yard              Ratio
Rural residence and 2 acres      200 feet 40 feet 25 feet** 35 feet –
farming
Neighborhood        7,500 square 75 feet  12 feet 5 feet    5 feet  –
residence           feet
Intermediate        5,000 square 50 feet  12 feet 5 feet    5 feet  –
residence           feet***
Tourist             –          –      –     –       –     0.25*
commercial
Commercial          –          –      –     –       –     0.5
Light               –          –      40 feet 35 feet   40 feet 0.5
industrial
* Floor area ratio – the ratio of Total floor space in building
Total land area on lot
** Permitted institutional uses in residence districts must have 25 foot
side yards.
*** 1,200 square feet per additional unit.
 
(Ord. 172, 3-11-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See illustrated examples in section 3-1-3 of this title.
CHAPTER 6
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Off Street Parking Requirements
3-6-2: Location, Layout Of Parking Facilities
3-6-3: Off Street Loading Requirements
3-6-1: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
              Car Spaces To Be Provided
 Class Of Use According To The Following
              Units Of Measurements
                                          Car Spaces To Be Provided
    Class Of Use                          According To The Following
                                          Units Of Measurements
1.  Residence                             1 space for each dwelling unit off
                                          street
    Note: Where not divided into dwelling units, as in the case of hospitals,
    hotels, dormitories or lodging houses, each 2 guest sleeping rooms, or each
    2 hospital beds, each 4 dormitory beds or each motel unit shall be
    considered the equivalent of 1 dwelling unit.
2.  Private nonsectarian school up to and 1 space for each 15 units of
    including the 9th grade               classroom student capacity
3.  School or college, 10th grade up      1 space for each 10 units of
                                          classroom student capacity
                                          1 space for each 250 square feet of
4.  Bank, post office or library          floor area in public use, plus 1
                                          space for each 400 square feet of
                                          other gross floor area
    Place of assembly with seating
5.  facilities, including auditorium,     1 space for each 10 seats
    theater, restaurant, stadium,
    assembly hall, funeral parlor
6.  Place of worship                      1 space for each 10 seats or new
                                          spaces in the main auditorium
    Place of assembly without fixed
7.  seats, including dance hall, skating  1 space for each 200 square feet of
    rink, armory, other sports or         floor area in public use
    amusement place
    Retail sales of furniture,            1 space for each 800 square feet of
8.  automobiles, nursery stock and such   gross floor area and/or lot in such
    goods as require extensive display    use
    area
    Professional office, office building, 1 space for each 300 square feet of
9.  office of a wholesale establishment   gross floor area
    including sales space
10. Other retail services establishment   1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                          gross floor area
11. Manufacture, assembly processing or   1 space for each 1,000 square feet
    packaging                             gross floor area
    Storage, wholesale establishment,     1 space for each 3,000 square feet
12. freight terminal or similar areas     gross floor area and/or lot in such
                                          use
 
(Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-6-2: LOCATION, LAYOUT OF PARKING FACILITIES:
Required parking shall be provided on the same lot as the main use it is to
serve. Parking required for two (2) or more buildings or uses (such as shopping
center or industrial park) may be provided in combined facilities, where it is
evident that such facilities shall continue to be available for the several
buildings or uses, and where the parking provided meets all of the requirements
of this section for each of the uses in the combined facilities.
Each required car space shall not be less than eight and one-half feet (81/2')
wide nor less than twenty feet (20') long exclusive of aisles and driveways. No
curb cut for parking facilities shall exceed thirty feet (30') in width.
Required parking may be enclosed in a structure, or may be provided in an open
lot.
All required parking areas shall be graded, surfaced and drained to the
satisfaction of the board of councilmen to the extent necessary to avoid a
nuisance of dust, erosion or excessive water flow across public streets, or any
other nuisance. Any lighting of parking areas shall be shielded from public
streets and from nearby properties in residence districts.
Storage of wrecked, abandoned or junked cars, or the location of dismantled
cars under repair in residential districts, except in enclosed areas removed
from public view, is prohibited within the city limits.
Wrecked auto storage yards must be enclosed in a seven foot (7') high tight
fence, and may be located in industrial districts only, and then only by
special use permit approval. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-6-3: OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
It is the intent of this regulation that all buildings requiring the delivery
of goods as part of their function be provided with bays for the off street
loading of vehicles. Any application for the erection of a new nonresidential
building, or for the alteration or extension of an existing building of such
type, shall include a plan for loading facilities for the entire structure in
accordance with the following table:
TABLE OF LOADING REQUIREMENTS
Gross Floor Area Square Feet Number Of Bays Required
Gross Floor Area Square Feet Number Of Bays Required
                             Retail trade
                             Wholesale trade
                             Storage
                             Manufacturing
2,000 to   50,000            1 bay
50,000 to  100,000           2 bays
100,000 to 150,000           3 bays
150,000 to 300,000           4 bays
For each 100,000 square feet 1 additional bay
over 300,000 square feet
 
(Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
CHAPTER 7
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
3-7-1: Permitted Uses
3-7-2: Development Requirements
3-7-3: Building Height
3-7-4: Yards
3-7-5: Conditions For Permit
3-7-1: PERMITTED USES:
Uses permitted, subject to issuance of a special use permit in each case:
   (A)   Private parks, recreation areas and buildings, clubs and social halls,
play fields, common owned open areas, swimming pools, all in connection with an
overall development and not operated as a business for commercial purposes.
   (B)   A variety of dwelling types and land uses which complement each other
and harmonize with existing and proposed uses in the vicinity. Standards of
minimum lot area, and maximum lot coverage, minimum lot width, landscaped areas
and off street parking shall be defined specifically by special use permit.
However, the average dwelling site per net acre, including common owned
grounds, shall not be less than minimum lot area required by respective
regulations for district in which planned unit development is located. (Ord.
64, 11-17-1971)
3-7-2: DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   The tract or parcel of land involved must contain a minimum of one
acre and be either in one ownership, or subject to joint action by all the
owners of contiguous property included in proposed development. The holder of a
written option to purchase land shall be deemed to be an owner for the purpose
of such application.
   (B)   The regulations prescribed in section
3-2-6 of this title, special use permits, shall be to control the procedure for
application, hearing action and conditions of special use permits for planned
unit developments; provided however, that in addition, the application shall be
accompanied by:
      (1)   A boundary survey map of the area. If applicant proposed to
subdivide his property, a tentative subdivision map may be substituted for this
requirement.
      (2)   A map of existing and proposed topography of proposed development
area with contours at intervals of not more than ten feet (10').
      (3)   Other topographic features, including all trees over six inches
(6") in diameter (or groves where grouped) trees to be removed and other
natural features.
      (4)   An overall development plan showing use or uses, dimensions and
locations of proposed streets, parks and playgrounds, school sites,
recreational areas and other open spaces with such pertinent information as may
be necessary for determination that contemplated plan makes it desirable to
apply regulations and requirements differing from those ordinarily applicable
under this title. This information shall include proposed street system;
proposed building site layout; proposed reservation for parks, parkways,
playground, recreational areas and open spaces; proposed location of all
commercial land uses (if any) and appropriate off street parking, types of
dwellings and portions of area proposed therefor; proposed locations of
dwellings; garages and parking areas, fire hydrants, street signs and other
street furniture.
      (5)   Character, materials, color and texture to show development design
in three (3) dimensions.
      (6)   Elevations and perspective to show relationship of building heights
to surrounding topography.
      (7)   Legal means of administration, control.
      (8)   A tabulation of gross land area of development, a tabulation of
area to be devoted to each land use, and a tabulation of average population
density per net acre including common owned grounds, and per gross acre devoted
to residential use.
   (C)   Residential densities may be increased up to ten percent (10%) of
those allowed in the respective base area classification.
   (D)   Exclusive park and open space areas shall not be less than twenty
percent (20%) of gross area with adequate controls to ensure perpetual
preservation and maintenance. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-7-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Height limits for the planned unit development shall be four (4) stories and/or
forty five feet (45'). (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-7-4: YARDS:
Front yards shall be equal to building line setback, as herein set forth, but
in no event less than thirty feet (30'). Side and rear yards shall not be
required, except a minimum of twenty feet (20') along all property lines
adjoining another owner. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-7-5: CONDITIONS FOR PERMIT:
   (A)   Permit Grant: The council may grant a permit for a planned unit
development as the use permit was applied for, or in modified form, if from the
application and evidence submitted, it makes the following findings:
      (1)   That proposed planned unit development is in accord with objectives
of this zoning title and purpose of district in which it is located.
      (2)   That proposed planned unit development will not be detrimental to
public health, safety and welfare or injurious to the neighborhood.
      (3)   That the combination or difference in dwelling types and variety of
land uses in the development will complement each other and will harmonize with
existing and proposed land uses in the vicinity.
   (B)   Conditions Of Special Use Permit: The board of councilmen may require
as a condition for granting a special use permit, all or any of the following:
      (1)   Upon the abandonment of the project for which the special use
permit was issued, or upon expiration of three (3) years from granting of a
special use permit of a planned unit development, which has not then been
completed or commenced, and an extension of time for completion granted, the
special use permit shall expire and the land and structures thereon may be used
without a special use permit for any other lawful purpose permissible within
the zoning regulations for district in which located.
      (2)   That the special use permit may be revoked if the developer
deviates from development plan approved by the planning commission without
first obtaining the consent of the planning commission to such change, or
changes.
      (3)   If the planned unit development contains common owned areas or
facilities that the subdivider shall make provisions in declaration of tract
restrictions that common owned area and/or facilities shall be used exclusively
for purpose or purposes as set forth in the special use permit, and:
         (a) The subdivider files, or causes to be filed, a petition for the
formation of community services district for preservation and maintenance of
such common owned areas or facilities; or
         (b) The subdivider presents in writing the means by which preservation
and maintenance or common owned areas or facilities is to be accomplished and
payment of all taxes thereon assured. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
CHAPTER 8
MOBILE HOME PARKS AND RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME DISTRICTS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Intent
3-8-2: Districts
3-8-3: Definitions For Mobile Home Parks And Mobile Home Subdivisions
3-8-4: Uses Permitted And Minimum Standards
3-8-5: Location Outside Designated Areas
3-8-6: Applicable To Existing Areas
3-8-7: License
3-8-8: Revocation Of License
3-8-9: Posting Of License
3-8-10: Register Of Occupants
3-8-11: Mobile Home Sales Lots
3-8-1: INTENT:
Within selected geographical areas that are designated for mobile homes on the
Carlin zoning map, adopted by the board of councilmen on June 11, 1980, the
board of councilmen through special use permits, after review by the planning
commission, may regulate by districting, the proposed mobile home residential
use. When such districts are designated, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail over any requirements underlying by virtue of the zoning previously
adopted. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
3-8-2: DISTRICTS:
Three (3) separate districts for residential mobile homes are contemplated by
this chapter: (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
RMH-1: Areas suitable for development, placement and occupancy of mobile homes,
including recreational vehicles, for residential purposes on rented or leased
sites in mobile home parks, or mobile homes, excluding recreational vehicles,
on rented, leased or individually owned lots in RMH-1 zoned areas. (Ord. 122,
6-9-1982, eff. 6-16-1982)
RMH-2: Areas suitable for development, placement, and occupancy of mobile homes
containing not less than five hundred eighty (580) square feet of useable
living area for residential purposes on individually owned lots in residential
mobile home zoned districts.
RMH-3: Areas suitable for development, placement, and occupancy of mobile homes
containing not less than one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of
useable living area for residential purposes on individually owned lots in
residential mobile home zoned districts. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
3-8-3: DEFINITIONS FOR MOBILE HOME PARKS AND MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS: Accessory buildings include the following: garage, carport
and awning.
CABANA: Any portable, demountable, or permanent cabin, room, enclosure or other
building, erected, constructed, or placed on any mobile home lot, mobile home
space, on the same lot or space as a mobile home and adjacent to the mobile
home.
LOT: A distinct part or parcel of land divided with the intent to transfer
ownership or for the placement of mobile homes.
   (A)   Front Line: Narrowest lot dimension fronting a street.
   (B)   Frontage Width: Distance between the side lot lines measured at the
front line.
   (C)   Depth: Distance between the front and rear lot lines measured in the
mean direction of the side lot lines.
MOBILE HOME: A vehicular structure which is:
   (A)   Built on a chassis or frame;
   (B)   Designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation;
   (C)   Self-propelled, or capable of being drawn or carried by a motor
vehicle;
   (D)   Used as a dwelling when permanently connected to utilities;
   (E)   In an RMH-2 district, containing not less than five hundred eighty
(580) square feet of useable living area; and
   (F)   In an RMH-3 district, containing not less than one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet of useable living area.
This definition is intended to include mobile homes as buildings, structures,
and residences, where applicable, within all the provisions of this code.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A portion of land within a residential mobile home zoned
district used or intended to be used for parking of one mobile home, including
required yards and parking area, attached or detached accessory buildings, and
open space.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel or tract of land having as its principal use the
rental, leasing or occupancy of space by two (2) or more mobile homes on a
permanent, semipermanent, or overnight basis, including accessory buildings, or
uses customarily incidental thereto.
MOBILE HOME SETBACK: Distance between the property line and the nearest portion
of a mobile home on the property.
   (A)   Front: Setback from front line to nearest part of the mobile home.
   (B)   Side: Setback from side line to nearest part of the mobile home.
   (C)   Rear: Setback from rear line to nearest part of the mobile home.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A portion of land within a mobile home park used or intended
to be used for the parking of one mobile home, including required yards and
parking area, attached or detached accessory buildings and open space.
   (A)   Front Line: Narrowest dimension fronting on a street.
   (B)   Frontage Width: Distance between the side space lines measured at the
front line.
   (C)   Depth: Distance between the front and rear space lines measured in the
mean direction of the side space line.
   (D)   Side Line: Space line or lot line which runs perpendicular to or
approximately perpendicular to the front line.
   (E)   Rear Line: Space line or lot line farthest away from the front line
and which runs parallel or approximately parallel to the front line.
OCCUPIED AREA: The total lot area covered by a mobile home and accessory
buildings and structures on a mobile home lot or space.
RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME DISTRICTS (RMH-2 And RMH-3): Districts of land zoned in
conformance with the Nevada Revised Statutes and applicable city of Carlin
ordinances for the purpose of providing mobile home lots for mobile homes in
both RMH-2 and RMH-3. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
3-8-4: USES PERMITTED AND MINIMUM STANDARDS:
   (A)   Uses Permitted:
      (1)   One Mobile Home Per Space: One mobile home per space; including
double wide or expandable mobile home units.
      (2)   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings.
      (3)   Other Buildings: Community recreation buildings and facilities,
laundry, car wash, boat or storage facilities serving the mobile home park
only; provided, however, that the architectural design of all nonmobile home
structures shall be subject to approval by the planning commission prior to the
issuance of any conditional use permit.
      (4)   Management Offices (RMH-1 Only): One single-family dwelling or
mobile home used exclusively for office and living quarters by the operator or
manager of the mobile home park. The architectural design of a nonmobile home
office shall be subject to approval by the planning commission prior to the
issuance of any conditional use permit. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
   (B)   Standards For Development; Requirement:
      (1)   Minimum net space area per mobile home:
 
RMH-1: Permanent mobile homes in mobile home parks or located on individually
       owned, rented or leased lots in RMH-1 zoned areas – 5,000 square feet
      Mobile homes or recreational vehicles parked overnight or on a temporary
       basis in a mobile home park – 1,800 square feet
RMH-2: 5,000 square feet
RMH-3: 5,000 square feet
 
      (2)   Minimum mobile home space frontage width:
 
RMH-1: (1,800 square feet) – 30 feet
      (5,000 square feet) – 50 feet
RMH-2: 50 feet
RMH-3: 50 feet
 
(Ord. 170, 8-12-1992)
      (3)   Minimum setback of any building or mobile home from a bordering
public street line – fifteen feet (15').
      (4)   Minimum setback from internal street – twelve feet (12').
      (5)   Minimum side and rear setbacks for each mobile home lot, where such
side and rear does not border on public or internal streets:
 
RMH-1: 5 feet from property line
RMH-2: 71/2 feet from property line
RMH-3: 71/2 feet from property line
 
      (6)   Expandable sections of a mobile home or accessory buildings shall
be considered a part of the mobile home proper for setback requirement.
      (7)   All utilities shall be placed underground. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980,
eff. 6-18-1980)
      (8)   Where applicable, all site preparation, construction, mobile home
installation, utility connections and occupancy shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the state statutes and regulations and the city code provisions
and ordinances. In addition, all mobile homes, except temporary mobile homes in
mobile home parks, shall have skirting which shall extend completely around the
base of each mobile home. (Ord. 122, 6-9-1982, eff. 6-16-1982)
   (C)   Transportation Systems Requirements:
      (1)   Vehicular Access: All mobile home spaces shall be provided with
safe and convenient vehicular access from public or private streets. Alignment
and grading of streets shall be properly adapted to topography.
      (2)   Street Surfacing: All streets shall be paved and drained in a
manner approved by the city engineer.
      (3)   Off Street Parking Space: A minimum of one off street parking space
per mobile home space shall be required.
      (4)   Driveways: All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a driveway of not
less than twenty five feet (25') in width, which shall be unobstructed access
to a public street, alley or highway. All driveways shall be hard surfaced,
well marked in daytime and lighted at night with 25 watt lamps at intervals of
one hundred feet (100') located approximately fifteen feet (15') from the
ground.
      (5)   RMH-1 Districts: In RMH-1 districts, adequate provision for snow
removal and storage areas shall be provided within the confines of the mobile
home parks, on internal streets.
      (6)   Storm Drainage: Adequate storm drainage shall be provided and shall
be reviewed by the city engineer for his approval.
      (7)   Lighting And Signs: All streets shall be properly signed and
lighted. Lighting systems to be approved by the city engineer.
   (D)   General Requirements:
      (1)   Paving: All vehicle parking spaces and driveways, if provided,
shall be paved with a hard surface material.
      (2)   Water Supply: An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of
water for domestic purposes shall be provided to each mobile home space and
proof of same shall be provided to the planning commission before approval of
any conditional use permit. Such supply of water shall be in conformance with
any applicable Nevada statutes and regulations, and city of Carlin ordinances,
and furnished through a pipe distribution system directly connected to the city
water service.
      (3)   Sewerage Facilities: An adequate and safe sewer system shall be
provided to each mobile home space. Such sewer system shall be in conformance
with any applicable Nevada statutes and regulations, and city of Carlin
ordinances, and directly connected through a pipe collection system to the city
sewer facilities.
      (4)   Refuse And Garbage: Storage, collection and disposal of garbage and
refuse shall be in conformance with any applicable Nevada statutes and
regulations and city of Carlin ordinances.
      (5)   Fuel Supply And Storage: Installation of liquefied petroleum gas or
fuel oil containers within a mobile home subdivision or park shall be in
conformance with any applicable Nevada statutes and regulations and city of
Carlin ordinances.
      (6)   Fire Protection: In every mobile home park, fire hydrants shall be
installed as may be required by the city fire chief.
      (7)   Tie Downs: Tie downs for all mobile homes shall be provided in
accordance with state fire marshal's regulations.
      (8)   Flood Plain: No mobile home subdivision or park which is proposed
to be constructed in the 100-year flood plain of the Humboldt River, as defined
by the U.S. army corps of engineers, shall be approved by the planning
commission.
      (9)   Grading; Erosion Protection; Avoidance Of Visual Scars On
Hillsides; Protection Of Underground Utility Lines: Whenever it may be
necessary for the developer of a mobile home subdivision or park to cut and
fill, or to alter the contours of the land in any way, he shall comply with the
provisions of the city of Carlin building code.
      (10)   Management: The holder of a valid city business license for the
operation of a mobile home park shall be responsible for compliance with this
ordinance, and any other applicable ordinance or statute. He shall maintain the
mobile home park in a neat, orderly and sanitary condition at all times. RMH-
1 districts only.
      (11)   Signs: All signs for the mobile home park, including the height,
size, location, appearance and illumination of such signs, shall be subject to
approval of the planning commission prior to the issuance of any conditional
use permit. The applicant shall submit a plan showing the locations of such
signs and architectural elevations showing the heights, shapes, size and manner
of illumination of the signs. RMH-1 districts only.
      (12)   Landscaping: Before receiving approval on any conditional use
permit for a mobile home park, the applicant shall first submit a detailed
landscaping plan, which plan shall be reviewed by the planning commission in
terms of making the mobile home park aesthetically compatible with existing or
potential development in the area. RMH-1 districts only.
      (13)   Plan: A copy of the final approved plan for the mobile home park
shall be conspicuously posted on the site and the license holder shall be
responsible for maintenance of the park as per the final approved plan. RMH-
1 districts only.
      (14)   Space Numbers: All spaces shall be numbered, and such number shall
be posted in a place clearly visible from the street. RMH-1 districts only.
(Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
3-8-5: LOCATION OUTSIDE DESIGNATED AREAS:
The placing of any mobile home outside a mobile home park or residential mobile
home zoned district shall be unlawful, except as follows:
   (A)   The parking of one unoccupied mobile home in any private accessory
building or on any private lot or tract of land in any district or zone is
permitted to the owner of the premises, provided said mobile home is not used
as a dwelling or for business purposes. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
   (B)   A mobile home may be parked and occupied on any lot, tract or parcel
of land in the city, to be used as a place of residence by the owner of the
premises and his family during the active construction of a permanent
residence; provided that a building permit for construction is in full force
and effect.
In addition, a mobile home or travel trailer may be parked on a public street
for a period not to exceed seventy two (72) hours, so long as the mobile home
or travel trailer is not occupied. (Ord. 118, 12-9-1981)
3-8-6: APPLICABLE TO EXISTING AREAS:
   (A)   Provisions of this chapter shall apply to those mobile home parks
remodeled, expanded or constructed after the effective date of the ordinance
adopting this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to existing mobile home lots or mobile
home parks, except in the case of the remodeling, expansion or reconstruction,
then that portion of the subdivision or park being remodeled, expanded or
reconstructed shall be made to conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Mobile homes now established on any lot or tract of land not permitted
by any provision of this code are not governed by this chapter, except only an
existing mobile home used for dwelling purposes by the owner of the premises
may be removed or replaced without having to conform to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
3-8-7: LICENSE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or operate within the
limits of the city any mobile home park unless such person shall first obtain a
license therefor. All licenses must be obtained on an annual or semiannual
basis.
   (B)   All mobile home parks shall pay a license fee payable in accordance
with city regulations as follows:
 
Park containing 2 spaces         $10.00 per quarter
Park containing 3 or more spaces 15.00 per quarter
 
Such quarterly license fees shall be due and payable on January 1, April 1,
July 1, and October 1, of each year. Any person opening, carrying on, pursuing
or operating a mobile home park without first having obtained from the city the
license herein required shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter.
Any person who has obtained the required business license and is delinquent in
the payment of the quarterly license fee as hereinabove set forth for a period
greater than fifteen (15) days, in addition to the quarterly fee, shall pay a
penalty fine equal to one-half (1/2) of the assessed quarterly fee. It shall be
the duty of the clerk to report to the board of councilmen any such person who
is delinquent in the payment of his quarterly license fee for a period greater
than fifteen (15) days, and thereupon the council may instruct the city
attorney to institute civil proceedings to recover the amount of such
delinquency, together with the penalty fine equal to one- half (1/2) the
assessed quarterly fee thereon added as a penalty, and all costs of suit; but
such civil proceedings shall not be a bar to any criminal actions herein
provided for.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, the license fee shall be based upon
mobile home spaces for rent, whether the spaces are rented at the time the
license is issued or not.
   (D)   The original application for a license shall be in writing, signed by
the applicant and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant or applicants.
      (2)   Local and legal description of the land to be used for the proposed
mobile home park.
      (3)   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with section
3-2-6 of this title.
      (4)   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed, or to be constructed, within the mobile home park.
      (5)   The intent to use the park for dependent mobile home spaces only,
or independent mobile home spaces only, or dependent and independent mobile
home spaces.
Renewal applications, when operations are not changed, may be by declaration of
name and address with recital that operation is not changed. When operation is
changed, original form must be used.
   (E)   Licenses issued under the terms of this chapter convey no right to
erect any building, to do any plumbing work, or to do any electrical work in
conflict with city code provisions now in effect, or placed in effect in the
near future. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
3-8-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The police chief may recommend to the board of councilmen the revocation of a
mobile home park license when the licensee has been found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating any provisions of this chapter. After such
revocation, the license may be reinstated if the circumstances leading to
revocation have been remedied, and the park will be maintained and operated in
full compliance with all applicable laws. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
3-8-9: POSTING OF LICENSE:
The license certificate shall be conspicuously posted in the office, or on the
premises of the mobile home park at all times. The license certificate will
identify the mobile home park as for dependent mobile home spaces only,
independent mobile home spaces only, or independent and dependent mobile home
spaces. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
3-8-10: REGISTER OF OCCUPANTS:
It shall be the duty of the licensee to keep a register containing a record of
all mobile home owners and occupants located within the park. The register
shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and permanent address of each occupant.
   (B)   The make, model and year of all automobiles and mobile homes.
   (C)   The license number and year of license and owner of each mobile home
and automobile by which it is towed.
   (D)   The state issuing such license.
   (E)   The dates of arrival and departure of each mobile home.
The licensee of every mobile home court shall keep a register available for
inspection at all times for law enforcement officers, public health officials
whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the
register. The register records shall not be destroyed for a period of three (3)
years following the date of registration. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
3-8-11: MOBILE HOME SALES LOTS:
Mobile home sales lots are not to be considered mobile home parks. The parking
of one mobile home to be used as living and/or office quarters on a mobile home
sales lot will be permitted. (Ord. 113, 6-11-1980, eff. 6-18-1980)
CHAPTER 9
VARIANCES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Application For Variance
3-9-2: Application Fee
3-9-3: Contents Of Application
3-9-4: Conditions And Facts
3-9-5: Investigation
3-9-6: Conditions
3-9-7: Notice Of Decision
3-9-1: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE:
The board of councilmen may, in appropriate cases and under appropriate
conditions and safeguards, vary the strict application of this title in harmony
with its general purposes and intent, in accordance with rules and conditions
set forth herein, by granting variances under provisions of this title.
Any person who appeals to the board of councilmen as provided by law, shall
present written notice of such appeal to be known as "Application for
Variance", to the city clerk. Applications for variance shall be made on forms
furnished by the city, and shall be verified by the owner of the lot or parcel
concerned in the application. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-9-2: APPLICATION FEE:
Each application for variance shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount
established by a schedule adopted by resolution of the board of councilmen and
filed in the office of the city clerk, to defray the cost and expenses
incidental to the reviewing and reporting of the facts. (Ord. 152, 1-14-1987,
eff. 1-21-1987)
3-9-3: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION:
An application for variance shall set forth the following facts and exhibits to
be maintained in the permanent files of the city council:
   (A)   The provisions or regulations of this title from which the property or
building is sought to be excepted.
   (B)   Ground plans showing the location of all existing or proposed
buildings, and elevations of all proposed buildings or alterations to buildings
in sufficient detail to meet the requirements of the city council.
The city council shall hold a public hearing upon each properly submitted
application for variance. Such hearing shall be held not earlier than thirty
(30) days following the date of filing of such application and the applicant
shall be notified of the date and time of such hearing. The council shall cause
to be sent to each owner of property within a radius of three hundred feet
(300') of the exterior boundary of the lot or parcel of land described in such
application, notice of the time and place of the hearing, a description of the
property involved, and the provisions of this title from which a variance is
sought. Said notice shall be mailed at least twenty (20) days before date of
hearing. A copy of said notice shall likewise be published once, at least
twenty (20) days before date of hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation
published in the city of Elko. For the purposes of this title, "property owner"
shall mean owner shown upon the latest assessment rolls of Elko County. (Ord.
64, 11-17-1971)
3-9-4: CONDITIONS AND FACTS:
The applicant shall present adequate evidence to the city council showing:
   (A)   That there are special circumstances or conditions applying to the
property under consideration, which make strict compliance with the provisions
of this title difficult, and that such circumstances and conditions impose a
unique hardship on said property.
   (B)   That such circumstances or conditions do not apply generally to other
properties in the same zone.
   (C)   That the granting of the variance is necessary to do substantial
justice to the applicant for variance or the owner of the property under
consideration.
   (D)   That the granting of the variance will not result in material damage
or prejudice to other properties in the vicinity, nor be detrimental to the
public health, safety or welfare.
The city council shall hear and consider evidence and facts from any person
present at the public hearing, or shall consider written communication from any
person relative to the granting of a variance. The right of any person to
present such evidence shall not be denied for the reason that such person was
not required by this title to be informed of such public hearing. The mayor, or
the council vice president, may administer oaths and compel attendance of
witnesses. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-9-5: INVESTIGATION:
The mayor shall cause to be made an investigation of the facts bearing on any
application for variance sufficient to assure that the action taken on each
variance is consistent with the intent and purpose of this title.
Within thirty (30) days from the conclusion of the public hearing, the council
shall render its decision. If, in the opinion of the council, the necessary
facts and conditions as set forth hereinabove apply in fact to the property
referred to in the application for variance, the council shall grant the
variance. If such facts and conditions do not apply, the council shall deny the
application. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-9-6: CONDITIONS:
The city council in granting a variance may establish conditions under which a
lot or parcel of land may be used, or a building constructed or altered; or
make requirements as to architecture, height of buildings, open spaces, parking
area and conditions of operation of any enterprise, or make any requirements
that the council may consider necessary to prevent damage or prejudice to
adjacent properties or detriment to the city. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-9-7: NOTICE OF DECISION:
The city shall inform the building official in writing of its decision and of
any conditions precedent to the granting of a variance, such notice is to be
presented to the building official immediately after decision rendered.
Any restrictions or conditions required by the council in the granting of any
variance must be complied with. Violation of such conditions or requirements
shall result in revocation of the permission granted to so use the property,
and further use of the property or maintenance of any building constructed
thereon by authority of such variance shall constitute a violation of this
title.
Each variance granted under the provisions of this title shall become null and
void unless:
   (A)   The construction authorized by such variance has been commenced within
one hundred eighty (180) days after the granting of such variance and pursued
diligently to completion; or
   (B)   The occupancy of land or buildings authorized by such variance has
taken place within ninety (90) days after the granting of such variance. (Ord.
64, 11-17-1971)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
3-10-1: Scope
3-10-2: Notice Of Nonconforming Use
3-10-1: SCOPE:
This chapter shall apply to nonconforming uses, other than those of trailer
parks and trailers, which have special provisions as set forth in chapter 8 of
this title. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
3-10-2: NOTICE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to continue a nonconforming use in any zone
established by this title more than one year after the effective date of this
title when such nonconforming use has been declared to constitute a nuisance or
to be detrimental to public health, safety or welfare by a majority vote of the
city council. The council shall have written notice served on the person last
known to be the owner of the property on which such nonconforming use exists.
The written notice shall order the nonconforming use to be discontinued within
one year thereafter. If the owner of the property does not reside in the city
at the time, the notice may be mailed to him by registered mail at his last
known address. This section shall not be construed as limiting the right of the
city or any person to abate a nuisance within the city under any existing laws
or ordinances. (Ord. 64, 11-17-1971)
CHAPTER 11
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-11-1: Members; Appointment
3-11-2: Compensation; Expenses; Term
3-11-3: Removal From Office
3-11-4: Vacancies
3-11-5: Meetings
3-11-6: Election Of Officers
3-11-7: Contracts
3-11-8: Cooperation With Planning Agency
3-11-9: Plan For City Development
3-11-1: MEMBERS; APPOINTMENT:
The planning commission shall consist of seven (7) members 1 .
The members of the planning commission shall be appointed by the chief
executive officer (mayor) of the city.
The members shall be bona fide residents in the city limits.
Appointed members shall hold no other public office, except that one such
appointed member may be a member of the zoning board of adjustment 2 . (Ord.
68, 8-8-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 278.030.
2 2. See section
  3-2-5 of this title.
3-11-2: COMPENSATION; EXPENSES; TERM:
No member of the commission shall receive compensation, but all members shall
be eligible for reasonable travel expenses, when made necessary in the
fulfillment of their duties.
Term of members shall be for four (4) years, continuing the terms of the
temporary planning commission of 1971. (Ord. 68, 8-8-1973)
3-11-3: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
Members may be removed from office after public hearing by a majority vote of
the governing body for inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance or
nonfeasance of office or unexcused absences from three (3) consecutive
meetings. (Ord. 192, 4-28-1999)
3-11-4: VACANCIES:
Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be
filled for the unexpired term. (Ord. 68, 8-8-1973)
3-11-5: MEETINGS:
The planning commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each month,
and it shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a
record of resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations which shall be
a public record (minutes of official meetings).
All meetings of the commission shall be open to the public and all public
hearings shall be duly advertised in the newspaper of general circulation in
the Carlin area (Elko newspaper). (Ord. 68, 8-8-1973)
3-11-6: ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
The commission shall have one annual business meeting at which officers are
elected. The commission shall elect a chairman to serve for one year from among
its appointed members. The chairman shall be eligible for reelection. The
annual election shall be incorporated in the first regular meeting in the new
fiscal year. (Ord. 68, 8-8-1973)
3-11-7: CONTRACTS:
The commission may contract with city planners, engineers, architects and other
consultants for such services as may be required, within the budgeting limits
established by the city council. (Ord. 68, 8-8-1973)
3-11-8: COOPERATION WITH PLANNING AGENCY:
The city planning commission shall cooperate and coordinate with the county or
regional planning agency in the exercise of its duties.
Reference shall be made on all zoning and subdivision matters relating to the
area in the vicinity of Carlin or any of its tributaries up to three (3) miles
from the city limits, as required by statute, and beyond as a matter of
information. (Ord. 68, 8-8-1973)
3-11-9: PLAN FOR CITY DEVELOPMENT:
The planning commission shall prepare and adopt a comprehensive long range
general plan for the physical development of the city. All or portions thereof
may be adopted by the governing body as a basis for the development of the city
1 . The commission shall annually make recommendations to the governing body
for the implementation of the plan. (Ord. 68, 8-8-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 278.150.
CHAPTER 12
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
3-12-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Facts, Purpose And Methods
3-12-1-1: Statutory Authorization
3-12-1-2: Findings Of Fact
3-12-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
3-12-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
3-12-2: Definitions
3-12-3: General Provisions
3-12-3-1: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
3-12-3-2: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
3-12-3-3: Compliance
3-12-3-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
3-12-3-5: Interpretation
3-12-3-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
3-12-3-7: Declaration Of Public Nuisance
3-12-3-8: Abatement Of Violations
3-12-3-9: Unlawful Acts
3-12-4: Administration
3-12-4-1: Designation Of The Local Floodplain Administrator
3-12-4-2: Establishment Of Development Permit
3-12-4-3: Permit Application
3-12-4-4: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Local Floodplain Administrator
3-12-4-4-1: Permit Application Review
3-12-4-4-2: Use Of Other Flood Data
3-12-4-4-3: Alteration Of Watercourses
3-12-4-4-4: Inspections
3-12-4-4-5: Stop Work Orders
3-12-4-4-6: Retaining Floodplain Development Documentation
3-12-4-4-7: Map Determinations
3-12-4-4-8: Appeals
3-12-4-4-9: Submission Of New Technical Data To FEMA
3-12-4-4-10: Nonconversion Of Enclosed Areas Below The Lowest Floor
3-12-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
3-12-5-1: Standards Of Construction
3-12-5-1-1: Anchoring
3-12-5-1-2: Construction Materials And Methods
3-12-5-1-3: Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor
3-12-5-1-4: Lowest Floor Certification Requirements
3-12-5-1-5: Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements
3-12-5-1-6: Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor
3-12-5-1-7: Crawl Space Construction
3-12-5-1-8: Garages And Low Cost Accessory Structures
3-12-5-2: Standards For Utilities
3-12-5-3: Standards For Subdivisions
3-12-5-4: Standards For Critical Structures
3-12-5-5: Standards For Manufactured Homes
3-12-5-6: Standards For Recreational Vehicles
3-12-5-7: Floodways
3-12-5-8: Mudslide (i.e., Mudflow) Prone Areas
3-12-5-9: Flood Related Erosion Prone Areas
3-12-6: Variance Procedures
3-12-6-1: Nature Of Variances
3-12-6-2: Appeal Board
3-12-6-3: Conditions For Variances
3-12-7: Map Revision/Amendment Procedures
3-12-7-1: Letters Of Map Revision/Amendment
3-12-8: Alluvial Fan Advisory
3-12-8-1: Hazards Of Alluvial Fan Development
3-12-8-2: Alluvial Fans And LOMRs
3-12-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACTS, PURPOSE AND METHODS:
3-12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Nevada in Nevada Revised Statutes 278.020,
244A.057, and 543.020 confers upon local government units authority to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the board of councilmen of the city of Carlin does
hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations. (Ord. 235, 4-27-
2011)
3-12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city of Carlin are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by structures that are inadequately
elevated, floodproofed, or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effects
of obstructions in areas of special flood hazards, which increase flood heights
and velocities, also contribute to flood losses. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazards;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
   (G)   Ensure potential buyers are notified of property located in areas of
special flood hazards;
   (H)   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards assume
responsibility for their actions; and
   (I)   Maintain qualifying standards for participation in the national flood
insurance program. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
To accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and provisions to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that land uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, alluvial fans, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure used solely for parking (2 car detached
garages or smaller) or limited storage (small, low cost sheds).
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal use
of the parcel of land on which it is located.
ALLUVIAL FAN: A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan shaped
deposit of clay, silt, sand, gravel, and boulders that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and deposited on the valley floor.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows, active processes of erosion, sediment transport, deposition,
and unpredictable flow paths.
ANCHORING: A series of methods used to secure a structure to its footings or
foundation wall so that it will not be displaced by flood or wind forces.
APEX: The highest point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the
flow path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and
alluvial fan flooding can occur.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the local floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provisions of this chapter.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Designated zones AO and AH on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA).
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD RELATED EROSION HAZARD: The land within a community which
is most likely to be subject to severe flood related erosion losses. This area
may be designated as zone E on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
AREA OF SPECIAL MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) HAZARD: The area subject to severe
mudslides (i.e., mudflows). This area is designated as zone M on the flood
insurance rate map (FIRM).
BASE FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. (Also called the "100-year flood".)
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The height in relation to mean sea level expected to be
reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the floodplain
of riverine areas.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides. A subgrade crawl space is considered a basement unless it
meets the minimum technical requirements defined in FEMA technical bulletin 11-
01 (crawlspace construction for buildings located in special flood hazard
areas, 2001) and the community has adopted the standards of FEMA technical
bulletin 11-01.
BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
COMMUNITY: Any state or area or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian
tribe or authorized tribal organization, or authorized native organization,
which has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for
the areas within its jurisdiction.
COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS): A program developed by FIA to provide incentives
for those communities in the regular program that have gone beyond the minimum
floodplain management requirements to develop extra measures to provide
protection from flooding.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (CLOMA): A letter from FEMA stating that a
proposed structure that is not to be elevated by fill would not be inundated by
the base flood if built as proposed.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (BASED ON FILL) (CLOMR-F): A letter from
FEMA stating that a parcel of land or proposed structure that is to be elevated
by fill would not be inundated by the base flood if fill is placed on the
parcel as proposed or the structure is built as proposed.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): Procedures by which contractors,
developers and communities can request review and determination by the federal
insurance administrator of scientific and technical data for a proposed
project, when complete and functioning effectively would modify the elevation
of individual structures and parcels of land, stream channels, and floodplains
on the FIRM.
CRITICAL STRUCTURES: Any structure for which even a slight chance of flooding
would reduce or eliminate its designed function of supporting a community in an
emergency. Fire stations, hospitals, municipal airports, police stations,
communication antennas or towers, elder care facilities (retirement homes),
fuel storage facilities, schools designated as emergency shelters, fresh water
and sewage treatment facilities are some examples of critical structures.
DATE OF CONSTRUCTION: The date that the building permit was issued provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within
one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel of a stream and the portion of the adjoining
floodplain designated by a regulatory agency to be kept free of further
development to provide for unobstructed passage of flood flows.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM): The official map, in digital format,
on which the federal emergency management agency or federal insurance
administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community. The DFIRM is the legal
equivalent of the FIRM in communities where a DFIRM is available (see
definition of Flood Insurance Rate Map [FIRM]).
DRY FLOODPROOFING: A floodproofing method used to design and construct
buildings so as to prevent the entrance of floodwaters.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The elevation certificate is required in order to
properly rate post-FIRM buildings, which are buildings constructed after
publication of the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), for flood insurance zones
A1-A30, AE, AH, A (with BFE), VE, V1-V30, V (with BFE), AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-
A30, AR/AH, and AR/AO. The elevation certificate is not required for pre-FIRM
buildings unless the building is being rated under the optional post-FIRM flood
insurance rules.
ENCLOSURE: That portion of an elevated building below the lowest elevated floor
that is either partially or fully shut in by rigid walls.
ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, excavation,
fill, buildings, permanent structures or development, storage of equipment and
materials, or any other physical object placed in the floodplain, that hinders
the passage of water or otherwise affects flood flows.
EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away of any landmass. This peril is
not per se covered under the program. (See definition of Flood Related
Erosion.)
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO A MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK: The preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA): The federal agency under which the
national flood insurance program (NFIP) is administered.
FEDERAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION (FIA): The government unit, a part of federal
emergency management agency (FEMA) that administers the national flood
insurance program (NFIP).
FLASH FLOOD: A flood that crests in a short period of time and is often
characterized by high velocity flows. It is often the result of heavy rainfall
in a localized area.
FLOOD CONTROL: Keeping floodwaters away from specific developments or populated
areas, areas by the construction of flood storage reservoirs, channel
alterations, dikes and levees, bypass channels, or other engineering works.
FLOOD, FLOODING OR FLOODWATERS: A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of
floodwaters; the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source and mudslides (i.e., mudflows) and the condition resulting from
flood related erosion.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the
administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as zones A,
M, and/or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): Official map on which the federal emergency
management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated both the
areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community. Includes digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM) in communities
where a DFIRM is available (see definition of Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map
[DFIRM]).
FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONE DESIGNATIONS: The zone designations indicating the
magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community. See definition
of Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
Zone A: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; base flood
elevations are not determined.
Zone A1-30 And Zone AE: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; base flood elevations are determined.
Zone AO: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; with flood
depths of one to three feet (3') (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain);
average depths are determined. For areas of alluvial fan flooding, velocities
are also determined.
Zone AH: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; flood
depths of one to three feet (3') (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
Zone AR: Special flood hazard areas that result from the decertification of a
previously accredited flood protection system that is in the process of being
restored to provide a 100-year or greater level of flood protection.
Zones AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, And AR/A: Special flood hazard areas that
result from the decertification of a previously accredited flood protection
system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-year or
greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these areas
will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
Zone A99: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood to be
protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction; no base flood elevations determined.
Zone B And Zone X (Shaded): Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject to the 100-
year flood with average depths of less than one foot (1') or with contributing
drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by levees from the
base flood.
Zone C And Zone X (Unshaded): Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
Zone D: Areas in which flood hazards are undetermined.
Zone E: Area of special flood related erosion hazards.
Zone M: Area of special mudslide or mudflow hazards.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the federal
insurance administration that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance rate
map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION: The collapse or subsidence of land along a stream or
wash, the shore of a lake or other body of water as a result of undermining
caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or
suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of water,
accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as
a flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and
unforeseeable event which results in flooding.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION PRONE AREA: A land area adjoining the shore of a lake or
other body of water, which due to the composition of the shoreline or bank and
high water levels or wind driven currents, is likely to suffer flood related
erosion damage.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The community official designated by title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations. The floodplain
administrator for the city of Carlin is defined in section
3-12-4-1, "Designation Of The Local Floodplain Administrator", of this chapter
to be the city planning commission.
FLOODPLAIN AND FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by waters from any source. (See definition of Flood, Flooding Or Floodwaters.)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
plans, regulations and ordinances.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: This chapter, and any federal, state or
local regulations plus community zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as grading
and erosion control) and other applications of police power which control
development in flood prone areas to prevent and reduce flood loss and damage.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and
their contents. Refer to FEMA technical bulletins TB-1 (openings in foundation
walls and walls of enclosures, 2008), TB-3 (nonresidential floodproofing -
requirements and certification, 1993), and TB-7 (wet floodproofing
requirements, 1993) for guidelines on dry and wet floodproofing.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation. Also referred to as
"regulatory floodway".
FOOTING: The enlarged base of a foundation wall, pier, or column, designed to
spread the load of the structure so that it does not exceed the soil bearing
capacity.
FOUNDATION: The underlying structure of a building usually constructed of
concrete that supports the foundation walls, piers, or columns.
FOUNDATION WALLS: A support structure that connects the foundation to the main
portion of the building or superstructure.
FRAUD/VICTIMIZATION: Related to variances of this chapter, the variance granted
must not cause fraud on or victimization to the public. In examining this
requirement, the board of councilmen will consider the fact that every newly
constructed building adds to government responsibilities, and remains a part of
the community for fifty (50) to one hundred (100) years. Buildings permitted to
be constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during all those
years to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the
property and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs,
inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages bring.
Additionally, future owners may be unaware of the risk potential to the
property due to flood damage and the extremely high rates for flood insurance.
FREEBOARD: A margin of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only marina facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and boat building and boat repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
GOVERNING BODY: The local governing unit, county or municipality that is
empowered to adopt and implement regulations to provide for public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
HARDSHIP: Related to variances of this chapter. The exceptional hardship would
result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The board of councilmen
requires the variance be exceptional, unusual, and pertain only to the property
involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional.
Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal
preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule,
qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved
through other means without granting a variance, even if the alternative is
more expensive, or requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the
parcel to a different use than originally intended.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of ground surface prior
to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   (A)   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of interior) or preliminarily determined
by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the national register;
   (B)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   (C)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of interior; or
   (D)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior or
directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
HYDRAULICS: The science that deals with practical applications of water in
motion.
HYDRODYNAMIC LOADS: Forces imposed on structures by floodwaters due to the
impact of moving water on the upstream side of the structure, drag along its
sides, and eddies or negative pressures on its downstream side.
HYDROLOGY: The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
earth's surface and underground.
HYDROSTATIC LOADS: Forces imposed on a flooded structure due to the weight of
the water.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): The procedure by which any owner or lessee of
property who believes his property has been inadvertently included in a special
flood hazard area can submit scientific and technical information to the
federal insurance administrator for review to remove the property from said
area. The administrator will not consider an LOMA if the information submitted
is based on alteration of topography or new hydrologic or hydraulic conditions
since the effective date of the FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (BASED ON FILL) (LOMR-F): A letter from FEMA stating
that an existing structure or parcel of land that has been elevated by fill
would not be inundated by the base flood.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): An official revision to a currently effective
FIRM. An LOMR officially changes flood zone, floodplain and floodway
designations, flood elevations and planimetric features.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system, which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement.
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is
not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that the enclosure does not
violate applicable nonelevation design requirements.
MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME): A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term "manufactured home" does not include "recreational vehicles".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MARKET VALUE: For the purposes of determining substantial improvement, market
value pertains only to the structure in question. It does not pertain to the
land, landscaping or detached accessory structures on the property. For
determining improvement, the value of the land must always be subtracted.
Market value shall be determined by estimating the cost to replace the
structure in new condition and adjusting that cost figure by the amount of
depreciation which has accrued since the structure was constructed.
   (A)   The cost of replacement of the structure shall be based on a square
foot cost factor determined by reference to a building cost estimating guide
recognized by the building construction industry.
   (B)   The amount of depreciation shall be determined by taking into account
the age and physical deterioration of the structure and functional obsolescence
as approved by the floodplain administrator, but shall not include economic or
other forms of external obsolescence.
Use of replacement costs or accrued depreciation factors different from those
contained in recognized building cost estimating guides may be considered only
if such factors are included in a report prepared by an independent
professional appraiser and supported by a written explanation of the
differences.
MOBILE HOME: Having the same meaning as manufactured home.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW): Is a condition where there is a river, flow or
inundation of liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover, and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is in progress,
and will be recognized as such by the federal insurance administrator only if
the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that
occurs.
MUDSLIDE PRONE AREA: An area with land surfaces and slopes of unconsolidated
material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a potential for
mudflows.
NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD): As corrected in 1929, is a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the
floodplain. Flood elevations on flood insurance rate maps published for Nevada
communities prior to 2007 were typically referenced to NGVD 29.
NATURAL GRADE: The grade unaffected by construction techniques such as fill,
landscaping, or berming.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Buildings for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974,
whichever is later, including any subsequent improvements.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads is completed on or after the effective
date of these floodplain management regulations adopted by the city of Carlin.
NONRESIDENTIAL: Includes, but is not limited to: small business concerns,
churches, schools, farm buildings (including grain bins and silos), poolhouses,
clubhouses, recreational buildings, mercantile structures, agricultural and
industrial structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room
rentals for less than six (6) months' duration.
NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD): A vertical control used as a reference
for establishing various elevations within the floodplain based upon the
general adjustment of the North American datum of 1988. Flood elevations on
digital flood insurance rate maps for Nevada communities are referenced to NAVD
88.
OBSTRUCTION: Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel refuse, fill, structure,
vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into any
watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
100-YEAR FLOOD: Having the same meaning as "base flood".
PHYSICAL MAP REVISIONS (PMR): A reprinted NFIP map incorporating changes to
floodplains, floodways, or flood elevations. Because of the time and cost
involved to change, reprint, and redistribute an NFIP map, a PMR is usually
processed when a revision reflects large scope changes.
PONDING HAZARD: A flood hazard that occurs in flat areas when there are
depressions in the ground that collect "ponds" of water. The ponding hazard is
represented by the zone designation AH on the FIRM.
POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION: Construction or substantial improvement that started on
or after the effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) of
the community or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION: Construction or substantial improvement which started on
or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) of the community, whichever is later.
PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE: A single-family dwelling in which at the time of loss, the
named insured or the named insured's spouse has lived for either: a) eighty
percent (80%) of the calendar year, or b) eighty percent (80%) of the period of
ownership, if less than one year.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: A structure used for the principal use of the property as
distinguished from an accessory use.
PROGRAM DEFICIENCY: A defect in a community's floodplain management regulations
or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation of those
floodplain management regulations.
PROPER OPENINGS FOR ENCLOSURES (Applicable To Zones A, A1-A30, AE, AO, AH, AR,
And AR Dual): All enclosures below the lowest floor must be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of two (2) openings, with
positioning on at least two (2) walls, having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding must
be provided.
PUBLIC SAFETY/NUISANCE: Related to variances of this chapter. The granting of a
variance must not result in anything which is injurious to safety or health of
the entire community or neighborhood, or any number of persons, or unlawfully
obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable
lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle built on a single chassis, four hundred (400)
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river including tributaries,
stream, brook, etc.
SHEET FLOW AREA: Having the same meaning as Area Of Shallow Flooding.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Darkly shaded area on a flood hazard boundary
map (FHBM) or a flood insurance rate map (FIRM) that identifies an area that
has a one percent (1%) chance of being flooded in any given year (100-year
floodplain). Over a thirty (30) year period, the life of most mortgages, there
is at least a twenty six percent (26%) chance that this area will be flooded.
The FIRM identifies these shaded areas as FIRM zones A, AO, AH, A1-A30, AE,
A99, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, AR/AO, V, V1-V30, and VE. See
definition of Flood Insurance Risk Zone Designations.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and other proposed new
development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date of the permit. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground and
includes gas or liquid storage tanks and manufactured homes.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Substantial damage includes:
   (A)   Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred; or
   (B)   Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2) separate
occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five percent
(25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. This is
also known as "repetitive loss".
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
proposed new development of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of
construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
   (A)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   (B)   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development in a special
flood hazard area, without an elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American vertical
datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
3-12-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city of Carlin. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance
administration (FIA) of the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) in the
flood insurance study (FIS) dated February 19, 1992, and accompanying flood
insurance rate maps (FIRM) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFM), dated
February 19, 1992, and all subsequent amendments and/or revisions, are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the board of councilmen by the floodplain
administrator. The FIS, FIRMs and FBFMs are on file at Carlin city hall located
at 101 So. 8th Street, Carlin, NV 89822. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-3-3: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof, be fined not
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned for not more than six
(6) months, or both, for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs
and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein shall prevent the city of
Carlin from taking such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
other ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or
overlap, whichever imposed the more stringent restrictions or that imposing the
higher standards, shall prevail. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-3-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-3-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city of Carlin, any officer or
employee thereof, the state of Nevada, or the federal insurance administration,
federal emergency management agency, for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-3-7: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Every new structure, building, fill, excavation or development located or
maintained within any area of special flood hazard after February 1, 1984, in
violation of this chapter is a public nuisance per se and may be abated,
prevented or restrained by action of this political subdivision. (Ord. 235, 4-
27-2011)
3-12-3-8: ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS:
Within thirty (30) days of discovery of a violation of this chapter, the
floodplain administrator shall submit a report to the board of councilmen which
shall include all information available to the floodplain administrator which
is pertinent to said violation. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of this
report, the board of councilmen shall either:
   (A)   Take any necessary action to effect the abatement of such violation;
or
   (B)   Issue a variance to this chapter in accordance with the provisions of
section
3-12-6, "Variance Procedures", of this chapter; or
   (C)   Order the owner of the property upon which the violation exists to
provide whatever additional information may be required for their
determination. Such information must be provided to the floodplain
administrator within thirty (30) days of such order, and he shall submit an
amended report to the board of councilmen within twenty (20) days. At their
next regularly scheduled public meeting, the governing body shall either order
the abatement of said violation or they shall grant a variance in accordance
with the provisions of section
3-12-6, "Variance Procedures", of this chapter.
   (D)   Submit to the administrator of federal insurance administration a
declaration for denial of insurance, stating that the property is in violation
of a cited statute or local law, regulation or ordinance, pursuant to section
1316 of the national flood insurance act of 1968 as amended. (Ord. 235, 4-27-
2011)
3-12-3-9: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to divert, retard or obstruct the flow
of waters in any watercourse whenever it creates a hazard to life or property
without securing the written authorization of the floodplain administrator.
Where the watercourse is a delineated floodplain, it is unlawful to excavate or
build any structure affecting the flow of waters without securing written
authorization of the floodplain administrator.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a class 2 misdemeanor. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-4: ADMINISTRATION:
3-12-4-1: DESIGNATION OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Carlin city planning commission is hereby appointed local floodplain
administrator to administer and implement this chapter by granting or denying
floodplain development permits in accordance with its provisions. (Ord. 235, 4-
27-2011)
3-12-4-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit is hereby established for all construction and
other development to be undertaken in areas of special flood hazard in the city
of Carlin for the purpose of protecting its citizens from increased flood
hazards and ensuring new development is constructed in a manner that minimizes
its exposure to flooding. It shall be unlawful to undertake any development in
an area of special flood hazard, as shown on the flood insurance rate map
enumerated in section
3-12-3-2, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter without a valid floodplain development permit. Applications for a
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the local floodplain administrator
and may include, but not be limited to: plans in duplicate drawn to scale
showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevation of the area in
question, existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-4-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
The applicant shall provide at least the following information, where
applicable. Additional information may be required on the permit application
forms.
   (A)   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all residential and nonresidential structures
whether new or substantially improved to be located in zones A, A1-A30, AE, and
AH, if base flood elevations data are available.
   (B)   In zone AO the proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of
the lowest floor (including basement) and the elevation of the highest adjacent
grade of all residential and nonresidential structures whether new or
substantially improved.
   (C)   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, to which any new
or substantially improved nonresidential structure will be floodproofed.
   (D)   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in
the state of Nevada that any utility floodproofing meets the criteria in
section
3-12-5-2, "Standards For Utilities", of this chapter.
   (E)   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in
the state of Nevada that any nonresidential floodproofed structures meet the
criteria in section
3-12-5-1-5, "Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements", of this chapter.
   (F)   When a watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, the applicant must submit the maps, computations, and
other materials required by the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) to
process a letter of map revision (LOMR) and pay any fees or other costs
assessed by FEMA for processing the revision.
   (G)   A technical analysis, by a professional engineer licensed in the state
of Nevada, showing the proposed development located in the special flood hazard
area will not cause physical damage to any other property.
   (H)   When there is no base flood elevation data available for zone A from
any source, the base flood elevation data will be provided by the permit
applicant for all proposed development of subdivisions, manufactured home and
recreational vehicle parks in the special flood hazard areas, for all
developments of fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is less. (Ord.
235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-4-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the local floodplain administrator shall
include, but not limited to, the following. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-4-4-1: PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW:
The floodplain development permit will not be issued by the local floodplain
administrator until the following has been accomplished:
   (A)   Review all applications for completeness, particularly with the
requirements of section
3-12-4-3, "Permit Application", of this chapter and for compliance with the
provisions and standards of this chapter.
   (B)   Review all subdivision and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home and recreational vehicle parks to determine whether the
proposed development site will be reasonably safe from flooding. When the
proposed building site is located in the special flood hazard area, all new
construction and substantial improvements will meet the applicable standards of
section
3-12-5-1, "Standards Of Construction", of this chapter.
   (C)   Determine whether any proposed development in the special flood hazard
area may result in physical damage to any other property to include stream bank
erosion and any increase in velocities or that it does not adversely affect the
carrying capacity of the areas where base flood elevations have been determined
but a floodway has not been designated. For purposes of this chapter,
"adversely affects" means the cumulative effect of the proposed development
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development will increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one-half foot (1/2') at
any point. To assist the local floodplain administrator in making this
determination, the permit applicant may be required to submit additional
technical analyses.
   (D)   Ensure all other required state and federal permits have been
received.
   (E)   For construction on an existing structure, determine if proposed
construction constitutes substantial improvement or repair of a substantially
damaged structure. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-4-4-2: USE OF OTHER FLOOD DATA:
   (A)   When the federal emergency management agency has designated special
flood hazard areas on the community's flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) but has
neither produced water surface elevation data nor identified a floodway, the
local floodplain administrator shall attempt to obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source, including data developed pursuant to section
3-12-4-4-6, "Retaining Floodplain Development Documentation", of this chapter
as criteria for requiring new construction, substantial improvements or other
proposed development meets the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   When base flood elevations are not available, the local floodplain
administrator may use flood information from any other authoritative source,
such as historical data, to establish flood elevations within the special flood
hazard areas. This information shall be submitted to the board of councilmen
for adoption.
   (C)   When base flood elevations are not available from any other source,
base flood elevations shall be obtained using one of two (2) methods from the
FEMA publication, FEMA 265, "Managing Floodplain Development In Approximate
Zone A Areas - A Guide For Obtaining And Developing Base (100-Year) Flood
Elevations", dated July 1995. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-4-4-3: ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSES:
Prior to issuing a permit for any alteration or relocation of watercourse, the
local floodplain administrator must:
   (A)   Have processed letter of map revision (LOMR).
   (B)   Notify all adjacent communities, Nevada's national flood insurance
program coordinator, and submittal of evidence of such notification to the
federal insurance administration, and the federal emergency management agency.
   (C)   Determine that the potential permit recipient has provided for
maintenance within the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity is not diminished. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-4-4-4: INSPECTIONS:
The local floodplain administrator or designee shall make periodic inspections
throughout the period of construction to monitor compliance with the
requirements of the floodplain development permit or any variance provisions.
(Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-4-4-5: STOP WORK ORDERS:
The local floodplain administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued, a stop
work for any floodplain development found noncompliant with the provisions of
this chapter or conditions of the development permit and all development found
ongoing without a floodplain development permit. Disregard of a stop work order
shall subject the violator to the penalties described in section
3-12-3-3, "Compliance", of this chapter. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-4-4-6: RETAINING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT DOCUMENTATION:
The local floodplain administrator shall obtain and retain for public
inspection and have available for the national flood insurance program
coordinator or the federal emergency management agency representative
conducting a community assistance visit, the following:
   (A)   Floodplain development permits and certificates of compliance.
   (B)   Elevation certificates with record of certification required by
section
3-12-5-1-4, "Lowest Floor Certification Requirements", of this chapter.
   (C)   Certifications required by section
3-12-5-1-5, "Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements", of this chapter.
   (D)   Elevation certificates with record of certification required by
section
3-12-5-1-6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this chapter.
   (E)   Elevation certificates with record of certification of elevation
required by section
3-12-5-3, "Standards For Subdivisions", of this chapter.
   (F)   Certification required by section
3-12-5-7, "Floodways", of this chapter.
   (G)   Variances issued pursuant to section
3-12-6, "Variance Procedures", of this chapter.
   (H)   Notices required under section
3-12-4-4-3, "Alteration Of Watercourses", of this chapter.
   (I)   Reports required by section
3-12-5-8, "Mudslide (i.e., Mudflow) Prone Areas", of this chapter. (Ord. 235,
4-27-2011)
3-12-4-4-7: MAP DETERMINATIONS:
The local floodplain administrator may make map interpretations where needed,
in writing with appropriate documentation, as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard and where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions. (Ord. 235, 4-
27-2011)
3-12-4-4-8: APPEALS:
The board of councilmen of the city of Carlin shall hear and decide appeals
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-4-4-9: SUBMISSION OF NEW TECHNICAL DATA TO FEMA:
When the city of Carlin base flood elevations either increase or decrease
resulting from physical changes affecting flooding conditions, as soon as
practicable, but not later than six (6) months after the date such information
becomes available, the city of Carlin will submit the technical or scientific
data to FEMA. Such submissions are necessary so that upon confirmation of the
physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and
floodplain management requirements will be based upon current data. (Ord. 235,
4-27-2011)
3-12-4-4-10: NONCONVERSION OF ENCLOSED AREAS BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR:
To ensure that the areas below the BFE shall be used solely for parking
vehicles, limited storage, or access to the building and not be finished for
use as human habitation without first becoming fully compliant with the
floodplain management ordinance in effect at the time of conversion, the
floodplain administrator shall:
   (A)   Determine which applicants for new construction and/or substantial
improvements have fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are five
feet (5') or higher;
   (B)   Enter into a "nonconversion agreement for construction within flood
hazard areas" or equivalent with the city of Carlin. The agreement shall be
recorded with the Elko County recorder as a deed restriction. The nonconversion
agreement shall be in a form acceptable to the floodplain administrator and
county counsel; and
   (C)   Have the authority to inspect any area of a structure below the base
flood elevation to ensure compliance upon prior notice of at least seventy two
(72) hours. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
3-12-5-1: STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazard areas the following standards are
required. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-1-1: ANCHORING:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be adequately
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy.
   (B)   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of section
3-12-5-5, "Standards For Manufactured Homes", of this chapter. (Ord. 235, 4-27-
2011)
3-12-5-1-2: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS:
All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed:
   (A)   With materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (B)   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   Ensure electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities are designed or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (D)   Within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-1-3: ELEVATION REQUIREMENTS FOR LOWEST FLOOR:
Residential construction, new or substantial improvements, shall have the
lowest floor, including basement:
   (A)   In zone AO, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height two
feet (2') above the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at
least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified.
   (B)   In zone A, elevated two feet (2') above the base flood elevation, as
determined by this community.
   (C)   In all other zones, elevated two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-1-4: LOWEST FLOOR CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor including
basement shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor
and verified by the community building inspector to be properly elevated. The
certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator using the
current FEMA elevation certificate. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-1-5: NONRESIDENTIAL FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS:
Nonresidential construction shall either be elevated to conform with section
3-12-5-1-3, "Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor", of this chapter, or
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
   (A)   Will be floodproofed below the elevation recommended under section
3-12-5-1-3, "Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor", of this chapter so that
the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water;
   (B)   Will have the structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
   (C)   Will be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of section
3-12-5-1-3, "Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor", of this chapter are
satisfied. The certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator.
(Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-1-6: REQUIREMENTS FOR AREAS BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR:
All new construction and substantial improvements with fully enclosed areas
below the lowest floor (excluding basements) that are usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, and which are subject to flooding,
shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for
meeting this requirement shall follow the guidelines in FEMA technical
bulletins TB-1 (openings in foundation walls and walls of enclosures, 2008) and
TB-7 (wet floodproofing requirements, 1993) and must either be certified by a
licensed professional engineer or architect to meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
   (A)   Must have a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
   (B)   The bottom of all such openings will be no higher than one foot (1')
above the lowest adjacent finished grade.
Openings may be equipped with louvers, valves, screens or other coverings or
devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. (Ord.
235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-1-7: CRAWL SPACE CONSTRUCTION:
This section applies to buildings with crawl spaces up to two feet (2') below
grade. Below grade crawl space construction in accordance with the requirements
listed below will not be considered basements.
   (A)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Crawl
space construction is not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than
five feet (5') per second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design
professional, such as a registered architect or professional engineer;
   (B)   The crawl space is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. For guidance on flood openings, see FEMA
technical bulletin TB-1 (openings in foundation walls and walls of enclosures,
2008);
   (C)   Crawl space construction is not permitted in V zones. Open pile or
column foundations that withstand storm surge and wave forces are required in V
zones;
   (D)   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawl space used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, or other materials that extend below the BFE;
   (E)   Any building utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated
above BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the
system components during flood conditions;
   (F)   The interior grade of a crawl space below the BFE must not be more
than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior grade (LAG), shown as D
in figure 3 of FEMA technical bulletin 11-01 (crawlspace construction for
buildings located in special flood hazard areas, 2001);
   (G)   The height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the interior
grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation wall must not
exceed four feet (4') (shown as L in figure 3 of technical bulletin 11-01,
crawlspace construction for buildings located in special flood hazard areas,
2001) at any point;
   (H)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters
from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable period of time
after a flood event, not to exceed seventy two (72) hours; and
   (I)   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five feet
(5') per second for any crawl space. For velocities in excess of five feet (5')
per second, other foundation types should be used. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-1-8: GARAGES AND LOW COST ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
   (A)   Attached Garages:
      (1)   A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed with the
garage floor slab below the BFE, must be designed to allow for the automatic
entry of floodwater in accordance with section
3-12-5-1-6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this chapter.
Areas of the garage below the BFE must be constructed with flood resistant
material in accordance with subsection
3-12-5-1-2(A) of this chapter.
      (2)   A garage attached to a nonresidential structure must meet the above
requirements or be floodproofed. For guidance on below grade parking areas, see
FEMA technical bulletin TB-6 (below grade parking requirements, 1993).
   (B)   Detached Garages And Accessory Structures:
      (1)   "Accessory structures" used solely for parking (2 car detached
garages or smaller) or limited storage (small, low cost sheds), as defined in
section
3-12-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, may be constructed such that its floor
is below the base flood elevation (BFE), provided the structure is designed and
constructed in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a) Use of the accessory structure must be limited to parking or
limited storage;
         (b) The portions of the accessory structure located below the BFE must
be built using flood resistant materials;
         (c) The accessory structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
         (d) Any mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory structure
must be elevated or floodproofed to or above the BFE;
         (e) The accessory structure must comply with floodplain encroachment
provisions in section
3-12-5-7, "Floodways", of this chapter; and
         (f) The accessory structure must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of floodwaters in accordance with section
3-12-5-1-6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this chapter.
      (2)   Detached garages and accessory structures not meeting the above
standards must be constructed in accordance with all applicable standards in
section
3-12-5-1-6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this chapter.
(Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-2: STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES:
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (B)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters or discharge from the systems
into floodwaters. Sanitary sewer and storm drainage systems for buildings that
have openings below the base flood elevation shall be provided with automatic
backflow valves or other automatic backflow devices that are installed in each
discharge line passing through a building's exterior wall.
   (C)   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood.
   (B)   All subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed
structures and pads. If the site is filled above the base flood, the final
lowest floor and pad elevation shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor and provided to the floodplain administrator.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (E)   All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   (F)   Additionally all subdivision proposals will demonstrate, by providing
a detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses that the proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1')
at any point within the community. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-4: STANDARDS FOR CRITICAL STRUCTURES:
Critical structures are not authorized in a special flood hazard area, unless:
   (A)   All alternative locations in flood zone X have been considered and
rejected.
   (B)   All alternative locations in flood zone shaded X have been considered
and rejected.
If the floodplain administrator determines the only practical alternative
location for the development of a new or substantially improved critical
structure is in a special flood hazard area he must:
   (A)   Give public notice of the decision and reasons for the elimination of
all alternative locations. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-5: STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   (A)   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved,
within zones A, AH, AE, and on the community's flood insurance rate map, on
sites located:
      (1)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (2)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      (3)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      (4)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site upon
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood:
         shall be elevated on a permanent foundation so that the lowest floor
will be elevated at least two feet (2') above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but
are not to be limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors.
This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces.
   (B)   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A, AH, and AE
on the community's flood insurance rate map that are not subject to the
provisions of section
3-12-5-4 of this chapter will be elevated so that either:
      (1)   The bottom of structural frame or the lowest point of the
manufactured home is at least two feet (2') above the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   (C)   Within zone A, when no base flood elevation data is available, new and
substantially improved manufactured homes shall have the floor elevated at
least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade.
   (D)   Within zone AO, the floor of all new and substantially improved
manufactured homes will be elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least
two feet (2') above the depth number specified on the FIRM, or at least three
feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
(Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-6: STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
All recreational vehicles placed on sites within the floodplain on the
community's flood insurance rate map will either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions; or
   (C)   Will meet the permit requirements of section
3-12-4-3, "Permit Application", of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes in section
3-12-5-5, "Standards For Manufactured Homes", of this chapter. (Ord. 235, 4-27-
2011)
3-12-5-7: FLOODWAYS:
Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
floodwaters, which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential,
the following provisions apply:
   (A)   If a floodway has not been designated within the special flood hazard
areas established in section
3-12-3-2, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter, no new construction, substantial improvement, or other development
(including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and AE, unless it has
been demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point within the community.
   (B)   In designated floodways located within the special flood hazard areas
established in section
3-12-3-2, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter, encroachment shall be prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, storage of equipment or supplies, and any other
development within the adopted regulatory floodway; unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge, and the federal emergency management
agency has issued a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR).
   (C)   If subsections (A) and (B) of this section have been satisfied, all
proposed new development and substantial improvements will comply with all
other applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this section
3-12-5, "Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction". (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-8: MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREAS:
   (A)   All permit applications will be reviewed by the floodplain
administrator to determine if the proposed development will be located within a
mudslide area.
   (B)   The reviewing process will determine if the proposed site and
improvements will be reasonably safe from mudslide hazards. Factors to be
considered in making this determination include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Type and quality of soils.
      (2)   Evidence of groundwater or surface water problems.
      (3)   Depth and quality of any fill.
      (4)   The overall slope of the site.
      (5)   The weight that any proposed structure will impose on the slope.
   (C)   When a proposed development is located in an area that may have
mudslide hazards, the following will be the minimum requirements:
      (1)   A site investigation and further review be made by persons
qualified in geology and soils engineering.
      (2)   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction, and
substantial improvements are adequately designed and protected against mudslide
damages.
      (3)   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction and substantial
improvements do not aggravate the existing hazard by creating either on site or
off site disturbances.
      (4)   Drainage, planting, watering, and maintenance be such as not to
endanger slope stability.
   (D)   When a proposed development is determined to be within a mudslide
hazard area, the following requirements will include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Adopting and enforcing a grading ordinance in accordance with data
supplied by the federal emergency management agency.
      (2)   Regulate the location of foundation systems and utility systems of
new construction and substantial improvements.
      (3)   Regulate the location, drainage and maintenance of all excavations,
cuts and fills and planted slopes.
      (4)   Provide special requirements for protective measures including, but
not necessarily limited to, retaining walls, buttress fills, subdrains,
diverted terraces, and benching.
      (5)   Require engineering drawings and specifications to be submitted for
all corrective measures, accompanied by supporting soils engineering and
geology reports. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-5-9: FLOOD RELATED EROSION PRONE AREAS:
   (A)   All permit applications will be reviewed by the floodplain
administrator to determine if the proposed development will be located within a
special flood related erosion hazard area.
   (B)   The reviewing process will determine if the proposed site alterations
and improvements will be reasonably safe from flood related erosion and will
not cause flood related erosion hazards or otherwise aggravate the existing
flood related erosion hazard.
   (C)   When the proposed development is found to be in the path of flood
related erosion or to increase the erosion hazard, require the improvement to
be relocated or adequate protective measures to be taken which will not
aggravate the existing erosion hazard.
   (D)   When it has been determined the proposed development is in a special
flood related erosion hazard, as delineated zone E on the community FIRM,
require:
      (1)   A setback for all new development from the lake, bay, riverfront or
other body of water, to create a safety buffer consisting of a natural
vegetative or contour strip. This buffer will be designated according to the
flood related erosion hazard and erosion rate, in conjunction with the
anticipated "useful life" of structures, and depending upon the geologic,
hydrologic, topographic and climatic characteristics of the community's land.
The buffer may be used for suitable open space purposes, such as for
agricultural, forestry, outdoor recreation and wildlife habitat areas, and for
other activities using temporary and portable structures only. (Ord. 235, 4-27-
2011)
3-12-6: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
3-12-6-1: NATURE OF VARIANCES:
The variance criteria set forth in this section
3-12-6 are based on the general principal of zoning law that variances pertain
to a piece of property and are not personal in nature. A variance may be
granted for a parcel of property with physical characteristics so unusual that
complying with the requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional
hardship to the applicant or the surrounding property owners. The
characteristics must be unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent
parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the
structure, its inhabitants, or the property owners.
It is the duty of the board of councilmen to help protect its citizens from
flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level are so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
If, upon review, the administrator of FEMA determines that community practices
indicate a pattern of issuing variances that is inconsistent with the
objectives of sound floodplain management, the community may be suspended from
the national flood insurance program. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-6-2: APPEAL BOARD:
   (A)   In passing upon requests for variances, the board of councilmen shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger of materials being swept onto other lands and injuring
others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site;
      (11)   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
   (B)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      {'{'}1).   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      {'{'}1).   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property. It is recommended that a copy of the notice shall be
recorded by the floodplain administrator in the office of the Elko County
recorder and shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears as an exception
on the title of the affected parcel of land.
   (C)   The floodplain administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in its biennial report submitted to the federal insurance administration
and the federal emergency management agency. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-6-3: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of sections
3-12-4, "Administration", and
3-12-5, "Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction", of this chapter have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures", as defined in section
3-12-2, "Definitions", of this chapter upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the "minimum necessary" considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
"Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the board of councilmen need not grant
permission for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation
the applicant proposed, but only to that elevation which the board of
councilmen believes will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the
local ordinance.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
      (1)   Showing of good and sufficient cause such as renovation,
rehabilitation, or reconstruction. Variances issued for economic
considerations, aesthetics, or because variances have been used in the past are
not good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional "hardship", as defined in section
3-12-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, to the applicant;
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary
public expense, create a nuisance (see "Public Safety/Nuisance", section
3-12-2 of this chapter), cause fraud or victimization (see "Fraud/
Victimization", section
3-12-2 of this chapter), of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of subsections (A) through (E) of
this section are satisfied and that the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does
not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   (G)   Upon consideration of all the factors of section
3-12-6-2, "Appeal Board", of this chapter and the purposes of this chapter, the
board of councilmen may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as
it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
   (H)   The board of councilmen shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variance to the federal emergency management agency upon
request.
   (I)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest flood
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-7: MAP REVISION/AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
3-12-7-1: LETTERS OF MAP REVISION/AMENDMENT:
National flood insurance program regulations provide procedures to remove
property from the 100-year floodplain or from a special flood hazard area.
Amendments and revisions to community flood insurance rate maps cannot
adversely impact the floodplain or floodway delineation's of the level of the
100-year flood.
There are several procedures provided whereby the federal insurance
administrator will review information from the community, an owner, or a lessee
of property where it is believed the property should not be included in a
special flood hazard area.
Submissions to FEMA for revisions to effective flood insurance studies (FISs)
by individual and community requesters will require the signing of application/
certification forms. These forms will provide FEMA with assurance that all
pertinent data relating to the revision is included in the submittal. They will
also assure that: a) the data and methodology are based on current conditions;
b) qualified professionals have assembled data and performed all necessary
computations; and c) all individuals and organizations impacted by proposed
changes are aware of the changes and will have an opportunity to comment on
them. FEMA procedures permit the following types of request:
A request for a revision to the effective FIS information (FIRM, FBFM, and/or
FIS report) is usually a request that FEMA replace the effective floodplain
boundaries, flood profiles, floodway boundaries, etc., with those determined by
the requester. Before FEMA will replace the effective FIS information with the
revised, the requester must: a) provide all of the data used in determining the
revised floodplain boundaries, flood profiles, floodway boundaries, etc.; b)
provide all data necessary to demonstrate that the physical modifications to
the floodplain have been adequately designed to withstand the impacts of the
one percent (1%) annual chance flood event and will be adequately maintained;
c) demonstrate that the revised information (e.g., hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses and the resulting floodplain and floodway boundaries) are consistent
with the effective FIS information.
Requests for amendments or revisions to FEMA maps must be reviewed and
submitted to FEMA by the board of councilmen of the city of Carlin with the
applicant for a map amendment or revision required to prepare all the
supporting information and appropriate FEMA forms.
The scientific or technical information to be submitted with these requests may
include, but is not limited to, the following:
   (A)   An actual copy of the recorded plat map bearing the seal of the
appropriate recordation official county clerk or recorder of deeds indicating
the official recordation and proper citation, deed or plat book volume and page
number, or an equivalent identification where annotation of the deed or plat
book is not the practice.
   (B)   A topographical map showing:
      1.   Ground elevation contours in relation to the NGVD (national geodetic
vertical datum).
      2.   The total area of the property in question.
      3.   The location of the structure or structures located on the property
in question.
      4.   The elevation of the lowest adjacent grade to a structure or
structures.
      5.   An indication of the curvilinear line which represents the area
subject to inundation by a base flood. The curvilinear line should be based
upon information provided by an appropriate authoritative source, such as a
federal agency, department of water resources, a county water control district,
a county or city planning commission, a federal emergency management agency
flood insurance study, or a determination by a registered professional
engineer.
   (C)   A copy of the FHBM or FIRM indicating the location of the property in
question.
   (D)   A certification by a registered professional engineer or licensed land
surveyor that the lowest grade adjacent to the structure is above the base
flood elevation.
   (E)   The completion of the appropriate forms in the federal emergency
management agency's packets, amendments and revisions to national flood
insurance program maps (MT-1 FEMA form 81-87 series and MT-2 FEMA form 81-89
series). (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-8: ALLUVIAL FAN ADVISORY:
3-12-8-1: HAZARDS OF ALLUVIAL FAN DEVELOPMENT:
Alluvial fans present a unique flood hazard environment where the combination
of sediment, slope, and topography create an ultra hazardous condition for
which elevation on fill will not provide reliable protection. Active alluvial
fan flooding is characterized by flow path uncertainty combined with abrupt
deposition and erosion. As a result, any area of an alluvial fan may be subject
to intense flood hazards.
The technology of mathematically modeling the hydrodynamics of water and debris
flows for alluvial fans is still in the early development stage. The federal
emergency management agency (FEMA) has formulated a mapping procedure for the
purpose of defining the likelihood of flood hazards on inundated alluvial fan
zones to be used for flood insurance purposes and general floodplain
regulation, referred to as the FEMA alluvial fan methodology.
An active alluvial fan flooding hazard is indicated by three (3) related
criteria:
   (A)   Flow path uncertainty below the hydrographic apex;
   (B)   Abrupt deposition and ensuing erosion of sediment as a stream or
debris flow loses its competence to carry material eroded from a steeper,
upstream source area; and
   (C)   An environment where the combination of sediment availability, slope,
and topography creates an ultra hazardous condition for which elevation on fill
will not reliably mitigate the risk.
Inactive alluvial fan flooding is similar to traditional riverine flood
hazards, but occurs only on alluvial fans. It is characterized by flow paths
with a higher degree of certainty in realistic assessments of flood risk or in
the reliable mitigation of the hazard. Counter to active alluvial fan flooding
hazards, an inactive alluvial fan flooding hazard is characterized by
relatively stable flow paths. However, areas of inactive alluvial fan flooding,
as with active alluvial fan flooding, may be subject to sediment deposition and
erosion, but to a degree that does not cause flow path instability and
uncertainty.
An alluvial fan may exhibit both active alluvial fan flooding and inactive
alluvial fan flooding hazards. The hazards may vary spatially or vary at the
same location, contingent on the level of flow discharge. Spatially, for
example, upstream inactive portions of the alluvial fan may distribute flood
flow to active areas at the distal part of the alluvial fan. Hazards may vary
at the same location, for example, with a flow path that may be stable for
lower flows, but become unstable at higher flows.
More detailed information can be found at FEMA's website: "Guidelines For
Determining Flood Hazards On Alluvial Fans" at http://www.fema.gov/fhm/
ft_afgd2.shtm#1. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
3-12-8-2: ALLUVIAL FANS AND LOMRs:
The NFIP does not allow for the removal of land from the floodplain based on
the placement of fill (LOMR-F) in alluvial fan flood hazard areas. The NFIP
will credit a major structural flood control project, through the LOMR process,
that will effectively eliminate alluvial fan flood hazards from the protected
area. Details about map revisions for alluvial fan areas can be found in the
code of federal regulations at title 44, part 65.13. (Ord. 235, 4-27-2011)
CHAPTER 13
SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND GUTTERS
SECTION:
3-13-1: Permit Required
3-13-2: Plans To Be Approved
3-13-3: Sidewalk Construction, Reconstruction And Repair
3-13-4: Installation Time Period; Withholding Occupancy Permit
3-13-5: Penalties
3-13-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hereafter install, construct or lay, or
cause to be installed, constructed or laid, any sidewalk or sidewalks, curb, or
gutter within the street lines of the city without first obtaining a permit
authorizing the same from the board of councilmen of the city, to be issued by
its engineer; and it shall also be unlawful for any person to construct,
install or lay any sidewalk, curb or gutter for any other person until such
person shall have first obtained a permit permitting the same from the board of
councilmen, as in this chapter provided. (Ord. 165, 12-13-1989, eff. 12-20-
1989)
3-13-2: PLANS TO BE APPROVED:
Any sidewalk, curb or gutter hereafter constructed by any person shall be
constructed in strict compliance with specifications and plans and upon grades
and lines to be approved by the board of councilmen or its duly authorized
engineer. (Ord. 165, 12-13-1989, eff. 12-20-1989)
3-13-3: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR:
   (A)   It is the responsibility of all property owners in the city for the
general maintenance of a sidewalk in a public right of way that abuts the
owner's property within the street lines of the city. The responsibility
imposed is that of a reasonable person and is not a duty greater than imposed
by common law duty. Furthermore, this section is not intended and cannot be
relied upon to define the standard of care in any civil action for negligence
or for the establishment of negligence per se for its violation.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this code, all sections of the city
sidewalks shall be of portland cement concrete, four feet (4') in width, inner
line of walk being laid adjacent to the curb. Whenever any sidewalk has been
constructed under the authority of any former ordinance of the city in any
manner other than in accordance with the lines established in this section,
sidewalks for the remaining properties in the same block shall be so
constructed that uniformity of lines may be maintained.
   (C)   The city may require the reconstruction and repair of sidewalks in the
following circumstances:
      1.   Imposing an assessment or other charge authorized by law for any
reconstruction or repair of a sidewalk that the governing body causes to be
performed within a public right of way;
      2.   Requiring any reconstruction or repair of a sidewalk as a condition
of approval for a change in the use of the land;
      3.   The repair and reconstruction of a sidewalk in the public right of
way that abuts the property of the owner if the owner caused the need for such
repair or reconstruction.
   (D)   Any sidewalk ordered repaired or reconstructed by the city council
shall be repaired or reconstructed by the owners of the property which abut
upon the sidewalk. The property owner shall be given a time certain in which to
complete said reconstruction and repair, which shall be a time period not to
exceed ninety (90) days during the Carlin construction season.
   (E)   Failure of the owner to complete the sidewalk improvements as required
within the time limits designated shall be considered an infraction of this
code and upon conviction of such infraction the municipal court may impose any
injunctive relief or fine of a civil nature as may be allowed by this code or
laws of the state.
   (F)   Sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be required on all lots and parcels
of land which are hereafter improved, or upon which any building or
construction shall take place; provided, however, that upon application by a
property owner or a contractor and for cause shown, the city engineer or board
may waive this requirement if the valuation of the work performed under the
building permit is less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). (Ord. 207, 3-9-
2005)
   (G)   The board of council members may waive the requirement of curb, gutter
and sidewalk in areas zoned rural residence and farming upon an application
filed by the property owner. (Ord. 241, 12-9-2015)
3-13-4: INSTALLATION TIME PERIOD; WITHHOLDING OCCUPANCY PERMIT:
   (A)   All curbs, gutters and sidewalks which must be installed by a private
property owner pursuant to this code must be installed within ninety (90) days
from obtaining the installation permit required by section
3-13-1 of this chapter.
   (B)   A private property owner must not be granted an occupancy permit until
the curb, gutter and sidewalk has been completed, inspected and approved by the
city.
   (C)   If the private property owner does not install the curb, gutter and
sidewalk within ninety (90) days as set forth in subsection (A) of this
section, the city may install the curb, gutter and sidewalk and place a lien
against the owner's property for all costs of installation. (Ord. 241, 12-9-
2015)
3-13-5: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Each
day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 165, 12-13-1989, eff. 12-20-1989; amd. Ord. 241, 12-9-2015)
CHAPTER 14
APPEALS OF LAND USE DECISIONS
SECTION:
3-14-1: Written Appeals
3-14-2: Notice Of Hearings On Appeals
3-14-3: Procedures For Appeals
3-14-4: Matters To Be Heard And Considered On Appeal
3-14-5: Appeals To The Fourth Judicial District Court
3-14-1: WRITTEN APPEALS:
Any decision of the planning commission or any other person appointed or
employed by the city who is authorized to make administrative decisions
regarding the use of land, may be appealed in writing to the Carlin board of
councilmen by any person aggrieved by such a decision. All appeals shall be
filed, in writing specifying with particularity the grounds for appeal, with
the city clerk no later than ten (10) calendar days after the decision. Appeals
shall include payment of a filing fee in an amount established by resolution of
the board of councilmen and a statement therein of the reasons why the decision
should be amended, modified or reversed. The board shall hear and render a
decision on any properly made appeal within sixty (60) calendar days after the
city clerk has received the written appeal. (Ord. 199, 11-14-2001)
3-14-2: NOTICE OF HEARINGS ON APPEALS:
   (A)   The board of councilmen shall hold a public hearing prior to rendering
their decision regarding the use of land which is appealed, as well as
decisions granting or denying variances and recommending the issuance or
revocation of conditional use permits. In the case of appeals from decisions
granting or denying variances and recommending the issuance or revocation of
special use permits, the city clerk shall give notice of the time and place for
the public hearing appeal by mailing a notice of hearing to the appellant,
property owner, property owners located within three hundred feet (300') of the
exterior boundaries of the property involved, and any person who presented oral
or written testimony, if any, before the planning commission. Said hearing
notice shall also be published one time in a newspaper of general circulation
at least ten (10) calendar days before the hearing.
   (B)   In appeals of all other decisions regarding the use of land, the city
clerk shall give notice of the time and place of the public hearing appeal by
mailing a copy of the notice at least ten (10) days before the time set for the
appeal hearing by certified or ordinary first class mail addressed to the
person being notified at the post office address given in his demand for
notice, if any, or at his office or place of residence, if known, or by
personally delivering a copy thereof to the person being notified at least ten
(10) days before the time set for hearing. If the address or identity of the
person is not known and cannot be ascertained with reasonable diligence, by
posting at least one time a copy thereof on two (2) public bulletin boards in
the city of Carlin, the posting of which must be at least ten (10) days before
the date set for the hearing. (Ord. 199, 11-14-2001)
3-14-3: PROCEDURES FOR APPEALS:
The procedures pursuant to which the board of councilmen will hear an appeal
are as follows:
   (A)   The appellant shall be heard first and shall present his grounds for
appeal.
   (B)   The city may respond to appellant's appeal, after which appellant may
present any rebuttal argument or evidence.
   (C)   Appellant and the city are entitled to be represented by counsel,
present testimony, evidence and argument on all issues raised on appeal.
   (D)   The board may, if it appears helpful to a clear understanding of the
issues, consider evidence or other matters not raised at the planning
commission level or with the administrative officer. (Ord. 199, 11-14-2001)
3-14-4: MATTERS TO BE HEARD AND CONSIDERED ON APPEAL:
The board of councilmen shall consider all evidence presented to the planning
commission at the original hearing, including oral and written testimony, and
any recommendations and findings of the planning commission as shown by the
official record and may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the planning
commission or administrative officer. In reviewing a decision on an appeal, the
governing body will be guided by the statement of purpose underlying the
regulation of the improvement of land expressed in Nevada Revised Statutes
278.020. Decisions of the board of councilmen shall be considered the final
decision for the purpose of judicial review. (Ord. 199, 11-14-2001)
3-14-5: APPEALS TO THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT:
Any person who:
   (A)   Has appealed a decision to the board of councilmen in accordance with
this chapter; and
   (B)   Is aggrieved by the decision of the board of councilmen, may appeal
that decision to the fourth judicial district court, in and for the county of
Elko, state of Nevada, by filing a petition for judicial review within twenty
five (25) days after the date of filing of notice of decision with the city
clerk. (Ord. 199, 11-14-2001)
CHAPTER 15
AGREEMENTS CONCERNING DEVELOPMENT OF LAND
SECTION:
3-15-1: Application
3-15-2: Content And Form Of Agreements
3-15-3: Commitments And Safeguards
3-15-4: Procedure
3-15-5: Amendment Or Cancellation
3-15-1: APPLICATION:
Upon application of any person having a legal or equitable interest in land,
the city may enter into an agreement with that person concerning the
development of that land.
Applications shall include payment of a filing fee in an amount established by
a schedule adopted by resolution of the city council and filed in the office of
the city clerk. (Ord. 221, 12-13-2006)
3-15-2: CONTENT AND FORM OF AGREEMENTS:
   (A)   At a minimum agreements concerning the development of land shall
include the following:
      1.   A description of the land which is the subject of the agreement.
      2.   The duration of the agreement.
      3.   The permitted uses of the land.
      4.   The density or intensity of use of the land.
      5.   The maximum height and size of proposed buildings.
      6.   Any provisions for the dedication of any portion of the land for
public use.
      7.   Provide for a period of time within which construction must commence
and provide for an extension of that deadline. (Ord. 221, 12-13-2006)
3-15-3: COMMITMENTS AND SAFEGUARDS:
The following commitments and safeguards shall apply to any agreement
concerning the development of land:
   (A)   Unless the agreement otherwise provides, the ordinances, resolutions
or regulations applicable to that land and governing the permitted uses of that
land, density and standards for design, improvements and construction are those
in effect at the time the agreement is made.
   (B)   Entering into an agreement concerning the development of land does not
prohibit the city from adopting new ordinances, resolutions or regulations
applicable to that land which do not conflict with those ordinances,
resolutions and regulations in effect at the time the agreement is made.
However, any subsequent action by the governing body must not prevent the
development of the land as set forth in the agreement. The governing body is
not prohibited from denying or conditionally approving any other plan for
development pursuant to any ordinance, resolution, or regulation in effect at
the time of that denial or approval.
   (C)   An agreement may include provisions which supersede limitations on
time for action on tentative or final maps or for presentation and recordation
of a final map or series of final maps. (Ord. 221, 12-13-2006)
3-15-4: PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Consideration of an agreement concerning the development of land by
the planning commission:
      1.   The planning commission shall set a date for public hearing of the
application to enter into an agreement concerning the development of land. Such
public hearing shall be held after a public notice of time, date and place of
such hearing has been given in accordance with any requirements of Nevada
Revised Statutes. Such notice shall include a legal description of the land
which is the subject of the agreement, a statement of existing zoning and
current use of the property, and a general description of the proposed content
of the agreement.
      2.   Within forty (40) days after the conclusion of the public hearing,
the planning commission shall file a written report containing the commission's
recommendation to the city council which shall include a finding of conformance
or nonconformance with the general plan.
      3.   Upon receipt of the planning commission's recommendation to the city
council, the city council shall set a date for public hearing of the matter
concerning the agreement for the consideration of the city council subject to
the same notice requirements contained within this section.
      4.   At the conclusion of the public hearing, or within thirty (30) days
thereafter, the city council may, if it finds that the provisions of the
agreement are consistent with the general plan, approve the agreement by
ordinance.
      5.   Within a reasonable time after approval of the agreement, the city
clerk shall cause the original agreement and a certified copy of the local
ordinance adopting the agreement to be filed with the county recorder for
recording. Upon recordation the agreement binds all parties and their
successors in interest for the duration of the agreement. (Ord. 221, 12-13-
2006)
3-15-5: AMENDMENT OR CANCELLATION:
   (A)   The agreement for development of land may be amended or canceled, in
whole or in part, by mutual consent of the parties to the agreement or their
successors in interest, except that if the governing body determines, upon a
review of the development of the land held at least once every twenty four (24)
months, that the terms of conditions of the agreement are not being complied
with, it may cancel or amend the agreement without the consent of the breaching
party.
   (B)   Notice of intention to amend or cancel any portion of the agreement
shall be subject to any notice requirements required by Nevada Revised
Statutes. The governing body, after conducting a public hearing, may approve
any amendment to the agreement by ordinance if the amendment is consistent with
the master plan. The original of the amendment must be filed for recording with
the county recorder. (Ord. 221, 12-13-2006)
ARTICLE A. APPROVING DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
WITH CARLIN CROSSING, LLC
SECTION:
3-15A-1: Approval
3-15A-2: Master Plan
3-15A-3: Recordation
3-15A-4: Amendment Or Cancellation
3-15A-1: APPROVAL:
A certain development agreement between the city of Carlin, Nevada, and Carlin
Crossing, LLC, a Nevada limited liability company executed by the parties on
June 25, 2014, is hereby approved by the Carlin city council. (Ord. 240, 6-25-
2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
3-15A-2: MASTER PLAN:
The city council finds that the development agreement is consistent with the
city master plan. (Ord. 240, 6-25-2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
3-15A-3: RECORDATION:
Within a reasonable time after the effective date hereof, the clerk of the city
of Carlin shall cause the original development agreement to be recorded with
the Elko County recorder. Upon recordation, the agreement binds all parties and
their successors in interest for the duration of the agreement. (Ord. 240, 6-
25-2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
3-15A-4: AMENDMENT OR CANCELLATION:
   (A)   The development agreement between the city of Carlin and Carlin
Crossing, LLC, may be amended or canceled, in whole or in part, by mutual
consent of the parties to the agreement or their successors in interest, except
that if the governing body determines, upon a review of the development of the
land held at least once every twenty four (24) months, that the terms of
conditions of the agreement are not being complied with, it may cancel or amend
the agreement without the consent of the breaching party.
   (B)   Notice of intention to amend or cancel any portion of the agreement
shall be subject to any notice requirements required by Nevada Revised
Statutes. The governing body, after conducting a public hearing, may approve
any amendment to the agreement by ordinance if the amendment is consistent with
the master plan. (Ord. 240, 6-25-2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
ARTICLE B. APPROVING DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
WITH KHOURY LEASING, LLC
SECTION:
3-15B-1: Approval
3-15B-2: Master Plan
3-15B-3: Recordation
3-15B-4: Amendment Or Cancellation
3-15B-1: APPROVAL:
A certain Development Agreement between the City of Carlin, Nevada and Khoury
Leasing, LLC, a Nevada limited liability company ("Development Agreement")
executed by the parties on September 26, 2018 is hereby approved by the Carlin
City Council. (Ord. 245, 9-26-2018, eff. 10-4-2018)
3-15B-2: MASTER PLAN:
The City Council finds that the Development Agreement is consistent with the
City Master Plan. (Ord. 245, 9-26-2018, eff. 10-4-2018)
3-15B-3: RECORDATION:
Within a reasonable time after the effective date of this article, the Clerk of
the City of Carlin shall cause the original Development Agreement to be
recorded with the Elko County Recorder. Upon recordation, the agreement binds
all parties and their successors in interest for the duration of the agreement.
(Ord. 245, 9-26-2018, eff. 10-4-2018)
3-15B-4: AMENDMENT OR CANCELLATION:
   (A)   The Development Agreement between the City of Carlin and Khoury
Leasing, LLC, may be amended or canceled, in whole or in part, by mutual
consent of the parties to the agreement or their successors in interest, except
that if the Governing Body determines, upon a review of the development of the
land held at least once every twenty four (24) months, that the terms of
conditions of the agreement are not being complied with, it may cancel or amend
the agreement without the consent of the breaching party.
   (B)   Notice of intention to amend or cancel any portion of the agreement
shall be subject to any notice requirements required by Nevada Revised
Statutes. The Governing Body, after conducting a public hearing, may approve
any amendment to the agreement by ordinance if the amendment is consistent with
the master plan. (Ord. 245, 9-26-2018, eff. 10-4-2018)
ARTICLE C. APPROVING DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH NEVADA GOLD MINES, LLC
SECTION:
3-15C-1: Approval
3-15C-2: Master Plan
3-15C-3: Recordation
3-15C-4: Amendments Or Cancellations
3-15C-1: APPROVAL:
A certain Development Agreement between the City of Carlin, Nevada and Nevada
Gold Mines LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Development Agreement")
executed by the parties on __________, 2022 is hereby approved by the Carlin
City Council. (Ord. 254, 12-15-2022)
3-15C-2: MASTER PLAN:
The City Council finds that the Development Agreement is consistent with the
City Master Plan. (Ord. 254, 12-15-2022)
3-15C-3: RECORDATION:
Within a reasonable time after the effective date of this ordinance, the clerk
of the City of Carlin shall cause the original Development Agreement to be
recorded with the Elko County Recorder. Upon recordation, the agreement binds
all parties and their successors in interest for the duration of the agreement.
(Ord. 254, 12-15-2022)
3-15C-4: AMENDMENT OR CANCELLATION:
   A.   The Development Agreement between the City of Carlin and Nevada Gold
Mines LLC, may be amended or canceled, in whole or in part, by mutual consent
of the parties to the agreement or their successors in interest, except that if
the governing body determines, upon a review of the development of the land
held at least once every 24 months, that the terms of conditions of the
agreement are not being complied with, it may cancel or amend the agreement
without the consent of the breaching party.
   B.   Notice of intention to amend or cancel any portion of the agreement
shall be subject to any notice requirements required by Nevada Revised
Statutes. The governing body, after conducting a public hearing, may approve
any amendment to the agreement by ordinance if the amendment is consistent with
the master plan. (Ord. 254, 12-15-2022)
CHAPTER 16
DRINKING WATER PROTECTION CRITICAL AREAS
SECTION:
3-16-1: Short Title And Purpose
3-16-2: Authority
3-16-3: Definitions
3-16-4: Establishment And Delineation Of Drinking Water Protection Critical
Areas
3-16-5: Prohibited Uses
3-16-6: Permitted Uses
3-16-7: Complaints
3-16-8: Enforcement
3-16-1: SHORT TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   (A)   This chapter may be cited as the CARLIN DRINKING WATER PROTECTION
CRITICAL AREAS.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public drinking water
supply for the residents of the city of Carlin by establishing drinking water
source protection zones, known as overlay districts. These overlay districts
will surround the wellheads and springs used by the public water system in the
city of Carlin. (Ord. 223, 7-25-2007)
3-16-2: AUTHORITY:
The Carlin drinking water protection critical areas are overlay districts
superimposed on the zoning districts in the city of Carlin, and shall apply to
all new construction, reconstruction, or expansion of existing buildings and
new or expanded uses. Activities/facilities/uses must comply with the
requirements of both the Carlin drinking water protection critical areas and
any underlying zoning district. (Ord. 223, 7-25-2007)
3-16-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
are to mean:
ABANDONED WATER WELL: A well that's use has been permanently discontinued; its
pumping equipment has been permanently removed; the well is in such a state of
disrepair that it cannot be used to supply water and/or has the potential for
transmitting surface contaminants into an aquifer, the well poses potential
health or safety hazards, or the well is in such a condition that it cannot be
placed in the active, standby, or inactive status.
ANIMAL FEEDLOT/DAIRIES: A lot or facility (other than an aquatic animal
production facility) where animals have been, are, or will be stabled or
confined and fed or maintained for a total of forty five (45) days or more in
any twelve (12) month period, and crops, vegetation, forage growth, or
postharvest residues are not sustained in the normal growing season over any
portion of the lot or facility. Two (2) or more animal feedlots or dairies
under common ownership are considered to be a single feeding operation if they
adjoin each other, if they use a common area, or if they use a common system
for the disposal of wastes.
APPLICANT: Person or persons applying for a special permit for a facility
within the Carlin drinking water protection critical areas.
AQUIFER: A water bearing rock, sand or gravel layer that will yield water in a
usable quantity to a well or spring.
CARLIN DRINKING WATER PROTECTION CRITICAL AREAS: The zoning districts defined
to overlay other zoning districts in the city of Carlin for the protection of
the drinking water within the city of Carlin. The districts are defined in
subsections
3-16-4(A) and (B) of this chapter.
CLASS I INJECTION WELL: Wells used to inject hazardous wastes or dispose of
nonhazardous industrial waste and treated municipal sewage below the deepest
underground source of drinking water.
CLASS II INJECTION WELL: Wells used to inject fluids associated with the
production of oil and natural gas or fluids and compounds used for enhanced,
hydrocarbon recovery. These wells normally inject below the deepest underground
source of drinking water (USDW) except in cases where the USDW contains
producible quantities of oil or gas.
CLASS III INJECTION WELL: Wells that inject fluids used in subsurface mining of
minerals.
CLASS V INJECTION WELL: Wells not included in the other classes that inject
nonhazardous fluid into or above an underground source of drinking water. (The
7 major types of class V wells include drainage wells, geothermal reinjection
wells, domestic wastewater disposal wells, mineral and fossil fuel recovery
related wells, industrial/commercial/utility disposal wells, recharge wells and
miscellaneous wells. Class V injection wells also include all large capacity
cesspools and motor vehicle waste disposal wells.)
CONTAMINATION: The presence of a material that may cause or significantly
contribute to a present or potential risk to human health, safety, welfare, or
that is present in ground water resources or to the natural environment such
that it degrades the quality of the resource so as to constitute a hazard and/
or impair its use.
DELINEATION: Determining the outline or shape of a drinking water protection
area.
DESIGN STANDARD: A control that is implemented for a potential contamination
source to prevent discharges to the ground water. Spill protection is an
example of a design standard.
DRINKING WATER SOURCE PROTECTION (DWSP) ZONE: The surface and subsurface area
surrounding a ground water source of drinking water supplying a public water
system through which contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and
reach such ground water source.
GROUND WATER: The water contained in the interconnected pores located below the
ground in an aquifer.
GROUND WATER SOURCE: Any well, spring, tunnel, adit, or other underground
opening from or through which ground water flows or is pumped from subsurface
water bearing formations.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: (A) A material that may cause or significantly contribute
to a present or potential risk to human health, safety, welfare, to ground
water resources or to the natural environment; or
   (B)   That is defined in the following categories:
      1. Ignitable: A gas, liquid or solid which may cause fires through
friction, absorption of moisture, or which has low flash points. Examples:
white phosphorous and gasoline;
      2. Carcinogenic: A gas, liquid, or solid which is normally considered to
be cancer causing or mutagenic. Examples: PCBs in some waste oils;
      3. Explosive: A reactive gas, liquid or solid that will vigorously and
energetically react uncontrollably if exposed to heat, shock, pressure or
combinations thereof. Examples: dynamite, organic peroxides and ammonium
nitrate;
      4. Highly Toxic: A gas, liquid, or solid so dangerous to man as to afford
unusual hazard of life. Example: chlorine gas;
      5. Moderately Toxic: A gas, liquid or solid that through repeated
exposure or in a single large dose can be hazardous to man;
      6. Corrosive: Any material, whether acid or alkaline, which will cause
severe damage to human tissue, or in case of leakage might damage or destroy
other containers of hazardous materials and cause the release of their
contents. Examples: battery acid and phosphoric acid; or
   (C)   The following items listed below and byproducts, reaction products, or
waste products generated from the use, handling, storage, or production of
these items. Examples: acid and base cleaning solutions, antifreeze and
coolants (new or used), arsenic and arsenic compounds, batteries (new and
used), brake and transmission fluid, oils/greases/lubricants, brine solution
casting and foundry chemicals, caulking agents and sealants, cleaning solvents,
cutting fluids, degreasing solvents, disinfectants, electroplating solutions,
explosives, fertilizers, food processing wastes, fuels and additives, glues,
adhesives, and resins, greases, hydraulic fluid, industrial and commercial
janitorial supplies, industrial sludges and still bottoms, inks, printing and
photocopying chemicals, laboratory chemicals, metal finishing solutions, oils
(petroleum based), paints, primers, thinners, dyes, stains, wood preservatives,
paint solvents, and paint removing compounds, pesticides and herbicides,
plastic resins and catalysts, plasticizers, photo development chemicals, pool
chemicals, roofing chemicals and sealers, solders and fluxes, tanning industry
chemicals, transformer and capacitor oils/fluids.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A surface covered by a material that is relatively
impermeable to water.
INACTIVE WATER WELL: A well is considered to be inactive if it is not presently
operating but is maintained in such a way that it can be put back into
operation, with a minimum of effort, to supply water.
NORMAL HOUSEHOLD USE: Storage or use of a hazardous material in quantities less
than five (5) gallons if liquid or fifty (50) pounds if solid.
OVERLAY DISTRICT: A designated area that requires additional zoning
restrictions in addition to existing zoning regulations.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, joint venture, incorporated association,
public or private corporation, partnership, governmental body or other similar
entity, public or private.
POLLUTION SOURCE: Point source discharges of contaminants to ground water or
potential discharges of hazardous substances which are stored in containers in
excess of "applicable threshold planning quantities" as specified in SARA title
III also known as the "emergency planning and community right to know act"
(EPCRA), 42 USC section 11011 et seq. (1986), regulations at 40 CFR chapter I,
subpart J. Examples of possible pollution sources include, but are not limited
to, the following: storage facilities that store liquid forms of extremely
hazardous substances, septic tanks, drain fields, class V underground injection
wells, landfills, open dumps, land filling of sludge and septage manure piles,
salt piles, pit privies, drain lines, and animal feeding operations.
POTENTIAL CONTAMINATION SOURCE: Any facility or site, which employs activity or
procedure which may potentially contaminate ground water. A pollution source is
also a potential contamination source.
PROMISCUOUS DUMP: Any collection of solid waste either dumped or caused to be
dumped or placed on any property either public or private, whether or not
regularly used, and not authorized by the administrative authority.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: A water supply that provides water through constructed
conveyances to the public for at least fifteen (15) service connections or
regularly serves an average of at least twenty five (25) individuals daily for
at least sixty (60) days per year.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A landfill for the disposal of commercial or residential
solid waste by deposit in a landfill in layers covered with suitable cover
material of a depth and at a frequency adequate to control disease, vectors and
odors, and in such a manner that minimizes the risk to human health and the
environment.
SANITARY SEWER LINE: A pipeline that connects a residence or other building
with a sanitary sewer.
SECURED STORAGE: Natural or created barrier to site ingress or egress around
the entire perimeter of a hazardous materials storage area.
SEPTIC TANK/DRAIN FIELD SYSTEM: A system, which is comprised of a septic tank
and a drain field, which accepts domestic wastewater from buildings or
facilities for subsurface treatment and disposal. By their design, septic tank/
drain field system discharges cannot be controlled with design standards.
SOURCE WATER ASSESSMENT PROGRAM: Section 1453 of the safe drinking water act
amendments of 1996 (42 USC section 300 j-13 et seq.) required each state to
develop a source water assessment program that will: Delineate areas providing
drinking water for all public water supplies (ground water and surface water)
and inventory drinking water supplies for potential contaminants which may have
adverse effects on human health.
SPRING: The ground surface outlet of a natural underground spring including
spring collection and control boxes, valves, piping and other attachments.
STORM WATER INFILTRATION STRUCTURE: A structure that is intended to discharge
storm water so that it infiltrates ground water.
UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS: Underground tanks used for the storage of gas, oil,
or other hazardous substances.
WELL: Any excavation that is drilled, cored, bored, washed, driven, dug,
jetted, or otherwise constructed for conveying ground water to the surface,
monitoring ground water levels or other characteristics, providing cathodic
protection, or providing a method of injecting water into the aquifer system
from above the earth's surface.
WELLHEAD: The physical structure, facility, or device at the land surface, from
or through which ground water flows, or is pumped from subsurface water-bearing
formations. (Ord. 223, 7-25-2007)
3-16-4: ESTABLISHMENT AND DELINEATION OF DRINKING WATER PROTECTION CRITICAL
AREAS:
For the purposes of this chapter, there are established within the city of
Carlin certain drinking water protection critical areas. The Carlin drinking
water protection critical areas are defined as follows:
   (A)   The spring drinking water source is located on the western edge of the
city of Carlin near the Chinese Gardens Nature Study Area. This water source is
listed as SP02 in the "Source Water Program Public Water System Assessment
Report" dated February 23, 2005. It is shown as SP01 on the map that
accompanies that report.
      1.   The Carlin drinking water protection critical area for the spring is
an area of approximately fifty eight (58) acres and has boundaries as outlined
below:
         (a)   The north boundary is a line defined as being one hundred fifty
feet (150') northwesterly of the existing upper spring, running perpendicular
to Willow Street.
         (b)   The west boundary is State Route 278, also known as the Eureka
Highway.
         (c)   The south boundary is West Bush Street.
         (d)   The east boundary is Willow Street.
This overlay district is designated on the accompanying map (attachment A) as
CDWPCA #1. The legal description of this overlay district is portions of
Section 28 and Section 33, Township 33 North, Range 52 East.
   (B)   The well drinking water source is located north of Interstate 80 and
west of Griffin Street. This water source is listed as W01 in the "Source Water
Program Public Water System Assessment Report" dated February 23, 2005. It is
shown as W01 on the map that accompanies that report.
      1.   The Carlin drinking water protection critical area for the well
includes three (3) parcels of land directly north of the wellhead and the land
surrounding the wellhead directly to the east and south. The total area of this
overlay district comprises approximately eighteen (18) acres, and is designated
on the accompanying map (attachment B) as CDWPCA #2. The legal description of
this overlay district is portions of Section 22 and Section 27, Township 33
North, Range 52 East. (Ord. 223, 7-25-2007)
3-16-5: PROHIBITED USES:
The following uses are prohibited within the Carlin drinking water protection
critical areas:
Abandoned water wells.
Aboveground storage tanks.
Agriculture chemical formulation/distribution facilities.
Animal feedlots/dairies, fur breeding operations, poultry farms, etc.
Asphalt plants.
Auto/boat/tractor/small engine shops.
Battery recyclers.
Body shop/paint shops.
Car washes.
Cemeteries.
Chemical plants.
Class I injection wells.
Class II injection wells.
Class III injection wells.
Class V injection wells.
Dry cleaners, laundromats.
Funeral homes.
Furniture stripping facilities.
Golf courses and related facilities.
Hazardous waste or material disposal sites.
Hospitals.
Irrigation wells.
Metal plating/metal working facilities.
Military facilities.
Nonfunctional septic systems.
Oxidation ponds.
Petroleum bulk plants.
Pipeline compressor stations.
Plant nurseries.
Power plants.
Printing shops.
Promiscuous dumps.
Salvage yards.
Sand/gravel pits.
Sanitary landfills.
Sanitary sewer lines within one hundred fifty feet (150') of a wellhead or
spring collection area.
Septic tanks/drain field systems.
Sewer lift stations.
Sewer treatment plants.
Storm water infiltration structures.
Surface use, storage or dumping of hazardous waste or material (expressly
including industrial or commercial uses of agricultural pesticides).
Truck loading or off loading facilities.
Truck terminals.
Underground storage tanks.
Wood preserving plants.
   (A)   Additionally, the area within a one hundred fifty foot (150') radius
from the wellhead site is protected from any use of any type. There will be no
use, facilities, or activities allowed in this very restricted area.
   (B)   The area within a one hundred fifty foot (150') radius from the spring
building is protected from any use of any type. There will be no use,
facilities, or activities allowed in this very restricted area. (Ord. 223, 7-
25-2007)
3-16-6: PERMITTED USES:
   (A)   Existing Uses: Any of the land uses, facilities, or activities in
existence on the date of adoption of this chapter may continue to exist on the
parcel upon which it is located, provided that all existing facilities, land
uses or activities are in compliance with all federal/state/local laws. If any
facility, land use or activity is found to be not in compliance, the
responsible parties shall have sixty (60) days to obtain the necessary permits
or anything else that is required for them to be in compliance with all
federal/state/local laws. The sixty (60) day limit shall apply from the first
date of notification from the city of Carlin to the responsible party.
Replacement or repair may be granted by the Carlin city council, after review
and recommendation by the Carlin planning commission. Uses incidental and
accessory to such established facilities or activities may be continued in the
same manner, provided that such use is not determined by any board, court or
competent jurisdiction to be a violation under the provisions of federal,
state, and/or local laws or regulations. If an existing use, facility, or
activity discontinues, it shall not be allowed to resume operation until it is
determined that such use, facility, or activity complies with guidelines,
zoning, and regulations that are in effect at the time. Such determination
shall be made by the Carlin city council after review and recommendation of the
Carlin planning commission.
   (B)   Development: Any development subsequent to the adoption of this
chapter must be done in compliance with existing zoning for the parcels of land
involved. There may be additional, more stringent requirements for added
protection of the drinking water sources. These additional requirements shall
be determined by the Carlin city council. Any potential development within the
Carlin drinking water protection critical areas shall be submitted to the
Carlin planning commission who will, in turn, review the proposal and make
recommendation to the Carlin city council. Permitted uses must be in compliance
with section
3-16-5 of this chapter. There shall be no variance of the zoning of the land,
unless the use is of a lesser impact. The degree of impact shall be determined
by the Carlin city council.
      1.   Additional Requirements For Development In The Carlin Drinking Water
Protection Critical Areas: The following, as a minimum, will be required for
all development. Additional design standards may be required as determined by
the Carlin city council.
         (a)   The planned use, facility, or activity shall be connected to the
city of Carlin water system and to the city of Carlin sanitary sewer system. No
septic tanks, cesspools, or individual wastewater disposal systems shall be
allowed. No wells shall be allowed, with the exception of monitoring wells
which are approved by the Carlin city council.
         (b)   Parking areas shall be designed to contain any and all potential
pollution or contamination sources: i.e., antifreeze, motor oil, gasoline,
asphalt residue, storm runoff, etc., to prevent seepage into the ground. These
contained potential pollution or contamination sources must be disposed of
properly in accordance with local, state and federal law.
         (c)   Landscaping shall be designed not to contaminate or pollute the
ground water. The design standard must contain any and all substances,
chemicals, products, etc., that could be potential pollution or contamination
sources. These contained potential pollution or contamination sources must be
disposed of properly in accordance with local, state and federal law.
         (d)   Acts of God, occurring from unforeseen, naturally occurring
events that are unavoidable are exempt from this section.
      2.   Development Permitting: Following approval of the proposed
development from the Carlin city council, the developer, property owner, and/or
interested party(ies) shall obtain all applicable permits and proceed with the
development process according to specifications required by the Carlin city
council and in accordance with development requirements within the city of
Carlin. (Ord. 223, 7-25-2007)
3-16-7: COMPLAINTS:
   (A)   Any person may submit a verbal or written complaint alleging a
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the complaint, the city of Carlin may conduct a
thorough investigation of the substances of the complaint, including a meeting
with the tenant and property owner involved.
   (C)   Based upon the determination that there is a violation of this
chapter, the city of Carlin may conduct an attempt at informal reconciliation
with the violator. As part of such informal reconciliation, the city of Carlin
must:
      1.   Notify the violator by mail of the violation of this chapter and
desire of the city of Carlin to correct the violation through informal
reconciliation. The statement shall also indicate that should the violator
refuse to allow the recommended corrective actions within the time set forth by
the city of Carlin, action may be taken to correct the violation at the expense
of the violator.
      2.   Make a good faith effort to meet the violator and resolve/correct
the violation.
   (D)   If, after taking the steps above, and after a period of thirty (30)
days following the mailing of the notice of the violation, the city of Carlin,
in good faith, determines that the violator is unwilling to participate in
informal reconciliation and take the corrective actions prescribed, the city of
Carlin shall notify the violator by mail of the termination of the informal
reconciliation.
   (E)   The city of Carlin may take corrective actions deemed necessary
following fifteen (15) days after notifying the violator by mail of the notice
of termination of the informal reconciliation, and bill the violator for the
reasonable cost of such action. (Ord. 223, 7-25-2007)
3-16-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Civil: This chapter may be enforced civilly by suit for injunctive
relief or by any other appropriate civil remedy.
   (B)   Criminal: The city attorney may file a complaint in municipal court.
If the person is found in violation of this chapter he shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be treated accordingly. (Ord. 223, 7-25-2007)
TITLE 4
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Title
4-1-2: Purpose
4-1-3: General Features
4-1-4: Definitions
4-1-5: Penalty
4-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited in all proceedings as the CITY OF
CARLIN SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-1-2: PURPOSE:
   (A)   The design, improvement, maps, sales of land in subdivisions are
governed by the planning and zoning act of the state of Nevada (chapter
278.030), and by the provisions of this title.
The purpose of this title is to safeguard the public health, safety and general
welfare by establishing certain standards of design, improvement, survey and
development for subdivisions hereafter platted in the city in order to provide
and ensure the orderly and proper growth and development thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, firm, association, syndicate,
copartnership, trust or any other legal entity, as a principal, agent or
otherwise, to offer to sell, to contract to sell, or to lease or transfer any
subdivision of land or any part thereof in the city, unless or until all
requirements hereinafter provided have been complied with. This shall not be
construed to prohibit the sale of any lot or parcel of land, which is of record
as a lot or parcel of land on the effective date of this title. (Ord. 63, 12-8-
1971)
4-1-3: GENERAL FEATURES:
The planning commission 1  is hereby designated as the advisory agency charged
with the duty of making investigations and reports in design and improvements
of all proposed subdivisions.
   (A)   When strict conformance with the requirements of this title is
impracticable or impossible, said commission may allow such modifications as
are not in violation of the spirit and purpose of this title. When such
modifications and/or deviations are permitted, the planning commission shall
submit with the report of the approved tentative plat, a report in writing to
the city council stating in detail the nature of each such modification and the
fact pertinent thereto.
   (B)   If the name of any street or highway is duplicated elsewhere, or by
reason of the spelling or pronunciation is likely to cause confusion or
uncertainty, another name shall be substituted. The continuation of every
existing or dedicated street or highway shall bear the name of the street or
highway so continued or extended.
   (C)   Dedications for watercourse channels, streams or creeks and the
dedication of land for parks, recreation, school or other public purposes in an
amount and location consistent with the master plan, and the proposed character
and location and the engineering need of each subdivision may be required as a
condition precedent to tentative and final plat approval.
   (D)   Wherever the subdivision is contained within the boundaries of more
than one district for which separate taxes are levied, and the boundaries of
each district shall be located and shown accurately on a final map. (Ord. 63,
12-8-1971)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 11 of this code.
4-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this title, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
FINAL MAP: A map prepared in accordance with the provisions of the state
statutes and this title, which is designed to be placed on record in the office
of the county recorder of Elko County.
IMPROVEMENT: Refers only to such work and materials to be installed by the
subdivider on the lands to be used for public or private streets, ways or
easements as are necessary for the general use of lot owners in the subdivision
and traffic and drainage needs.
LOT: A distinct parcel, or portion of real property, divided with the intent to
transfer ownership or for building development.
PRINT: A blueprint, photostat, direct process print or other copy, which
reproduces exactly the original drawing from which the subdivision was made.
REQUIRED AREA: A parcel or lot of land containing not less than the prescribed
minimum area required by any subdivision, zoning or other city regulations at
the time of the creation of the lot or parcel and occupied, or intended to be
occupied, by buildings or public utility facilities.
SHALL OR MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
STREET: Land devoted primarily to vehicular traffic use, extending to the
boundaries of the right of way, whether designated as a highway, an avenue,
boulevard, freeway, place, lane, drive, etc.
SUBDIVIDER: A person, firm, corporation, partnership or association, who causes
land to be divided into a subdivision for himself and/or others.
SUBDIVISION: Any land or portion thereof, shown on the last preceding tax roll
as a unit or as a contiguous unit, which is divided for any purpose of sale or
lease, whether immediate or future, by any subdivider into five (5) or more
parcels within any one calendar year, if the intent of offering over four (4)
lots of sale regardless of time period is evident, the planning commission may
declare an act of subdividing. A "one owner" is the individual, firm,
association, syndicate, copartnership or corporation, having sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided, to commence and
maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under this title while used herein
in the masculine gender and singular number, it shall be deemed to mean the
feminine and neuter gender and plural number whenever required.
TENTATIVE MAP: A map made for the purpose of showing the design of the proposed
subdivision and existing conditions in and around it, and it need not be based
on an accurate or detailed final survey of the property.
The terms "county engineer" and "planning commission" and "city council" shall
be those of, or empowered to act for the city. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-1-5: PENALTY:
Every person who offers to sell, contract to sell, sells or conveys by deed any
real property constitution as defined in this title, or any lot or parcel
thereof, before a final map of said subdivision has been recorded or filed in
the office of the Elko County recorder, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and subject
to penalty. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
CHAPTER 2
TENTATIVE PLATS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Preconference
4-2-2: Procedures
4-2-3: Fees
4-2-4: Requirements
4-2-1: PRECONFERENCE:
The first step in the subdivision process is the filing of a tentative plat. It
is suggested, however, that even prior to this, the subdivider should make
contact with the planning commission, as to the elements and features of the
master plan proposals for the area, specific engineering requirements and other
factors, which may influence the design and development of the area in
question. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-2-2: PROCEDURES:
   (A)   The subdivider shall file with the planning commission five (5) prints
of any proposed new tentative plat at least ten (10) days prior to a regular
meeting date of that commission. These shall be distributed as follows: one to
the county engineer, one to the state health department, one to the local power
company, and two (2) on file at the office of the planning commission. They
shall be submitted on durable paper approximately twenty four inches by thirty
two inches (24" x 32") in size and drawn to a scale of sufficient size to allow
the showing of all details of the plan and required data clearly. Any number of
sheets may be used, providing each sheet specifies the total number of sheets
and the number of the particular sheet. If the tract is a portion of a larger
area which may be subdivided later, the tentative map shall indicate the
ultimate plan for the whole area. With each such tentative plat, the subdivider
shall also file a copy of deed restrictions, if any apply.
A certificate of title showing all title interests prepared by a title company
authorized by the state of Nevada, or by an abstractor duly commissioned by the
state of Nevada, shall be filed with the tentative map.
   (B)   The planning commission shall consider all such evidence as presented
by the subdivider, and shall make such findings relative to the tentative map
as are not inconsistent with the laws of the state or with this title,
transmitting such findings as a recommendation to the city council within
thirty (30) days. The planning commission shall disapprove or conditionally
approve every tentative map if the map does not disclose full compliance with
the provisions of this code, or with the laws of the state of Nevada.
   (C)   In the event that a subdivider shall be dissatisfied with the report
of the planning commission, he may appeal the action before the city council
within fifteen (15) days from the notice received from that commission. The
city council shall hear such appeal within ten (10) days, and make such
determinations as are not inconsistent with the statutes of the state of Nevada
and with this title.
   (D)   Approval and recommendation by the planning commission of a tentative
plan shall impose no obligation on the part of the city council to approve the
final map, or to accept any public dedication for streets or ways shown
thereon.
   (E)   Time limits as set forth herein may be extended by mutual consent of
all parties concerned, however, if no action as specified is taken within the
time limit set forth, the tentative plat, as filed, shall be deemed to be
approved. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-2-3: FEES:
Filing fees as set forth by resolution shall be due and payable to the clerk of
the city, to be deposited in the general fund, as prerequisite to the filing of
a tentative plat prior to any official consideration thereof for the following:
Subdivision of twenty five (25) lots or less.
Subdivision of more than twenty five (25) lots.
No part of the filing fee will be refunded in the event that the tentative plan
is not approved, or if for any other cause approval is not given. (Ord. 233,
11-10-2010)
4-2-4: REQUIREMENTS:
Every tentative plat, or application, accompanying same shall show the
following data and contain information hereinafter set forth:
   (A)   Subdivision designation suitable to the planning commission and the
city engineer.
   (B)   Name and address of the subdivider.
   (C)   Name and address of the surveyor or engineer, who prepared the map,
together with serial number issued by the state for his registration.
   (D)   A legal description sufficient to define the boundaries of the
subdivision, and evidence of ownership of the property to be divided.
   (E)   The location, names and widths of all adjoining streets.
   (F)   The width or right of way, proposed name and approximate grade of each
street, alley or way within the proposed subdivision and approximate radius of
all curves.
   (G)   The width and approximate location of all existing or proposed
easements (public or private) for roads, drainage, sewers, irrigation or public
utility purposes, and dedication for parks, recreation areas, schools or other
public purposes, if any.
   (H)   If other subdivisions adjoin, that portion thereof which so adjoins
showing the streets, zoning, use and ownership thereon with relation to the
street in the proposed subdivision.
   (I)   The number of, size and proposed use of lots, zoning of the area and
the location, size and proposed use of the public area, if any. If the proposal
is over forty (40) acres in size, produce correspondence indicating having
complied with the requirements of the Nevada statutes chapter 116.020,
regarding offer to dedicate possible school site with final decision to the
school board.
   (J)   Source of water supply and proposed method of sewage disposal with
certified approval of the state sanitary engineer.
   (K)   All blocks shall be numbered or lettered consecutively. Lot numbers
shall be consecutive within each block or totaled. The dimensions of each lot
shall show, and each lot shall have an area not less than five thousand (5,000)
square feet required by the other regulations of the city.
   (L)   If any portion of the land proposed for subdivision is subject to
inundation, storm flow conditions, geological hazard or other hazards, the land
so affected shall be clearly marked on the map by a prominent note on each
sheet, and the nature of the hazard clearly explained.
   (M)   Contours at five foot (5') intervals when the slope is in excess of
ten percent (10%) and two foot (2') intervals when the slope is below ten
percent (10%), when in the opinion of the engineer and the planning commission,
topography is a major factor in the subdivision design.
   (N)   Date, north point, scale and number of sheets.
   (O)   The location and outline to scale of each existing building and
structure, which is not to be moved in the development.
   (P)   The setback distance, or that distance between the right of way for
the street and the nearest part of the proposed structure to that right of way.
   (Q)   The location and nature of any physical, natural or geologic feature,
that will be used to enhance the environment in the subdivision. Such features
shall be clearly indicated on the map with suitable explanation, as to the
nature and the use of such feature. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
CHAPTER 3
SURVEY
SECTION:
4-3-1: Requirements
4-3-1: REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Before a final map of a subdivision can be prepared or submitted, an
accurate and complete boundary survey of the lots, blocks, roads, easements and
boundaries of the subdivision must be made by a licensed surveyor.
   (B)   Monuments shall be set up as defined below and shall be permanently
visibly marked or tagged with the registration and license number of the
surveyor under whose supervision the survey was made, and a description of each
monument to be set subsequent to recordation, shall be shown on the final map.
Tags set in iron pins shall be grouted with mortar. The minimum allowable error
of closure shall be one ten-thousandth (1/10,000). Temperature and tension
correction shall be applied to all measured distances in conformance with the
standards adopted by the federal board of survey and maps in May 1925.
   (C)   The engineer or surveyor in charge of such survey shall cause
permanent monuments to be set as follows:
      1.   A class A monument shall be set:
         (a)   On each boundary corner of the subdivision.
         (b)   Along the boundary lines of the subdivision at intervals of not
more than one-fourth (1/4) mile.
         (c)   At street intersections or by reference thereto.
         (d)   At the beginning and ending of each curve unless special
conditions require an alternate setting.
         (e)   On all block corners in the subdivision.
      2.   A class B monument shall be set on each lot corner in the
subdivision.
   (D)   Monuments required in this title shall be as follows:
      1.   A class A monument shall consist of a capped iron pipe having an
inside diameter of two inches (2") or more, or a six inch by twelve inch (6" x
12") concrete monument, or a malleable metal capped steel shaft, or its
equivalent thirty inches (30") long driven at least twenty four inches (24")
into the ground.
      2.   A class B monument shall consist of an iron pipe having inside
diameter of three-fourths inch (3/4") (or a reinforcing steel bar with a
minimum diameter of 5/8 inch, and at least 18 inches long driven into the
ground at least 12 inches and extending above the surface of the ground at
least 6 inches with the top painted red) or more, at least eighteen inches
(18") long, driven at least twelve inches (12") in the ground extending between
four inches (4") and six inches (6") above the surface, and having a stamped
galvanized cap.
      3.   Where a monument is set in a paved street, it shall be set with the
top at least six inches (6") below the finished grade, and shall be covered
with a cast iron cover set flush with the finished grade of the street.
      4.   By order entered in the minutes of the city council may authorize
placement of other specified kinds of monuments or specified subdivisions.
   (E)   Every licensed surveyor who surveys a parcel of land in the city into
two (2) or more separate parcels and prepares a map of record of each survey
shall send a legible copy of such map to the planning commission within thirty
(30) days after completion of such map. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
CHAPTER 4
FINAL MAP
SECTION:
4-4-1: Procedure
4-4-2: Requirements
4-4-3: Certificates
4-4-1: PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Not less than ten (10) days prior to the filing of any final map with
the city council, the subdivider shall submit the original proposed final map
and two (2) prints of same to the engineer, who shall check said map as to the
accuracy of dimensions, placing of monuments, establishment of survey records
and conformance of the map with the tentative map as approved. Data concerning
closure calculations, construction plans, estimates of quantities and the like
shall also be required by the engineer when the situation warrants. In addition
to other fees and charges as required by law, the subdivider shall pay a
checking fee, which shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each map, plus
two dollars ($2.00) for each lot shown thereon. Such fee shall be due and
payable at the time the final map is presented for checking to the engineer.
Upon completion and checking by the engineer, the original map shall be
presented to the councilmen for final approval, who may forthwith approve same
by affixing an affidavit on the original and direct it to be recorded and
entered as a legal document in the records of Elko County.
The city council shall refuse any final map approval when a report of error is
made, and shall continue to refuse to approve it until all deficiencies are
resolved.
   (B)   The county recorder shall collect a fee for recording of a final plat.
   (C)   The final map of a subdivision must be recorded within one year after
approval of conditional approval of the tentative map of said subdivision.
Failure to so record terminates all proceedings, requiring an entirely new
tentative plat submittal.
   (D)   The entire final map shall be clearly and legibly drawn or stamped in
black waterproof India ink upon good tracing linen. Each sheet shall be twenty
four inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32") in size; a marginal line shall be
drawn completely around each sheet leaving an entirely blank margin of one inch
(1") at the bottom, top and right edge and two inches (2") at the left side on
the twenty four inch (24") dimension. The exterior boundary of the land within
the subdivision shall be indicated by a colored border.
   (E)   Maps filed for the purpose of showing acreage, lands previously
subdivided into numbered or lettered parcels, shall be conspicuously marked
under the title "The purpose of this map is to revert to acreage."
   (F)   Title to dedicated properties shall pass when the final plat is
recorded. If at the time any streets are rejected, offer of dedication shall be
deemed to remain open and governing body made by resolution, at any later date
and without further action by the subdivider, rescind its action and accept and
open streets for public use, which same shall be recorded in the official
county records. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-4-2: REQUIREMENTS:
Every final map shall show all data required for the tentative map except
contour lines, position of buildings, relationship to streets and highways
beyond the area shown on the map and the proposed use of lots, and shall
contain in addition, the following data:
   (A)   The map shall show all details clearly, with the necessary information
for the intelligent interpretation of the items and location of points, lines
and areas as shown. All streets, drives, walks and alleys, parks, easements,
etc., must be designated as such, and be definitely established with bearing
and distances. The subdivision plat shall show bearings and lengths of all
lines, and the radius, central angle, length of curve, and tangent length for
all curved lines. The calculated closures shall be mathematically exact to the
nearest one- hundredth of a foot (0.01') and to one second of an angle. The
scale and basis of bearing shall be shown. Ties shall be made to USCG control
points or Nevada state coordinate system points established by the state
highway department or other engineers, whenever these controls are available.
The map scale shall not be smaller than one hundred feet (100') to one inch
(1").
   (B)   The location and description of monuments or other evidence found upon
the ground and used in determining the boundaries of subdivisions. The exterior
boundary of the land included within the subdivision shall be indicated by the
colored border and all land within said boundary and/or boundaries, and not a
part of the subdivision shall be marked "Not a part." If other subdivisions
adjoin, the map shall show sufficient corners of such subdivision.
   (C)   Each city boundary and government land survey line crossing or
adjoining the subdivision with adequate ties to monuments set or found within
same. No lot shall be cut by a city or county boundary line.
   (D)   The title of the final map shall be the name of the subdivision map as
it appears on the approved tentative map, with all conditions satisfied, and
shall be shown together with the scale used on each sheet of the final map, and
the number of the sheet to the total.
   (E)   If any portion of the land within the boundaries of the final map is
subject to inundation, storm flow conditions, geologic hazard or other hazard,
the land so affected shall be clearly marked by a prominent note on each sheet.
   (F)   A statement indicating whenever private covenants affecting the
subdivision are to be recorded. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-4-3: CERTIFICATES:
The following certificates and acknowledgements shall appear on the final map
and may be combined when appropriate:
   (A)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having a record
title interest in the land subdivided, consenting to the preparation and
recordation of the map.
   (B)   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above, offering for
dedication certain parcels of land which the parties desire so to dedicate.
   (C)   A certificate by the surveyor responsible for the survey and final
map, giving the date of the survey and stating that the survey was made by him,
or under his direction, and that the survey is true and complete as shown, and
bearing his registration number and seal.
   (D)   A certificate by the engineer stating that he has examined the final
map, that all provisions of law have been met, and that he is satisfied that
the map is technically correct.
   (E)   A certificate for execution by the county clerk, stating that the city
has approved the map and accepted (or deferred) on behalf of the public any
parcels of land offered for dedication for public use in conformity with the
terms of the offer of dedication.
   (F)   A certificate of the planning commission that map conforms to approved
tentative map and all conditions imposed upon such approval have been
satisfied.
   (G)   Proper certificate of a notary public, authorized to do business in
the state of Nevada, is required.
   (H)   Certificate of state health officer indicating feasibility of a proper
and adequate sewage disposal system and domestic water supply system. (Ord. 63,
12-8-1971)
CHAPTER 5
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Standards
4-5-2: Certain Lots; Size Restriction
4-5-1: STANDARDS:
   (A)   Each street and highway shall conform in width and alignment to
specifications contained in these regulations, as heretofore or hereafter
adopted, and the subdivision shall in all other particulars conform in design
and land use to other plans as may be adopted by the city as part of the master
plan.
   (B)   Whenever any street or highway is proposed requiring a separation of
grades or any special form of intersection design, the subdivision shall be so
designed to conform to the plan of intersection design, and all lots shall,
when necessary be provided with suitable access elsewhere. Any street or
highway shall intersect at an angle as nearly a right angle as shall be
practicable.
   (C)   No center line curve radius of less than one hundred fifty feet (150')
shall be provided on any collector street that is shown on the master plan. The
center line curves of a radius as low as seventy five feet (75') may be allowed
on local residential streets. Major streets shall be subject to specific
individual design curvatures.
   (D)   An alley of not less than twenty feet (20') in width may be required
at the rear or along one side of all lots to be used for multiple residence or
commercial purposes.
   (E)   A pedestrian walkway of ten feet (10') minimum width may be required
through the approximate transverse center of any block longer than one thousand
two hundred feet (1,200'), or may be required as access to greenbelt and school
sites, where the same is part of a development plan or planned unit
development.
   (F)   Each street and highway (except under steep slope conditions) shall
conform to the following minimums:
      1.   Secondary roads, as designated by the master plan, shall have a
right of way width of eighty feet (80') or more, and an improved section of not
more than sixty five feet (65') subject to specific decision of the planning
commission.
      2.   Entrance or collector streets and local streets serving lots used
for other than single-family dwelling purposes, or local streets serving more
than eighty (80) lots for single-family dwelling purposes, shall have a
dedicated right of way of not less than sixty feet (60') and shall be improved
to a width of not less than forty feet (40').
      3.   Local streets, so designed as to eliminate any future possibility of
serving more than eighty (80) lots to be used for single-family purposes only,
shall have a dedicated right of way of not less than fifty feet (50') with an
improved section of not less than thirty six feet (36').
      4.   A cul-de-sac street, provided with a turnaround of fifty feet (50')
radius may have a fifty foot (50') right of way, and with an improved section
of not less than thirty six feet (36'), providing not more than twelve (12)
single units are served thereby, and total center line length is not in excess
of six hundred feet (600').
      5.   In mountainous areas, where it is impossible or impracticable to
provide streets of the standards set herein, the criteria as set forth in
chapter 7 of this title may be permitted.
   (G)   At each street intersection, the property line at each block corner
shall be rounded by a curve having a radius of not less than fifteen feet (15')
for right angle corners. Where streets intersect at angles of not less than
right angles at major intersections, or where other peculiar conditions of
intersection occur, the planning commission may require a different radius.
   (H)   Reserve strips of land controlling access to or egress from other
property, or to or from any street or alley, shall not be permitted.
   (I)   All overhead public utilities shall be placed along easements at the
rear of the lot unless conditions specifically warrant otherwise. No public
utility services shall be less than fourteen feet (14') above the grade of the
artery.
   (J)   Wherever practical and economically feasible, all public utility
systems shall be located underground.
   (K)   Reverse or compound curves shall be separated by tangents of not less
than one hundred feet (100') on primary, secondary and collector streets.
   (L)   Streets/alleys lying along a subdivision boundary may dedicate half
required width of same if it is practical to require dedication of the other
half when the adjacent property is developed. Such portion of a street shall be
distinctly designated as being a "portion only", and not full street width.
Whenever a recorded half street exists as part of an adjacent plat, the other
half must be provided on the property plat.
   (M)   In areas of possible fire hazards, unobstructed fire protection
equipment access easements, not less than fifteen feet (15') wide shall be
dedicated from the public street to the subdivision boundary. Such easement
shall be located, designed and graded as determined by the planning commission
in cooperation with forestry and fire protection agencies.
   (N)   If any portion of the land within the boundaries as shown on the
tentative map of a subdivision or record of survey is subject to flood hazard,
inundation, geological hazard, excessive depth of slope or ruts or fills,
ground water or seepage conditions, slides or similar hazards to public safety,
and the probable use of the property will require structures thereon, the
planning commission may disapprove said map or record of survey of that portion
so affected and require protective improvements to be constructed as a
condition precedent to the approval of the remainder of the map.
   (O)   No existing slope or proposed cut slope shall be steeper than one and
one-half (11/2) horizontal to one vertical and no fill slope, existing or
proposed, shall be steeper than two (2) horizontal to one vertical, unless
recommended by a competent soils engineer acceptable to the city.
In steep slope areas a lot may have a strip of land not less than twenty five
feet (25') in width connecting the building site with the street. The area of
said strip shall be excluded in computing the lot area and the length of said
strip shall not exceed three hundred feet (300').
   (P)   Where a cut or fill slope is outside the normal right of way of the
street, a slope easement shall be provided by sufficient width to permit proper
maintenance of the slopes by the city.
   (Q)   Retaining walls may be required whenever topographic conditions
warrant, or where necessary to retain fill or cut slopes within the rights of
way or slope easement.
   (R)   All fills to be used for building sites shall be compacted to not less
than ninety percent (90%) as per AASHO modified spec. T149-57.
   (S)   All natural drainageways, where indicated on the master plan, shall be
preserved with appropriate width drainage easements and/or pedestrian walkways.
(Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-5-2: CERTAIN LOTS; SIZE RESTRICTION:
Unless otherwise specified, all subdivision lots located in areas where public
water supply and sewage disposal are not available, lot sizes must conform to
the state of Nevada board of health minimum size requirements, the zoning title
lot size notwithstanding. These are:
   (A)   One acre – when the water supply is a well located on the lot and the
sewage disposal system is a septic tank located on the same lot.
   (B)   Twelve thousand (12,000) square feet – when either the water supply is
a well on the lot or the sewage disposal system is a septic tank on the same
lot.
   (C)   The minimum frontage width of any lot not zoned in a commercial
district shall be not less than required in the regulations set forth as
applicable in the respective zoning districts. Corner lots shall have a minimum
street width of seventy five feet (75') unless otherwise specified by zoning
regulations.
   (D)   The minimum area of a residential lot in any case shall be five
thousand (5,000) square feet, said lots to be located in the intermediate
residential district. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
CHAPTER 6
IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
4-6-1: General
4-6-2: Bonding
4-6-1: GENERAL:
   (A)   As a condition precedent to the acceptance of any easements offered
for dedication to the public, and prior to the approval of the final map of the
subdivision, the subdivider shall agree to improve at his own expense, and
within a stated time, all land so dedicated with such improvements as set forth
in this chapter, and the final map of any such subdivision shall not be
approved until either such features have been improved as provided herein, or
the subdivider has executed an agreement to so improve such features as secured
by a bond or cash deposit. Trunk sewer lines and other improvements not solely
for the benefit of the subject subdivision, and full improvement of those
routes shown on the street plan, shall not be required unless included within
the subdivider's agreement; however, the subdivider shall be held to his
portion of all these improvements. The amount of said fair participation shall
be decided by the city council upon recommendation of the planning commission.
   (B)   When the tentative map indicates that the proposed water supply for
any lot in the subdivision comes from a source other than located upon such
lot, the subdivider shall install, or cause to be installed, the water supply
and distribution system needed to supply domestic water to all such lots in
accordance with standards herein set forth and including a fire system if
required by the fire chief.
   (C)   The final map shall not be approved until the engineer certifies that
the design of the water supply and distribution systems conform to the
standards set forth and to sound engineering practices; nor until such system
has either been installed and approved or the subdivider has executed an
agreement to install such system secured by a bond or cash deposit. (Ord. 63,
12-8-1971)
4-6-2: BONDING:
   (A)   If, at the time the final map of the subdivision is considered for
approval, any of the improvements required herein have not been completed, the
subdivider shall complete same or submit an agreement to complete all such
improvements prior to the date fixed by the engineer, which shall not exceed
one year from the date of agreement and specified in the agreement. The
agreement to complete as it progresses, and for the withdrawal of that portion
of any security posted as required equal to ninety percent (90%) of the
estimated cost of that portion of the work as accepted, as shown by the
certificate of the engineer. The agreement shall also provide that the
subdivider shall repair, at his sole cost and expense, any hidden defects of
workmanship or materials, which appear in the work within one year following
acceptance by the city, ten percent (10%) of the original amount of the
security shall be posted, or a substitute maintenance bond in the same amount
shall be posted to secure subdivider's obligation to repair such defects.
   (B)   A separate performance guarantee bond shall be posted by the surveyor,
whose name appears on the final plat, to ensure that all monuments as herein
required shall be set within a maximum period of one year. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
   (C)   Before commencing any work, the subdivider shall deposit with the
clerk of the city a fee set by resolution to cover the inspection costs of all
improvements required under this chapter. (Ord. 233, 11-10-2010)
CHAPTER 7
HILLSIDE AREAS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Standards
4-7-2: One-Way Streets
4-7-3: Steep Slope Areas
4-7-4: Modifications
4-7-1: STANDARDS:
Standards for steep slope subdivisions shall be permitted only in areas
conforming to the definitions of a steep slope area.
Each lot specifically related to terrain features, design objectives and siting
potentials. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-7-2: ONE-WAY STREETS:
One-way streets may be allowed subject to grade and plotting requirements as
specified herein.
      Curbs, one side only.
      Off street parking.
      Sidewalks. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-7-3: STEEP SLOPE AREAS:
"Steep slopes" shall mean any land having an average cross slope of fifteen
percent (15%) or more. A steep slope shall be determined by measurement of the
average slope perpendicular to the proposed street line between the proposed
rear lot lines and the center of the street. Any block frontage shall be
considered a steep slope area if the slope of thirty percent (30%) or more of
its length equals or exceeds fifteen percent (15%).
No building, street and roadway widths and design in steep slope areas will be
governed by the general topography of the land and the density of proposed
development to be served thereby, in the subdivision or portions of
subdivisions in which the average lot size is one-half (1/2) or more plus cross
slope in excess of ten percent (10%).
   (A)   Street grades for minor residential streets may be increased to
fifteen percent (15%) for distances not to exceed five hundred feet (500').
   (B)   The dedicated street width of a two-way street may be reduced to forty
feet (40') with a minimum paved width of twenty six feet (26') when parking is
to be restricted to one side only.
   (C)   The dedicated width of a one-way street can be reduced to thirty feet
(30') with a minimum paved width of twenty feet (20').
   (D)   Integral sidewalks and curbs may be permitted.
Hillside parcels in excess of ten (10) acres may be designed on an average
density basis, as set forth by regulated zoning districts. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-7-4: MODIFICATIONS:
In case of subdivisions, or portions thereof, having an average cross slope of
not less than ten percent (10%), the planning commission, in the exercise of
its discretion, may modify the foregoing requirements of this title, in a
manner that will result in the best possible utilization of land to be
subdivided, giving consideration to the topography of the land and general
characteristics of the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
CHAPTER 8
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
4-8-1: General
4-8-2: Streets
4-8-3: Drainage
4-8-4: Other Requirements
4-8-5: Water
4-8-6: Sewage Collection
4-8-1: GENERAL:
Every subdivider shall, at the time of filing the final map, submit therewith
two (2) copies of an accurate profile of the center line showing road gradients
and vertical curve data, using true elevations above sea level for all streets
and roads in said subdivision to be offered for dedication to public use. The
plans must bear the signature of a Nevada registered engineer. (Ord. 63, 12-8-
1971)
4-8-2: STREETS:
   (A)   All streets and/or roads offered to the city for dedication as shown
on a final map or otherwise shall:
      1.   Have a right of way extending at least two feet (2') beyond those
places where the natural surface of the ground must be excavated or covered
with fill dirt and materials in constructing such cuts and fills as are
necessary to provide the roadbed and drainage ditches required herein.
      2.   Have a maximum roadway gradient (except as set forth in chapter 7 of
this title) of not more than:
 
Minimum grade                      0.3 percent
Primary roads through subdivisions 10.0 percent
Minimum crown                      0.3 percent
 
      3.   Provide for the clearing of the entire width of the right of way, of
all brush, trees, stumps or other debris.
      4.   Have a minimum paved surface of thirty feet (30') in case of half
right of way boundary streets.
      5.   Be graded as set forth by the specifications of chapter 5 of this
title.
      6.   Be compacted to not less than ninety percent (90%) of the maximum
density obtainable by the use of compaction equipment, and addition of water in
proper amounts. The requirements apply also to backfilling of all trenches and
other excavations across or along the roadbed or right of way.
      7.   Be provided with necessary drainage ditches, culverts and structures
built according to a drainage plan approved by the engineer, who may require a
drainage plan be prepared by a civil engineer registered in the state of
Nevada, and duly approved prior to commencement of road grading.
      8.   Be surfaced as follows: Imported select base material shall be
crushed gravel, screened riverbed gravel, or decomposed granite, meeting the
gradation requirements specified by the engineer. The base thicknesses shall be
determined by the soil classification of the subgrade, and in no case shall be
less than six inches (6") for residential streets, or eight inches (8") for
collector or major streets. The engineer may require soil classification test
data be submitted with the construction drawings at the rate of one test per
each seven and one-half (71/2) acres being developed. On the basis of these
tests, and/or with field observations of the soils, the engineer shall
determine the base thickness required.
   (B)   A paved surface of plant mixed or road mixed asphalt pavement shall be
applied to a minimum width two feet (2') less than the minimum width of the
roadbed and to a compacted thickness of at least two and one-half inches (21/
2"). The design of the mix shall have the written approval of the engineer
before placing the pavement.
   (C)   A liquid asphalt coat of SC 250 grade liquid asphalt may be applied at
the rate of at least 3/10 gallons per square yard to the entire width of the
base coat. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-8-3: DRAINAGE:
   (A)   Flow line of the curb or gutter shall have a minimum grade of three-
tenths of one percent (0.3%).
   (B)   Curb returns shall have a minimum radius of five feet (5').
   (C)   Curbs and gutters shall be three thousand (3,000) pound concrete "L"
type with five inch (5") type II gravel subbase.
   (D)   Valley gutters shall be three thousand (3,000) pound concrete six feet
(6') in width on street intersections, and two and one- half feet (21/2') in
width in alleys where required by the city engineer, both to be six inches (6")
thick.
   (E)   The subdivider shall provide the necessary means to assure complete
drainage in and adjacent to his property by making use of state and city
drains, natural watercourses, or constructed tributaries.
   (F)   Drainage channels shall be so designed as to maintain a minimum
velocity of two feet (2') per second, and a maximum velocity of eight feet (8')
per second.
   (G)   The subdivider shall submit to the city clerk's office for checking by
the engineer, sufficient information in the form of maps and profiles prepared
by his surveyor or engineer to indicate the proper drainage of the surface
water to natural drainage courses or into city or state drainage systems. If
same is across lands intended to be used as private lots, rights of way and
easements must be indicated on the proposed lot. The location and width of
easements shall be indicated on the plat to be recorded and marked "Easement
Reserved for Surface Drainage". If it is deemed necessary by the engineer,
ditching shall be provided. Further, if it is deemed expedient, the drain shall
be enclosed in pipe made to design size and specifications, and laid to the
grade and depth required by the governmental authority.
   (H)   Circular culverts shall be reinforced concrete pipe with cement joints
or corrugated metal or metal arch pipe.
   (I)   No drainage structure shall be permitted with a diameter of pipe less
than twenty four inches (24").
   (J)   Standard head walls shall be placed on all circular culverts up to
seventy two inches (72") in diameter.
   (K)   The design, size and material used shall comply in all cases with the
specifications of the office of the engineer. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-8-4: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   All lots and/or subdivisions of a rural residence character or
description shall be provided with curbs and gutters; all other urban
subdivisions shall be provided with curbs, gutters and sidewalks (5 foot
minimum width).
   (B)   Place at least one street sign at each intersection, of a type and
construction as approved by the engineer.
   (C)   Perpetuate all existing waterways with structures of proper size.
   (D)   Provide necessary structures such as bridges, concrete boxes,
culverts, head walls, cattle guards, appurtenant fencing and other features as
indicated by the planning commission. (Ord. 63, 12-8-1971)
4-8-5: WATER:
Where practical, city water supply and distribution system shall be extended
to, and controlled in subdivisions in accordance with the following standards:
   (A)   Obtaining Water: The water supplied for a subdivision shall be
obtained from a source free of pollution, or from a source adequately purified
by natural agencies or by artificial treatment. The source shall be reasonably
adequate to provide a continuous supply that is wholesome, potable and in no
way harmful or dangerous to health.
   (B)   Supply And Distribution System: The supply and distribution system
shall be so designed and constructed that it will maintain a normal operating
pressure at all service connections of not less than twenty five (25) pounds
per square inch above atmospheric pressure, except that during peak periods of
hourly maximum demand the pressure at the time of peak seasonal loads, may not
be less than twenty (20) pounds per square inch above atmospheric pressure, and
that during periods of hourly minimum demand, the pressure may not be more than
one hundred fifty (150) pounds per square inch. Variations in pressure under
normal operation shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the average operating
pressure. Services for adequate storage and emergency standby power shall be
supplied in all cases.
   (C)   Constructing Component Parts Of Water System: Metallic and nonmetallic
materials may be used separately and in combination to construct component
parts of a water system including, but not limited to, conduits, pipes,
couplings, caulking materials, protective linings, and coating, services,
valves, hydrant pumps, tanks and reservoirs, provided:
      1.   The material shall have a reasonable useful service life.
      2.   The materials shall be capable of withstanding with ample safety
factors the internal/external forces to which subjected.
      3.   The material shall not cause the water to become impure,
unwholesome, unpotable or unhealthful.
      4.   Material and equipment so selected as to mitigate corrosion,
electrolysis and deterioration.
   (D)   Water Mains: All water mains shall be placed in suitable rights of way
prior to the surfacing. All water mains shall be installed below the frost line
or be otherwise protected to prevent freezing. Insofar as it is practicable,
the distribution system shall be laid out in a properly segmented grid with
valves provided at reasonable intervals so that repairs may be effected with
interruption of service kept at a minimum number of customers with not more
than three (3) valve closures required to discontinue service. Dead ends in
mains shall be avoided insofar as practicable, and a means shall be provided to
flush any dead ends, which may be installed in the mains.
   (E)   Service Connections: A service connection pipe at least three-quarters
inch (3/4") nominal size shall be placed to each lot from the water main prior
to the surfacing of the streets and alleys affected. Service pipe shall be laid
to a depth sufficient to prevent freezing and not less than eighteen inches
(18") except at its termination in connecting with a meter or customer's
piping.
   (F)   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be so placed that no point in any
of the streets fronting on lots served by the water distribution system is
farther than three hundred feet (300') from the nearest hydrant. Each fire
hydrant shall be installed in a public street, and shall have a gate valve
between the water main and the riser, unless the hydrant valve is located in
its base. Fire hydrants shall be of a type and size approved by the board of
national fire underwriters. The water supply and distribution shall be so
designed and constructed that it will supply at least five hundred (500)
gallons a minute for a continuous period of at least two (2) hours at any fire
hydrant in the system and is in normal operation without reducing the water
pressure in any part of the system below twenty (20) pounds per square inch
above atmospheric pressure. No water main serving any fire hydrant shall have
an inside diameter less than six inches (6").
   (G)   Plans And Specifications: Prior to the approval of the final map, the
subdivider shall submit to the engineer, plans for extension of the city's
water supply system or a private water distribution system prepared by a
qualified engineer in sufficient detail to enable the engineer to ascertain
whether such system conforms to the standards set forth herein for design of
such systems.
   (H)   Additional Requirements: The engineer may make additional requirements
for water systems having unusual problems to solve; such problems by sound
engineering practices as a prerequisite to his approval of such plans. (Ord.
63, 12-8-1971)
4-8-6: SEWAGE COLLECTION:
Sewage collection and disposal systems shall be installed in subdivisions in
accordance with the following standards and provisions:
   (A)   Disposal System: The means used to dispose of sewage shall have
sufficient capacity to dispose of all sewage and industrial waste, which may be
reasonably anticipated from the other areas such system may serve. The disposal
system shall so treat all sewage, including any industrial waste, that all
liquid, solid or gaseous residue after treatment will not contaminate any
surface or underground waters to a degree, which creates an actual hazard to
the public health through poisoning or the spread of disease, nor pollute any
surface or underground water to a degree which adversely affects such waters
for domestic, industrial, agricultural, navigational, recreational or other
beneficial use, nor shall such systems create a nuisance to any community by
odors or unsightliness resulting from unreasonable practices in the disposal of
sewage.
   (B)   Materials: Metallic or nonmetallic materials may be used separately
and in combination to construct the component parts of a sewer collection and
disposal system provided:
      1.   The material shall have a reasonably useful service life;
      2.   The materials shall be capable of withstanding with ample safety
factors, the internal and external forces with which it may be subjected in
service;
      3.   Material and equipment shall be so selected as to mitigate
corrosion, electrolysis and deterioration;
      4.   "Orangeburg" or other fibre pipe shall not be used for sewer main or
laterals.
   (C)   Sewer Mains: Sewage shall be collected in a network of sewer mains
laid within the rights of way of public streets leading to the sewage disposal
system. All sewer mains shall not be less than eight inches (8") in diameter
and of sufficient size to carry all sewage and industrial waste which can
reasonably be anticipated from the full expected use of all lots and areas
served by the mains. Gravity sewer mains shall be laid to such grade that they
will provide a minimum velocity of flow of two feet (2') per second at all
points in such mains.
   (D)   Laterals: A service connection lateral of not less than four inch (4")
nominal size shall be placed to each lot from the line to the sewer main. A
cleanout shall be provided upon each lateral just within the boundary line of
the lot served.
   (E)   Sewer Opening: Manholes shall be constructed in sewer mains at every
change of grade or direction, and along straight portions of mains, so that no
point in any main shall be farther from the nearest manhole than two hundred
fifty feet (250'). A lamphole or manhole must be provided at the end of all
sewer mains. Manholes shall be installed in accordance with the engineer's
specifications.
   (F)   Storm Waters: No storm water drains shall be connected to any sewer
main or lateral.
   (G)   Trenching: All sewer mains and laterals shall be placed and the
backfill compacted prior to the surfacing of the streets affected. Road
excavation permits shall be required for trenching required to place water and
sewer systems in subdivision streets prior to road surfacing when the
construction of such systems are secured by a subdivision bond or deposit. No
water or sewer mains or laterals shall be covered until forty eight (48) hours
after written notice of such placement and request for inspection has been
delivered to the engineer, or his deputy.
   (H)   Plans And Specifications: Prior to the approval of the final map, the
subdivider shall submit to the engineer plans of the sewage collection and
disposal system prepared by a Nevada registered engineer, of sufficient detail
to enable the engineer to ascertain whether such system conforms to the
standards as set forth herein, and to standard acceptable engineering
practices.
   (I)   Additional Requirements: The engineer may make additional requirements
for sewer systems having unusual problems to solve; such problems by sound
engineering practices as a prerequisite to his approval of such plans. (Ord.
63, 12-8-1971)
TITLE 5
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: License Required
5-1-2: Application; Fee
5-1-3: Investigation
5-1-4: Council Action
5-1-5: Temporary License
5-1-6: License Term
5-1-7: Posting License
5-1-8: License Form
5-1-9: Oath; License Register
5-1-10: License Book
5-1-11: Report Delinquencies
5-1-12: Enforcement
5-1-13: License Procured From Clerk
5-1-14: License Fees Enumerated
5-1-15: Revocation
5-1-16: Compliance With Laws
5-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Every person engaged in carrying on, maintaining, pursuing, conducting or
transacting; or hereafter engages in, carries on, maintains, pursues, conducts
or transacts, in the city, the trade, business, occupation, calling or pursuit
hereinafter named, shall obtain from the city and shall pay therefore the
license herein specified, and in the manner as provided in this chapter.
Any person opening, engaging in, carrying on or pursuing any business, trade,
occupation, calling or pursuit hereinafter named without first having obtained
from the city the license herein required shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to penalty, and in addition thereto shall pay the
entire fee for the required license retroactive to January 1 of the year such
business, trade, occupation, calling or pursuit was established, together with
penalty payment equal to the total sum of one year's fee for the license
required.
Any person or business who has obtained the required business license and is
delinquent in the payment of his quarterly license fee for a period greater
than fifteen (15) days shall, in addition to the payment of the quarterly fee,
pay a penalty fine equal to one-half (1/2) of the assessed quarterly fee. (Ord.
83, 2-18-1976)
5-1-2: APPLICATION; FEE:
Every person desirous of carrying on, maintaining, pursuing, conducting or
transacting any such trade, business, occupation, calling or pursuit shall
apply to the board of councilmen through its clerk, for a license so to do, and
shall deposit with such application the proper license fee. Such application
shall be in substantially the following form:
   APPLICATION FOR LICENSE
TO THE HONORABLE BOARD OF COUNCILMEN OF THE CITY OF CARLIN, IN THE COUNTY OF
ELKO, STATE OF NEVADA:
Gentlemen:
   In accordance with City Ordinance No.           , I hereby apply for a
           license, permitting the carrying on of            at No.      ,
           Street, in the City of Carlin, such business to begin on the      
day of            19     . I hereby state that no business has been carried on
at said place by the applicant           , without having first obtained a
license so to do; and I hereby promise that if said license is granted, the
licensee shall and will comply with all the Ordinances of said City now in
effect or which may hereafter be enacted for the regulation and control of such
business, and this promise and covenant shall be deemed one of the
considerations passing to the City of Carlin for the granting of such license.
License to be issued in the name of           . Names of all persons owning an
interest in said business, and their respective places of business:
                                                                                   
                                                                                      
There is herewith enclosed the sum of $     , as license fee, as determined by
the provisions of City Ordinance No.      .
                                    
                Applicant
Subscribed and sworn to before me this       day of           , 19     .
          City Clerk or Notary Public
(Ord. 83, 2-18-1976)
5-1-3: INVESTIGATION:
The clerk shall immediately deliver said application to the mayor, and it shall
be forthwith referred by him to a license committee, which is hereby created,
and which shall consist of the mayor and two (2) councilmen to be appointed by
him.
The license committee shall investigate said application and shall make a
report thereon to the board of councilmen at its next regular meeting, or such
application may be considered at a special meeting convened and held according
to law. (Ord. 83, 2-18-1976)
5-1-4: COUNCIL ACTION:
The board of councilmen shall act upon said application at its next regular
meeting, or at such other meeting to which the consideration of said
application may be regularly continued, and if it appears that the granting of
said application will be detrimental to the public peace, health or morals, the
council, by a majority vote, and upon which the mayor may cast the deciding
vote, if a tie otherwise exists, may refuse to grant said application or issue
any license thereon; otherwise said application shall be granted and a license
issued thereon. (Ord. 83, 2-18-1976)
5-1-5: TEMPORARY LICENSE:
In case of an emergency, the mayor shall have power, pending the meeting of the
council, to grant a temporary license upon an application being made, in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, but no such temporary license
shall be continued, or be of any force or effect after the date of the next
regular meeting of the council; and provided further, that if any person has
had one license granted under and in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, then unless otherwise ordered by the council, the mayor and clerk may
renew said license thereafter without any action of the council being necessary
thereon. (Ord. 83, 2-18-1976)
5-1-6: LICENSE TERM:
All licenses shall be taken out quarterly, monthly, weekly or daily, as
provided herein, and shall be paid for in advance.
There shall be added to every license not obtained within five (5) days after
the same becomes due and payable, the sum of one dollar ($1.00), which shall
become and be a part of the license and shall, with such license, be collected
by the clerk.
The term "quarter" whenever used in this chapter with reference to time, shall
be construed and is hereby declared to mean one- quarter (1/4) of a year, and
said quarter shall begin with the following months: January, April, July and
October of each and every year; and whenever a person shall apply for a license
to conduct any kind of a business or calling, under the provisions of this
chapter, in the middle of any quarter or any part of a quarter, then the said
person shall be required to pay said part or portion of the unexpired quarter
in addition to the quarter immediately following, and said licenses shall be so
arranged as to have them fall and become due on the commencement of a quarter;
and this is the intention and meaning of this chapter. The clerk has the right
and authority to issue a license for a fractional quarter, so as to have all
licenses fall due on a regular quarter, as herein provided. (Ord. 83, 2-18-
1976)
5-1-7: POSTING LICENSE:
All licenses taken out pursuant to the requirements of this chapter shall be
posted and kept by the party or parties taking out the same, in a conspicuous
place in or about the place of business of the person who obtains the same;
and, in demand, during the usual hours of business, must be shown to the
officer whose duty it is to collect such license and the officer whose duty it
is to issue the same. (Ord. 83, 2-18-1976)
5-1-8: LICENSE FORM:
All licenses provided by this chapter to be procured shall be printed in
appropriate form, with marginal stub attached, stitched together, and bound in
books, and shall be so printed that on issuance, the date, number, amount,
class, business, trade or profession licensed, and the name or names of the
party or parties to whom the license is granted, and the time for which the
same is granted shall be indicated; and before issuance they shall be signed by
the mayor and countersigned by the clerk. (Ord. 83, 2-18-1976)
5-1-9: OATH; LICENSE REGISTER:
The city clerk shall make diligent inquiry and examination as to all persons in
the city liable to pay for licenses as provided in this chapter, and he is
hereby empowered, and it shall be his duty, to require each person procuring a
license as provided in this chapter to make a statement under oath, or
affirmation, of the amount of business a member, or the firm of which he is
attorney, or for which he is agent, or the association or corporation of which
he is president, secretary or managing or resident agent, have done or
transacted during the last preceding month, or quarter, as the case may be, in
order to carry out the provisions of this chapter. The clerk shall keep in his
office, a set of books to be called the "city license register", in which he
shall enter the names of all parties to whom he issues licenses, the business,
trade or profession licensed, the time for which license holds good, the date
of issuance and the date of its expiration; and the amount received therefor;
and he shall exhibit such books to the board of councilmen whenever required so
to do. (Ord. 83, 2-18-1976)
5-1-10: LICENSE BOOK:
The treasurer shall keep an accurate account in a suitable book kept by him for
that purpose to be called the "city license book", of all the licenses issued
to the clerk, the quarter, month, week or day, as the case may be, for which
issued, and the amount thereof. The clerk shall, on the last day of each month,
return to the treasurer, all unused licenses received by him, and the treasurer
shall give the clerk credit for the same and for the amount of all monies paid
by the clerk to the treasurer. The treasurer shall submit said "city license
book" to the city council, and make abstracts and detailed statements whenever
requested to do so by the board of councilmen. (Ord. 83, 2-18-1976)
5-1-11: REPORT DELINQUENCIES:
It shall be the duty of the clerk to report to the board of councilmen all
parties who have failed to take out licenses as required by this chapter, as
soon as such party or parties shall have been delinquent fifteen (15) days, and
thereupon the council may instruct an attorney to institute civil proceedings
to recover the amount of such delinquency, together with a penalty fine equal
to one-half (1/2) of the assessed quarterly fee thereon added as a penalty, and
all costs of suit; but such civil proceedings shall not be a bar to the
criminal action in this chapter provided for. (Ord. 88, 10-13-1976, eff. 10-20-
1976)
5-1-12: ENFORCEMENT:
The clerk, police chief and legally qualified policemen of the city shall see
that the requirements of this chapter are rigidly complied with. If the clerk,
police chief or any other officer herein specified shall, by wilful failure to
perform the duties herein imposed, cause the loss to the city of any sum of
money which might and should have been collected, he shall forfeit such sum to
the city. (Ord. 83, 2-18-1976)
5-1-13: LICENSES PROCURED FROM CLERK:
The licenses required by this chapter shall be as herein provided, and shall be
procured from the clerk and paid for as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 83, 2-18-
1976)
5-1-14: LICENSE FEES ENUMERATED:
The license fee shall be set by resolution and shall be quarterly, unless
otherwise specified by the resolution for the following types of businesses:
   (A)   Selling at wholesale or retail, at a fixed place of business (except
as otherwise provided herein), any groceries, provisions, drugs, medicines,
oils, paints, chemicals, furniture, dry goods, clothing, boots, shoes, hats,
caps or any other kind of goods, wares or merchandise whatsoever.
   (B)   Hotel dining room, restaurant, boarding house, chophouse, eating house
or eating stand.
   (C)   Hotel, lodging house or rooming house.
   (D)   Coal dealers, wood dealers, sewing machine agents, selling or peddling
ice, keeping bakeries, delicatessen shops, millinery shops, renovating
establishments, cloth cleaning and dyeing establishments, ice cream and
confectionery stores combined, original contractors or contracting mechanics or
builders, not house contractors.
   (E)   Attorney, doctor, physician, surgeon, veterinary surgeon, oculist or
dentist.
   (F)   Real estate agent or solicitor.
   (G)   Banking business, except banks doing business under the laws of the
United States.
   (H)   Brokerage business.
   (I)   Laundry business, other than a steam laundry.
   (J)   Manufacturer of soft beverages, such as soda water and all similar
beverages.
   (K)   Draymen.
   (L)   Barbershop and beauty parlor:
   First chair
Second chair
   (M)   Steam laundry, retail butcher shop, livery stable, automobile garage,
or tamale parlor or stand.
   (N)   Circus, caravan, carnival, menagerie, street amusement or other
similar amusement or attraction of any kind, except as hereinafter provided.
Individual licenses shall be obtained for each ride designed for the use and
pleasure of children of the age of twelve (12) years and under and principally
used by such children.
This subsection is adopted both as a revenue measure and also in the exercise
of the police powers of the council to prevent disorderly conduct and the
violation of the provisions of this code.
   (O)   Moving picture theater or place where moving pictures are shown, alone
or in conjunction with other theatrical performances or entertainment and for
which an admission fee is charged.
   (P)   Hawkers and peddlers:
      1.   The terms "hawkers" and "peddlers", wherever used in this chapter,
shall be taken and deemed to mean every person or persons selling or offering
for sale, goods, wares or merchandise, dry goods, clothing, groceries, fruits
and vegetables, meats, cigars, tobacco, jewelry, automobiles, motor trucks and
any and all other goods, wares or merchandise carried on the person or
transported by the person, in and by any mode of conveyance, from house to
house and place to place and then and there sold or offered for sale in the
city.
      2.   All hawkers and peddlers, before entering upon the business of
vending and peddling, shall obtain from the clerk and pay for a license to
carry on such business of vending and peddling.
For any period of time less than one month.
For a monthly license to carry on such business, which shall date from the
first of the month in which the business is transacted.
Provided, however, that no license shall be required from the grower or growers
of Nevada products for selling their fruits, vegetables or other agricultural
products, butter, eggs, honey or poultry raised or produced in the state of
Nevada.
Any person engaged in the sale or disposal of agricultural products of the soil
aforesaid, shall make and file with the clerk an affidavit, subscribed by the
applicant and sworn to before the clerk, the clerk, showing:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant and length of residence at
such address.
         (b)   The kind of products of the soil to be disposed of.
         (c)   A description by legal subdivisions of the land where such
products of the soil were produced.
         (d)   That applicant has not purchased such products from others for
the purpose of engaging in the business of vending.
The clerk, upon being satisfied that application is in due form and applicant
entitled to offer for sale products of the soil, shall issue to said applicant
a permit to offer for sale and dispose of products of the soil of the kind
mentioned in the affidavit for a period not exceeding one month.
   (Q)   Slot machines, for gain or profit, for the purpose of vending and
disposing of merchandise only; for each and every machine so operated.
   (R)   Agent of any life, fire or accident insurance company or companies,
and every agent of any surety company or companies.
   (S)   Billiard table keeper, pool table keeper, shuffleboard keeper or
keeper of any game played with ball and cue or other mechanical device
including electronic game machines, other than soft drink machines:
   First table or game
Each additional table or game
   (T)   Express, telegraph, telephone companies:
      1.   Express Companies: Every express company having an office, depot,
station or agency within the limits of the city engaged in the business or
occupation of receiving express in the city from persons in the city and
transporting the same from this city within this state to persons and places
within this state; and receiving in this city express transported within this
state from persons and places in this state to persons within this city and
delivering same to persons in this city, except the receipt, transmission,
transportation and delivery of any such express for, to, from or on behalf of
any department, agent or agency of the United States, and except the receipt,
transmission, transportation and delivery of any such express which is or may
be interstate commerce.
      2.   Telegraph Companies: Every telegraph company having an office,
station or agency within the limits of the city, engaged in the business or
occupation of receiving messages in the city from persons in this city and
transmitting the same by telegraph from this city within this state to persons
and places within this state; and receiving in this city messages from persons
and places in this state to persons within the city and delivering same to
persons in this city, except the receipt, transmission and delivery of any such
messages to, from or on behalf of any department, agent or agency of the United
States and except the receipt, transmission and delivery of any such messages
which are or may be interstate commerce.
      3.   Telephone Companies: Every telephone company having an office,
station or agency within the limits of the city, engaged in the business or
occupation of maintaining a public telephone service from points within this
city to points and places in this state and from points and places in this
state to points within this city, or between points within this city, except
the maintenance of telephone service for or on behalf of any department, agent
or agency of the United States, and except such service as is or may be
interstate commerce.
      4.   Services Mentioned: The express, telegraph and telephone service
mentioned as excepted from the operation of subsections (T)1, (T)2 and (T)3 of
this section and the business of engaging in, conducting or maintaining such
service, are not affected hereby.
      5.   Police Powers: Subsections (T)1, (T)2 and (T)3 of this section are
enacted in the exercise of the police powers of the city and for the purpose of
raising revenue for the support thereof.
   (U)   Sale of soft drinks, either retail or wholesale.
   (V)   All other lawful trades, callings, industries, occupations,
professions and businesses upon which the city of Carlin has the authority to
impose and collect a license fee and which are conducted within the corporate
limits of the city of Carlin, shall pay a license fee.
   (W)   Each female boarding house within the city of Carlin shall obtain a
quarterly license to carry on such business.
   (X)   Petroleum products, delivery thereof: For every person engaged in the
business of operating a tank truck or any other vehicle for hauling, peddling
and/or wholesale delivery of crude oil, petroleum, distillate, kerosene,
gasoline, refined oil or any other petroleum products, either in drums or in
bulk, per quarter.
   (Y)   Electric, water, natural or manufactured gas companies: Every person
engaged in the business of furnishing electric light or electric power, of
furnishing water, natural or manufactured gas, to the inhabitants of the city,
per quarter. (Ord. 234, 12-8-2010)
5-1-15: REVOCATION:
Whenever it shall appear to the board of councilmen that any trade, business,
occupation, calling or pursuit for which a license has been granted is being
conducted in such a manner as to be detrimental to the public peace, health or
morals, the council, at any regular, or at any special meeting, convened and
held for that purpose, may, by a majority vote and on which the mayor may cast
the deciding vote if a tie otherwise exists, revoke, discontinue and cancel
said license and declare the same to be of no further force and effect.
Thereafter it shall be unlawful for the licensee, under said license, to
maintain or conduct such business under said license, or at all, and provided
further, that if any licensee of the city is convicted of a violation of any
federal, state or municipal prohibition law or ordinance, the license granted
to such licensee shall, under the provisions of this chapter, be automatically
canceled, revoked and discontinued by reason of conviction. (Ord. 8, 12-3-1928)
5-1-16: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS:
Nothing herein contained and no rights granted hereunder shall be construed as
permitting the performance of any act or thing in violation of any law or
statute of the state of Nevada or the United States Of America. (Ord. 8, 12-3-
1928)
CHAPTER 2
GAMBLING LICENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: License Required; Fees
5-2-2: Collection Of Fees
5-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES:
Every person who shall, as agent, manager, owner or proprietor deal, operate,
carry on, conduct, maintain or expose for play within the limits of the city,
any of the following gambling games or gambling devices shall first obtain from
the city clerk a quarterly license and pay the license fee in advance, as
hereinafter provided:
   (A)   For every game of faro, monte, roulette, keno, racehorse keno, fan
tan, twenty one or blackjack, 71/2, big injun, klondike, craps or dice, stud
poker, draw poker and racehorse book, a quarterly license fee which the city
council has set by resolution.
   (B)   Any other banking or percentage game played with cards, dice or any
gambling game, of any other nature, exclusive of slot machines or mechanical
devices of the same nature as slot machines played for money, property, checks,
credit or any representative of value, shall pay a quarterly license fee which
the city council has set by resolution.
   (C)   Slot machines and similar mechanical devices played for money,
property, checks, credit or any representative of value shall pay a quarterly
license fee, per machine, which the city council has set by resolution.
Provided further, that nothing in this chapter shall be construed as
prohibiting social games for drinks or cigars served individually, or games
played in private homes or residences for prizes.
And provided further, that no license as hereinbefore provided shall be issued
by the city clerk until the person applying for such license shall first obtain
from the sheriff of Elko County, Nevada, a license for the conduct of such
gambling games, and any and all other licenses required from the state of
Nevada for the conduct of such games as now provided by law, and all of the
said provisions of this section shall apply to slot machines and similar
mechanical devices. (Ord. 234, 12-8-2010)
5-2-2: COLLECTION OF FEES:
The city clerk shall collect the quarterly license fees as aforesaid. (Ord. 32,
6-7-1948)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Short Title
5-3-2: Definitions
5-3-3: License Required; Exceptions
5-3-4: Classes Of Licenses
5-3-5: Application For License; Information To Be Shown
5-3-6: Investigation
5-3-6.1: Requirements For Issuance Of License
5-3-7: Status Of Fraternal, Social And Civic Clubs
5-3-8: Approval, Denial Of Application By Board
5-3-9: Issuance And Contents Of License
5-3-10: Posting Of License; Licenses Nontransferable; Change Of Location
5-3-11: Schedule Of Fees
5-3-12: Board May Cancel, Suspend, Revoke, Restrict Or Condition Any License;
Grounds; Procedure
5-3-13: Summary Suspension Of License; Grounds; Procedure
5-3-14: Reinstatement Of Licenses
5-3-15: Sale Or Furnishing Of Intoxicating Liquor To Minor, Aiding Minor To
Purchase Or Procure Intoxicating Liquor Prohibited
5-3-16: Employment Of Certain Minors Prohibited And Certain Minors Permitted
5-3-17: False Identification Prohibited
5-3-18: Purchase By Minor Prohibited
5-3-19: Possession By Minor Prohibited
5-3-20: Consumption By Minor Prohibited
5-3-21: Loitering By Minor Prohibited
5-3-22: Establishment To Be Clean And Orderly; The Presence Of Certain Persons
Prohibited
5-3-23: Civil Judgment No Bar
5-3-24: Penalties
5-3-25: Separability
5-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CARLIN LIQUOR CONTROL ORDINANCE. (Ord. 86, 7-
14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
described in this section, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
BEER: Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of any infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any
combination thereof, in water.
BEER LICENSE: A license issued by the city which permits the sale of beer by
the licensee at the premises specified in the license for consumption on or off
the licensee's premises.
BOARD: The board of councilmen of the city.
CITY: The city of Carlin, Nevada.
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Carlin, Nevada, or the said clerk's
deputy.
FRATERNAL, SOCIAL AND CIVIC CLUB LICENSE: A license issued by the city, which
permits the licensee therein designated to serve, sell or give liquors to the
licensee's bona fide members and invited guests only for consumption at the
licensee's premises specified in the license. This license shall not permit the
licensee to conduct or operate any public bar or place for the sale, serving or
delivery of any liquor to the general public.
LIQUOR: Beer, wine, gin, whiskey, cordials, ethyl alcohol, or rum, and every
liquor or solid, patented or not, containing one- half of one percent (0.5%) or
more of alcohol by volume and which is used for beverage purposes.
MINOR: A natural person, male or female, under the age of twenty one (21)
years.
PACKAGE: Any container or receptacle used for holding liquor, which container
or receptacle is corked or sealed.
PACKAGED LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city which permits the sale of
liquors, beer and wine in packages by the licensee at the premises specified in
the license, for consumption off of the licensee's premises.
PERSON: A natural person, partnership, association, company, corporation,
fraternal, civic or social clubs and all other types of organizations.
RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city, which permits the sale of
beers, wines and liquors, in packages, or by the drink by the licensee at the
premises specified in the license, for consumption on or off the licensee's
premises.
SPECIAL EVENTS LICENSE: A license issued by the city which permits the licensee
therein designated to sell or serve such liquor at such location and for such
period of time, not exceeding one week, and shall be specified by the board of
councilmen and set out in said license.
WHOLESALE LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city, which permits the sale
of beers and wines only or liquors in packages by the licensee to a person
holding a valid, current, retail liquor license or a wholesale liquor license
or fraternal, social and civic club license or special events license issued by
the city, but not the sale to a consumer or general public direct.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
content of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar and
including, without limitation, port, sherry and champagne. (Ord. 86, 7-14-1976,
eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, keep for sale,
serve, give away, furnish, or distribute, or cause or permit to be sold,
offered or kept for sale, served, given away, furnished or distributed, any
kind of liquor in the city limits of the city of Carlin unless such person has
first applied for, paid all license fees for, received and is the holder in
good standing of the proper license or licenses required by this chapter.
Provided, however, that this section shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Liquor served by a private family in its home as a part of its family
or social life;
   (B)   The use of liquor for sacramental purposes by any duly ordained
minister;
   (C)   The use, sale or dispensing of liquor by any doctor, apothecary or
pharmaceutist who uses alcohol or liquor for or in compounding medicine or for
medicinal or scientific purposes;
   (D)   The employees of a person who holds a valid, unexpired license
pursuant to this chapter, while acting within the course of his employment.
(Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-4: CLASSES OF LICENSES:
Under the provisions of this chapter, the following classes of licenses may be
issued to qualified applicants therefor:
   (A)   Retail liquor license.
   (B)   Wholesale liquor license.
   (C)   Packaged liquor license.
   (D)   Fraternal, social, and civic club license.
   (E)   Special events license.
Each person whose activities fall into more than one class of liquor licenses
as defined in this chapter must apply for and receive a license for each class
applicable before such person can operate in such class.
The liquor licenses required by this chapter shall be in addition to any other
licenses required of any person by the city for conducting or carrying on any
other business in connection with, or separate from the activities licensed
under this chapter. (Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INFORMATION TO BE SHOWN:
An application for the licenses required by this chapter shall be made to the
board of the city and filed with the city clerk. Each application shall:
   (A)   Be made on such form as the board shall prescribe;
   (B)   Include the name and address of the applicant, who shall be all
persons having an interest in the business to be licensed. If the applicant is
a partnership, the application shall include the names and addresses of all
partners. If the applicant is a corporation, association or other organization,
the application shall include the names and addresses of all officers,
directors, stockholders, resident agents, and all other persons having an
interest in the business to be licensed, and the address of the principal place
of business of the corporation, and the name and address of the person or
persons who shall have the active management of its business for which or in
connection with which a license is desired. Listing of stockholders may be
dispensed with by the board if stock has been sold to the general public;
   (C)   Specify the class or classes of license desired; the location by
street and number of the premises for which the license is sought, and the name
of the owner or owners of the premises where the business is to be operated;
   (D)   Be supplemented by such additional information or documents as the
board shall request from the applicant at any time, it being the duty of the
applicant to supply all such matter;
   (E)   Be accompanied by the annual license fee required for each class of
license for which application is made, which license deposit shall be returned
by the city clerk to the applicant in the event the application is denied;
   (F)   Be signed and verified by all persons who shall conduct or have any
interest in the business activities for which a liquor license is required. In
the case of corporations, clubs or organizations with members, the application
shall be verified by its president or secretary or the person who shall
actively manage or conduct the business or activity for which a liquor license
is required, if written authority from the corporation to make such application
is filed with the city clerk with the application;
   (G)   Contain a statement that if such application is approved and a license
issued, it will be accepted by the applicant subject to the terms, conditions
and provisions of this chapter, and such other rules and regulations as may at
any time hereafter be adopted or enacted by resolution or ordinance by the
board. (Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-6: INVESTIGATION:
The city clerk shall present each application to the board at its first regular
or special meeting after the filing of the application. The board may, at that
time, if they deem it necessary, refer the application to the chief of police
for investigation. The chief of police may cause an investigation to be made of
the moral character and business responsibility of the person or persons
applying for a license, and of all persons who will be interested in the
business for which a liquor license is required, and in case of a corporation,
its officers, directors, stockholders, and the person or persons who shall have
the management of the business for which or in connection with which the
license is desired, together with an investigation of the location of the
proposed place of business, and of such other matters as may be necessary to
the protection of the public good, welfare, safety, health and morals of the
inhabitants of the city. Upon completion of the investigation, the chief of
police shall render a report of the investigation to the board. (Ord. 86, 7-14-
1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-6.1: REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No license shall be issued any person unless the following requirements are
satisfied:
   (A)   A majority of the members of the board must be present for the board
to act on an application. A majority of the aforementioned quorum may issue or
deny a liquor license.
   (B)   If a natural person, the applicant must be at least twenty one (21)
years of age.
   (C)   The applicant must file a written application on forms provided by the
city clerk and signed by the applicant or its officer if the applicant is not a
natural person.
   (D)   All applicants shall submit not less than three (3) letters of
recommendation from residents living in the area of the proposed liquor
establishment, unless a majority of the membership of the board shall state for
the record that they are sufficiently acquainted with the applicant and that
they feel such letters of recommendation would not aid in their determination
of the applicant's fitness for the liquor license.
   (E)   All license fees levied by the board shall be paid.
   (F)   The applicant, or all officers and managers of the applicant if it is
not a natural person, must not have been convicted within the last ten (10)
years of a crime which is or would be a felony under the laws of the state of
Nevada.
   (G)   The chief of police shall fingerprint all applicants for licenses to
sell intoxicating liquors within the city. If any applicant has not previously
been fingerprinted, all such applicants shall be fingerprinted by the chief of
police prior to any renewal of an existing license.
   (H)   It must affirmatively appear to the board that the granting of the
license will not:
      1.   Create or tend to create or constitute a public nuisance.
      2.   Foster the maintenance of a disorderly house or place.
      3.   Seriously and adversely affect the valuation of adjoining and
contiguous properties. (Ord. 129, 8-10-1983, eff. 8-17-1983)
5-3-7: STATUS OF FRATERNAL, SOCIAL AND CIVIC CLUBS:
The board of councilmen of the city shall be the sole judge as to whether or
not any person, firm, company, association, partnership or corporation applying
for a license as a fraternal, social or civic club, is a bona fide fraternal,
social, or civic club such as to qualify for a license under the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-8: APPROVAL, DENIAL OF APPLICATION BY BOARD:
   (A)   The board shall approve or deny applications. The board may deny any
application for any reason deemed sufficient by the board and may refuse to
license any applicant.
   (B)   If an application is denied by the board, the board forthwith shall
return the license fee accompanying the application to the applicant. If the
board approves an application, the board shall authorize the city clerk to
issue such license upon full payment in advance of all license fees then
required by this chapter. The license shall not be effective until issued and
delivered to the applicant.
   (C)   It shall require a majority vote of all the members of the board of
councilmen duly elected to grant or refuse such application. Such action by the
board on any application shall be final.
   (D)   Any application granted and license issued pursuant hereto shall be
granted for and in consideration of the applicant agreeing to and complying
with the provisions of this chapter and the terms, conditions, representations
and agreements set out in the application and any license issued hereunder.
(Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-9: ISSUANCE AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Upon the granting of any application pursuant to this chapter, the
applicant shall be entitled to be licensed by the city clerk pursuant and
subject to the provisions of this chapter. The license certificate shall set
forth, among other things, the following:
      1.   The name of all persons to whom it is issued. If the license, is
issued under a fictitious name, the license shall set forth, in addition to the
fictitious name, the name or names of each of the persons conducting the
business under the fictitious name. If it is issued to a corporation, the
license shall set forth, in addition to the name of the corporation, the name
or names of the person or persons who shall have the active management of the
business for which the license is issued.
      2.   The amount of license fee paid therefor.
      3.   The location, by street and number, of the premises for which the
license is issued.
      4.   The date of commencement which will be the date of issuance and date
of termination which will be the last day of the year in which it was granted,
subject to revocation, cancellation, suspension, restriction, and conditioning,
pursuant to this chapter.
      5.   The particular class of liquor license and of liquors that the
licensee is authorized to sell.
      6.   The license is granted subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The license shall be for one year or the remaining portion of the
year, subject to the provisions of this chapter and shall be signed by the
mayor and city clerk.
   (C)   Subject to all provisions of this chapter, if at the end of a year a
licensee holds a valid, unexpired license which has not been revoked, canceled,
suspended, restricted or conditioned and no proceedings have been instituted or
are pending in any court or before the board involving a violation of this
chapter or which could or does involve proceedings to consider the revocation,
cancellation, suspension, restriction or conditioning of such license, such
licensee may renew its license for the next year without application to the
board by timely payment of the required license fees and penalties, if any,
within the time specified in this chapter. Such renewal license shall be on the
same terms and conditions as the original license and subject to all provisions
of this chapter as if granted after application to the board.
   (D)   Any licensee receiving a license pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed to have accepted the same with all the duties,
obligations, restrictions, limitations and other provisions of this chapter as
part and parcel of said license, and subject to the faithful compliance with
the promises, agreements and representations set forth in the application for
such license, without other or further notice, and without each or any of such
provisions being specifically incorporated in the license granted. (Ord. 86, 7-
14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-10: POSTING OF LICENSE; LICENSES NONTRANSFERABLE; CHANGE OF LOCATION:
Each license shall:
   (A)   Be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for which it was
issued.
   (B)   Be nontransferable, except that upon prior written consent of the
board, the location of the premises for which it was issued may be changed,
provided there is no change in licensees.
   (C)   Be authority for the persons or associations specifically named as
licensees to transact the business or activity licensed thereunder. (Ord. 86,
7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-11: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
   (A)   No refunds of any portion of an annual license fee shall be made.
   (B)   A valid license under this chapter authorizes the licensee to sell
soft drinks in connection with the business for which the license is issued.
(Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
   (C)   The fees for the following licenses will be set by resolution:
   Retail liquor license
   Packaged liquor license
   Wholesale liquor license:
      Beer and wine only
      All liquors
   Fraternal, social and civic club license
   Special events license:
      Beer only
      Liquor only (Ord. 234, 12-8-2010)
   (D)   License fees shall be due and payable on January 1 of each year. Any
license fee which has not been paid on or before January 10 of each year shall
be increased by a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the annual fee which shall be
added to the fee and collected with the fee prior to issuance of any license
hereunder. If the license fee and penalty have not been paid on or before
January 15, any rights to renew a license without application to the board
shall be forfeited and shall forthwith terminate at the time of the close of
the city office on the fifteenth day of such month, and at such time the liquor
business to which the delinquent license fee relates shall forthwith close and
cease operation if still in operation at that time. Any applicant who is
granted and issued an initial liquor license shall not be entitled to have the
liquor license fee prorated for that year. The applicant shall pay the liquor
license fee for the entire year regardless of the date during the year which
the applicant filed his application for a license.
This provision shall not be construed to permit the operation of any business
to which this chapter applies for any length of time whatever without having in
full force and effect a proper license issued by the city with all fees
therefor fully paid; nor shall it be construed to extend the expiration date of
any license, nor to prevent the board from taking any action to revoke, cancel,
suspend, restrict or condition the license for any reason, including nonpayment
of fees. (Ord. 98, 2-14-1979, eff. 2-21-1979)
5-3-12: BOARD MAY CANCEL, SUSPEND, REVOKE, RESTRICT OR CONDITION ANY LICENSE;
GROUNDS; PROCEDURE:
   (A)   The board may, upon its own motion, and shall upon the verified
complaint in writing of any person investigate the action of any licensee under
this chapter, and shall have the power to cancel, temporarily suspend for such
a period of time as they deem advisable, or permanently revoke a license, or
place such restrictions and conditions upon a license as they shall deem
necessary or advisable, for any one of the following acts or omissions:
      1.   The failure to make timely payment of license fees and penalties, or
either of them; provided, however, no action by the board shall be necessary in
the event of nonpayment of license fees and penalties on or before the
fifteenth day of the month in which they came due as provided in this chapter;
or
      2.   The misrepresentation of any material fact by the applicant in
obtaining a license under this chapter; or
      3.   If any one of the licensees named in a license violates or causes or
permits to be violated any of the provisions of this chapter; or
      4.   If any manager, bartender, agent, servant, officer or employee of a
licensee hereunder violates or causes or permits to be violated any of the
provisions of this chapter while acting in any way in connection with the
licensee's business; or
      5.   If any one of the licensees named in a license commits any act which
would be sufficient ground for the denial of an application by such licensee
for a license under this chapter; or
      6.   If any one of the licensees named in a license or any manager,
agent, bartender, servant, officer, or employee of a licensee refuses to permit
the chief of police, or any policeman, or any other duly authorized
representative of the city to visit and reasonably inspect every part and
portion of the licensee's premises, or refuses to or fails to furnish the chief
of police, or any policeman or officer of the city, upon request, with all
facts and information within his knowledge concerning any offense committed in
or about the premises and the parties involved and the witnesses thereto; or
      7.   If any one of the licensees named in a license violates any of the
agreements, conditions or terms contained in the application for a license,
this chapter or the license issued pursuant hereto; or
      8.   If any one of the licensees named in a license violates or causes or
permits to be violated any ordinance of the city or any law of the state of
Nevada or of the United States of America regulating the sale, serving or
dispensing of liquors; or
      9.   If the licensee or any agent or employee thereof makes, causes or
permits a sale or sales of any kind of liquor other than that authorized by the
class of license the licensee holds.
   (B)   Except in cases of the automatic cancellation or revocation of a
license as in this chapter provided, upon the filing with the board of a
verified complaint charging a licensee with the commission, within one year
prior to the date of filing the complaint, of any act or omission which is
cause for cancellation, suspension, revocation, restriction or conditioning of
a license, the board forthwith shall issue a citation directing the licensee,
not less than five (5) days after service thereof upon the licensee, to appear
by filing with the board the licensee's verified answer to the complaint
showing cause, if any the licensee has, why his license should not be canceled,
suspended, revoked, restricted, or conditions placed thereon. Service of the
citation with a copy of the complaint shall be made upon the licensee in one of
the following manners:
      1.   By personal service upon any one or more of the persons named in the
license as a licensee, service upon one licensee being deemed service upon and
notice to all licensees named in the license, service to be made by the chief
of police or any police officer of the city or by the sheriff of Elko County,
or his deputy, or by any citizen of the United States over twenty one (21)
years of age; or
      2.   By mailing by depositing in the United States mail a copy of the
citation with a copy of the complaint enclosed in a sealed envelope with
postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed to the licensee at the latest address
of record in the city clerk's office. Service shall be deemed complete upon the
date of mailing. Without excluding other ways of proof, proof of service by
mailing and the date thereof may be made by an affidavit of mailing or by proof
of mailing by registered mail or certified mail.
In case a corporation is a licensee, then such service above specified may be
upon the president, or other head of the corporation, or the secretary, or
managing agent, or resident agent, or any other officer thereof. In case of
service by mailing it may be addressed to the corporation or to any of the said
officers, managing agent or resident agent thereof at the latest address of
record in the city clerk's office.
Failure of the licensee to answer within the time specified shall be deemed an
admission by the licensee of the commission of the act or acts or omissions
charged in the complaint and a waiver of all defenses the licensee may have to
such charges. Upon such failure to answer the board shall revoke the license
and shall give notice of such revocation by mailing a copy thereof, by United
States mail in a sealed envelope with postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed
to the licensee at the latest address of record in the office of the city
clerk.
   (C)   Upon the filing of an answer by the licensee, the board shall fix the
time and place for a hearing and give the licensee and the complainant not less
than five (5) days' notice thereof. The notice may be served by depositing in
the United States mail a copy of the notice enclosed in a sealed envelope with
postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed to the licensee and to the
complainant, respectively, at their latest address of record in the office of
the city clerk. With the notice to the complainant there shall be attached to
or enclosed a copy of the answer. If either party has appeared by an attorney
notice shall be given to the attorney instead of to the party. In the event the
city, the board, the chief of police, the city attorney or any other city
officer or representative acting by or on behalf of the city is the complainant
the notices to and service of answer upon the complainant herein called for
shall be dispensed with.
   (D)   Upon the hearing the complainant and the licensee may appear in person
or by attorney, or both, and present relevant evidence and witnesses. After the
hearing is concluded and the matter submitted, the board shall, within ten (10)
days after such submission, render its decision, which must be made by the vote
of a majority of all of the members elected as councilmen of the city. If the
decision of the board is that the charge set forth in the complaint has been
established, the board shall do one or more of the following:
      1.   Revoke or cancel the license;
      2.   Suspend the license for such a period of time as the board deems
advisable;
      3.   Place such restrictions upon the license and/or the licensee's place
of business as the board deems advisable;
      4.   Make the license and the continued force and effect thereof
conditioned upon such terms and conditions as the board shall deem advisable.
If, in the opinion of a majority of all the members elected, the charges set
forth in the complaint have not been established, or proved, they shall dismiss
the complaint.
   (E)   The board may, upon stipulation of the complainant and the licensee,
shorten or extend the times herein set in connection with notices, pleadings
and hearings. (Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-13: SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; GROUNDS; PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the board shall
have the right and power to suspend summarily any license issued pursuant to
this chapter in cases appearing to it to be of an aggravated or flagrant
violation of this chapter, or of the laws of the state of Nevada relating to
liquors; provided, however, that the board shall not summarily suspend any
license unless the board finds that such action is immediately necessary for
the preservation of public health, welfare, safety and morals of the
inhabitants of the city. Such order of suspension shall remain effective until
further order of the board of final disposition of the charges upon which the
order is based. In the event of a suspension without prior notice, every
licensee shall immediately be given notice in writing of the reason or reasons
for such suspension, which shall include a specification of the acts or
omissions alleged against the licensee. The licensee shall be given an
opportunity to be heard at a meeting of the board at which hearing the licensee
may appear in person, or by attorney, or both, and present a reasonable number
of witnesses to show cause, if any there be, why the license should not be
revoked. Notices shall be served and given, the answer filed, and the hearing
conducted in the manner and under the procedures provided in section
5-3-12 of this chapter. The licensee may waive the time specified for a hearing
and such hearing may be held at any time agreed upon by the licensee and the
board; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed to limit the
right of the board to proceed with revocation proceedings. (Ord. 86, 7-14-1976,
eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-14: REINSTATEMENT OF LICENSES:
When, in the opinion of the board, a licensee has shown proper cause, the board
may reinstate any license which has been previously cancelled or suspended and
may remove, change or modify all or any restrictions or conditions which have
been set pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-15: SALE OR FURNISHING OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR TO MINOR, AIDING MINOR TO
PURCHASE OR PROCURE INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any bartender, manager, agent
or any other person employed by any licensee to sell, serve, give away, furnish
or dispense any kind of liquor to any minor. For the purpose of this section, a
person shall be deemed to be employed by a licensee if he purports to have the
authority to make sales, whether actually receiving a wage or not.
   (B)   In any prosecution or proceedings for the suspension or revocation of
any license based upon a violation of subsection (A) of this section, proof
that the defendant licensee or his agent or employee, demanded and was shown
immediately prior to furnishing any liquor to a person under the age of twenty
one (21) years, bona fide documentary evidence of majority and identity of such
person issued by a federal, state, county or municipal government, or
subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle
operator's license, a registered certificate issued under the federal selective
service act, or an identification card issued to a member of the armed forces,
is a defense to the prosecution, or proceeding for the suspension or revocation
of any license.
   (C)   Every person who knowingly:
      1.   Sells, gives or otherwise furnishes intoxicating liquors to any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years; or
      2.   Leaves or deposits any intoxicating liquors in any place with the
intent that the same shall be procured by any person under the age of twenty
one (21) years; or
      3.   Furnishes, gives or causes to be given any money or thing of value
to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years with the knowledge that
the money or thing of value is to be used by the person under the age of twenty
one (21) years to purchase or procure any intoxicating liquor;
is guilty of a city offense.
   (D)   Subsection (C)1 of this section does not apply to a parent, guardian
or physician of the person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   (E)   As used in this section, "intoxicating liquor" means beer, wine, gin,
whiskey, cordials, ethyl alcohol or rum, and every liquid or solid, patented or
not, containing one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which
is used for beverage purposes. (Ord. 178, 2-9-1995)
5-3-16: EMPLOYMENT OF CERTAIN MINORS PROHIBITED AND CERTAIN MINORS PERMITTED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to employ any minor to sell or handle any
liquor of any kind, or to permit any minor to handle such liquor in his place
of business in any way, except that a person who has attained the age of
sixteen (16) years but not yet eighteen (18) years, may be employed in a retail
food store for the sale or disposition of liquor if he is supervised by a
person who is eighteen (18) years of age or over, who is an owner or employee
of the business which sells or disposes of the liquor, and who is actually
present at the time the liquor is disposed of or sold, and the liquor is in a
sealed or corked container or receptacle. Provided, however, that grocery
store, shopping center, and supermarket licensees affording "box boy" or other
delivery service from the place of sale to the conveyance of the purchaser
shall be responsible under the foregoing prohibition only until the sale is
completed, and that minors may nevertheless carry or transport liquors to the
conveyance of a purchaser, in which event such purchaser shall be deemed to
have full and complete ownership of and responsibility for such liquor. (Ord.
86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-17: FALSE IDENTIFICATION PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, regardless of age, to
counterfeit, forge, alter, erase or obliterate any card, writing, paper or
document which bears the age of the holder or purported holder thereof, with
the intention that such card, writing, paper or document should be used by a
minor for the purpose of obtaining any alcoholic beverage or liquor, or to
sell, lend or give away any such card, writing, paper or document to a minor
which could be used by a minor for the purpose of obtaining any alcoholic
beverage or liquor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to use or attempt to use or offer
any counterfeit, forged, erased or obliterated card, writing, paper or document
of the kind mentioned in subsection (A) of this section, or to verbally falsely
represent his or her age, or to use or attempt to use any other person's
identification documents, for the purpose of obtaining any alcoholic beverage
or liquor from any person within the city. (Ord. 174, 7-14-1993)
5-3-18: PURCHASE BY MINOR PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any minor to purchase, obtain, or receive in any
manner within the city any liquor or alcoholic beverage of any kind from any
person; except that at the direction and in the company of a parent or
guardian, a minor may consume an alcoholic beverage in the residence of such
parent or guardian; further, except that a minor may consume an alcoholic
beverage for the purpose of following the direction of a licensed medical
practitioner; or except that a minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the
purpose of participation in legitimate religious activities. (Ord. 174, 7-14-
1993)
5-3-19: POSSESSION BY MINOR PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any minor to have in his or her custody or possession
within the city any alcoholic beverage or liquor of any type or kind, except
any sealed alcoholic beverage in the regular course of his or her legitimate
employment. (Ord. 174, 7-14-1993)
5-3-20: CONSUMPTION BY MINOR PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to consume any kind of alcoholic
beverage or liquor in or about the premises of any licensed liquor
establishment of the city or elsewhere within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to be in possession of any kind of
alcoholic beverage or liquor through consumption anywhere in the city; except
that at the direction and in the company of a parent or guardian, a minor may
consume an alcoholic beverage in the residence of the parent or guardian;
except that a minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of
following the direction of a licensed medical practitioner; or except that a
minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of participation in
legitimate religious activities. Possession by consumption shall consist solely
of the assimilation of alcohol in the minor's body, and such crime shall not
require proof of possession or control prior to consumption or proof of the act
of swallowing an alcoholic beverage or liquor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any minor who has consumed any kind of
alcoholic beverage or liquor at the direction and in the company of a parent or
guardian in the home, to leave the home and go out into the city. Such a minor
shall be guilty of possession through consumption as provided for in subsection
(B) of this section.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, any peace officer may detain any minor
whom the officer encounters under circumstances which reasonably indicate that
the minor has committed or is committing one of the crimes enumerated in
subsection (A), (B) or (C) of this section. At any time after this detention,
the minor so detained shall be arrested if probable cause for an arrest
appears. (Ord. 174, 7-14-1993)
5-3-21: LOITERING BY MINOR PROHIBITED:
   (A)   No minor shall spend time in or remain in the bar area of the premises
of any licensee hereunder where liquors of any kind are sold or served.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder, or the bartender,
manager, agent or any other employee of any licensee, to knowingly allow or
permit any minor to remain in the bar area of the premises of the licensee
where liquor of any kind is sold or served.
   (C)   Nothing in subsections (A) and (B) of this section shall apply to:
      1.   The areas, other than the bar and gaming areas, of the
establishments wherein liquor of any kind is sold at a bar in an establishment
which operates and maintains dining tables or booths or lunch counters or hotel
or motel accommodations or other types of businesses separate from the bar; or
      2.   Any grocery store, drugstore where liquor of any kind is not sold by
the drink for consumption on the premises. (Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-22: ESTABLISHMENT TO BE CLEAN AND ORDERLY; THE PRESENCE OF CERTAIN PERSONS
PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Every licensee shall conduct and maintain his premises in a clean and
orderly manner.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder, or any bartender,
manager, agent, employee of such licensee or any other person in charge of any
saloon or bar, to knowingly allow or permit any of the following persons to
remain on the licensee's premises or to sell or give, or to permit to be sold
or given to any of the following, any liquor:
      1.   Any person exhibiting any knife with a blade in excess of two inches
(2"), gun, pistol or other deadly weapon in a rude, angry or threatening
manner. (Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-23: CIVIL JUDGMENT NO BAR:
No civil judgment, or any act or suit by the city attorney, the city clerk or
the violator shall bar or prevent a prosecution for each and every violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-24: PENALTIES:
Every person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, on
conviction therefor, be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment in the city jail for a period not exceeding six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
5-3-25: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 86, 7-14-1976, eff. 7-21-1976)
CHAPTER 4
TRANSIENT LODGING TAX
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Tax On Transient Lodging
5-4-3: Designation Of Transient Lodging Rentals
5-4-4: Duration Of Designation Of Transient Lodging Rentals
5-4-5: Failure To Designate Transient Lodging Rentals
5-4-6: No Deductions
5-4-7: Complimentary Transient Lodging Not Subject To Tax
5-4-8: Promotional Packages Are Subject To Tax
5-4-9: License Required
5-4-10: Exception For Rental To Federal Government Entity
5-4-11: Transient Lodging Tax To Be Collected From Lessee
5-4-12: Display Of Notice
5-4-13: Licenses
5-4-14: Presumption That Gross Receipts Are Subject To Tax
5-4-15: Authority To Collect Tax
5-4-16: Payment Of Tax
5-4-17: Allocation And Use Of Transient Lodging Tax Funds
5-4-18: Audits And Retention Of Records
5-4-19: Penalties And Interest
5-4-20: Attorney Fees And Court Costs
5-4-21: Relief And Refund
5-4-22: Forms And Costs
5-4-23: Refunds Under Prior Regulations
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless it is apparent from the context that another meaning is intended, the
following words when used herein shall have the following meanings:
APARTMENT: A room or set of interconnected rooms fitted with housekeeping
facilities, including separate kitchen and bathroom facilities, which is
actually rented and used as a dwelling for a period in excess of forty five
(45) days in total duration.
BANK DEPOSIT SLIP: A document containing an itemization of funds placed in a
deposit account or other type of account provided by a financial institution.
BANK STATEMENT: A summary of all financial transactions occurring over a given
period of time on a deposit account or any other type of account provided by a
financial institution.
CAMPER: An enclosed attachment designed for mounting on a motor vehicle and
intended for temporary living quarters for travel, camping or recreational use.
CITY: The city of Carlin.
CIVIC FACILITIES: Any real property, together with any personal property
located thereon, owned or leased by the city for the benefit of its citizens.
COMMERCIAL COACH: A structure without motive power which is designed and
equipped for human occupancy for industrial, professional or commercial
purposes. The term does not include a "recreational park trailer".
CUSTOMER INVOICE: With respect to a room, space or other accommodation, a
document showing the amount of rent paid by the tenant or lessee; the tenant's
or lessee's name, address and telephone number; and the specific room, space or
other accommodation leased or rented.
FINANCIAL REPORT: A document containing a summary of accounting data for a
period of time, with background notes, forms, and other information, which must
include the gross receipts from the rental of transient lodging for that
period.
GENERAL LEDGER: A book of final entry summarizing all of a person's financial
transactions, through offsetting debit and credit accounts, for a period of
time, which must include the gross receipts from the rental of transient
lodging and the payment of utilities for that period.
GROSS RECEIPTS FROM THE RENTAL OF TRANSIENT LODGING: The total amount of the
rental price received from the rental of transient lodging, whether received in
money or otherwise, without any deduction. "Gross receipts from the rental of
transient lodging" does not include the tax imposed and collected from paying
guests pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244.3352 or 268.096, or the tax paid
by the guest pursuant to any ordinance establishing a transient lodging tax.
LESSEE: Any person renting rooms, spaces or other accommodations from a
licensee or provider of transient lodging.
LICENSEE: Any person operating or conducting a transient lodging rental
business pursuant to a license for such purpose issued by the city of Carlin.
MOBILE HOME: A manufactured home that is built on a chassis or frame, is
designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation, has at least two
(2) exterior doors, has a living area and a cooking area, is transportable in
one or more sections, and is at least eight feet (8') wide and forty feet (40')
long. A "recreational park trailer", "travel trailer" or "commercial coach" is
not a "mobile home".
MOTOR HOME: A structure that is attached permanently to a self-propelled motor
vehicle chassis; is designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational
or camping use; and when assembled for the road, has a maximum body width of
one hundred two inches (102").
PROVIDER OF TRANSIENT LODGING: Any person operating or conducting a transient
lodging rental business who is subject to the provisions of this chapter,
regardless of whether the person has obtained a license for such purpose from
the city of Carlin.
RECREATION FACILITY OR RECREATION FACILITIES: A place, structure, area or other
facility used for community recreation, such as playgrounds, playing fields or
courts, beaches, lakes, rivers, swimming pools, dams constructed across streams
or rivers for the creation of swimming pools and recreational reservoirs,
gymnasiums, auditoriums, camps, parks, ski facilities, golf courses, natural
reservoirs, recreation grounds, fairgrounds, exposition buildings, convention
halls, field houses, amusement halls and recreation centers.
RECREATIONAL PARK TRAILER: A trailer type unit that is primarily designed to
provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or seasonal use and
that meets the following criteria: a) built on a single chassis, mounted on
wheels, b) has a gross trailer area not exceeding four hundred (400) square
feet in the setup mode, and c) is certified by the manufacturer as complying
with ANSI A119.5.
REFUND REPORT: A document showing all refunds to tenants or lessees of amounts
which would otherwise be included in the gross receipts from the rental of
transient lodging. A refund report must identify the room, space or other
accommodation for which the refund was given, and must contain the date and
amount of each refund given; an explanation of why the refund was given; and
the name, address and telephone number of the tenant or lessee.
REGISTRATION CARD: A document indicating the name, address and telephone number
of a person who rents a room, space or other accommodation, identifying the
room, space or other accommodation that is rented.
RENTAL: The act of permitting a person to use or occupy any portion of a
transient lodging rental business in exchange for a fee paid, or the
compensation paid for such use or occupancy. The terms "rent" and "lease" shall
have the same meaning in this chapter.
REPORT OF RENTALS TO FEDERAL GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES: Any report that a federal
governmental entity other than the internal revenue service requires a provider
of transient lodging to submit which in any manner pertains to the rental of
transient lodging in the city.
SPACE RENTAL REPORT: A document showing the number of rooms, spaces or other
accommodations indicating each day the room, space or other accommodation was
rented and the amount of rent received therefrom.
TAX ADMINISTRATOR: When used in this chapter, the Carlin city clerk.
TAX ON TRANSIENT LODGING: A tax imposed herein on revenues from the rental of
transient lodging and on all licensees and providers of transient lodging by
the authority of the laws of Nevada and especially Nevada Revised Statutes
sections 268.095 and 268.096, and all amendments thereto, or by this chapter.
TENANT: The person actually occupying a room, space or other accommodation in a
transient lodging rental business, regardless of the method or means of
payment.
TRANSIENT LODGING: The following types of lodging:
   (A)   Hotels;
   (B)   Motels;
   (C)   Timeshare projects, except when an owner of a unit in the timeshare
project who has a right to use or occupy the unit is occupying the unit
pursuant to a timeshare instrument as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes
section 119A.150;
   (D)   Apartment hotels;
   (E)   Vacation trailer parks;
   (F)   Campgrounds;
   (G)   Parks for recreational vehicles; and
   (H)   Any other establishment that rents rooms, spaces or other
accommodations to temporary or transient guests.
"Transient lodging" does not include an "apartment" or a "mobile home".
TRANSIENT LODGING RACK RATE: The published price (or if there is no published
price, the price charged) for any room, space or other accommodation before any
discount has been taken.
TRANSIENT LODGING RENTAL BUSINESS: The operating of any business which provides
"transient lodging", wherein a room, space or other accommodation is rented for
a period of less than forty five (45) days for use by the same tenant, to
include any room, space or other accommodation which is rented to the same
tenant in successive terms, the total of which is less than forty five (45)
days, but not to include any room, space or other accommodation which is rented
for a term of forty five (45) days or longer. In the event a business rents a
portion of its rooms, spaces or other accommodations for terms of less than
forty five (45) days and another portion of its rooms, spaces or other
accommodations for terms of forty five (45) days or more, only those rooms,
spaces or other accommodations rented for terms of less than forty five (45)
days shall constitute a "transient lodging rental business".
TRAVEL TRAILER: A portable structure mounted on wheels, consisting of a
vehicular chassis primarily designed as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping or travel use and designed to be drawn by another
vehicle, and designated by the manufacturer as a travel trailer. The term does
not include a "recreational park trailer". (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-2: TAX ON TRANSIENT LODGING:
There is hereby fixed and imposed upon all licensees and providers of transient
lodging within the city a transient lodging tax in the total amount of twelve
percent (12%) of the gross receipts from the rental of any room, space or other
accommodation that is transient lodging in a transient lodging rental business.
(Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-3: DESIGNATION OF TRANSIENT LODGING RENTALS:
The city may designate any business which provides transient lodging within the
city as a "transient lodging rental business". Any operator of a business
designated by the city as a transient lodging rental business may elect to
designate specific spaces, rooms or accommodations within the operator's
business for use other than and not including rental of transient lodging. Any
such designation by the operator must be made in writing and submitted to the
city clerk and must be supported by such evidence and/or supporting
documentation as is requested by the city. Space rental reports shall relate
only to those spaces, rooms or accommodations used for the rental of transient
lodging and shall not include information pertaining to spaces, rooms or
accommodations designated by the operator for use other than and not including
rental of transient lodging, unless the city redesignates the space, room or
accommodation as part of the operator's transient lodging rental business in
the manner provided in section
5-4-4 of this chapter. The city clerk will examine the operator's designation
of transient lodging rentals, together with all evidence and/or supporting
documentation submitted in support therewith, and will either approve or
disapprove the operator's designation based on whether, in the city clerk's
discretion, it complies with the requirements of this section. (Ord. 229, 12-
11-2008)
5-4-4: DURATION OF DESIGNATION OF TRANSIENT LODGING RENTALS:
Designation of a space, room or accommodation by the operator for use other
than and not including rental of transient lodging pursuant to section
5-4-3 of this chapter shall be made at the beginning of the annual, semiannual
or quarterly period in which the license required under section
5-4-9 of this chapter is in effect, and said designation shall remain in effect
through that period, except as otherwise provided in section
5-4-3 of this chapter and this section. In the event the city determines that
the operator incorrectly or improperly designated a space, room or
accommodation as being for use other than and not including the rental of
transient lodging, the city clerk may redesignate the space, room or
accommodation as part of the operator's transient lodging rental business, and
such designation shall relate back to the commencement of the period in which
the incorrect or improper designation was made by the operator. Any appeal of
the city clerk's redesignation shall be made to the city council and otherwise
in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 268.020. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-5: FAILURE TO DESIGNATE TRANSIENT LODGING RENTALS:
Failure of an operator of a business designated by the city as a transient
lodging rental business to redesignate spaces, rooms or accommodations as being
for use other than and not including rental of transient lodging in the manner
provided in sections
5-4-3 and
5-4-4 of this chapter shall be conclusive evidence that the city's designation
was correct during that calendar year. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-6: NO DEDUCTIONS:
The transient lodging tax is imposed on gross income actually received for each
space, room or accommodation from the rental of transient lodging without
regard to whether that gross amount includes amounts other than the rental
amount and no deductions from said gross income may be taken for utilities or
other costs paid by the licensee, or for any other reason. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, utilities separately metered by the utility provider to the space,
room or accommodation, and which are paid directly and in full to the utility
by the renter or tenant, shall not be included in the gross receipts used to
calculate the transient lodging tax. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-7: COMPLIMENTARY TRANSIENT LODGING NOT SUBJECT TO TAX:
Complimentary transient lodging (transient lodging which is provided at no cost
to the occupant) is not subject to the transient lodging tax. To be considered
complimentary transient lodging, the transient lodging must be provided on an
individual basis and not as part of any package (advertised or otherwise) that
includes other products or services in exchange for consideration. (Ord. 229,
12-11-2008)
5-4-8: PROMOTIONAL PACKAGES ARE SUBJECT TO TAX:
Transient lodging included in promotional packages is subject to the transient
lodging tax. The taxable amount for such transient lodging is computed by
obtaining the percentage that the transient lodging rack rate bears to the
retail value of the package and multiplying that percentage by the package cost
to the occupant, or the actual amount charged for the transient lodging,
whichever is greater.
Example: Transient lodging with an established rack rate of fifty dollars
($50.00) is included in the following package, which is sold for forty dollars
($40.00):
 
Food credit             $ 10.00
Coins                   10.00
Cabaret show            20.00
Drink tokens            10.00
Rack rate               50.00
Retail value of package 100.00
 
The rack rate equals fifty percent (50%) of the retail value of the package.
Therefore, fifty percent (50%) of the package cost, or twenty dollars ($20.00),
must be allocated to transient lodging and included in taxable revenue.
Rack rate and the percentage of any package cost to be allocated to transient
lodging tax charged for transient lodging rented as part of a promotional
package that includes airfare shall be established by resolution of the city
council. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-9: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, either for himself or for another
person, to commence or to carry on any transient lodging rental business
without first having procured a license from the city clerk to do so; provided,
that a licensee may secure the license within not more than ten (10) days after
commencement of business, in which case the license shall be retroactively
issued as of the date of the commencement of business.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or as otherwise directed
by the city council, the city clerk shall, upon receipt of an application for a
license, issue a license to such applicant, who shall keep the same posted in
his place of business in a conspicuous location.
   (C)   Any person operating a transient lodging rental business without a
valid license, or any transient lodging rental business which conducts
operations without the required ledgers and financial data disclosing the gross
receipts derived from the rental of transient lodging in such a business, shall
be in violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the transient lodging
tax as set forth in this chapter, and such penalties, fines and actions as
shall be allowed by this chapter. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-10: EXCEPTION FOR RENTAL TO FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ENTITY:
There shall be, and hereby is, exempted from the tax on transient lodging, each
rental by any lessee of a room, space or other accommodation when the room,
space or other accommodation is paid for directly by a federal, state or local
governmental entity. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-11: TRANSIENT LODGING TAX TO BE COLLECTED FROM LESSEE:
Each provider of transient lodging shall add the amount of the transient
lodging tax onto the amount of the transient lodging rentals due from each
lessee. The amount of the tax shall be displayed separately from the price of
the transient lodging rent on the registration card or other record of the
licensee provided or shown to the lessee in relation to that rental. A lessee
who intends to rent a room, space or other accommodation in a transient lodging
rental business for a period of forty five (45) days or longer must so notify
the transient lodging rental business, in writing, prior to the commencement of
the tenancy, which written notification shall, within seven (7) days, be
provided by the transient lodging rental business to the city clerk. The
failure of the lessee to inform the transient lodging rental business of his or
her intent to rent the room, space or other accommodation in the transient
lodging rental business for a period of forty five (45) days or longer prior to
the commencement of the tenancy shall automatically subject the tenant to the
transient lodging tax for either the duration of the tenancy (including
successive terms) or the first forty four (44) days of the tenancy (including
successive terms), whichever is less. In the event a lessee notifies a
transient lodging rental business of his or her intent to rent the room, space
or other accommodation in the transient lodging rental business for a period of
forty five (45) days or longer prior to the commencement of the tenancy, but
subsequently does not rent the room, space or other accommodation for a period
of forty five (45) days or longer, the lessee shall be responsible for the
accrued transient lodging tax up to and including the last day of the tenancy.
(Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-12: DISPLAY OF NOTICE:
Each licensee shall prominently display in each room, space or other
accommodation rented or at the option of the licensee, in the lobby at or in
the immediate vicinity of the registration desk, a sign reading substantially
as follows:
   NOTICE
This business is required by law to collect a twelve percent (12%) transient
lodging tax on any rental of transient lodging of less than forty-five (45)
days.
      Management
(Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-13: LICENSES:
Licenses required by this chapter shall be issued by the city clerk and shall
be in addition to business licenses issued by the city. Such licenses may be
issued by the city clerk: a) on an annual calendar year basis; or b) on a
semiannual calendar year basis, the first period being from January 1 through
June 30 of such year and the second period being from July 1 through December
31 of such year; or c) on a quarterly basis, the first quarter commencing
January 1 and ending March 31, the second quarter commencing April 1 and ending
June 30, the third quarter commencing July 1 and ending September 30 and the
fourth quarter commencing October 1 and ending December 31. All licenses issued
shall be valid for the period of time specified in such license. No licenses
issued hereunder shall be transferable. There shall be no charge made to the
licensee for any license issued hereunder. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-14: PRESUMPTION THAT GROSS RECEIPTS ARE SUBJECT TO TAX:
Except as otherwise provided in section
5-4-6 of this chapter, for the purpose of the proper administration of this
chapter and to prevent evasion of the transient lodging tax, there is a
rebuttable presumption that all gross receipts generated by the rental of
transient lodging are subject to the tax until the contrary is established. The
burden of proving that the transient lodging tax does not apply shall be upon
the licensee or the provider of transient lodging. Any appeal of a decision by
the city clerk relative to the application of the transient lodging tax or any
matter related thereto shall be made to the city council and otherwise in
accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 268.020. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-15: AUTHORITY TO COLLECT TAX:
The city clerk is hereby authorized and empowered to collect the proceeds of
the transient lodging tax, together with any and all interest and penalties in
connection therewith, and to enforce by all appropriate and lawful means the
provisions of this chapter, and to bring suit therefor as well as to proceed by
any appropriate criminal action. In addition to any other requirements
contained in this chapter relative to the submission of reports and other
information to the city, the city clerk is also hereby authorized and empowered
to collect information related to daily occupancy and average daily rate from
the licensee or provider of transient lodging; however, such information shall
be deemed confidential pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 268.490
(records; confidentiality). The city clerk is further authorized to issue
receipts for payments collected. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-16: PAYMENT OF TAX:
Every licensee shall pay the transient lodging tax to the city clerk on or
before the tenth day of the month when such tax shall accrue. Payment of the
transient lodging tax shall become delinquent on the sixteenth day of the
month. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-17: ALLOCATION AND USE OF TRANSIENT LODGING TAX FUNDS:
The transient lodging tax in the total amount of twelve percent (12%) of the
gross receipts from the rental of transient lodging by each licensee or
provider of transient lodging shall be allocated and used by the city in the
manner described as follows:
   (A)   One percent (1%) of the transient lodging tax shall be distributed as
follows:
      1.   Three-eighths (3/8) shall be paid to the department of taxation for
deposit with the state treasurer for credit to the fund for the promotion of
tourism.
      2.   Five-eighths (5/8) shall be deposited with the county fair and
recreation board created pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244A.599 or, if no
such board exists, with the Carlin city council to be used to advertise the
resources of Carlin related to tourism, including available accommodations,
transportation, entertainment, natural resources and climate, and to promote
special events related thereto.
   (B)   The remaining eleven percent (11%) of the transient lodging tax shall
be distributed as follows:
      1.   Nine percent (9%) shall be paid to the recreation, park and cemetery
care fund to be used in the manner set forth in subsection (C) of this section.
      2.   Two percent (2%) shall be paid to the civic facilities fund to be
used in the manner set forth in subsection (D) of this section.
   (C)   The city shall use nine percent (9%) of the proceeds of the transient
lodging tax solely for recreational purposes; for the creation, operation and/
or maintenance of parks and park facilities; for improvements or additions to
the city cemetery; for the administration and enforcement of this chapter; and,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter, as security for the payment of
bonds issued for the purposes enumerated in this subsection.
   (D)   The city shall use two percent (2%) of the proceeds of the transient
lodging tax solely for the acquisition, purchase, development, design and/or
construction of new civic facilities; for the maintenance, expansion and/or
improvement of existing civic facilities; for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter; and, except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
as security for the payment of bonds issued for the purposes enumerated in this
subsection.
   (E)   The proceeds of any portion of the transient lodging tax imposed
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 268.096 may not be used, unless otherwise
specifically provided by state law or this code:
      1.   As additional security for the payment of, or to redeem, any general
obligation bonds issued pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244A.
      2.   To defray the costs of collecting or administering the tax incurred
by the county fair and recreation board.
      3.   To operate and maintain recreational facilities under the
jurisdiction of the county fair and recreation board.
      4.   To improve and expand recreational facilities authorized by Nevada
Revised Statutes 244A.597 to 244A.655, inclusive.
      5.   To construct, purchase or acquire such recreational facilities.
(Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-18: AUDITS AND RETENTION OF RECORDS:
   (A)   The city clerk and the city clerk's designee are empowered to examine
and audit the books, papers and records of any licensee or person operating a
transient lodging rental business and to perform investigations in connection
therewith. As of the effective date of this provision, all licensees or persons
operating transient lodging rental businesses shall retain the following books
and records for a period of seven (7) years:
      1.   Space rental reports;
      2.   Registration cards;
      3.   Customer invoices;
      4.   Reports of rentals to federal governmental entities;
      5.   Refund reports;
      6.   General ledgers and financial reports;
      7.   Bank deposit slips; and
      8.   Bank statements.
   (B)   The licensee or person operating a transient lodging rental business
must make the above listed books and records available to the city clerk or the
city clerk's designee within ten (10) days of the date the city clerk mails a
"notice of audit" to the licensee or person operating a transient lodging
rental business. The "notice of audit" will be in a form substantially as
follows:
   NOTICE/COST OF AUDIT
To: [Name of licensee or person operating a transient lodging rental business]
You have been selected for an audit to determine compliance with the City of
Carlin's Transient Lodging Tax Ordinance. On or before                , you
must provide originals or true and correct copies of the following books and
records to the Carlin City Clerk or its designee:
   (C)   The cost of any such audit shall be paid by the entity conducting the
audit. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-19: PENALTIES AND INTEREST:
   (A)   Penalties And Interest For Nonpayment Of Transient Lodging Tax: If the
transient lodging tax is not paid on or before the fifteenth day of the month
in which it becomes due, or if such day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal
holiday, on the next succeeding day not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday,
then the licensee shall pay a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the unpaid, due
and delinquent transient lodging tax or an administrative fine in the amount of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), whichever is greater, and interest on the
amount due at the rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%) per month or
fraction thereof from the date on which the tax became due until the date of
payment.
   (B)   Designation Of Criminal Conduct: It shall be a crime for the owner of
a transient lodging rental business to knowingly or intentionally fail or
refuse to comply with the provisions of this chapter, including, but not
limited to, failing or refusing to collect or pay the transient lodging tax
proceeds as herein provided, failing to make or retain any required records,
failing to disclose any required financial information and/or failing to obtain
any required licenses. Such criminal conduct shall be treated as a misdemeanor.
It shall not constitute a defense to such a crime that an employee or agent of
an owner of a transient lodging rental business failed to comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Criminal And Civil Penalties For Any Violation Of This Chapter: In
addition to any penalties and/or interest assessed for the nonpayment of the
transient lodging tax set forth in subsection (A) of this section, any person
violating any of the provisions of this chapter, to include failing or refusing
to collect or pay the transient lodging tax proceeds as herein provided, shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this
code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be deemed a
separate offense. The city, by and through its city clerk, or mayor and/or city
council, is further empowered and authorized to pursue all rights, remedies,
procedures, claims and causes of action it may have at law or in equity to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and to collect this transient lodging
tax from the persons owing the same, by civil action, including, without being
limited to, injunctions. Without limiting the foregoing in any way, in addition
to any available criminal or civil penalty, the city may impose any discipline
it deems appropriate with respect to the license issued to the owner of the
transient lodging rental business (to include temporary suspension or permanent
revocation), in which event the city shall follow the same administrative
process used to impose discipline with respect to a city business license.
(Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-20: ATTORNEY FEES AND COURT COSTS:
The licensee or provider of transient lodging shall pay the city of Carlin's
attorney fees and costs should the city of Carlin be required to file a civil
action to enforce compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter and
should the city of Carlin prevail in said civil action. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-21: RELIEF AND REFUND:
Any person aggrieved by the provisions of this chapter shall present his or her
claim to the city council prior to seeking any other form of administrative
relief or judicial relief, except as otherwise provided by law. The city
council shall have the authority to grant any appropriate relief from the
provisions of this chapter to any person, including, without limitation, the
authority to refund, with interest, to any licensee, any transient lodging tax
improperly collected from such person. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-22: FORMS AND COSTS:
The city clerk is hereby empowered and authorized to designate the form of and
have prepared or printed all stationery, supplies, records, notices, receipts,
licenses and other forms that the city clerk deems necessary or advisable in
connection with the collection, administration and disbursement of the proceeds
of this transient lodging tax, and to obtain all supplies, records and other
property and equipment deemed necessary by the city clerk in connection with
the collection, administration, use and disbursement of the said transient
lodging tax proceeds. All costs, expenses, charges and debts incurred by the
city, or by the city clerk under the provisions of this chapter, in connection
with the imposition, collection, administration, use and disbursement of the
transient lodging tax and the proceeds thereof shall be paid out of the
recreation, park and cemetery care fund provided for in this chapter. (Ord.
229, 12-11-2008)
5-4-23: REFUNDS UNDER PRIOR REGULATIONS:
Any person may apply to the city clerk for a refund of transient lodging taxes
previously paid pursuant to the previous Carlin city ordinance affecting
section
5-4-14 (refund by the board of tax collected from permanent rentals) of that
ordinance. Any person who was or who becomes eligible for a refund pursuant to
the previous Carlin city ordinance affecting section
5-4-14 of that ordinance shall be provided a refund if a correct and complete
application for a refund, on a form provided by the city, is received by the
city clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date the person becomes eligible;
provided, however, that no such refunds shall be granted by the city with
respect to applications received by the city clerk more than fourteen (14) days
after the date that the person becomes eligible; for a refund under the
previous Carlin city ordinance affecting section
5-4-14 of that ordinance. (Ord. 229, 12-11-2008)
CHAPTER 5
PLUMBERS AND DRAIN LAYERS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Permit Required
5-5-2: Bond; License Fee
5-5-3: Plumbing Inspector; Duties, Authority
5-5-4: Investigation; Compensation
5-5-5: Notice Given By Contractor
5-5-6: Compliance With Plumbing Code
5-5-7: Fees Credited To General Fund
5-5-8: Liability
5-5-9: Penalty
5-5-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of plumbing or
drain laying within the corporate limits of the city without having complied
with the terms of this chapter, and any person who shall enter upon any
premises and engage in the doing of any plumbing work or drain laying, or who
shall cause any other person acting in the capacity of employee so to engage in
such work, unless a permit to do such work has been granted by the plumbing
inspector of the city, as in this chapter hereinafter contained, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 19, 9-14-1934; amd. NRS 444.350)
5-5-2: BOND; LICENSE FEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business set forth in
section
5-5-1 of this chapter without first procuring a license from the city clerk,
and prior to the issuance of the same, filing with the city clerk a bond, with
two (2) or more sureties, in the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00), which
bond shall be approved by the board of councilmen, and conditioned that the
licensee shall conduct his business according to the ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city pertaining to the business of plumbing and drain
laying, and that he and his sureties will be responsible for any and all fines
for violation of any provisions of this code pertaining to the said business,
and that they will indemnify and save harmless the city from all accidents or
damages caused by reason of any work which they may do, or cause to be done, in
a defective manner.
The sum of seven dollars fifty cents ($7.50) is hereby fixed as a quarterly
charge for a license under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 19, 9-14-1934;
amd. NRS 444.350)
5-5-3: PLUMBING INSPECTOR; DUTIES, AUTHORITY:
There is hereby created and established by the city an office to be known as
and called "Plumbing Inspector". The plumbing inspectors' duties shall be to
see that the terms and conditions of this chapter and all subsequent ordinances
of the city pertaining to plumbing and drain laying are enforced and observed.
He shall be vested with full police authority and shall be authorized to
inspect at all reasonable hours any premises upon which he has reason to
believe there is being done any plumbing or drain laying work. He shall consult
and advise with the board of councilmen upon all matters pertaining to the
sanitary condition of any and all premises within the limits of the city, and
he shall do all and every other thing pertaining to the office of plumbing
inspector as in this chapter contained. The plumbing inspector shall be chosen
by the members of the board of councilmen; provided that nothing herein
contained shall prevent said board of councilmen from choosing one of its own
members as plumbing inspector. (Ord. 19, 9-14-1934; amd. NRS 444.350)
5-5-4: INVESTIGATION; COMPENSATION:
It shall be the duty of all persons performing plumbing or drain laying within
the city to notify the plumbing inspector before work is commenced on any job,
except in making repairs to plumbing or drain laying completed on the effective
date of this chapter and he shall investigate all cases reported to him or
referred to him of bad or imperfect work or material, old or new, and report
same to the council. He shall keep a record of all inspections made, and when
the plumbing or drain laying on any premises shall be satisfactorily completed
he shall issue to the party doing the work a certificate that the same has been
lawfully and properly done, and report to the city clerk that said work is
done. There shall be charged a fee of one dollar ($1.00) for all inspections
wherein said work includes not to exceed ten (10) outlets, and a fee of five
dollars ($5.00) on all work including more than ten (10) outlets, and the
plumbing inspector shall receive one-half (1/2) of the amount charged for each
inspection as compensation for his work, and the balance of said amount shall
be left in the fund in which it is placed for city purposes. (Ord. 19, 9-14-
1934; amd. NRS 444.350)
5-5-5: NOTICE GIVEN BY CONTRACTOR:
All work shall be subject to inspection, and notice shall be given to the
plumbing inspector by the contractor doing said work, or having the same done,
as soon as said work is ready for inspection. Notice shall be given to inspect
both rough and finished work, and the contractor shall secure a final
certificate from the plumbing inspector and deliver the same to the owner or
agent. All work must be left uncovered and convenient for examination until
inspected and approved by said plumbing inspector. Such inspection shall be
made within twenty four (24) hours of such notification being received at the
office of the plumbing inspector, and such tests used as said inspector shall
determine necessary. (Ord. 19, 9-14-1934; amd. NRS 444.350)
5-5-6: COMPLIANCE WITH PLUMBING CODE:
The plumbing inspector in accepting work of any and all persons carrying on,
conducting, assuming control of, constructing or causing to be constructed, any
plumbing or house drainage affecting the sanitary conditions of any house or
building of the city, shall be governed by the regulations established by the
plumbing code referred to in section
2-2-2 of this code. It is hereby made his duty to see that all of said work
complies with the same, and it shall be unlawful for any person to construct
any plumbing or drain laying work in any manner not in accordance with the
plumbing code. (Ord. 19, 9-14-1934; amd. NRS 444.350)
5-5-7: FEES CREDITED TO GENERAL FUND:
All fees collected by the plumbing inspector shall be by that officer turned
over to the city treasurer and credited to the general fund of the city 1 .
(Ord. 19, 9-14-1934; amd. NRS 444.350)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-2-10 of this code.
5-5-8: LIABILITY:
Whenever anything is prohibited in this chapter, not only the person actually
engaged in doing the thing prohibited, but the contractor or employer in whose
employ is the one so engaged, and all other persons actually concerned therein,
shall be liable upon conviction to the penalty prescribed. (Ord. 19, 9-14-1934;
amd. NRS 444.350)
5-5-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or the officers of
any corporation or association violating any of the terms of this chapter,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty. Every licensed
plumber or drain layer who shall be convicted of any violation of this chapter
a third time shall have his license revoked by operation of the third
conviction. (Ord. 19, 9-14-1934; amd. NRS 444.350)
CHAPTER 6
CARLIN CABLE TELEVISION CODE
SECTION:
5-6-1: Title
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Grant Of Authority
5-6-4: Nonexclusive Grant
5-6-5: Term Of Franchise
5-6-6: Conditions Of Street Occupancy
5-6-7: Safety Requirements
5-6-8: Operational Standards
5-6-9: Franchise Fee
5-6-10: Indemnification Of City
5-6-11: Procedures
5-6-12: Procedure Upon Termination
5-6-13: Approval Of Transfer
5-6-14: Miscellaneous Provisions
5-6-15: Violations
5-6-16: Penalties
5-6-17: Federal And Commission Regulations
5-6-18: Construction And Completion Of System
5-6-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CARLIN CABLE TELEVISION CODE. (Ord. 151, 8-13-
1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated unless the context otherwise requires:
BASIC CATV SERVICE: The distribution of broadcast television signals by the
company.
BOARD OF COUNCILMEN: The board of councilmen of the city of Carlin.
CATV: A cable or community antenna television system.
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM: A system composed of, without limitation, antennas,
cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides, or any other conductors, converters,
equipment, or facilities, designed, constructed, or wired for the purpose of
producing, receiving, amplifying, and distributing by coaxial cable radio,
television, music or other electronic or electrical signals to and from
persons, subscribers and locations in the franchise area.
COMMISSION: The public service commission of Nevada.
COMPANY: Valley cable TV, a Washington corporation, community or cable antenna
television utility which is the grantee of rights under this chapter.
GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES: All compensation and other consideration received
directly by the company from subscribers in payment for regularly furnished
basic CATV service and all other revenues received by the company for the use
of its cable television system (or any part thereof) within the franchise area,
but shall not include any taxes on services furnished by the company imposed
directly on any subscriber or user by any government, governmental unit,
political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality, and collected by the
company, and shall further not include the charges for installations and
connections, and the charges for inspection, repair, replacement or
modification of the installation or connection. In addition, in determining the
gross revenue of a company the city shall:
   (A)   Consider any applicable regulations of the federal communications
commission; and
   (B)   Deduct an amount equal to any fees or annual assessment paid by the
company for:
      1.   The use of pay or premium channels.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, public agency, partnership,
corporation, lessee, trustee, receiver, company, entity, or organization of any
kind.
PROPERTY OR COMPANY: All property owned, installed or used by the company in
the conduct of a CATV business in the franchise area.
STREET: The surface of and the space above and below any public street, way,
place, right of way, road, highway, freeway, bridge, tunnel, lane, path, bike
path, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, drive, communications or utility
easement, by whatever name called, now or hereafter existing as such within the
franchise area.
SUBSCRIBER: The person to whom service is furnished as evidenced by the
signature on the application or contract for that service, or, in the absence
of a signed instrument, by the receipt and payment of bills regularly issued in
his name, regardless of the identity of the actual user of service. (Ord. 151,
8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-3: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
Whereas the company has warranted and represented to the city that company's
legal, character, financial, technical and other qualifications are adequate to
service the franchise area and that company will provide an adequate and
economically feasible system and extension construction services; there is
hereby granted by the city to the company a nonexclusive right and privilege to
engage in the business of operating and providing a CATV system in the
franchise area, and for that purpose to erect, install, construct, repair,
replace, reconstruct, maintain and retain, in, on, over, under, upon, across,
and along any street or streets now laid out or dedicated and all extensions
thereof and additions thereto in the franchise area, such poles, wires, cable
conductors, ducts, conduit vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments, and other property as may be necessary and appurtenant to the CATV
system; and in addition, so to use, operate and provide similar facilities, but
not limited to, any public utility or other grantee franchise or permitted to
do business in the franchise area. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-4: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT:
The right to use and occupy said streets for the purposes herein set forth,
shall not be exclusive in the company. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-5: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise and rights herein granted shall commence on the date this code
becomes effective and, subject to termination as provided in this code, shall
continue in force and effect for fifteen (15) years after said effective date.
The franchise may be renewed for an additional fifteen (15) year period upon
application by the company and approval of the board of councilmen. (Ord. 151,
8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-6: CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY:
The conditions, restrictions and other requirements relating to street
occupancy and use shall be as follows:
   (A)   All transmission and distribution structures, poles, lines and
equipment erected by the company within the franchise area shall be so located
as to cause minimum interference with the proper use of streets and with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin any of said
streets. The CATV system shall be constructed, maintained and operated in
compliance with the rules and regulations of the public service commission of
the state of Nevada, all applicable governmental construction and electrical
codes and all rules and regulations applicable to CATV and cable television
systems.
   (B)   In case of disturbance of any street or paved area, the company shall,
at its expense and in a manner approved by the city, immediately replace and
restore such street or paved area in as good condition as theretofore.
   (C)   The company shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the same street or other public place, or remove from
the street or other public place, any property of the company when lawfully
required by the city by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street
vacation, freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street
grade, installation of sewers, drains, gas, or water pipes, or any other type
of structures or improvements by the city but, the company shall in all such
cases have the right of abandonment of its property, subject to city
ordinances, and if public funds are available to any utility company for the
purpose of defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, such funds shall also be
made available to the company.
   (D)   The company shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit issued by the city, temporarily raise or lower its wires to
permit the moving of buildings, provided:
      1.   The expense of such temporary raising or lowering of wires is paid
by said person, including, if required by the company, making such payment in
advance; and
      2.   The company is given not less than forty eight (48) hours' advance
notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   (E)   The company shall have the authority to trim trees overhanging any
streets in the franchise area so as to prevent branches from coming in contact
with the company's wires and cables, except that at the option of the city,
such trimming may be done by it or under its supervision and direction at the
company's expense.
   (F)   The city shall have the right to make additional use, for any public
purpose, of any poles or conduits controlled or maintained exclusively by or
for the company in any street, provided:
      1.   Such use by the city does not interfere with the use by the company;
and
      2.   The city holds the company harmless against and from all claims,
demands, causes of action, suits, actions, proceedings, damages, costs, or
liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever arising out of such use of said
poles and conduits. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-7: SAFETY REQUIREMENTS:
Safety requirements and criteria are as follows:
   (A)   The company shall at all times employ ordinary care and prudence and
shall implement and maintain in use, commonly accepted methods, devices and
practices for preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause
damage or injury, or create a nuisance to the public.
   (B)   All structures and all lines, equipment, and connections in, over,
under, and upon all streets, of the franchise area shall be kept and maintained
in a safe and suitable condition, and in good order and repair. (Ord. 151, 8-
13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-8: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS:
The company shall operate and maintain its cable television system in full
compliance with the standards, rules, and regulations set forth by the federal
communications commission and the public service commission of Nevada,
including, but not limited to, the following items:
   (A)   Application for service.
   (B)   Business and residential service definitions.
   (C)   Connection with certain subscriber owned facilities.
   (D)   Continuity of service.
   (E)   Credit record establishment.
   (F)   Deposits.
   (G)   Discontinuance of service.
   (H)   Disputed bills.
   (I)   Emergency procedure.
   (J)   Facilities on premises of subscriber.
   (K)   Public information disclosures.
   (L)   Insurance.
   (M)   Line extensions and service connections.
   (N)   Notices.
   (O)   Rendering and payment of bills.
   (P)   Safety requirements.
   (Q)   Tariff filing.
   (R)   Temporary service.
   (S)   Underground facilities. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-9: FRANCHISE FEE:
Company shall pay to the city all lawful licenses and taxes imposed by the
city, in addition to the present retail license fee. Company shall pay to the
city during the life of the franchise a sum equal to three percent (3%) of the
gross annual revenues of company arising within the franchise area.
Company shall file with the city clerk within ninety (90) days after expiration
of any calendar year during which this franchise is in force, a verified
summary report showing all gross annual revenues received during the preceding
calendar year. Company shall pay to the city within fifteen (15) days after the
time for filing such summary report the specified sum for the preceding
calendar year covered by such summary. Any neglect, refusal, or omission by
company to file such summary report or to pay the preceding sums at the times
and in the manner hereinafter provided shall be grounds for the declaration of
a forfeiture and termination of the franchise and of all rights thereunder.
(Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-10: INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY:
   (A)   The company shall at all times indemnify and hold the city harmless
from all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, expense, or damages of every
kind and description, including investigation costs, court costs, and
reasonable attorney fees, which may accrue to or be suffered or claimed by any
person or persons arising out of the negligence of the company, its officers,
directors, agents, and employees, in the ownership construction, repair,
replacement, maintenance, and operation of said cable television system, and by
reason of any license, copyright, property right, or patent of any article or
system used in the construction or use of said system, provided the city gives
the company prompt notice of any such claims, actions, and suits, without
limitation, in writing. The company shall maintain in full force and effect
during the life of any franchise, public liability insurance in a solvent
insurance company authorized to do business in the state within which the
franchise area is situated. The city shall be named as an insured, a copy of
the policy and proof of premium payments shall be filed as issued with the city
clerk. Minimum coverages shall be one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)
property damage and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence
for bodily injury or death. Insurance hereunder shall comply with any
applicable rules of the commission. Each policy shall contain a provision
requiring notification to the city before cancellation.
   (B)   The city may require that any and all investigation of claims made by
any person against the city arising out of any use or misuse of privileges
granted to the company hereunder shall be made by, or at the expense of the
company or its insuror. The company may bring its obligations to carry any
insurance required hereby within the coverage of any so called blanket policy
or policies of insurance now or hereafter carried, by appropriate amendment,
endorsement, or otherwise; provided, however, the interests of the city shall
be as fully protected thereby as if the company had obtained individual
policies of insurance. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-11: PROCEDURES:
   (A)   The city may terminate this franchise if, after the hearing
hereinafter provided for, the board of councilmen finds that any representation
or warrant of the company set out in this chapter is false or has been
breached, or that the company has defaulted in the performance of any of the
provisions of this chapter on its part to be performed, and such default has
not been cured within thirty (30) days after a written copy of the board of
councilmen's decision has been served on the company by mail or personal
service on any officer or employee of the company.
   (B)   Any hearing, proceeding, or other action to be taken or proposed to be
taken by the city in regard to the operations of the company's cable television
system, or to terminate this franchise, shall be taken only after:
      1.   Thirty (30) days' public notice of such hearing, proceeding, action,
or proposed action is published in a local daily or weekly newspaper having
general circulation in the city; and
      2.   A copy of such action or proposed action is served directly on the
company by mail or service or any officer or employee of the company; and
      3.   The company has been given an opportunity to respond in writing and
at any hearing which may be specified by the city; and
      4.   Members of the general public have been given an opportunity to
respond or comment in writing on the action or proposed action.
   (C)   The public notice required by this section shall state clearly:
      1.   The action or proposed action to be taken; and
      2.   The time provided for response and the person or persons in
authority to whom such responses should be addressed; and
      3.   Such other procedures as may be specified by the city.
   (D)   If a hearing is to be held, the public notice shall:
      1.   Give the date and time of such hearing; and
      2.   Whether public participation will be allowed.
   (E)   The company shall be a necessary party to any hearing conducted in
regard to its operations. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-12: PROCEDURE UPON TERMINATION:
Upon expiration of the franchise, if the company shall not have acquired an
extension or renewal thereof and accepted the same, it may have and it is
hereby granted the right to enter upon the streets of the city for the purposes
of removing therefrom any or all of its property or otherwise. In so removing
said property, the company shall refill, at its expense, any excavation that it
shall make and shall leave said streets in as good condition as that prevailing
prior to the company's removal of its property. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-
20-1986)
5-6-13: APPROVAL OF TRANSFER:
The company shall not sell or transfer its plant or system to another, other
than a person controlling, controlled by, or under common control with the
company, nor transfer any rights under their franchise to another person until
the vendee, assignee, or lessee has filed in the office of the city clerk an
instrument duly executed reciting the fact of such sale, assignment, or lease,
accepting the terms of the franchise, and agreeing to perform all the
conditions of this code. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-14: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   (A)   When not otherwise prescribed herein, all matters herein required to
be filed with the city shall be filed with the city clerk.
   (B)   The company shall assume the costs of publication of this franchise
when such publication is required by law. A bill for publication costs shall be
presented to the company by the city clerk.
   (C)   The company shall provide without charge one outlet to each
governmental office building, fire station, police station, and public school
building that is passed by its cable. The distribution of the cable facility
inside such buildings and the extent thereof shall be at the option, duty, and
expense of the building owner.
   (D)   In the case of any emergency or disaster, the company shall, upon
request of the city, make available its facilities to the city for emergency
use during the emergency or disaster period. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-
1986)
5-6-15: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this code, it shall be unlawful
for any person to construct, install, or maintain within any public street in
the city, or within any other public property of the city, or within any
privately owned area within the city which has not yet become a public street
but is designated or delineated as a proposed public street on any tentative
subdivision map approved by the city, any equipment or facilities for
distributing any television signals or radio signals through a CATV system,
unless a franchise authorizing such use of such street or property or area has
first been obtained, and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any unauthorized
connection, whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or
otherwise, with any part of the franchised CATV system within this city for the
purpose of enabling anyone to receive any television signal, radio signal,
picture, sound, or other transmission, without payment to the company.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without the consent of the owner
to wilfully tamper with, remove or injure any cables, wires, or equipment used
for distribution of television signals, radio signals, pictures, sound, or
other transmission. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-16: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction therefor, be punished as provided for by the statutes of Nevada and
city ordinances for violations of a misdemeanor. Each day such violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense, and
shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-17: FEDERAL AND COMMISSION REGULATIONS:
If any modification of the rules and regulations of the federal communications
commission or the public service commission of Nevada is made which are in
conflict with this chapter, or which would require amendment of this code, the
city shall, within ninety (90) days after application from the company for
amendment of this code, either begin the process of amending this franchise or
file with the federal communications commission or public service commission of
Nevada a request for waiver of or an objection to the application to this code
of the modified rules and regulations. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff. 8-20-1986)
5-6-18: CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION OF SYSTEM:
Construction of the CATV system installation shall commence on or before August
15, 1986, and distribution of the cable system shall be completed on or before
October 15, 1986. Franchisee shall post a bond in an amount to be set by the
board of councilmen to assure compliance herewith. (Ord. 151, 8-13-1986, eff.
8-20-1986)
CHAPTER 7
CP NATIONAL CORPORATION FRANCHISE
SECTION:
5-7-1: Short Title
5-7-2: Definitions
5-7-3: Grant Of Nonexclusive Authority
5-7-4: Term Of Franchise
5-7-5: Compliance With Applicable Laws And Ordinances
5-7-6: Conditions On Occupancy Of Public Roads
5-7-7: Construction Standards
5-7-8: Grantee Liability; Indemnification
5-7-9: Annexed Areas
5-7-10: Approval Of Transfer
5-7-11: Franchise Fee
5-7-12: Records And Reports
5-7-13: Publication Costs
5-7-14: Remedies
5-7-15: Penalties
5-7-16: Separability
5-7-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CP NATIONAL CORPORATION
FRANCHISE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 161, 3-22-1989, eff. 3-29-1989)
5-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
CITY: The city of Carlin, Nevada.
ERECT, INSTALL, OPERATE AND MAINTAIN: To lease, construct, erect, install,
operate, maintain, use, repair or replace.
FRANCHISE: The rights, privileges and franchises hereinafter more particularly
described.
GRANTEE: CP National Corporation and its lawful successors and assigns with
respect to the franchise hereby granted.
LINES AND APPURTENANCES: Telephone transmission and distribution lines,
services, wires, poles, vaults, ducts, apparatus, conduits, attachments,
appurtenances and, without limitation to the foregoing, any other property
located or to be located in, along, across, under or over the public roads
within the city and used or useful in conveying telephone communications.
PUBLIC ROAD AND PUBLIC ROADS: The public highways, streets, avenues, alleys,
bridges and ways as the same may now or hereafter exist within the city and
future additions thereto over which the city has jurisdiction. (Ord. 161, 3-22-
1989, eff. 3-29-1989)
5-7-3: GRANT OF NONEXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY:
Grantee is hereby granted the franchise right and privilege to lay, construct,
install and operate telephone lines and associated facilities, and other
structures for the purpose of conveying telephone communications over, under,
in, along and across public roads of the city. The franchise, right, privilege
and permission hereby granted is not an exclusive franchise or right, and the
right of said city to grant like franchises, rights, privileges or permissions
is hereby reserved; provided that such grant of like franchises, rights,
privileges or permissions shall not interfere with the reasonable use of the
franchise right, privilege and permission hereby granted to grantee, a
corporation, its successors and assigns, and said franchise, right, privilege
and permission is granted subject to all of the ordinances and regulations of
the board of councilmen of the city, and the laws of the state governing such
application and privilege for franchise now existing or hereafter to be made,
enacted or passed. (Ord. 161, 3-22-1989, eff. 3-29-1989)
5-7-4: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise and rights herein granted shall take effect and be in force from
and after the final passage of an ordinance outlining the terms hereof, as
required by law, and upon filing of acceptance of such ordinance by the grantee
with the city clerk, shall continue in force and effect for a term of twenty
five (25) years after the effective date of this franchise, unless sooner
terminated pursuant to the terms of the franchise. (Ord. 161, 3-22-1989, eff.
3-29-1989)
5-7-5: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The grantee shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be subject
to all lawful exercise of police powers by the city, and to such reasonable
regulation as the city shall hereafter by resolution or ordinance provide.
(Ord. 161, 3-22-1989, eff. 3-29-1989)
5-7-6: CONDITIONS ON OCCUPANCY OF PUBLIC ROADS:
   (A)   Use: All telephone lines and associated facilities and appurtenances
constructed, laid or placed by the grantee shall be so located in the public
roads in the city so as not to obstruct or interfere with any pipes, sewers,
drains, valves or other structures already installed.
   (B)   Lines And Appurtenances: Subject to the conditions herein contained
and the provisions of this chapter, grantee shall have the right of installing,
maintaining and using any or all of such lines and appurtenances from time to
time as may be necessary or proper.
   (C)   Repair Of Public Roads: If any portion of a sidewalk, curb, gutter,
street, alley, public road or right of way shall be damaged by reason of
defects in any of the lines and appurtenances utilized, maintained or
constructed under this grant, or by reason of any other cause arising from the
grantee's operations, or the existence of any lines and appurtenances
constructed or maintained under the grant, said grantee shall, at its own cost
and expense, within fifteen (15) days, unless delayed by abnormal weather
conditions or acts of God, labor disputes or unavailability of materials,
repair any such damage and restore such sidewalk, curb, gutter, street, alley,
public road or right of way, or portion thereof, to as good a condition as it
existed before such excavation disturbance, work or other cause of damage
occurred.
   (D)   Relocation: The grantee shall relocate, without expense to the city,
any telephone lines, associated facilities and appurtenances theretofore
installed and then maintained or used under this franchise if and when made
necessary by lawful change of grade, alignment or width of any public road by
the city; provided, however, that this provision shall remain in effect only so
long as such public road shall remain under the jurisdiction of said city as a
public road, and further provided that the city shall provide a suitable
substitute right of way within which grantee may relocate its telephone lines,
associated facilities and/or appliances. This provision shall cease to be
applicable to any public road if and when the city shall cease to have
jurisdiction over or shall cease to be obligated to maintain such public road,
and nothing herein contained shall be construed as constituting a contractual
obligation of the grantee running to the authority assuming jurisdiction over
or the obligation to maintain such public road. Nothing herein shall be
construed to prohibit or restrict repayment by the state or a third party for
relocation of grantee's facilities.
   (E)   Placement And Inspection: All telephone lines and associated
facilities which shall be constructed and used under and pursuant to the
provisions of this franchise and in the exercise hereof shall be installed,
constructed and maintained in a good and workmanlike manner and shall be
maintained in compliance with all valid laws and ordinances from time to time
in force. Before the work of installing new or upgrade of existing lines and
appurtenances is commenced, the grantee shall coordinate the location thereof
with the city, and the city shall give such directions for the location of such
lines and appurtenances as may be reasonably necessary to avoid sewers, water
pipes, conduits and other structures lawfully in or under the streets, alleys
and public roads of the city.
   (F)   Repair Of Water Pipes, Sewers, Drains And Other Structures: The
grantee shall, at its own cost and expense, immediately repair or replace, as
necessary, any and all water pipes, mains, service lines, valves, meters, sewer
lines, culverts, conduits and all other materials and equipment utilized in
connection with water service, sewer service and drainage or facilities of
other utilities damaged in any way by the grantee. (Ord. 161, 3-22-1989, eff.
3-29-1989)
5-7-7: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All telephone lines and associated facilities and appurtenances which shall be
constructed and used under and pursuant to the provisions of this franchise and
in the exercise hereof shall be installed, constructed and maintained in
accordance with any applicable codes, ordinances and regulations of the city,
Nevada statutes and the rules, regulations and orders of the Nevada public
service commission, and in a good and workmanlike manner and shall be
maintained in compliance with all such valid laws, ordinances, rules,
regulations and codes from time to time in force. (Ord. 161, 3-22-1989, eff. 3-
29-1989)
5-7-8: GRANTEE LIABILITY; INDEMNIFICATION:
The city shall in no way be liable or responsible for any acts or damages that
occur in the construction, operation or maintenance by the grantee of its
telephone lines and associated facilities and appurtenances hereunder, and the
acceptance of this franchise shall be deemed an agreement on the part of
grantee, its successors and assigns, to indemnify the city and hold it harmless
against any and all liability, loss, cost, damage or expense sustained by the
city on account of any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever,
resulting from the negligence, default, misconduct or failure to act on the
part of the grantee in the construction, operation or maintenance of its
telephone lines, associated facilities and appurtenances hereunder. The city
shall notify the grantee's representative in the city promptly after the
presentation of any claim or demand, either by suit or otherwise, made against
the city as are hereby agreed to be indemnified. (Ord. 161, 3-22-1989, eff. 3-
29-1989)
5-7-9: ANNEXED AREAS:
This franchise and the provisions of this chapter shall apply to any area which
may hereafter be added to the city by annexation or otherwise; provided,
however, that upon any such annexation, or other procedure whereby the city
limits are expanded or changed, the grantee shall, and by acceptance of this
franchise agrees to, waive, relinquish or abandon any and all franchise rights,
privileges, easements and rights of way owned or held by the grantee within the
area which hereafter becomes part of the public roads of the city and such
additional area shall become subject to the franchise rights granted herein and
the terms and provisions and conditions of this chapter. (Ord. 161, 3-22-1989,
eff. 3-29-1989)
5-7-10: APPROVAL OF TRANSFER:
The grantee shall not sell, transfer or assign this franchise, or any rights or
privileges under this franchise, to any person, corporation, partnership or
entity without prior city approval. Provided, that no sale, transfer or
assignment shall be effective until the vendee, assignee or lessee has filed in
the office of the clerk an instrument, duly executed, reciting the fact of such
sale, assignment or lease, accepting the terms of this franchise and this
chapter, and agreeing to perform all the conditions hereof, and in addition
thereto, the proposed transferee has obtained all necessary operating authority
and certificates of public convenience as are required by the Nevada public
service commission or such other governmental department, agency or commission
as may then be regulating or controlling the activities or services of the
grantee or the proposed transferee. (Ord. 161, 3-22-1989, eff. 3-29-1989)
5-7-11: FRANCHISE FEE:
There shall be no initial franchise fee, but the city reserves the right to
negotiate a franchise fee with the grantee during the term of this franchise.
(Ord. 161, 3-22-1989, eff. 3-29-1989)
5-7-12: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
The city shall have access at all reasonable hours to all of the grantee's
books, records, reports, contracts and bookkeeping and accounting procedures
relating to the determination of the sums to be determined in section
5-7-11 of this chapter or any other purposes relating to this franchise. The
following records and reports shall be filed with the clerk by the grantee: a
true and correct conformed copy of the rules, regulations, terms and conditions
adopted by the grantee for the conduct of its business in the city. (Ord. 161,
3-22-1989, eff. 3-29-1989)
5-7-13: PUBLICATION COSTS:
The grantee shall assume the costs of publication of the franchise ordinance as
such publication is required by law. A bill for publication costs shall be
presented to the grantee by the clerk upon the grantee's filing of acceptance
and shall be paid at that time. (Ord. 161, 3-22-1989, eff. 3-29-1989)
5-7-14: REMEDIES:
Anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, acceptance of the
franchise ordinance by grantee shall result in the ordinance becoming a
contract between the city and the grantee and the parties hereby agree that the
city shall have all remedies in law and equity, including injunctive relief,
for the enforcement of the provisions of the ordinance and the agreement. (Ord.
161, 3-22-1989, eff. 3-29-1989)
5-7-15: PENALTIES:
Any violation by the grantee, or its successors or assigns of the provisions of
this franchise or of any material portions hereof, or the failure promptly to
perform any of the provisions hereof, shall be cause for the forfeiture of this
franchise and all rights hereunder by the city after written notice to the
grantee and continuation of such violation, failure or default for thirty (30)
days after the date of such notice. (Ord. 161, 3-22-1989, eff. 3-29-1989)
5-7-16: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of the
franchise ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 161, 3-22-1989, eff. 3-29-
1989)
CHAPTER 8
SOUTHWEST GAS CORPORATION FRANCHISE
SECTION:
5-8-1: Short Title
5-8-2: Grant Of Franchise
5-8-3: Term
5-8-4: Manner Of Installation, Construction And Maintenance
5-8-5: Restoration Of Public Rights Of Way
5-8-6: Franchise Fee
5-8-7: Relocation Of Facilities
5-8-8: Indemnification
5-8-9: Consent To Assignment
5-8-10: Franchise; Nonexclusive
5-8-11: Franchise Agreement
5-8-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the SOUTHWEST GAS CORPORATION
FRANCHISE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 238, 6-25-2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
5-8-2: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
The city of Carlin, Nevada ("city"), hereby grants to Southwest Gas
Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the
laws of the state of California ("grantee"), its successors and assigns the
right and privilege to construct, install, maintain, use, operate, repair and
replace its gas system and gas system facilities, as defined below, upon, over,
along, across and under the present and future public rights of way (the
"franchise"). These public rights of way include, but are not limited to,
present and future roads, streets, avenues, alleys, ways, highways, bridges,
public utility easements and public places within the city ("public right(s) of
way"). Grantee's gas system is for the purpose of supplying natural gas and/or
artificial gas, including gas manufactured by any method whatsoever, and/or gas
containing a mixture of natural gas and such artificial gas (herein all types
of gas will be collectively referred to as "gas") to the city, its successors,
the inhabitants thereof, and all individuals and entities either within or
beyond the limits thereof, for all purposes. Grantee's gas system includes a
transmission and distribution system of mains, pipelines and conduits together
with all necessary or desirable appurtenances including, but not limited to,
pipes, laterals, service lines, pumps, manholes, meters, gauges, valves, traps,
fences, vaults, regulators, regulator stations, appliances, attachments and
related equipment, facilities, appurtenances and/or property for the purpose of
supplying gas (individually, and collectively, "gas system facilities").
Grantee shall have the right to install, maintain, construct, operate, use,
repair or replace any or all of its gas system facilities from time to time as
may be necessary or proper. (Ord. 238, 6-25-2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
5-8-3: TERM:
The effective date of this franchise shall be July 3, 2014, and shall continue
and remain in full force and effect for a period of twenty five (25) years from
the effective date, unless terminated earlier by written agreement of the
parties. This franchise agreement will expire on July 3, 2039. (Ord. 238, 6-25-
2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
5-8-4: MANNER OF INSTALLATION, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   Grantee shall install, construct and maintain its gas system
facilities in a good and workmanlike manner. Before grantee makes any
installations in the public rights of way, grantee shall apply for and obtain
from city such permit or permits as are required by city to be issued for
similar construction or work in the public rights of way; provided, however,
grantee shall have the right to undertake without delay such emergency
activities necessary to provide for and maintain the reliability and safety of
its gas system facilities. If such action is required, grantee shall advise
city of the work performed to maintain its system and apply for a permit as
soon as is practicable.
   (B)   Grantee shall keep installation records of the location of all
facilities in the public rights of way and public utility easements. Grantee's
gas system facilities are defined as critical infrastructure by the federal
government and as such, city agrees that records of the location or design of
natural gas facilities are proprietary to grantee and city shall not release
nor make available any records to any outside party without the express,
written permission of grantee. Reasonable use of grantee's records submitted to
the city may be internally used by city for permitting and design of city owned
facilities. (Ord. 238, 6-25-2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
5-8-5: RESTORATION OF PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
If, in the construction, maintenance or operation of its gas system, grantee
damages or disturbs the surface or subsurface of any public road, then grantee
shall, within a reasonable time, but in no case later than ninety (90) days
(weather permitting), restore the surface or subsurface of the public road as
required by city development standards in effect at that time. Grantee shall be
responsible for the costs of any such restoration or repair. Nothing in this
franchise agreement shall be construed as constituting a contractual obligation
on the part of grantee that assumes jurisdiction over, or the obligation to
maintain, such public road. (Ord. 238, 6-25-2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
5-8-6: FRANCHISE FEE:
   (A)   In lieu of any license, permit fees or other fees or taxes (including,
but not limited to, plan review, inspection and pavement cut surcharges, but
excluding general ad valorem property taxes which must be paid by grantee)
being imposed on grantee by city, grantee shall pay to the city during the term
of this franchise, a sum equal to two percent (2%) of grantee's gross revenue
from the sale and/or delivery of gas by grantee within the boundary of the city
as shown by grantee's billing records. Payment shall be due in quarterly
installments, not later than thirty (30) days following the end of each
calendar quarter, with each installment based on the gross revenue for the
quarter ending thirty (30) days prior to such payment. Accompanying each
quarterly payment, grantee shall provide city with a statement of gross revenue
from the sale and/or delivery of gas by grantee to customers within the
boundary of the city for the applicable quarter.
   (B)   The city may, at a reasonable time and at city's cost, examine
grantee's applicable books and records for purposes of verifying gross revenue
during the term of this franchise. The examination shall be conducted in such a
way not to disrupt grantee's business operations, and shall not be required
more than once during any twelve (12) month period.
   (C)   On or before the effective date, city shall provide grantee with any
and all information necessary to identify each customer within the boundary of
the city affected by the franchise fee as required by Nevada Revised Statutes
354.59885(3). (Ord. 238, 6-25-2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
5-8-7: RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   (A)   The city reserves its right to use the public rights of way and city
property, including the surface areas, for governmental function projects
funded with city funds. When the city requests grantee to relocate gas system
facilities for a governmental function project funded with city funds, the
grantee shall move its property that is located in the public rights of way, or
on other city property, at grantee's own cost, to such location as the city and
grantee agree. In the event the governmental function project is paid for
totally or in part with noncity funds, then the grantee's costs of moving its
property shall be borne by the source of the noncity funds or the city in the
same ratio as the noncity funds bear to the total project cost.
   (B)   City will bear the reasonable cost of relocating any gas system
facilities, the relocation of which is necessitated by the construction of
improvements by or on behalf of city in furtherance of a nongovernmental or
proprietary function.
   (C)   If city requires grantee to relocate grantee's gas system facilities
to avoid conflict with the installation or relocation of other utility
facilities, then the costs and expenditures associated with relocating
grantee's gas system facilities shall be paid by the city.
   (D)   If city requires grantee to relocate any gas system facilities located
in private easements, then the costs and expenditures associated with
purchasing a new private easement and relocating grantee's gas system
facilities shall be borne by city.
   (E)   If grantee is required to relocate any gas system facilities within
one year of construction or relocation of such facilities paid for by grantee,
the costs of relocation shall be borne by city.
   (F)   If relocation of any gas system facilities is required or requested
due to the actions or inactions of any party other than the city, the third
party shall be solely responsible for the cost of such relocation and grantee
shall not be required to commence such work until such time that the third
party compensates grantee for the relocation costs in cash or other manner
acceptable to grantee.
   (G)   City will not exercise its right to require any of grantee's gas
system facilities to be relocated in an unreasonable or arbitrary manner, or to
avoid its obligations under this franchise.
   (H)   Whenever the city requests grantee to relocate grantee's gas system
facilities, city and grantee will cooperate on the planning for the relocation
and selection of a new location for any affected gas system facilities to
minimize the cost of such relocation and/or disruption of grantee's gas system
operations. Grantee shall complete such relocation within one hundred eighty
(180) days (weather permitting) after: 1) city has provided written notice to
grantee approving the proposed location and design, and 2) all required permits
for the relocation (including any amendments or modifications to permits) have
been issued by permitting agencies.
   (I)   Grantee's obligations under this section shall remain in effect only
so long as the city retains jurisdiction over and the obligation to maintain
such applicable public right of way or city property. (Ord. 238, 6-25-2014,
eff. 7-3-2014)
5-8-8: INDEMNIFICATION:
City shall not be liable or responsible for any acts or damage that may occur
in the construction, operation or maintenance by grantee of its gas system
facilities under this franchise, and the acceptance of this franchise shall be
deemed an agreement on the part of grantee, its successors and assigns, to
indemnify city and hold it harmless against any and all liability, loss, cost,
damage or expense which may accrue to city by reason of the negligence, default
or misconduct of grantee in the construction, operation, or maintenance of
grantee's gas system facilities hereunder; provided that such claims, expenses
and/or losses are not the result of any wilful or grossly negligent acts of
city, and grantee shall receive from city full, complete and prompt notice of
any and all such claims or demands as are hereby indemnified. (Ord. 238, 6-25-
2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
5-8-9: CONSENT TO ASSIGNMENT:
The rights, privileges and franchise hereby granted may be assigned by grantee
in whole or in part to any person certified by the public utilities commission
of Nevada to assume the duties and obligations of grantee under this franchise;
provided, however, any sale, transfer, assignment or lease of this franchise,
in whole or in part, by grantee shall be subject to the prior written consent
of the city, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. (Ord.
238, 6-25-2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
5-8-10: FRANCHISE; NONEXCLUSIVE:
This franchise is not exclusive and nothing herein contained shall be construed
to: a) prevent the city from granting similar rights or privileges to any other
person, firm or corporation, or b) to deny or lessen the city's power and
privileges granted by law. (Ord. 238, 6-25-2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
5-8-11: FRANCHISE AGREEMENT:
Within thirty (30) days after adoption of this chapter, city and grantee shall
execute a written franchise agreement acknowledging and agreeing to the terms
and conditions set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 238, 6-25-2014, eff. 7-3-2014)
CHAPTER 9
CARLIN BROTHEL CODE 1
SECTION:
5-9-1: Adoption
5-9-2: Privilege License
5-9-3: Prostitution Not An Offense Or Nuisance
5-9-4: Prostitution; Unlawful Under Certain Conditions
5-9-5: Definitions
5-9-6: Licensing And Control Board Created
5-9-7: License Application; Contents
5-9-8: License Application; Filing And Investigation
5-9-9: License Restrictions
5-9-10: Board May Impose Other Restrictions
5-9-11: Zoning
5-9-12: License Issuance
5-9-13: License Fees
5-9-14: Prostitute Registration And Work Card
5-9-15: Health Examination
5-9-16: Employee Registration And Employment Card
5-9-17: General Prohibitions
5-9-18: Revocation Of Licenses
5-9-19: Exception To Hearing Procedure
5-9-20: License Not Transferable
5-9-21: Criminal Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 201.300 et seq.
5-9-1: ADOPTION:
Public health, safety and welfare will be promoted by the adoption of this
chapter, licensing, regulating and controlling prostitution within the city,
and prohibiting any prostitution within the city except as conducted in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-
17-1991)
5-9-2: PRIVILEGE LICENSE:
No applicant for a license or other affirmative board approval has any right to
a license or the granting of the approval sought. Any license issued or other
board approval granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is a
revocable privilege and no holder acquires any vested right therein or
thereunder. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-3: PROSTITUTION NOT AN OFFENSE OR NUISANCE:
The operation of a house of prostitution within the city in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter does not constitute a public nuisance or an offense
to public decency. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-4: PROSTITUTION; UNLAWFUL UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep or operate
any house of prostitution, house of ill fame or bawdyhouse of any description
within the city, except as herein provided in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to practice prostitution, to solicit
business for a prostitute or to procure any person for the purpose of
prostitution within the city, except as herein provided in this chapter. (Ord.
167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-5: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: Any person, firm or corporation applying to the board for a license
under the provisions of this chapter, together with all persons listed in
section
5-9-7 of this chapter.
BOARD: The board of city councilmen.
EMPLOYMENT CARD: The card issued by the chief of police to each employee, other
than a prostitute, authorizing them to be an employee at a licensed operation.
LICENSE OPERATION OR OPERATION: A house of prostitution duly licensed and
operated in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
WORK CARD: The card issued by the chief of police to each prostitute,
authorizing them to work at a licensed operation. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-
17-1991)
5-9-6: LICENSING AND CONTROL BOARD CREATED:
   (A)   The board of councilmen of the city shall act as a prostitution
licensing and control board.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the board to carry out the provisions of this
chapter, and to see that this chapter is faithfully enforced.
   (C)   Powers of the board shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
power to:
      1.   Receive all license applications submitted under the provisions of
this chapter;
      2.   Investigate all applicants for a license under the provisions of
this chapter;
      3.   Grant or refuse to grant the license provided for in this chapter;
      4.   Receive complaints concerning alleged violations of this chapter;
      5.   Revoke licenses issued under the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 167,
7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-7: LICENSE APPLICATION; CONTENTS:
Any person, firm or corporation desiring to operate a house of prostitution
within the city shall apply to the board for a license to operate such house of
prostitution. Such license application shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Names, including any and all names or nicknames by which the
individual has ever been known, ages and addresses of all persons who have or
will have any financial interest in the operation;
   (B)   Names, including any and all names or nicknames by which the
individual has ever been known, ages and addresses of persons who are or will
be personally responsible for the conduct and management of the operation;
   (C)   A recent photograph and complete set of fingerprints of all persons
listed in subsections (A) and (B) of this section;
   (D)   Names and addresses of every other business in which the applicant has
any financial interest, including the type of such business and the nature of
the applicant's interest;
   (E)   Names and addresses of all employers of the applicant in the preceding
ten (10) years;
   (F)   All of the applicant's addresses for the preceding ten (10) years;
   (G)   A list of all prior arrests and convictions of the applicant for any
crime, excluding minor traffic violations, such list shall include a statement
of the offense, the place of its occurrence and the date of its occurrence;
   (H)   A complete and accurate financial statement of the applicant;
   (I)   A legal description of the property upon which the proposed operation
is to be conducted, together with copies of all deeds, mortgages, deeds of
trust, liens or other encumbrances, leasehold interests, or other interests
relating to the property;
   (J)   Any other information deemed necessary or useful by the board; and
   (K)   Names, ages and addresses of all persons who have or will have
leasehold interests in the property. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-8: LICENSE APPLICATION; FILING AND INVESTIGATION:
   (A)   All license applications under the provisions of this chapter shall be
filed with the city clerk, along with a nonrefundable fee established by the
board by resolution to be used for investigation. The city clerk shall place
the application on the agenda of a board's regularly scheduled meeting at the
earliest possible date.
   (B)   Upon presentation of any license application to the board, the board
shall refer such application to the chief of police for investigation. The
chief of police shall conduct a full investigation of all information contained
in the license application, which investigation shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following:
      1.   A complete check of all records of the federal bureau of
investigation and any other similar organization concerning the criminal record
of any applicant;
      2.   A personal interview with each applicant;
      3.   An interview, either personal or by mail, with all employers of the
applicant and business associates of the applicant, as shown in the license
application;
      4.   Examination of the financial statement and financial background of
the applicant;
      5.   Any other investigation deemed necessary or useful by the chief of
police.
   (C)   As soon as practicable after any application is referred by the board
to the chief of police, the chief of police shall report the results of his
investigation, in writing, to the board. Such report shall include, but shall
not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A complete statement of the results of all investigations
undertaken;
      2.   A list of any errors or omissions found to exist in the application;
      3.   An evaluation of the personal and financial status and background of
the applicant.
   (D)   Within thirty (30) days after receiving the chief of police's report,
the board may:
      1.   Refer the application back to the chief of police for additional
investigation;
      2.   Require a personal interview with the applicant;
      3.   Require the applicant to submit additional information relative to
his application;
      4.   Grant or refuse to grant a license under the provisions of this
chapter.
   (E)   The board may refuse to grant a license to any applicant who, in the
opinion of the board, is not appropriate:
      1.   Who has been convicted of any felony;
      2.   Who is financially insolvent or undergone a prior bankruptcy
proceeding;
      3.   Who has a history of financial instability;
      4.   Who has wilfully omitted or incorrectly stated any material fact in
the application;
      5.   Who has any financial interest in, or connection with, any business
which is illegal where such business is located;
      6.   Whose license under the provisions of this chapter would not be in
the best interest of the health, welfare or safety of the city, or its
residents;
      7.   Whose proposed establishment is not in correct zoning;
      8.   Who has associates that the board considers inappropriate for the
operation of this privileged business.
   (F)   Upon denying any application for a license under the provisions of
this chapter, the board may grant the applicant thirty (30) days within which
to cure any defect in the application, and such application may be again
submitted to the board for consideration, as herein provided, within thirty
(30) days after such denial.
   (G)   The board shall grant or refuse to grant a license after consideration
of any application. Any refusal to grant a license will be accompanied by the
specific findings of fact and reasons for the denial. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991,
eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-9: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall have the
following restrictions:
   (A)   No licensed operation may be conducted in violation of any applicable
city, county, state or federal ordinance, statute or regulation.
   (B)   The maximum number of houses of prostitution which will be permitted
within the city limits will be at the discretion of the board. (Ord. 167, 7-10-
1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-10: BOARD MAY IMPOSE OTHER RESTRICTIONS:
The board may, at its discretion and to promote the health, safety and welfare
of the people of the city, and to promote the orderly conduct of the operation,
impose additional restrictions, including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   The board may impose restrictions pursuant to this section prior,
during or after issuance of license. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-11: ZONING:
No licenses shall be issued without the prospective licensee first obtaining
proper zoning for the proposed operation. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-12: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
   (A)   Upon approval of all applications connected with an operation, the
board shall issue a license for the operation, which license shall state:
      1.   The names and addresses of all licensees connected with the
operation;
      2.   The address or location of the operation;
      3.   Any restrictions or limitations imposed by the board;
      4.   The date of issuance of the license;
      5.   The date of expiration of the license.
   (B)   All licenses shall be issued for an annual period.
   (C)   Thirty (30) days before the expiration date of any license, the chief
of police shall notify the city clerk, in writing, of any complaints received.
If no such complaints have been received, the city clerk may issue the renewed
license. In determining whether to grant a renewal, the board may conduct
hearings, summon witnesses, interview the licensee, interview any complainant,
require additional investigation by the chief of police, or do any and all
other acts which may be necessary or appropriate to the board's determination.
(Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-13: LICENSE FEES:
   (A)   Every licensed operation shall pay an annual fee established by
resolution of the board, in advance, for the privilege of operating a house of
prostitution in the city, effective July 17, 1991.
   (B)   License fees shall be paid to the city clerk annually, for deposit by
the city treasurer to be credited to the general fund. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991,
eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-14: PROSTITUTE REGISTRATION AND WORK CARD:
   (A)   Every prostitute working at a licensed operation shall be registered
with and issued a work card by the chief of police. The application for
registration shall include:
      1.   The name given at birth and all subsequent names or aliases used;
      2.   The age, address and physical description of the prostitute;
      3.   A recent photo and full set of fingerprints of the prostitute;
      4.   Complete employment or working record of prostitute for the
preceding three (3) years;
      5.   All addresses of the prostitute for the preceding three (3) years;
      6.   Complete criminal record of the prostitute, including all arrests
and convictions, except minor traffic violations, such list shall include a
statement of each offense, the place of its occurrence and the date of its
occurrence;
      7.   An annual nonrefundable fee as established by the board by
resolution;
      8.   A waiver of release of medical information allowing the medical
facilities and doctors to provide to the city the results of the referred
medical examination and tests;
      9.   An authorization to conduct an investigation into the criminal
history of the prostitute.
   (B)   The chief of police shall investigate, through all available means,
the accuracy of all information supplied by the prostitute on the registration
form.
   (C)   No prostitute may be issued a work card who:
      1.   Has ever been convicted of any crime involving sale or furnishing of
any controlled substance;
      2.   Has been convicted of possession or use of a controlled substance in
the last five (5) years;
      3.   Has been convicted of a felony within the last five (5) years,
except as otherwise herein provided;
      4.   Has been convicted of any crime involving embezzlement or
misappropriation of funds within the last five (5) years;
      5.   Has been convicted of petit theft or shoplifting within the last one
year;
      6.   Has ever been convicted of any crime involving the use of a deadly
weapon against a person;
      7.   Has wilfully made any false statement or omission in the application
form;
      8.   Is under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   (D)   The work card of prostitutes shall be in the form and contain the
information as designated by the chief of police. Each card shall remain the
property of the city and may be revoked or retained by the chief of police for
just cause. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-15: HEALTH EXAMINATION:
   (A)   Every licensee shall require medical examinations for all prostitutes
working at the licensee's operation, which examination shall:
      1.   Be performed at least once a week;
      2.   Be performed by a medical doctor duly licensed to practice medicine
in the state;
      3.   Include tests specified by the division of health of the Nevada
department of human resources for the detection and diagnosis of sexually
transmitted diseases, including, but not limited to, weekly tests for gonorrhea
and chlamydia; and a monthly blood test for syphilis and HIV, which shall be
processed at a licensed and approved clinical laboratory;
      4.   Include other medically approved tests, deemed advisable by the
examiner, for determining whether the prostitute is afflicted with any
infectious or contagious disease;
      5.   Be performed at the location of the licensed operation, at the
examiner's office, at a hospital or clinic, as determined by the examiner.
   (B)   After performing the examination required in subsection (A) of this
section, the examining doctor shall:
      1.   Issue to every person examined and found not to be afflicted with
venereal disease or other contagious or infectious disease a certificate so
stating;
      2.   Refuse to issue such certificate to any person found to be, or
suspected of being, afflicted with venereal disease or other contagious or
infectious disease;
      3.   Report the results of such examinations weekly to the chief of
police;
      4.   If any prostitute examined is found to be afflicted with venereal
disease or any contagious or infectious disease, the doctor shall immediately
notify the chief of police and the licensed operator where the prostitute is
working of such condition.
   (C)   No person may work as a prostitute in any operation without a current
certificate, as described in subsection (B)1 of this section.
   (D)   No person who has ever been denied a certificate by an examining
medical doctor, as provided in subsection (B)2 of this section, may again work
as a prostitute in any licensed operation until such person has received and
presented to the chief of police a certificate from an examining medical doctor
or doctor of osteopathy stating that the cause or causes which resulted in the
denial of the certificate have been cured and that the person is now free of
any venereal disease or other contagious or infectious disease.
   (E)   Nothing contained in subsections (A) through (E), inclusive, of this
section, shall prevent the board, on its own motion or upon complaints or
reports from any person from inquiring into the existence of any condition on
the premises of any licensed operation which might constitute or cause a health
hazard. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-16: EMPLOYEE REGISTRATION AND EMPLOYMENT CARD:
   (A)   Each employee, present at or employed by a licensed operation, shall
register with and be issued an employment card by the chief of police. The
application for an employment card shall include:
      1.   The name, age, address and physical description of the employee;
      2.   A recent photo and full set of fingerprints of the employee;
      3.   Complete employment record of employee for the preceding five (5)
years;
      4.   All addresses of the employee for the preceding five (5) years;
      5.   Complete criminal record of the employee, including all arrests and
convictions, except minor traffic violations, such list shall include a
statement of each offense, the place of its occurrence and the date of its
occurrence for the preceding five (5) years;
      6.   An annual nonrefundable fee to be established by the board by
resolution;
      7.   Each employee shall notify the chief of police at which licensed
establishment they are working. Upon each change of licensed operations, an
employee shall pay a fee to be established by the board by resolution;
      8.   No employee may be issued a work card who:
         (a)   Has ever been convicted of any crime involving sale or
furnishing of any controlled substance;
         (b)   Has been convicted of possession or use of a controlled
substance in the last five (5) years;
         (c)   Has been convicted of a felony within the last five (5) years;
         (d)   Has been convicted of any crime involving embezzlement or
misappropriation of funds within the last five (5) years;
         (e)   Has been convicted of petit theft or shoplifting within the last
one year;
         (f)   Has ever been convicted of any crime involving the use of a
deadly weapon against a person;
         (g)   Has wilfully made any false statement or omission in the
application form;
         (h)   Who is under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   (B)   The chief of police shall investigate, through all available means,
the accuracy of all information supplied by the individual on the registration
form. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-17: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years,
except as otherwise specified in this chapter, to enter or to be a patron of
any operation licensed under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the licensee of any operation licensed under the
provisions of this chapter, or for any employee of such licensee, or working
prostitute to compel, entice, encourage, permit or suffer any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years to enter or be a patron of any operation licensed
under the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any operation licensed under this chapter, or for
any licensee, or for any employee of any licensee, or working prostitute to
sell to any person or to dispense or give away to anyone under twenty one (21)
years of age, any alcoholic beverages on the premises occupied by any licensed
operation or in connection with such operation.
   (D)   It is unlawful to advertise or promote, in a soliciting manner, any
operation licensed under this chapter.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any licensed operation to allow any persons on the
premises except for the owners, licensed employees, working prostitutes,
potential customers or authorized emergency, medical or city agents or
employees. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-18: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   (A)   The board may revoke any license issued under the provisions of this
chapter for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any cause that would constitute grounds for denial of a license;
      2.   Violation of any provision of this chapter by the licensee, or any
employee of the licensee, or any working prostitute at a licensed operation;
      3.   The licensee knowingly permitting the existence of any health hazard
on the premises occupied by the licensed operation or employing any person, or
allowing a prostitute to work, when such person does not have a work card, as
herein required;
      4.   Wilful refusal of the licensee to comply with any order of the chief
of police or the board;
      5.   Any other cause which the board may determine, in its sound
discretion, to be deleterious to the health, welfare and safety of the general
public.
   (B)   Before revoking any license issued under this chapter, unless an
alternative procedure is clearly specified elsewhere in this chapter, the board
shall:
      1.   Conduct a hearing to determine the existence of the cause or causes
of revocation, notice of which hearing shall have been served upon the licensee
or posted upon the premises where the licensed operation is conducted at least
three (3) working days prior to the hearing date not including the hearing
date;
      2.   Permit the licensee to submit evidence and testimony in opposition
to the revocation;
      3.   Consider all evidence and testimony in support of and in opposition
to the revocation;
      4.   Enter in the minutes of the board the findings of the board, and
stating with specificity any causes of revocation found by the board;
      5.   Enter in the minutes of the board an order revoking or refusing to
revoke the license. The board may impose any lesser penalty or conditions
reasonable under the circumstances as a condition of not revoking a license.
   (C)   Notice of revocation shall be served upon the licensee or posted upon
the premises of the licensed operation.
   (D)   Revocation shall be effective upon service or posting of the notice.
(Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-19: EXCEPTION TO HEARING PROCEDURE:
If, upon investigating grounds for revocation of a license, the board is
unanimously agreed that public health, safety or morals will be endangered by
the continued existence of the license, it may, without notice, suspend the
license at once and direct the chief of police to close the licensee's
business. However, a notice of revocation hearing, as set out in section
5-9-18 of this chapter, shall also be served on the licensee at once, and the
procedure thereafter shall be in accordance with the provisions of section
5-9-18 of this chapter. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-20: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
No license granted under this chapter may be transferred. (Ord. 167, 7-10-1991,
eff. 7-17-1991)
5-9-21: CRIMINAL VIOLATION; PENALTY:
In addition to the other penalties, as herein provided, any person violating
any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 167, 7-
10-1991, eff. 7-17-1991)
CHAPTER 10
CARLIN SOLID WASTE COLLECTION FRANCHISE
SECTION:
5-10-1: Short Title
5-10-2: Grant Of Exclusive Authority
5-10-3: Term Of Franchise
5-10-4: Service Standards
5-10-5: Performance Bond
5-10-6: Franchise Fee
5-10-7: Indemnification Requirement
5-10-8: Rates To Be Charged By Franchisee
5-10-9: Liability Insurance
5-10-10: Reservation Of Rights And Remedies
5-10-11: Termination Provided
5-10-12: Approval Of Assignment
5-10-13: Noninterrupted Service
5-10-14: Mandatory Equipment
5-10-15: Nonwaiver Provision
5-10-16: Weather Excusing Daily Service
5-10-17: Antilittering Provision
5-10-18: Binding Effect
5-10-19: Penalties And Forfeiture
5-10-20: Publication Costs
5-10-21: Separability
5-10-22: Franchise Form And Terms
5-10-23: Containers
5-10-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CARLIN SOLID WASTE
COLLECTION FRANCHISE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-2: GRANT OF EXCLUSIVE AUTHORITY:
Subject to the performance by Elko Sanitation Company, a Nevada corporation,
hereinafter referred to as the "franchisee", of the terms, conditions and
covenants herein contained, and subject to the provisions of this code, the
city of Carlin, hereinafter referred to as the "city", hereby grants the
franchisee the sole and exclusive franchise, and the franchisee assumes the
duty to collect and haul all solid waste, garbage, rubbish and refuse from the
premises of inhabitants of the city for the compensation provided in the
franchise. (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-3: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise shall be in force for a period of one (1) year commencing
November 1, 2023, and ending November 1, 2024, unless sooner terminated as
herein provided. (Ord. 237, 10-23-2013; amd. Ord. 247, 10-15-2019; Ord. 257,
11-8-2023)
5-10-4: SERVICE STANDARDS:
The franchisee agrees to promptly, punctually and in a clean and good
workmanlike manner collect all garbage, rubbish and refuse at such times as are
reasonably required to keep the city free of this material and at least once
weekly from all customers, haul it to and dump it at such site as shall be
designated by the city and as required by the terms and conditions and
requirements of this code. (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-5: PERFORMANCE BOND:
The franchisee shall execute and deliver to the city a surety bond in the sum
of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) in favor of the city, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the franchise as required by title 10, chapter 2 of
this code. (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-6: FRANCHISE FEE:
The franchisee shall pay to the city four hundred dollars ($400.00) per year as
the annual franchise fee. The franchisee shall provide service to the city at
the following areas at no charge: the city hall and the Carlin park. (Ord. 176,
10-27-1993)
5-10-7: INDEMNIFICATION REQUIREMENT:
The franchisee covenants and agrees that it will indemnify and hold harmless
the city and all customers of the franchisee from which refuse is removed by
the franchisee of and from any and all claims, damages, costs, fees and
liability by reason of injury or damage to persons or property growing out of
any act of the franchisee, its agents and employees, in removing, hauling and
dumping any refuse by reason of the franchise or by reason of anything that it
shall do or cause to be done in its performance thereof. (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-8: RATES TO BE CHARGED BY FRANCHISEE:
The franchisee agrees that during the term of the franchise, it will not
directly or indirectly charge any rates in excess of those listed in the
franchise agreement. It is understood and agreed between the parties that the
franchisee may negotiate for an additional amount for removal service where the
containers are not placed at locations designated in this code but are picked
up by franchisee at a place agreed upon by the customer and the franchisee. The
franchisee agrees to apply reasonable and uniform rates for such additional
service and advise the city of the rates imposed and the amount of all such
charges received annually. This report shall accompany the annual payment of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-9: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
The franchisee shall obtain and maintain Nevada state industrial insurance
covering all employees as provided by the statutes of the state of Nevada, and
shall obtain and maintain public liability insurance in coverage of not less
than seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000.00) for death of or injury
to one or more persons and for property damage insurance of not less than seven
hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000.00). (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-10: RESERVATION OF RIGHTS AND REMEDIES:
Nothing contained in the franchise shall be construed as waiving any rights of
the city under the terms of this code either against the franchisee or against
third parties. Any rights and remedies of the city as herein contained shall be
deemed cumulative and in addition to any and all rights and remedies the city
has by reason of any of the provisions of this code and whether such rights or
remedies may be exercised against the franchisee or against any third persons.
(Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-11: TERMINATION PROVIDED:
In the event the franchisee shall refuse, fail or neglect to perform any of the
covenants of the franchise on its part to be performed, or any of the
requirements of title 10, chapter 2 of this code, then and in that event, and
as often as such breach may occur, the city may declare the franchise cancelled
and terminated, and may proceed further under the provisions of title 1,
chapter 4 of this code, or may hold the franchisee liable in damage for such
breach, or may at its option, require the franchisee to show cause why the
franchise should not be terminated by reason of such breach, or why it should
not be compelled to comply with any conditions claimed to have been violated or
breached, or may pursue such other and further rights and remedies as it may
have in law or equity or under any other covenants contained in the franchise.
(Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-12: APPROVAL OF ASSIGNMENT:
The franchisee shall not assign the franchise or any interest therein, or
subcontract any of the parts or portions hereof, save and except with the
written consent of the city first had and obtained, and under such conditions
as to the supplying of a performance bond and taking out insurance and entering
into such supplemental guarantees and other conditions as may be required by
the city in the event of its consent to such assignment. Any such attempted
assignment or subcontracting contrary to the terms hereof shall be null and
void and shall vest no rights of any kind whatsoever in the said assignee or
subcontractor or discharge franchisee of performance hereof. (Ord. 176, 10-27-
1993)
5-10-13: NONINTERRUPTED SERVICE:
The franchisee agrees that in the event its equipment is purchased under
installment contracts or financed by one or more security interests or other
liens or encumbrances created against the same, it will promptly and punctually
make all payments and perform all agreements so that there shall be no
interruption in the continued service to be rendered hereunder. In the event of
such interruption of service for any such reason, the city shall have the right
to forthwith cancel the franchise, or discharge the indebtedness thus in
default, or to assume the obligation therefor, and to take possession, control
and use of the said equipment or the applicable units thereof to continue the
service the franchisee is to provide hereunder. In the event it does not take
over such equipment or parts thereof, the city shall, in any event, have a
security interest therein for any sums so advanced, and shall in the meantime
be protected in the right to the use of said equipment so that service to the
public and to the owners of premises in the city may continue without
interruption. (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-14: MANDATORY EQUIPMENT:
The franchisee shall provide through the term of the franchise completely
sealed compaction type garbage and refuse hauling units sufficient to collect
and haul all garbage and refuse under the terms of the franchise. (Ord. 176,
10-27-1993)
5-10-15: NONWAIVER PROVISION:
No waiver by the city of any breach of any covenant hereof by the franchisee
shall be deemed a waiver of any other covenant of the franchise, nor a waiver
of any subsequent breach of the covenant whose breach is waived. (Ord. 176, 10-
27-1993)
5-10-16: WEATHER EXCUSING DAILY SERVICE:
The franchisee shall be excused from performance of its daily service in the
areas and on the days the streets and alleys in such areas are not reasonably
usable by franchisee's equipment because of street or alley conditions, mud or
snow. (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-17: ANTILITTERING PROVISION:
The franchisee shall promptly pick up and remove all material that may drop or
escape from the franchisee's vehicles during performance by the franchisee
hereunder. (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-18: BINDING EFFECT:
Subject to the covenants herein contained against assignment or subcontracting,
the franchise shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the
parties hereto and, subject to the restriction on assignment, their respective
successors and assigns. (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-19: PENALTIES AND FORFEITURE:
Any violation by the franchisee, or, subject to the restrictions on transfer,
its vendee, lessee, successors or assigns of the provisions of the franchise or
of any material portions hereof, or the failure promptly to perform any of the
provisions hereof, shall be cause for the forfeiture of the franchise and all
rights hereunder by the city after written notice to the franchisee and
continuation of such violation, failure or default for thirty (30) days after
the date of such notice. (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-20: PUBLICATION COSTS:
The franchisee shall assume the costs of publication of the franchise if such
publication is required by law. A bill for publication costs shall be presented
to the franchisee by the clerk upon the franchisee's filing of acceptance and
shall be paid at that time. (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-21: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 176, 10-27-1993)
5-10-22: FRANCHISE FORM AND TERMS:
The garbage and waste collection franchise herein authorized shall be in the
following form. The collection fees provided in the franchise may be modified,
from time to time, by resolution of the board of councilmen of the city in
accordance with the franchise agreement. Such modification shall occur not more
than once annually upon the anniversary date of the franchise based on the cost
of living, and franchisee shall not seek any modification of the initial
collection fees until the second anniversary date of the franchise.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT
This Franchise Agreement entered into as of the day           of November,
1993, by and between the CITY OF Carlin, a political subdivision of the State
of Nevada, hereinafter "CITY", and ELKO SANITATION COMPANY, a Nevada
corporation, hereinafter "Franchisee." In consideration of the mutual
undertakings herein, the parties agree as follows:
      1.   Definitions. The definitions set forth in the Carlin Garbage and
Waste Code are adopted herein by reference, the same as if fully set forth
herein. As used in this agreement, the following terms have the meaning:
"Solid Waste" has the meaning set out at N.R.S. 444.490. The term solid waste
shall not include hazardous waste, as the term "hazardous waste" is defined in
N.R.S. 459.430, and/or as defined by federal or state law, as amended from time
to time, or any other form of waste material, the deposit of which would be in
violation of Franchisee's permits, or in violation of Franchisee's own rules
and regulations.
"Transfer Station" means a location for the temporary deposit and storage of
solid waste prior to removal to a permanent municipal solid waste landfill
site.
"Municipal Solid Waste Landfill" means a location for the permanent disposal of
solid waste as defined by the laws of the State of Nevada and the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, Subtitle D (42 U.S.C. § 6941 et seq.).
      2.   Award of Franchise. City hereby franchises Franchisee with the
exclusive right to provide garbage and trash collection and hauling services in
the incorporated areas of the City of Carlin, Nevada, from November 1, 2023 and
ending on November 1, 2024, unless sooner terminated as herein provided.
      3.   Service Area. Franchisee agrees to provide garbage and trash
collection services in the incorporated areas of City.
      4.   Service Fee. The fee schedule set forth in this paragraph shall be
the fees to be charged by Franchisee for garbage and trash collection service.
All fees may be changed and set by resolution of the Board of Councilmen of the
City of Carlin.
 
Residential:      
Non-automated or $8.50 - Once per week
Semi-automated   All household garbage + 1 cubic-yard yard trash
Commercial:      $10.00 minimum
                $10.00 x number of yards in containers x number of pickups per
                 week x number of containers = monthly rate
 
 
             1.5 Yard  2 Yard    3 Yard    6 Yard
             Container Container Container Container
1 x per wk   $15.00    $20.00    $30.00    $60.00
2 x per wk   $30.00    $40.00    $60.00    $120.00
3 x per week $45.00    60.00     $90.00    $180.00
 
Special Rates:            $60.00 per hour - appliances or furniture
                         $10.00 minimum per item
                          
Roll-Off Container Rates: (Construction Drop Box)
                         $5.00 per yard
                         $10.00 per yard compacted
                         $75.00 delivery fee
                         $54.00 per month rent
                          
Landfill Fee:             To be added later or billed by City.
 
      5.   Mandatory Service Required. Commercial and residential generators of
garbage or trash are required to subscribe to Franchisee's garbage and trash
collection service by the Franchisee.
      6.   Duties of Franchisee.
         A. Franchisee shall, at its cost and expense, furnish facilities,
equipment and personnel sufficient to perform the service of collecting
garbage, trash and waste matter within the City at least weekly and dispose of
the same in the manner herein provided. In no event shall Franchisee be
required to perform service on Sundays or on the following holidays: New Year's
Day, Martin Luther King Day, President's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day,
Labor Day, Nevada Day, Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day or any
other state or federally-recognized holiday.
         B. Franchisee shall at all times exercise diligence in the supervision
of its personnel to the end that care is taken to deposit all garbage, trash,
and waste matter inside collection vehicles, leaving no evidence, bits, or
piece of garbage, trash or waste matter upon any street, alley, walkway or
other public place within the City, or upon any private property used for the
collection of garbage, trash or waste matter. Collection vehicles shall be
safe, adequate and clean, constructed in such a manner as to be completely
covered so as to prevent the spilling, dripping or blowing of any contents from
the vehicle. Franchisee's collection equipment shall be modern, up-to-date and
reasonably water tight. The exterior of the equipment shall be kept clean and
presentable and the interior shall be thoroughly cleaned after dumping each
load.
         C. Franchisee shall diligently exercise supervision and training of
its personnel to the end that the public coming into contact with them shall be
treated decently and courteously at all times. Franchisee shall strictly forbid
the use of intoxicants or other stimulants and/or depressants by all personnel
while on the job.
         D. Such transfer stations as Franchisee may establish shall be of the
"drop-box" type and constructed in such a manner as to prevent the escape of
debris, liquid or other matter which would impair the public health or the
attractive appearance of City.
         E. Franchisee shall transport all garbage, trash and waste matter to
the City of Elko Regional Landfill or such other landfill as directed by the
City, and in compliance with all applicable ordinances, statutes and
regulations of any governmental agency having jurisdiction of the matter.
         F. Franchisee shall not be required by the franchise to collect
agricultural waste or contractor waste, but Franchisee at its option may
collect such waste at its regular commercial rates. Generators of agricultural
waste or contractor waste may choose to haul their own waste to any landfill
dumps designated by the city.
         G. Franchisee shall not be required by the franchise to collect
hazardous waste or medical waste but Franchisee at its option may collect such
waste charging rates agreed to between Franchisee and user, but may not dispose
of hazardous waste or medical waste or similar substances at any location in
Elko County except a disposal location established in conformity with any
applicable hazardous materials ordinance.
         H. Services included with Contract Extension (at no cost to City)
            •    Senior Citizen Center
            •    Police Station
            •    City Hall
            •    City Parks
            •    City Yard
            •    Fire Station
            •    Library
            •    Carlin Community Clean Up Day - Elko Sanitation will provide
ALL roll-off construction hauls to the City of Carlin. (no cost)
            •    Additional requests for service by City Staff at any location
will be honored at anytime throughout contract, including special events.
            •    No rental fees or other applicable fees shall apply to any of
the services listed in this section. Haul-off charges may apply.
      7.   Duties of City.
         A. The parties acknowledge that as of the date hereof, the City of
Carlin will begin using the City of Elko regional landfill operations, but that
City shall be under no obligation to Franchisee to continue to use such
landfill operations.
         B. City shall make available to Franchisee, if necessary, a site for
Franchisee to locate a transfer station to serve that area.
      8.   Inspection of Records. City shall have the right, upon reasonable
notice and during regular business hours, to inspect the books and records of
Franchisee pertaining to all business done by Franchisee under this agreement,
for the purpose of verifying Franchisee's performance hereunder or analyzing
Franchisee's rate modification requests or determining if City should initiate
rate modifications, or for any other purpose. Franchisee shall, annually, not
more than 180 days after the close of Franchisee's tax year, make available to
City a profit and loss statement of Franchisee's City of Carlin operations.
      9.   Public Safety.
         A. Franchisee, in the exercise of its privileges and duties under the
franchise, shall exercise every reasonable and proper precaution to avoid
injury to persons or damage to property. Franchisee shall hold and save
harmless the City from any and all injuries, damage, loss, claims or expenses
caused or occasioned by any act or omission of Franchisee, its officers, agents
and employees connected with or in any way arising out of the franchise
agreement. If any claim or suit is asserted against City by any person or
property in connection with or in any way arising out of this franchise,
Franchisee, its successors and assigns, at their cost and expense, shall defend
all such claims or suits and forever indemnify and save harmless the City from
all judgments and liability arising therefrom. Franchisee shall procure and
maintain throughout the term of this agreement comprehensive general liability
insurance with limits of liability not less than $750,000.00.
         B. In addition to the general hold harmless and indemnity provisions
set out above, Franchisee, its successors and assigns agree to hold harmless
and indemnify City from any and all claims, costs or damages whatsoever
associated with the operation or maintenance of the transfer station or any
environmental damage, environmental liability, water quality or ground water
contamination problems arising therefrom.
      10.   Cooperation with City Government. Franchisee shall cooperate with
and coordinate its operations with City. Franchisee's primary contact for such
purposes shall be the City Manager.
      11.   Billing Procedures. Franchisee shall be entitled to adopt and
enforce the following billing procedures:
         A. Billing for residential and commercial service shall be in advance
for the charges allowed by the City ordinance on a quarterly basis, and such
charges shall be due and payable on the first day of each billing period. The
bill or charge for residential service shall be delinquent if not fully paid on
the 15th day of each monthly period.
         B. Contractor shall have the right to suspend services and/or close
customer accounts for non-payment. If any residential or commercial customer
account is suspended and/or closed due to non-payment, and such customer
account is subsequently reinstated to receive services, than in addition to any
delinquent payments which are due, a twenty-five-dollar ($25.00) reinstatement
fee will be charged to such customer’s account. The reinstatement fee may only
be modified in accordance with this Agreement.
      12.   Franchisee Fee. Franchisee, its successors and assigns, shall pay
into the general fund of the City, as an annual fee for the exercise of this
franchise, the sum of $400.00 annually, to be paid on or before November 1st of
each year. If Franchisee fails to pay the franchise fee on or before November
1st of each year, Franchisee shall be assessed a late fee penalty of 10% per
month until the City has received the payment plus the penalty fee.
      13.   Purchase of Equipment. Franchisee agrees to purchase from the City
the following equipment for the following prices:
         Forty-one (41) 3-Yard Dumpsters @ $125.00 each
         Eight (8) 11/2-Yard Dumpsters @ 125.00 each
      14.   Termination. If Franchisee is in default of any duty or obligation
imposed upon it by the terms and conditions of this agreement, or Franchisee
breaches any provision of this agreement, or fails to abide by all the laws,
rules and regulations pertaining to the franchise, or becomes a debtor in any
proceeding in bankruptcy, and any such default, deficiency or breach is not
remedied or cured within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice of
such default, breach or deficiency from the City, the City may at its option
terminate this agreement. Notice of default shall be sent certified mail, and
set out in particular the alleged acts of default, and allow Franchisee thirty
(30) days within which to cure said acts of default, or in the event such acts
cannot be cured within thirty (30) days, then City shall allow a reasonable
period of time within which to effect cure. Repeated acts of default of the
same sort and kind may give rise to notice by City to Franchisee that any
further acts of default of the same sort and kind may result in termination of
this agreement.
In addition to the termination remedies provided for in this paragraph, the
City shall have the additional termination remedies and procedures set forth in
the Carlin City Code, Section
5-10-11. The City may in lieu of any other termination remedies, exercise as an
exclusive remedy any of the remedies set forth in Section
5-10-11 of the City Code. The parties agree that the remedies set forth in
Section
5-10-11 of the City Code are in addition to and not in conflict with the
provisions of this paragraph.
      15.   Delivery to Landfill. Franchisee shall be required to transport all
garbage and waste material deposited at the transfer station to the Elko
Regional Solid Waste Landfill. Transport of all garbage and waste shall be in
compliance with all applicable local, state and federal laws.
      16.   Compliance with Laws.
         A. Franchisee represents, warrants and agrees that it will comply with
all federal, state and local laws and regulations as they now exist or as they
exist in the future, regarding the operation and maintenance of the transfer
station, during the term of this agreement or any extensions thereof.
         B. City recognizes that Franchisee is subject to regulation by
federal, state and local laws and all rights granted herein are subject to such
laws; furthermore, Franchisee represents, warrants and agrees that it will
comply with all federal, state and local laws and regulations, as they now
exist, or as they may exist in the future, regarding the transport to and
disposal of solid waste at Franchisee's transfer station.
      17.   Cost-of-Living Increases. (Repealed)
      18.   Limitations. This agreement is subject to limitations now or
hereafter provided by law. City reserves the right to alter, amend or repeal
the ordinances herein referenced and the Carlin City Code in any manner
necessary for the safety and welfare of the public, or to protect the public
interest or to review the rates if they are shown to be unjust to the public or
the Franchisee. This agreement and the Franchisee is subject to the provisions
of the Constitution and laws of the State of Nevada and all ordinances
including this ordinance enacted by the Board of Councilmen of the City of
Carlin. Reasonable ordinances or amendments hereinafter enacted by City
governing this franchise shall not be void because of Constitution prohibition
or impairment of existing contraction relationships.
      19.   Inurement; Binding Effect. This agreement shall inure to the
benefit of, and be binding upon, the parties, their respective successors and
permitted assigns.
      20.   Integration; Amendment. This document supersedes all earlier
negotiations, understandings and documents. This agreement may be amended only
by a document in writing, executed by both parties with the same formality as
this instrument.
      21.   Legal Interpretation. This agreement shall be interpreted according
to the laws of the State of Nevada.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this agreement as of the
day and year first above written.
CITY:   FRANCHISEE:
CITY OF CARLIN   ELKO SANITATION COMPANY,
   a Nevada corporation
By: Lee Griswold, Mayor   By: Michael A. Brown
Attest: Cherie Aiazzi, City Clerk
(Ord. 176, 10-27-1993; amd. Ord. 196, 4-13-2000; Ord. 203, 2-25-2004; Ord. 227,
5-28-2008; Ord. 237, 10-23-2013; Ord. 247, 10-15-2019; Ord. 257, 11-8-2023)
5-10-23: CONTAINERS:
Franchisee shall furnish, in accordance with established rates, all containers
needed for MSW generated at commercial, industrial and institutional
businesses. Containers shall comply with this code's requirements. The type,
size and number of containers furnished to individual waste generators shall
comply with this code's requirements and shall be sufficient to contain, with
the lid closed, all MSW generated between collections. Such containers shall be
leakproof. Contractor shall clean and maintain all containers furnished by it
in a safe and sanitary condition and whenever the city determines that cleaning
is required to abate a health concern or nuisance condition.
Residential customers shall be offered the use of tipper carts, in accordance
with the sizes and rates set forth in the franchise agreement. Residential
customers may furnish their own trash containers according to the limitations
set forth in this code. Once a residential customer selects the tipper cart
option, he/she may not choose, at a later date, to provide his/her own trash
container.
If franchisee is unable to furnish any specially requested 1.5, two (2), three
(3), or six (6) yard waste container to a waste generator within ten (10)
calendar days of the written special request, excluding holidays, the waste
generator may choose to either haul the waste himself or may contract with
another hauler to furnish the container and transport the waste material to the
city of Elko regional landfill or such other landfill as directed by the city.
Additionally, if franchisee is unable to furnish any specially requested roll-
off construction box container to a waste generator within ten (10) working
days of the written special request, excluding holidays, the waste generator
may choose to either haul the waste himself or may contract with another hauler
to furnish the container or transport the waste material to the city of Elko
regional landfill or such other landfill as directed by the city. (Ord. 196, 4-
13-2000)
CHAPTER 11
WELLS RURAL ELECTRIC COMPANY FRANCHISE
SECTION:
5-11-1: Grant Of Authority
5-11-2: Term Of Franchise
5-11-3: Conditions Of Franchise
5-11-4: Franchise Fee
5-11-5: Indemnification Of City
5-11-6: Acceptance
5-11-1: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
There is hereby granted by the city to Wells Rural Electric Company a
franchise, right and privilege to build, construct, install, operate and
maintain upon, along, across and under the highways, streets, and alleys
located within the city boundaries, electric light and power lines, and all
necessary, proper or useful appliances used in connection therewith or
pertinent thereto, including substations, switching stations, poles, powers,
wires, meters, transformers, and transmission lines, (hereinafter referred to
as "facilities") for the purpose of supplying electricity for lighting,
heating, power, and other purposes to the consumers of Wells Rural Electric
Company within the city limits. (Ord. 97, 1-10-1979, eff. 1-17-1979)
5-11-2: TERM OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise and rights herein granted shall commence and be in full force
from and after the passage date hereof, and upon filing of an acceptance by
Wells Rural Electric Company, and shall continue in full force and effect for a
term of forty (40) years. (Ord. 97, 1-10-1979, eff. 1-17-1979)
5-11-3: CONDITIONS OF FRANCHISE:
Wells Rural Electric Company shall have the right to install, maintain, and use
all necessary facilities so long as such facilities are installed, maintained,
and used so as not to obstruct the natural and proper use of the highways,
streets, and alleys located within the city boundaries. All facilities
installed, maintained, and used shall be installed, maintained, and used in
accordance with established practice, and pursuant to the requirements of all
applicable laws, rules, regulations, and codes. All facilities shall be kept
and maintained in a safe and suitable condition, and good order and repair.
Wells Rural Electric Company shall, at all times, employ ordinary care and
prudence in maintaining and using all facilities and shall use commonly
accepted methods, devices, and practices for preventing failures and accidents
which are likely to cause damage or injury, or create a nuisance to the public.
(Ord. 97, 1-10-1979, eff. 1-17-1979)
5-11-4: FRANCHISE FEE:
Wells Rural Electric Company shall pay to the city all lawful licenses and
taxes imposed by the city; however, Wells Rural Electric Company shall not be
required to pay to the city any franchise fee. (Ord. 97, 1-10-1979, eff. 1-17-
1979)
5-11-5: INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY:
Wells Rural Electric Company shall at all times indemnify and hold the city
harmless from all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, expenses or damages
of every kind and description, including investigation costs, court costs and
reasonable attorney fees which may accrue to or be suffered or claimed by any
person or persons arising out of the negligence of Wells Rural Electric
Company, its officers, directors, agents, and employees, in the ownership,
construction, repair, replacement, maintenance, and operation of the electrical
power system, provided the city gives Wells Rural Electric Company prompt
notice of any such claims, actions, and suits without limitation in writing.
(Ord. 97, 1-10-1979, eff. 1-17-1979)
5-11-6: ACCEPTANCE:
Wells Rural Electric Company shall file its written acceptance of this
franchise with the city clerk within ninety (90) days after the passage date
hereof. (Ord. 97, 1-10-1979, eff. 1-17-1979)
CHAPTER 12
MEDICAL CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS AND CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
5-12-1: City Of Carlin Medical Cannabis Establishments And Cannabis
Establishments
5-12-2: Definitions
5-12-3: Medical Cannabis And Cannabis Establishment Licenses
5-12-4: License Classification
5-12-5: License Requirement And Term Of License
5-12-6: License Application Procedure
5-12-7: Security Requirements
5-12-8: Age Limitation
5-12-9: Minimum Standards And Review Criteria
5-12-10: Establishment Location Restrictions
5-12-11: On Site Use Prohibited
5-12-12: Application; Denial Of Business License
5-12-13: Revocation Of Licenses, Suspension, Cancellation, Notice Of Hearing
Procedure
5-12-14: Land Use And Location Requirements; Conformance With Title 3
5-12-15: Permitted Use And Zoning
5-12-16: Fees
5-12-17: Disposal Of Cannabis
5-12-18: Cultivation Facility
5-12-19: Cannabis Production Facility
5-12-20: Unlawful Acts
5-12-1: CITY OF CARLIN MEDICAL CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENTS AND CANNABIS
ESTABLISHMENTS:
   (A)   Findings: The City of Carlin city council finds:
      (1)   In 2013, the Nevada Legislature passed, and the Governor signed
into law, Senate Bill 374, now codified in Nevada Revised Statutes 453A, which
allows Medical Cannabis Establishments within the State of Nevada; and requires
such establishments to comply with all local business licensing requirements,
local land use, and Code requirements;
      (2)   In 2017, the people of the State of Nevada approved Ballot Question
#2 legalizing the use of Cannabis for persons twenty one (21) years of age or
older, now codified in Nevada Revised Statutes 453D, which allows recreational
cannabis establishments and sales within the State of Nevada and requires such
establishments to comply with all local business licensing requirements, local
land use and Code requirements;
      (3)   Federal law and regulations classify cannabis as a Schedule I
controlled substance and prohibit its cultivation, possession, dispensing, and
use, among other things, for medical reasons or otherwise. This chapter is
intended to implement Nevada Revised Statutes 453A and 453D, and to establish
criteria for the issuance of licenses that are a prerequisite for the exemption
from State prosecution provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 453A and 453D;
      (4)   Nevada law allows the City of Carlin to enact regulations to
protect and promote the public health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the City of Carlin;
      (5)   The operation of a medical cannabis establishment or cannabis
establishment is a revocable privilege and there is no property right for
individuals or businesses to operate medical cannabis establishments or
cannabis establishments within the corporate limits of the City of Carlin. To
the extent that medical cannabis establishments or cannabis establishments are
registered and authorized by the State, the purpose of this chapter is to
license and regulate them within the corporate limits of the City of Carlin to
protect the public interests over medical cannabis business interests or
cannabis business interests;
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to confer any legitimate
claim of entitlement to any benefit which might otherwise devolve upon any
licensee or any person approved for suitability;
      (7)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to authorize or make legal any
act that Federal or State law does not permit or sanction or assist in any
violation of any Federal or State law. This chapter is intended to implement
Nevada Revised Statutes 453A and 453D and to establish criteria for the
issuance of licenses that are a prerequisite for the exemption from State
prosecution provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 453A and 453D.
   (B)   Intent: The intent of this chapter is to establish the licensing,
zoning, land use and development requirements applicable to medical cannabis
uses, as authorized under chapter 453A of Nevada Revised Statutes, and retail
cannabis uses, as authorized under chapter 453D of Nevada Revised Statutes.
(Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Definitions: Certain words or phrases unique to this chapter shall be
construed as herein set out unless it is apparent from the context that they
have a different meaning.
CANNABIS:
Has the meaning ascribed to it in subsection 8 of NRS 453D.030 and means all
parts of any plant of the genus Cannabis, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds
or resin. The term does not include:
(1)   The mature stems of the plant, fiber produced from the stems, oil or cake
made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the mature stems except the resin
extracted therefrom, fiber, oil or cake, the sterilized seed of the plant which
is incapable of germination; or
(2)   The weight of any other ingredient combined with cannabis to prepare
topical or oral administrations, food, drink or other products.
CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY:
Has the meaning ascribed to it in subsection 9 of NRS 453D.030 and means an
entity licensed to cultivate, process and package cannabis, to have cannabis
tested by a cannabis testing facility and to sell cannabis to a retail cannabis
store, to a cannabis product manufacturing facility and to other cannabis
cultivation facilities, but not to consumers.
CANNABIS DISTRIBUTOR:
Has the meaning ascribed to it in subsection 10 of NRS 453D.030 and means an
entity licensed to transport cannabis from a cannabis establishment to another
cannabis establishment.
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT:
Has the meaning ascribed to it in subsection 11 of NRS 453.030D and means a
cannabis cultivation facility, cannabis testing facility, cannabis product
manufacturing facility, cannabis distributor or retail cannabis store.
CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY:
Has the meaning ascribed to it subsection 12 of NRS 453D.030 and means an
entity licensed to purchase cannabis, manufacture, process and package cannabis
and cannabis products, and sell cannabis and cannabis products to other
cannabis product manufacturing facilities and to retail cannabis stores, but
not to consumers.
CANNABIS PRODUCTS:
Has the meaning ascribed to it in subsection 13 of NRS 453D.030 and means
products comprised of cannabis or concentrated cannabis and other ingredients
that are intended for use or consumption, such as, but not limited to, edible
products, ointments, and tinctures.
CANNABIS RETAIL STORE or RETAIL CANNABIS STORE:
Has the meaning ascribed to "retail cannabis store" in subsection 18 of NRS
453D.030 and means an entity licensed to purchase cannabis from cannabis
cultivation facilities, to purchase cannabis and cannabis products from
cannabis product manufacturing facilities and retail cannabis stores, and to
sell cannabis and cannabis products to consumers.
CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY:
Has the meaning ascribed to it in subsection 15 of NRS 453D.030 and means an
entity licensed to test cannabis and cannabis products, including for potency
and contaminants.
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION FACILITY:
Has the meaning ascribed to the term "cultivation facility" in NRS 453A.056 and
means a business that:
(1) Is registered with the Department of Taxation pursuant to NRS 453A.322;
(2) Acquires, possess, cultivates, delivers, transfers, supplies or sells
cannabis and related supplies to:
   (a) Medical cannabis dispensaries;
   (b) Facilities for the production of edible cannabis products or cannabis-
infused products as that term is defined in NRS 443A.105; or
   (c) Other cultivation facilities as that term is defined in NRS 453A .056.
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSARY:
Has the meaning ascribed to it in NRS 453A.115 and means a business that:
(1) Is registered with the Department of Taxation pursuant to NRS 453A.322; and
(2) Acquires, possesses, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies, sells or
dispenses cannabis or related supplies and educational materials to the holder
of a valid registry identification card as that term is defined in NRS
453A.140.
MEDICAL CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT:
Means:
(1) A medical cannabis testing facility;
(2) A medical cannabis cultivation facility;
(3) A medical cannabis dispensary; or
(4) A medical cannabis product manufacturing facility.
MEDICAL CANNABIS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING FACILITY:
Has the meaning ascribed to the term "facility for the production of edible
cannabis products or cannabis-infused products" in NRS 453A.105 and means a
business that:
(1) Is registered with the Department of Taxation pursuant to NRS 453A.322; and
(2) Acquires, possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports,
supplies or sells edible cannabis products or cannabis-infused products to
medical cannabis dispensaries.
MEDICAL CANNABIS TESTING LABORATORY:
Has the meaning ascribed to the term "independent testing laboratory" in NRS
453A.107.
USABLE CANNABIS:
Has the meaning of the dried leaves and flowers of a plant of the genus
Cannabis, and any mixture or preparation thereof, that are appropriate for the
medical use of cannabis; and the seeds of a plant of the genus Cannabis. The
term does not include the stalks and roots of the plant, as pursuant to NRS
453A.160. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-3: MEDICAL CANNABIS AND CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT LICENSES:
   (A)   Because the use, cultivation, distribution, production, possession and
transportation of cannabis remains unlawful under Federal law and regulations,
and because cannabis remains classified as a Class I controlled substance by
both state and Federal law, any person who owns, operates, is employed by or is
otherwise involved in a medical cannabis establishment or cannabis
establishment may be prosecuted under the Federal Controlled Substance Act and
related Federal law and regulations regardless of whether the medical cannabis
establishment or cannabis establishment is in compliance with state law or the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   This section is intended to implement the provisions of NRS Chapters
453A and 453D, and to establish criteria for the issuance of licenses that are
a prerequisite to exemption from state prosecution as provided for in NRS
Chapters 453A and 453D.
   (C)   A business license issued pursuant to this article does not establish
any defense or immunity for any person from potential criminal liability under
Federal law or regulation for the cultivation, distribution, production,
possession or transportation of cannabis.
   (D)   The City of Carlin does not have the authority, and nothing in this
section shall be construed as any authority of the City of Carlin, to
authorize, promote, condone, facilitate or assist in the cultivation,
distribution, production, possession or transportation of cannabis in violation
of any provision of Federal law or regulation.
   (E)   By voluntarily applying for and accepting a business license issued in
accordance with this section to operate a medical cannabis establishment or
cannabis establishment, the holder of the business license and any other
owners, managers, agents, employees, affiliates, heirs and assigns of the
medical cannabis establishment or cannabis establishment for which the license
is issued:
      (1)   Waive and release the City of Carlin, its officers, elected
officials, employees, attorneys and agents from any liability from injuries,
damages or any other liability of any kind that results from any arrest,
prosecution or regulations.
      (2)   Jointly and severally agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless
the City of Carlin and any of its elected or appointed officers, agents,
employees or attorneys from any and all claims, demands, actions, damages,
decrees, judgments, attorney fees, costs and expenses which may be asserted
against the City of Carlin, or such elected or appointed officers, agents,
employees or attorneys arising out of or in any manner connected with the
medical cannabis establishment or cannabis establishment that is the subject of
a license issued under this title, including, without limitation, any injury,
loss or damage, including claims arising from bodily injury, personal injury,
sickness, disease, death, property loss or any other loss of any kind
whatsoever arising therefrom. This duty to defend and indemnify the City of
Carlin hereunder shall apply regardless of any fault of the City of Carlin in
the issuance of a license. The duty to defend the City of Carlin is absolute
and shall arise as soon as any demand or claim is asserted against the City of
Carlin and is not conditioned upon a finding of any fault of the holder of the
license. The City of Carlin is entitled to select the attorney to defend
against the claims and the holder of the license shall immediately pay all fees
and costs charged by the attorney selected by the City of Carlin.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, a separate
application and business license is required for each medical cannabis
establishment or cannabis establishment.
   (G)   Any record regarding a medical cannabis establishment or cannabis
establishment that is received by the City of Carlin is confidential to the
same extent that the record would be deemed confidential if it had been
provided to the applicable state agency pursuant to NRS Chapter 453A or NRS
Chapter 453D. To the extent not prohibited by law, the City of Carlin may share
any such record as required or necessary with the applicable state agency and
with the employees of the City of Carlin to perform official duties, and with
any local, state or Federal law enforcement agency as required for law
enforcement purposes. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-4: LICENSE CLASSIFICATION:
   (A)   The City of Carlin may issue licenses for the following types of
cannabis establishments:
      (1)   Retail cannabis store.
      (2)   Medical retail cannabis store.
      (3)   Cannabis cultivation facility.
      (4)   Medical cannabis cultivation facility.
      (5)   Cannabis independent testing laboratory.
      (6)   Medical cannabis independent testing laboratory.
      (7)   Cannabis product manufacturing facility.
      (8)   Medical cannabis manufacturing facility.
      (9)   Cannabis distributer.
      (10)   Medical cannabis distributor. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-5: LICENSE REQUIREMENT AND TERM OF LICENSE:
A medical cannabis establishment business license or a cannabis establishment
business license is a revocable privilege and the holder of such a license does
not acquire thereby any vested right. No license under this chapter can be
assigned or transferred except with the approval of the City of Carlin city
council and must follow all Nevada Department of Taxation policies and
procedures for transferring of ownership. A medical cannabis establishment
business or a cannabis establishment business must comply at all times with all
applicable laws, regulations or licensing requirements in the conduct of the
business.
   (A)   License Required:
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in any form of business
or commerce involving the cultivation, processing, manufacturing, storage,
sale, distribution, transportation, or consumption of cannabis other than those
forms of businesses and commerce that are expressly contemplated by Nevada
Revised Statutes 453A and 453D and any administrative rules duly adopted by the
State regulating authority and without first making application and securing a
medical cannabis establishment business license or cannabis establishment
business license to do so from the City of Carlin.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any medical cannabis
establishment or cannabis establishment in the City of Carlin without a valid
registration certificate or license duly issued by the State regulating
authority, and a license issued pursuant to this chapter and operating in
compliance with any and all applicable State laws and including, but not
limited to, Title 5 and Title 3 herein.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide cannabis, edible
cannabis products or cannabis infused products to a medical cannabis
establishment or cannabis establishment within the City of Carlin without a
registration certificate or license duly issued by the State regulating
authority and a license issued by the City of Carlin.
      (4)   Except for sales pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 453A.352(5),
it shall be unlawful for any licensed medical cannabis establishment located
within the City of Carlin to accept for sale any cannabis, edible cannabis
products or any cannabis infused products from any person who has not obtained
a registration certificate from the State regulating authority, or who is not
duly licensed under this chapter for the provision of such products.
      (5)   A license is required for each medical cannabis establishment or
cannabis establishment to operate in each location where that activity is to
occur as required under this chapter.
      (6)   The holder of a business license to operate a medical cannabis
establishment or cannabis establishment shall maintain at its business location
adequate and accurate books and records at all times and shall be in compliance
with the applicable provisions of NRS, NAC, and/or the city code of the City of
Carlin.
      (7)   An employee of the Department of Taxation or its designee may enter
the premises of a medical cannabis establishment or cannabis establishment at
any time during regular business hours and without notice to examine, audit and
inspect books and records for the purpose of determining the proper payment of
any fees required by this section and compliance with any applicable provision
of NRS, NAC and/or the City Code of the City of Carlin.
      (8)   The license requirement set forth in this chapter shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any other licensing and permitting
requirements imposed by any other Federal, State and/or the Carlin City Code.
      (9)   A license issued pursuant to this section does not provide any
exception, defense or immunity to any person in regard to any potential
criminal liability the person may have for the production, distribution or
possession of cannabis.
   (B)   Posting License; Failure As Grounds For Revocation: All licenses
issued for medical cannabis establishments or cannabis establishments shall be
posted in a conspicuous place in order that they may be readily available for
inspection by authorized State of Nevada and City of Carlin officials. Failure
to comply with the provisions of this subsection shall constitute grounds for
revocation of any such license so not posted.
   (C)   Location Transfer: A medical cannabis establishment business license
or cannabis establishment business license may not be transferred to a new
location within the City of Carlin unless it is in accordance with this chapter
and approved by city council, and complies with all State laws. (Ord. 2019-249,
12-4-2019)
5-12-6: LICENSE APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
Each application for a medical cannabis establishment business license or
cannabis establishment business license must include, without limitation:
   (A)   Completed Application: A complete cannabis application must include:
      (1)   A complete and accurate copy of the application and all
accompanying documents filed with the applicable state agency pursuant to NRS
Chapter 453A.322 or NRS Chapter 453D.
      (2)   A complete and accurate copy of any required approval issued by the
applicable state agency to operate as a medical cannabis establishment or
cannabis establishment.
      (3)   A completed, signed and notarized acknowledgment statement from the
holder of the business license and the owner of the real property in which the
medical cannabis establishment or cannabis establishment will be located,
attesting that the holder of the license and the owner of the real property is
aware of, has read and understands the applicable Federal laws and regulations
and any guidance or directives issued by the U.S. Department of Justice, the
laws of the State of Nevada and the laws and regulations of the City of Carlin
concerning the operation of a medical cannabis establishment or a cannabis
establishment. The statement required by this section must also acknowledge
that any violation of any laws of the State of Nevada or of the City of Carlin,
or any activity in violation of any guidance or directives issued by the U.S.
Department of Justice, in such place of business, or in connection therewith,
or the commencement of any legal proceeding relating to such establishment by
Federal authorities, may render the business license subject to immediate
suspension or revocation.
      (4)   The names of every person who owns interest in the medical cannabis
establishment or cannabis establishment, along with the percentage of each
person's ownership listed. The information required by this application may not
be waived.
   (B)   Application Fee: One-time, non-refundable application fee of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00);
   (C)   Type Of License: Which type of cannabis establishment the applicant is
applying for (i.e., retail cannabis dispensary, medical cannabis dispensary,
cannabis product manufacturing facility, cannabis distributor, cannabis
cultivation facility, cannabis testing facility, etc.);
   (D)   Name Of Establishment: The name of the proposed cannabis
establishment, as reflected in the articles of incorporation or other documents
filed with the Secretary of State;
   (E)   Type Of Business Organization: The type of business organization of
the applicant, such as individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, association or cooperative, joint venture or any other business
organization. It is the intent of this chapter that all individuals with a
direct or indirect ownership interest in a retail cannabis establishment or
medical cannabis establishment be disclosed and be subject to the requirements
of this chapter;
   (F)   Other Ownership Interests: The name and physical address of any other
retail or medical cannabis establishment within the City of Carlin which any
owner, officer, manager or director has ownership interest in, a contractual
relationship with or is otherwise associated with;
   (G)   Information Of Providing Facility Or Laboratory: The name and location
of the offsite cannabis cultivation facility providing the cannabis, if
applicable. The name and location of the cannabis testing laboratory providing
laboratory services, if applicable;
   (H)   Address Of Establishment And Owners: The physical address where the
proposed cannabis establishment will be located and the physical address of any
owner or co-owner;
   (I)   Description Of Products: A description of the nature of the products
and services to be produced or sold by the cannabis establishment;
   (J)   Accompanying Documents: A complete and accurate copy of the
application and all accompanying documents to be filed with the State
regulating authority pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 453D including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   All proposals for operations, business plans, attestations,
financial documentation, and required tax reports;
      (2)   All documents detailing proposed organizational structure, all
narratives, and resumes;
      (3)   All documentation required concerning the adequacy of the proposed
building and construction plans with supporting details in the form specified
by the City of Carlin building official and the payment of all required review
and inspection fees;
      (4)   All testing, transportation, policy, operations manuals, financial
plan, environmental plan, and procedures manual to ensure the use of adequate
security measures;
   (K)   Sign And Advertising Plan: A sign and advertising plan including all
proposed interior signage, must meet all requirements pursuant to Title 3,
Chapter 4 of this Code;
   (L)   Statement Holding City Harmless: A written statement to the City of
Carlin that the applicant will hold harmless, indemnify, and defend the City of
Carlin against all claims and litigation arising from the issuance of a
license, including any claims and litigation arising from the establishment,
operation, or ownership of the cannabis establishment will be provided prior to
the issuance of any license. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-7: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
To prevent unauthorized access to the cannabis, each medical cannabis
establishment and cannabis establishment must submit, maintain, and follow a
security plan that includes customer, building and product security measures.
The security plan must meet all the criteria established by the State
regulating authority and the following minimum requirements:
   (A)   Each licensed premises must have a security system which monitors all
perimeter entry points, windows, and controlled areas by a centrally monitored
alarm company properly licensed with the City of Carlin or approved by the
Carlin Police Department, and whose agents are properly licensed and registered
under applicable laws;
   (B)   Meet minimum security requirements as determined or approved by the
City of Carlin Fire Department for emergency access to the building;
   (C)   Immediate automatic or electronic notification to alert the Carlin
Police Department of an unauthorized breach of security at the medical cannabis
or cannabis establishment in the interior of each building of the
establishment;
   (D)   All recorded images must clearly and accurately display the time and
date. Time is to be measured in accordance with the U.S. National Institute of
Standards and Technology standards;
   (E)   The surveillance system's data storage device must be secured on site
in a lockbox, cabinet, closet, room or secured in another manner to protect
from employee or third-party tampering or criminal theft;
   (F)   A video printer capable of immediately producing a clear still photo
from any video camera image;
   (G)   Video cameras with a recording resolution of at least 1920 x 1080 or
the equivalent providing coverage of all entrances to and exits from limited
access areas and all entrances to and exits from the building, capable of
identifying any activity occurring in or adjacent to the building;
   (H)   A video camera in each grow room capable of identifying any activity
occurring within the grow room in low light conditions;
   (I)   A method for storing video recordings from the video cameras for at
least thirty (30) calendar days from the date recorded;
   (J)   Sufficient battery backup for video cameras and recording equipment to
support at least one hour of recording in the event of a power outage;
   (K)   A sign must be posted in any customer areas that the customer is under
video surveillance;
   (L)   The establishment shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with
all local and State regulations regarding the facility and must monitor parking
areas and outdoor areas of the licensed premises for loitering, unlawful sale
of cannabis by customers, and consumption of cannabis;
   (M)   Any theft of items containing cannabis or the observance of any
unauthorized transactions of cannabis on the licensed premises must be reported
to the Carlin Police Department;
   (N)   In addition to complying with all requirements set by the State
regulating authority, any licensed cannabis establishment shall secure the
facility with full video surveillance capable of clearly identifying any
activities occurring within twenty feet (20') of the exterior of the building
and any parking, fenced, or loading areas. A lighting system must be employed
to illuminate the building, parking area, gate area and loading areas in low
light conditions;
   (O)   All cannabis, edible cannabis products, or cannabis infused products,
during non-business hours, must be stored in a secured area.
      (1)   The area must meet State of Nevada standards for odor control and
the Nevada Department of Health regulations, if any.
      (2)   The area must be under surveillance by the camera system at all
times.
      (3)   One area may store both product and legal tender, however separate
storage devices must be maintained and both must be under video surveillance.
(Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-8: AGE LIMITATION:
   (A)   No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall be allowed in a
medical cannabis establishment unless the person holds a valid registry
identification card and is accompanied by a parent or guardian.
   (B)   No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall be allowed in a
cannabis establishment.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any business licensed under this chapter to
employ a person under twenty-one (21) years of age. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-9: MINIMUM STANDARDS AND REVIEW CRITERIA:
The following standards are intended to establish minimum standards and review
criteria for medical cannabis establishments and cannabis establishments.
   (A)   The following standards apply to all medical cannabis establishments
and cannabis establishments:
      (1)   Business activities related to medical cannabis dispensaries,
cannabis retail stores, cannabis testing facilities and cannabis product
manufacturing facilities must be conducted indoors.
      (2)   Medical cannabis establishments and cannabis establishments must at
all times maintain an interior and exterior appearance that is professional.
      (3)   A single point of secure public entry must be provided and
identified.
      (4)   The outdoor display or sale of any medical cannabis establishment
or cannabis establishment merchandise or product is prohibited.
      (5)   The proposed medical cannabis dispensary or cannabis retail store
is located where sufficient, convenient and safe access is provided to the
public.
      (6)   The proposed location has adequate lighting and street improvements
of a use providing public access.
      (7)   Access to medical cannabis establishment or cannabis establishment
must comply with all applicable State laws and regulations.
      (8)   Medical cannabis cultivation facility or an approved outdoor
cannabis cultivation facility, medical cannabis establishments and cannabis
establishments, merchandise and products must not be visible when viewed from
outside the building in which the medical cannabis establishment or cannabis
establishment is located.
      (9)   All signage for medical cannabis establishments and cannabis
establishments must be professional in manner. All medical cannabis
establishments and cannabis establishments are limited to the following
signage:
         (a)   The maximum freestanding sign height for cannabis dispensaries
and cannabis retail stores shall be determined by Title 3, Chapter 4 of the
City Code of the City of Carlin for similar retail uses.
         (b)   Where a medical cannabis establishment and cannabis
establishment are jointly located on a single property, the maximum permitted
sign area applies to the property and not each type of establishment.
      (10)   The proposed medical cannabis establishment or cannabis
establishment shall work with the City of Carlin Fire Department to determine
safe emergency access. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-10: ESTABLISHMENT LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   A medical cannabis establishment or cannabis establishment is
prohibited within one thousand feet (1,000') of a public or private school that
provides formal education traditionally associated with preschool or
kindergarten through grade 12, as pursuant to NRS 453D.210.
   (B)   Medical or cannabis retail establishments must be three hundred feet
(300') from the following facilities, as pursuant to NRS 453D.210:
      (1)   Day care to children.
      (2)   A public park, a playground, a public swimming pool, and any other
center or facility where the primary purpose of which is to provide
recreational opportunities or services to children or adolescents of which
already exists on the date the application for the proposed medical cannabis
establishment or cannabis establishment is submitted to the applicable state
agency for approval to operate, as measured on a straight line from the
property line of the nearest such school or facility to the front door or
primary entrance of the medical cannabis establishment or cannabis
establishment.
      (3)   A church, synagogue, or other building, structure or place used for
religious worship or other religious purpose. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-11: ON SITE USE PROHIBITED:
The consumption of cannabis products is prohibited on the premises of any
medical cannabis establishment and cannabis establishment. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-
4-2019)
5-12-12: APPLICATION; DENIAL OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
   (A)   Notification Of Denial; Registration Certificate Required: Applicants
found unsuitable by the City of Carlin shall be notified in writing within ten
(10) business days of the close of the background investigation.
   (B)   Other Inspections: All applicants selected by the City of Carlin must
satisfy all required building inspection criteria as outlined by Title 2 of
this Code before commencing operations, as well as any other applicable agency
requirements. The applicant must submit a building and occupancy certificate to
the building official after approval from the City of Carlin Fire Department.
   (C)   Denial: No license shall be issued to any person who has violated any
provision of this chapter, this title, or the Act, or who has violated any
provision of a license to sell cannabis issued by the City of Carlin or any
other governmental agency, or who has had such a license revoked. (Ord. 2019-
249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSES, SUSPENSION, CANCELLATION, NOTICE OF HEARING
PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Events Causing Revocation: All medical cannabis establishment business
license or cannabis establishment business licenses may be revoked if one or
more of the following events occur, but is not limited to the following:
      (1)   A licensee has violated, or permitted, allowed, or caused a
violation of any provision of this chapter, any regulation issued pursuant to
this chapter, any condition of approval imposed upon the issuance of the
license, or any State law or regulation relating to operation;
      (2)   If the State registration certificate has been surrendered,
suspended or revoked;
      (3)   Based on ascertainable facts, the operation substantially
aggravates the crime problems in the City of Carlin, makes law enforcement
unduly difficult, or is detrimental to the public, health, safety or welfare of
the City of Carlin;
      (4)   A licensee has made fraudulent statements as to a material fact on
an application form, as to any other information presented as part of the
application process, or in connection with any other information required to be
submitted to the City of Carlin;
      (5)   The licensee has failed to maintain the premises in compliance with
the requirements of the building, fire, health, and environmental agencies;
      (6)   Having committed an excluded felony offense;
      (7)   Dispensing, delivering or otherwise transferring cannabis to a
person other than a cannabis establishment agent, another medical cannabis
establishment, a patient who holds a valid registry identification card or the
designated primary caregiver of such a patient;
      (8)   Any act or omission committed by any employee, agent, or
independent contractor that occurs in the course of his or her employment,
agency, or contract with the licensee shall be imputed to the licensee for the
purposing suspension or revocation of the license. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-14: LAND USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS; CONFORMANCE WITH TITLE 3:
   (A)   No medical cannabis establishment license or cannabis establishment
license will be issued unless the location is in accordance with Title 3 of
this Code.
   (B)   Approval of a location or of a use permit pursuant to Title 3 of this
Code does not guarantee or constitute approval of any medical cannabis
establishment license or cannabis establishment license(s) as required under
Title 5 of this Code and/or any other provisions of the Carlin City Code. (Ord.
2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-15: PERMITTED USE AND ZONING:
   (A)   Permanent Building: The business shall be located in a permanent
building, with an engineered foundation that meets City of Carlin Building
Codes, which may include prefabricated commercial buildings, but shall not be
located in a mobile home or motor home or vehicle. A medical cannabis
establishment or cannabis establishment may be located in a completely
enclosed, stand-alone building, or one or more establishments under the same
ownership may be located together in the same building and upon the same
property. A separate business license must be obtained, however, for each
dispensary, cultivation facility, production facility or testing facility.
   (B)   No medical cannabis establishment license or cannabis establishment
license will be issued unless the location is in accordance with Title 3 of
this Code.
      (1)   Approval of a location or of a use permit pursuant to Title 3 of
this Code does not guarantee or constitute approval of any medical cannabis
establishment or cannabis establishment license under Title 5 of this Code.
   (C)   Table of Use Regulations:
 
              High    Medium  Low     Rural   General    Limited    Restricted Highway    General
Permitted     Density Density Density Res     Commercial Commercial Commercial Commercial Light      Manufacturing
Uses          Res R5  Res R7  Res R10 Farming C1         C2         C3         C4         Industrial Medium M2
                                      RR                                                  L1
Medical
Cannabis                             X                                                   X          X
Cultivation
Facility
Cannabis
Cultivation                          X                                                   X          X
Facility
Medical
Cannabis                             X       X          X          X          X          X          X
Manufacturing
Facility
Cannabis
Manufacturing                        X       X          X          X          X          X          X
Facility
Medical
Cannabis                             X       X          X          X          X          X          X
Dispensary
Cannabis                             X       X          X          X          X          X          X
Retail Store
 
(Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-16: FEES:
   (A)   Medical cannabis establishments and cannabis establishments shall pay
an initial business license fee of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   (B)   Medical cannabis establishments and cannabis establishments shall pay
an annual license renewal fee of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
      (1)   Annual license fees shall be set and amended from time to time by
the City of Carlin city council by written resolution.
      (2)   Each annual fee is due in advance on the first day of the month in
which their license was issued by the City of Carlin of each year. License fees
pursuant to this chapter are non-refundable.
      (3)   Any annual fee which is not received by the City of Carlin on or
before the due date shall be assessed a late-payment penalty amount equal to
ten percent (10%) of the amount of such license.
      (4)   If the annual fee and penalty is not received by the City of Carlin
within fifteen (15) calendar days after the due date, an additional penalty in
an amount equal to twenty five percent (25%) of such annual fee shall be
assessed.
      (5)   If the annual fee and all penalties are not received by the City of
Carlin within thirty (30) calendar days after the due date, the license shall
be automatically suspended and if the annual fee and all penalties are not
received by the City of Carlin within sixty (60) calendar days after the due
date, the license shall be automatically revoked.
      (6)   Each licensee shall pay to the City of Carlin in advance, the
annual licensing fees set forth in the adopted resolution.
   (C)   Origination Fees: Origination license fees, in addition to the renewal
fee listed in this section, are imposed for the following and are payable prior
to the issuance of the medical cannabis establishment or cannabis establishment
license:
 
License Category              Origination Fee
Dispensary                    $25,000.00
Cultivation facility          $25,000.00
Production facility           $25,000.00
Other cannabis establishments $15,000.00
 
   D)   License Fees:
 
License Category              Quarter-Annual Revenue Fees
Dispensary                    3% of the gross revenue
Cultivation facility          3% of the gross revenue
Production facility           3% of the gross revenue
Other cannabis establishments 3% of the gross revenue
 
      (1)   Medical cannabis establishments and cannabis establishments shall
pay a quarterly business license fee of three percent (3%) of the gross
revenue, as calculated in accordance with subsection 1 of this section.
         (a)   For the purposes of verifying the gross revenue of a medical
cannabis establishment or cannabis establishment pursuant to this subsection:
         1.   The holder of the business license shall provide to the city
clerk's office written proof of such revenue to the City of Carlin;
         2.   The holder of the business license shall provide to the City of
Carlin a complete and accurate copy of any written documentation relating to
verification of revenue for purposes of state taxation that is required to be
provided to any state agency; and
         3.   The City of Carlin shall, at such time and frequency the City of
Carlin deems most efficient, review the information submitted pursuant to
paragraphs (a) and (b) to reconcile any underpayment or overpayment of a
quarterly fee and issue a charge or credit as appropriate. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-
4-2019)
5-12-17: DISPOSAL OF CANNABIS:
   (A)   Cannabis and any waste including wastewater must be stored, secured
and managed in accordance with applicable State Statutes and regulations and
the State approved disposal plan. A cannabis establishment must dispose of
cannabis that is not usable cannabis within ten (10) calendar days of
expiration of use. Cannabis waste must be made unusable prior to leaving a
licensed cannabis facility.
   (B)   Wastes that must be rendered unusable prior to disposal include, but
are not limited to:
      (1)   Cannabis plant waste, including roots, stalks, leaves, and stems
that have not been processed with solvent.
      (2)   Solid cannabis sample plant waste possessed by third-party
laboratories certified by the State regulating authority for quality assurance
that must be disposed of.
   (C)   The allowable method to render cannabis plant waste unusable is by
grinding and incorporating the cannabis plant waste with non-consumable solid
waste or other ground materials so the resulting mixture is at least fifty
percent (50%) non-cannabis waste by volume. Other methods to render cannabis
waste unusable must be approved by the State regulating authority and the City
Manager, in conjunction with recommendation from Elko Sanitation, before
implementing.
   (D)   Cannabis waste rendered unusable following an approved method in the
facility disposal plan must be delivered to the Elko landfill, operated by Elko
Sanitation, for immediate disposition and covering.
   (E)   Disposal cannot include cannabis product including plant material
entering the City of Carlin wastewater collection system, storm drain system or
any unsecure rubbish disposal system.
   (F)   A medical cannabis establishment or cannabis establishment shall not
transfer, share, give, sell or deliver any unused cannabis in the
establishment's possession to any other person, regardless of whether they are
licensed as a medical cannabis or cannabis establishment.
   (G)   A cannabis establishment shall not dispose of cannabis in any manner
other than permitted under this chapter. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-18: CULTIVATION FACILITY:
   (A)   A cultivation facility must meet all odor control regulations
established by the City of Carlin. Within twenty-four (24) hours of any
complaints concerning odors, a cultivation facility shall respond to the
complaints and file with the City of Carlin and the building official all
action taken to address odor complaints. The building official, upon
determination of the existence of detectable odor from any cultivation
facility, may require additional measures by the facility to control such odor
and a timeframe for the implementation of such measures at any cultivation
facility. Failure to complete required improvements within the timeframe
specified by the building official is grounds for temporary suspension of the
license by city council action.
   (B)   Any cannabis that is transported to a cannabis dispensary must be
packaged for retail sale in tamper evident containers of not more than two and
one-half (2.5) ounces and placed in unmarked, non-transparent transportation
containers.
   (C)   Any cannabis that is transported to a cannabis production facility
must meet all State regulating authority standards.
   (D)   Applicants must designate on their permit application the size of the
area proposed to be under cultivation on the premises. The cultivation area
will be limited to the square footage granted on the license. Other floor space
of the facility may be used for walkways, ventilation, storage or any other
purposes required by the State regulating authority or the licensee for
operations of the business. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-19: CANNABIS PRODUCTION FACILITY:
   (A)   Products And Labeling: Products sold at a City-licensed cannabis
dispensary must meet the following:
      (1)   No infused products may contain alcoholic beverages;
      (2)   No product shall have the appearance or packaging of candies,
characters, shapes or other like products which are commonly marketed to
children;
      (3)   Packaging must be opaque. Products must not be visible from or
depicted on the packaging;
      (4)   Labels must be simple in appearance without pictures or depictions
of objects, such as toys, characters, pictures of children, or cartoon
characters or any other depiction which are commonly marketed to children;
      (5)   Labels must adhere to State laws and regulations;
      (6)   Any edible cannabis products or cannabis infused products that are
transported to a licensed cannabis dispensary must be packaged for sale in
tamper evident containers and placed in unmarked, non-transparent
transportation containers. (Ord. 2019-249, 12-4-2019)
5-12-20: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensed operation, licensee or employee, agent
and/or contractor of any medical cannabis establishment or cannabis
establishment licensee to:
      (1)   Acquire, possess, deliver, transfer, transport, supply, sell, or
dispense any cannabis to any person, unless in compliance with all requirements
of this chapter and State law.
      (2)   Acquire, possess, deliver, transfer, transport, supply, sell or
dispense any cannabis to or from any person or source located outside the State
of Nevada.
      (3)   Do any act that violates any licensing requirement established
pursuant to chapter 453A or 453D of the Nevada Revised Statues. (Ord. 2019-249,
12-4-2019)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Disturbing The Peace (Rep. by Ord. 181, 12-11-1996)
6-1-2: False Alarm
6-1-3: Firearms, Discharge
6-1-4: Malicious Mischief
6-1-5: Resisting An Officer
6-1-6: Vagrants, Disorderly Persons
6-1-7: Contributory Delinquency
6-1-8: Drawing A Deadly Weapon In A Threatening Manner
6-1-9: Failure To Remove Doors From Discarded Refrigerators, Iceboxes Or Deep
Freeze Lockers
6-1-10: Assembling To Disturb The Peace Or Commit An Unlawful Act
6-1-11: Provoking Commission Of Breach Of Peace
6-1-12: Affray
6-1-13: Battery (Rep. by Ord. 181, 12-11-1996)
6-1-14: Disturbing Lawful Meeting
6-1-15: Commission Of An Act In A Public Building Or Public Area Interfering
With Peaceful Conduct Of Activities
6-1-16: Petit Larceny
6-1-17: Larceny By Lodger
6-1-18: Use Of False Identification Cards By Persons Under Twenty One Years For
Gambling Or Obtaining Alcoholic Beverages
6-1-19: Use Of Obscene Or Offensive Language In A Public Place
6-1-20: Assault
6-1-21: Loitering About Schools, Public Places Where Children Congregate
Unlawful
6-1-22: Trespass On Land, In Building Of Another After Warning; Warning By
Posting, Fencing
6-1-23: Defrauding Proprietors Of Hotels, Inns, Restaurants, Motels, Trailer
Parks
6-1-1: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
(Rep. by Ord. 181, 12-11-1996)
6-1-2: FALSE ALARM:
It shall be unlawful for any person intentionally to give or cause to be given
or turn in or cause to be turned in any false alarm of fire, in the city,
except alarms may be given or turned in for practice of the fire department
when authorized by the proper officer and to attract attention of police,
firemen or people to acts of violence, disorder or menace. (Ord. 2, 12-14-1925)
6-1-3: FIREARMS, DISCHARGE:
   (A)   Discharge Of Loaded Firearm: It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge or cause to be discharged any loaded firearm, compressed air gun or
mechanically operated gun of any caliber or description capable of injuring a
person or property, within the city limits. For the purposes of this section it
shall be understood that the discharge of any loaded firearm, compressed air
gun or mechanically operated gun of any caliber or description capable of
injuring a person or property by any person outside the city limits, but in
such manner as to cause the projectile so discharged to travel into or across
the city limits, shall be a violation of this section as fully as though said
projectile was discharged within the city limits. Provided, however, that
nothing herein contained shall be construed to make unlawful the following uses
of loaded firearms, compressed air guns or mechanically operated guns by
discharge thereof:
      1.   The discharge of any gun above described by any person within the
city limits or without the city limits but into or across the city limits,
while in the defense of the said person's life or the lives of his family or
the same person's home or property.
      2.   The discharge of any gun above described by any officer of the city
or the county or the state or United States while in the prosecution of his
duty.
      3.   The discharge of any small caliber firearm or compressed air gun or
mechanically operated gun by any person in a duly licensed shooting gallery
operated for hire when the said firearm or compressed air gun or mechanically
operated gun shall be discharged for the purposes of target practice within
such shooting gallery and within the terms of such license.
      4.   The discharge of any small caliber firearm or compressed air gun or
mechanically operated gun by any person in a private shooting gallery
constructed and maintained with the written consent of the city council by a
resident of the city when said firearm or compressed air gun or mechanically
operated gun shall be discharged for the purposes of target practice within
said shooting gallery and within the terms of such written consent or
permission. (Ord. 164, 10-11-1989, eff. 10-18-1989)
      5.   The discharge of any firearm above described by any person in
conjunction with an event or occurrence which has been previously approved by
the city council, after due consideration of public safety, provided such
discharge is in accordance with any conditions imposed by the city council at
the time of approval. (Ord. 244, 6-8-2016)
   (B)   Bow And Arrows: It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or
discharge any arrow from any bow within the city limits except in an area
designated by the city council as a permanent shooting range or temporary
special events archery shooting range. (Ord. 164, 10-11-1989, eff. 10-18-1989)
6-1-4: MALICIOUS MISCHIEF:
Every person who shall wilfully or maliciously destroy or injure any real or
personal property of another, for the destruction or injury of which no special
punishment is otherwise specially prescribed, shall be guilty of a public
offense proportionate to the value of the property affected or the loss
resulting from such offense. (Ord. 76, 4-23-1975)
6-1-5: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, resist, molest or
threaten to molest any officer of the city in the exercise of his official
duties. (Ord. 2, 12-14-1925)
6-1-6: VAGRANTS, DISORDERLY PERSONS:
   (A)   The following described persons are deemed to be vagrants and
disorderly persons:
      1.   Any person who accosts other persons in any public place or in any
place open to the public for the purpose of begging or soliciting alms.
      2.   Any person who loiters or wanders upon the streets or from place to
place without apparent reason or business and who refuses to identify himself
or account for his presence when requested by any peace officer so to do, if
the surrounding circumstances are such as to indicate to a reasonable man that
the public safety demands such identification.
      3.   Any person who lodges in any building, structure or place, whether
public or private, without the permission of the owner or person entitled to
the possession or in control thereof.
      4.   Persons who are found loitering or loafing habitually in or about
houses of ill fame or places resorted to by persons for purposes of
prostitution or immoral purposes, or who solicit for any prostitute or house of
prostitution. (Ord. 75, 4-23-1975)
      5.   Persons who go from house to house begging food, money or other
articles, or seek admission to such houses upon frivolous pretexts for no other
apparent motive than to see who may be therein, or to gain an insight of the
premises.
      6.   Pimps, panderers, procurers or procuresses.
      7.   Persons who keep a place where lost or stolen property is concealed.
   (B)   "Habitually", as used in this chapter, is defined to mean for a period
of time of fourteen (14) days or more, and does not mean continuously during
said time. (Ord. 1, 12-14-1925)
6-1-7: CONTRIBUTORY DELINQUENCY:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an act or omit the
performance of duties, which act or omission causes or tends to cause or
encourage any person under the age of eighteen (18) to become or remain a
"neglected child" or a "child in need of supervision" or a "delinquent child",
or which act or omission contributes thereto. A contributory act or omission
may be in the form of, but not limited to, a threat, command, persuasion,
inducement or attempt to induce. As used herein, a "neglected child",
"delinquent child", or "child in need of supervision" means any person less
than eighteen (18) years of age:
      1.   Who has no parents or guardians; or who has no parent or guardian
willing to exercise or capable of exercising proper parental control; or who
has no parent or guardian actually exercising such proper parental control, and
who is in need of such control.
      2.   Who is destitute or who is not provided with the necessities of life
by his parents, and who has no other means of obtaining such necessities.
      3.   Whose home is an unfit place for him, by reason of neglect, cruelty
or depravity of either of his parents, or his guardians or other person in
whose custody or care he is.
      4.   Who is living in any house of prostitution.
      5.   Who unlawfully visits a saloon or bar where any intoxicating liquor
or beer is sold, exchanged or given away.
      6.   Who habitually uses intoxicating liquor or who uses opium, cocaine,
morphine, marijuana, lysergic acid, or similar drugs without the direction of a
competent physician.
      7.   Who persistently or habitually refuses to obey the reasonable and
proper orders or directions of his parents, guardian or custodian, or who is
beyond the control of such person.
      8.   Who habitually fails to attend school without an excuse acceptable
to his teacher or principal.
      9.   Who writes or uses vile, obscene, profane or indecent language, or
is guilty of indecent, immoral or lascivious conduct.
      10.   Who violates any law of this state or any ordinance of any town,
city or county of this state defining crime.
   (B)   That a charge against any person under this section may, for
convenience, be termed "contributory delinquency". (Ord. 82, 2-18-1976)
6-1-8: DRAWING A DEADLY WEAPON IN A THREATENING MANNER:
   (A)   Any person having, carrying or procuring from another person any knife
with a blade in excess of two inches (2"), razor blade, sword, pistol, gun or
other similar type deadly weapon, who shall, in the presence of two (2) or more
persons, draw or exhibit any of such deadly weapons in a rude, angry or
threatening manner not in necessary self-defense, or who shall in any manner
use the same in any fight or quarrel, shall be guilty of an unlawful act.
   (B)   No peace officer shall be held to answer, under the provisions of
subsection (A) of this section, for drawing or exhibiting any of the weapons
mentioned therein while in the lawful discharge of his duties. (Ord. 82, 2-18-
1976)
6-1-9: FAILURE TO REMOVE DOORS FROM DISCARDED REFRIGERATORS, ICEBOXES OR DEEP
FREEZE LOCKERS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discard or abandon in any place
accessible to children, or to have in his possession, any refrigerator, icebox
or deep freeze locker, having a capacity of one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet
or more which is no longer in use and which has not had the door removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly permit an abandoned
or discarded refrigerator, icebox or deep freeze locker, as described in
subsection (A) of this section, to remain on premises under his control without
having the door removed.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any vendor
or seller of refrigerators, iceboxes or deep freeze lockers who keeps or stores
them for sale purposes, if the vendor or seller takes reasonable precautions to
secure effectively the door of any such refrigerator, icebox or deep freeze
locker so as to prevent entrance by children small enough to fit therein. (Ord.
82, 2-18-1976)
6-1-10: ASSEMBLING TO DISTURB THE PEACE OR COMMIT AN UNLAWFUL ACT:
It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons to assemble for the purpose of
disturbing the public peace or committing an unlawful act, and who do not
disperse on being commanded or directed so to do by a justice of the peace,
city police officer, sheriff, coroner or other public officer. (Ord. 82, 2-18-
1976)
6-1-11: PROVOKING COMMISSION OF BREACH OF PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person by word, sign or gesture, to wilfully
provoke, or attempt to provoke, another person to commit a breach of peace.
(Ord. 82, 2-18-1976)
6-1-12: AFFRAY:
It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons, by agreement, to fight in a
public place in such a manner as to cause fear or terror to other persons in or
about the public place. (Ord. 82, 2-18-1976)
6-1-13: BATTERY:
(Rep. by Ord. 181, 12-11-1996)
6-1-14: DISTURBING LAWFUL MEETING:
It shall be unlawful for any person, without authority of law, to wilfully
disturb any lawful assembly or meeting. (Ord. 82, 2-18-1976)
6-1-15: COMMISSION OF AN ACT IN A PUBLIC BUILDING OR PUBLIC AREA INTERFERING
WITH PEACEFUL CONDUCT OF ACTIVITIES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act in a public
building or on public grounds surrounding such building which interferes with
the peaceful conduct of activities normally carried on in such building or on
such ground.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to leave a public
building or public grounds which surround such building upon request by proper
officials after such person has committed an act referred to in subsection (A)
of this section.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section:
      1.   "Proper official" means the person or persons designated by the
administrative officer or board in charge of such building.
      2.   "Public building" means any building for any public purpose which is
owned by the state of Nevada, Elko County, Elko County School District, or the
city of Carlin. (Ord. 82, 2-18-1976)
6-1-16: PETIT LARCENY 1 :
   (A)   Definition; Punishment:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 205.220,
205.226, 205.228 and 475.105, a person commits petit larceny if the person:
         (a)   Intentionally steals, takes and carries away, leads away or
drives away:
            (1) Personal goods or property with a value of less than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), owned by another person;
            (2) Bedding, furniture or other property, with a value of less than
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), which the person, as a lodger, is to use
in or with his lodging and which is owned by another person; or
            (3) Real property, with a value of less than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00), that the person has converted into personal property by
severing it from real property owned by another person.
         (b)   Intentionally steals, takes and carries away, leads away, drives
away or entices away one or more domesticated animals or domesticated birds,
with an aggregate valve of less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), owned
by another person.
      2.   A person who commits petit larceny is guilty of a misdemeanor. In
addition to any other penalty, the court shall order the person to pay
restitution. (Ord. 198, 11-8-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 205.240.
6-1-17: LARCENY BY LODGER:
It shall be unlawful for any lodger to take and carry away, with the intent to
deprive the owner permanently, any bedding, furniture or other goods which the
lodger has been given to use in connection with his lodging, so long as the
value of the property taken does not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) in
fair market value. (Ord. 82, 2-18-1976)
6-1-18: USE OF FALSE IDENTIFICATION CARDS BY PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE YEARS FOR
GAMBLING OR OBTAINING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
use any form of false identification, or to use the identification of a person
other than himself, for the purpose of entering or remaining in a gambling
establishment or for the purpose of obtaining alcoholic liquor or entering or
remaining in a place where alcoholic liquor is served for consumption on the
premises. (Ord. 82, 2-18-1976)
6-1-19: USE OF OBSCENE OR OFFENSIVE LANGUAGE IN A PUBLIC PLACE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use obscene or offensive
language in a public place.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, language may be deemed "obscene" if
it is the type that refers to nudity, sex or excretion, and goes substantially
beyond customary limits of candor in describing or representing such matters,
and is utterly without redeeming social value.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, language may be deemed "offensive" if
it is of the type calculated to provoke an immediate and violent reaction from
the hearer. (Ord. 82, 2-18-1976)
6-1-20: ASSAULT:
Any person who with a present ability to effect such, attempts to commit
violent injury on the person of another, not made with the use of a deadly
weapon, nor during the commission of a crime described in Nevada Revised
Statutes 200.400, commits an assault and is guilty of a city offense. (Ord.
137, 5-23-1984)
6-1-21: LOITERING ABOUT SCHOOLS, PUBLIC PLACES WHERE CHILDREN CONGREGATE
UNLAWFUL:
Any person who, without legitimate reason to supervise any of such children or
other legitimate reason to be at leisure in such place, loiters about any
school or public place at or near which children attend or normally congregate
is guilty of a city offense. (Ord. 137, 5-23-1984)
6-1-22: TRESPASS ON LAND, IN BUILDING OF ANOTHER AFTER WARNING; WARNING BY
POSTING, FENCING:
   (A)   Every person who goes upon the land or into any building of another
with intent to vex or annoy the owner or occupant thereof, or to commit any
unlawful act, or wilfully goes or remains upon any land or in any building
after having been warned by the owner or occupant thereof not to trespass, is
guilty of a city offense. The meaning of this subsection is not limited by
subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every owner or other occupant of any land is deemed to have given a
sufficient warning against trespassing, within the meaning of this section,
who:
      1.   Posts in a conspicuous manner on each side thereof, upon or near the
boundary, at intervals of not more than seven hundred feet (700'), signs,
legibly printed or painted in the English language, warning persons not to
trespass; or
      2.   Fences the area.
   (C)   It is prima facie evidence of trespass for any person to be found on
private or public property which is posted or fenced as provided in subsection
(B) of this section without lawful business with the owner or occupant of the
property.
   (D)   As used in this section, "fence" means a barrier sufficient to
indicate an intent to restrict the area to human egress, including, but not
limited to, a wall, hedge or chainlink or wire mesh fence. (Ord. 137, 5-23-
1984)
6-1-23: DEFRAUDING PROPRIETORS OF HOTELS, INNS, RESTAURANTS, MOTELS, TRAILER
PARKS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person:
      1.   To obtain food, foodstuffs, lodging, merchandise or other
accommodations at any hotel, inn, trailer park, motor court, boarding house,
rooming house, lodging house, furnished apartment house, furnished bungalow
court, furnished auto camp, eating house, restaurant, grocery store, market or
dairy, without paying herefor, with intent to defraud the proprietor or manager
thereof;
      2.   To obtain credit at a hotel, inn, trailer park, motor court,
boarding house, rooming house, lodging house, furnished apartment house,
furnished bungalow court, furnished auto camp, eating house, restaurant,
grocery store, market or dairy by the use of any false pretense; or
      3.   After obtaining credit, food, lodging, merchandise, or other
accommodations at a hotel, inn, trailer park, motor court, boarding house,
rooming house, lodging house, furnished apartment house, furnished bungalow
court, furnished auto camp, eating house, restaurant, grocery store, market, or
dairy, to abscond or surreptitiously, or by force, menace, or threats, to
remove any part of his baggage therefrom, without paying for his food or
accommodations.
   (B)   Proof that lodging, food, foodstuffs, merchandise, or other
accommodations were obtained by false pretense, or by false or fictitious show
or pretense of any baggage or other property, or that the person refused or
wilfully neglected to pay for such food, foodstuffs, lodging, merchandise or
other accommodations, or that he gave in payment for such food, foodstuffs,
lodging, merchandise or other accommodation negotiable paper on which payment
was refused, or that he absconded without paying or offering to pay for such
food, foodstuffs, lodging, merchandise, or other accommodations, or that he
surreptitiously removed or attempted to remove his baggage, shall be prima
facie evidence of the fraudulent intent mentioned in this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply where there has been an agreement in
writing for delay in payment for a period to exceed ten (10) days. (Ord. 137,
5-23-1984)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL, DOG REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Short Title
6-2-2: Definitions
6-2-3: City Animal Shelter
6-2-4: Animal Control Officer
6-2-5: Animal Control Officer; Duties
6-2-6: Independent Contractor
6-2-7: Harboring Animals; Maltreatment Of Animals
6-2-8: Animals At Large
6-2-9: Animals Corralled Or Fenced
6-2-10: Dog License And Inoculation Required
6-2-11: Dog Collar; License Tag
6-2-12: Animals Running At Large
6-2-13: Animals Trespassing
6-2-14: Notice To Owner; Redemption
6-2-15: Dog Bite
6-2-16: Poisonous Snakes; Wild Animals
6-2-17: Disposition Of Unclaimed, Unredeemed Or Infected Animals
6-2-18: Adoption And Disposition Of Impounded Dogs
6-2-19: Nuisances Enumerated
6-2-20: Unlawful Practices
6-2-21: Revocation Of City License After Third Impoundment
6-2-22: Penalties
6-2-23: Appointment Of Rabies Control Authority; Providing For Rabies Control
Program
6-2-24: Rabies Control Authority; Investigate Report Of Person Bitten By Rabies
Susceptible Animal; Ensure Proper Procedures Carried Out For Confinement,
Testing, Quarantine Or Euthanasia Of Biting Animal
6-2-25: Rabies Control Authority To Investigate Case Or Suspected Case Of
Animal Rabies; Authority Of Rabies Control Authority To Enter Private Property;
Destruction Of Head Of Rabies Susceptible Animal Prohibited
6-2-26: Management Of Animals That Have Bitten Persons; Responsibility Of Owner
For Costs Of Quarantine, Veterinary Care And Examination
6-2-27: Management Of Animals That Have Been In Close Contact With Animal
Suspected Or Known To Have Rabies; Responsibility Of Owner For Costs Of
Quarantine, Veterinary Care And Examination
6-2-28: Owner Required To Maintain Dog, Cat Or Ferret Currently Vaccinated;
Exemption By Licensed Veterinarian; Proof That Cat Or Ferret Currently
Vaccinated Or Exempted From Vaccination Required Before Entering State;
Impoundment; State Veterinarian Required To Review Revisions Of Recommendations
For Vaccination
6-2-29: Veterinarian's Issuance Of Certificate Of Vaccination And Rabies
Vaccination Tags; Cooperation With Investigation By Rabies Control Authority
6-2-30: Prohibited Activities On Private Property Involving Bat, Skunk,
Raccoon, Fox Or Coyote; Relinquishment Of Animal; Exemptions
6-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CARLIN ANIMAL, DOG REGULATIONS. (Ord. 158, 5-
11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The person appointed by the chief of police of the city
with the approval of the board, for the purposes of enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, together with his deputies and authorized
representatives.
ANIMALS: Any and all types of livestock, dogs and all other animals, both
domestic and wild, male and female, singular and plural.
BOARD: The elected officials of the city of Carlin.
COMMERCIAL KENNEL: Any licensed establishment at which dogs are bred, raised
for sale, trained, rented, boarded, cared for or quarantined, for profit,
excluding dental, medical or surgical care. This definition shall not apply to
the premises of a private dog fancier and the animals raised thereon.
CRUELTY OR TORTURE: Every act of omission or commission whereby unjustifiable
physical pain, suffering or death is caused to any animal.
CUSTODIAN: Any person who has custody of any animal or permits the same to be
kept or to stay on or about such person's premises.
DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL: Any animal which shall bite or attempt to bite or
have the propensity to bite any human or animal except that any animal that
bites or attempts to bite any person or other animal unlawfully upon its
owner's premises or which is provoked or teased, shall not be deemed a
dangerous animal.
DOG: Means both male and female.
DOG FANCIER: Any person owning, keeping or possessing at one location on his
property in safe and adequate cages in the completely enclosed building up to
six (6) adult dogs for the purpose of showing in recognized dog shows, field
trials or obedience trials; for working or hunting; or for improving the
variety of breed in temperament or conformation with a view to exhibition in
shows or trials.
IMPOUND: Shall not include or be construed as the voluntary turning in of any
animal by the owner or custodian of such animal.
KENNEL OR PET SHOP: "Kennel" shall mean any profit making or commercial
establishment, premises or part thereof, maintained for the boarding of
animals. "Pet shop" shall mean any profit making or commercial establishment,
premises or part thereof, maintained for the purchase, sale, exchange, hire or
keeping of animals of any type; except that the term shall not include
livestock auctions.
NEUTERED DOG: A dog, whether male or female, which has been surgically rendered
incapable of producing offspring as evidenced by a signed statement to that
effect by a licensed veterinarian.
NONNEUTERED DOG: A dog, whether male or female, which has not been surgically
rendered incapable of producing offspring, as evidenced by a signed statement
to that effect by a licensed veterinarian.
PUBLIC PLACES: Includes streets, alleys, public buildings, parks, schoolyards,
and all other property owned or controlled by the city of Carlin, county of
Elko or state of Nevada.
QUARANTINE: To isolate; to keep from normal contact or normal association with
any person or animal for a minimum period of fourteen (14) days.
RUNNING AT LARGE: Except as herein expressly provided, means within the city
and off the premises of the owner or custodian of the animal and not
accompanied by the owner, a member of the immediate family of the owner, or the
custodian of such animal and controlled by a leash (not to exceed 8 feet), at
"heel" beside a competent person and obedient to that person's commands, or
under voice control.
VETERINARIAN: A person who is validly currently licensed to practice veterinary
medicine in the state of Nevada. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988; amd.
Ord. 171, 8-12-1992)
6-2-3: CITY ANIMAL SHELTER:
A public city animal shelter is hereby provided and established, and the same
shall be located at such place in the city as shall be fixed by the board.
(Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-4: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
The chief of police of the city shall appoint an animal control officer by and
with the approval of the board. If at any time there should be no duly
appointed and acting animal control officer in the city, the duties of animal
control officer shall be performed by the police officers until an animal
control officer is appointed and approved by the board. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988,
eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-5: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER; DUTIES:
   (A)   The animal control officer is hereby empowered to enforce all
provisions of this chapter and all laws of the state of Nevada relating to the
care, treatment, control, regulations and impounding of animals. The animal
control officer is further empowered to take up, impound and safely keep any
animal found to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The animal control officer shall keep a true and complete record of
the number and description of all animals taken into his custody, with the date
of their receipt, and the date and manner of their disposal, with the fees and
charges collected on account of the animals and the disposition thereof. He
shall also provide necessary subsistence of all animals while in his custody.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere or attempt to
interfere with the animal control officer in the performance of any duty
imposed by the provisions of this chapter and every person who shall unlawfully
take or attempt to take any dog seized, pursuant to the provisions hereof, from
the custody of the animal control officer, and every person who shall remove or
attempt to remove from the city animal shelter any animal impounded therein,
without having first redeemed the same as provided or obtained permission from
the animal control officer to do so, shall be subject to the penalties provided
by this chapter. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-6: INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR:
The board shall have the authority to provide for by contract the maintenance
and operation of the city animal shelter by an independent contractor. (Ord.
158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-7: HARBORING ANIMALS; MALTREATMENT OF ANIMALS:
   (A)   No owner or person in possession of any animal, other than a domestic
pet, shall keep or harbor the same within the city.
   (B)   No owner or person in possession of any animal or animals, shall
maltreat, starve, torture, injure or poison any such animal, regardless of
whether such animal is trespassing or running at large, or have the right or
authority under this chapter to kill any such animal. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988,
eff. 5-19-1988)
6-2-8: ANIMALS AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in possession of any animal or
animals to allow such animal or animals to run at large within the city. All
such animals running at large within the city shall be taken up by any person
and committed to the custody of the animal control officer. (Ord. 158, 5-11-
1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-9: ANIMALS CORRALLED OR FENCED:
Animals shall be allowed to be maintained within the city if the same are
properly corralled or fenced from the public portions of the city in zoned
areas of the city permitting the maintenance of such animals. (Ord. 158, 5-11-
1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-10: DOG LICENSE AND INOCULATION REQUIRED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person harboring, owning, maintaining or
having in his custody or possession any dog unless such dog is licensed and
inoculated as provided within this chapter.
   (B)   The city clerk shall not license any dog until:
      1.   That said dog has been inoculated with canine and antirabies vaccine
approved by and in the manner prescribed by the Nevada state department of
agriculture, and the owner or custodian of said dog provided proof of such.
      2.   The owner or custodian of said dog shall furnish a statement from a
veterinarian to the effect that said dog need not be or should not be
inoculated or the records kept at the office of the city clerk provide evidence
the inoculation is not necessary for the year being licensed. (Ord. 158, 5-11-
1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
   (C)   No person shall keep more than three (3) dogs over six (6) months of
age at any place, on any one premises, or in any residence, located within the
city, used or occupied by human beings without first obtaining a multidog
permit from the city. If the application is granted, said permit shall be
issued with such restrictions or on such conditions as may be deemed necessary
or advisable by the animal control officer to prevent the keeping of such dogs
from becoming a nuisance and is subject to revocation for violation of the
restrictions or conditions. A multidog permit shall be issued for an annual fee
as set by resolution of the board, which is not subject to proration or refund.
Any multidog owner meeting the provisions of this subsection and having a
validly issued permit in his possession need not have the property where the
dogs are maintained rezoned. A multidog owner may not in any event keep and
maintain on his property more than six (6) adult dogs over the age of six (6)
months. Such permit shall be for a term of one calendar year. (Ord. 171, 8-12-
1992)
   (D)   Every person owning, operating or maintaining a commercial kennel and/
or pet shop within the city must first obtain a kennel and/or pet shop business
license required by the city to operate said kennel and/or pet shop. The
issuance of any license therefor shall at all times be subject to planning and
zoning regulations of the city, provided, however, that this section as to the
business license shall not apply to quarters maintained by political entities
for the purpose of using animals in law enforcement or animal control or to
quarters maintained by veterinarians for the purpose of surveillance of
treatment of animals on a temporary basis.
   (E)   Any person required to obtain any permit under any of the provisions
of this section shall permit their premises to be inspected by the animal
control officer at reasonable times, and the animal control officer shall
approve the permit if he finds all of the following to be true:
      1.   Keeping the dogs at the location specified in the application will
not violate any ordinance, rule or regulation of the city or any law of the
state of Nevada; and
      2.   The premises contain an adequate enclosure for keeping the dogs; and
      3.   Maintenance of the dogs will not endanger the peace, health or
safety of persons residing in the city; and
      4.   The premises are capable of being maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, and any dog therein will not be subject to neglect, cruelty or
abuse; and
      5.   Keeping and maintenance of the dogs will not constitute a nuisance.
   (F)   Every person owning or having the care, custody or control of, or
maintaining any dog or dogs, six (6) months old or older in the city, shall pay
to the city clerk an annual license fee as set by resolution by the board for
each neutered dog and each nonneutered dog. All owners of dogs said to be
neutered must have proof of neutering or a certificate from a veterinarian.
Such license shall be for the calendar year, or the parts thereof remaining
after the date such license is obtained and shall be payable in advance.
No prorations or deductions shall be made on fractional parts of any year. All
dog licenses shall expire on December 31 of the year in which issued. The
annual license fee of dogs not previously licensed hereunder shall be due and
payable when such dog reaches six (6) months of age or older, or upon the
ownership or possession of an unlicensed dog six (6) months of age or older, or
upon the owner or custodian of any dog six (6) months of age or older
establishing residence in the city. If any dog license payable hereunder is not
paid within sixty (60) days from the date it became due, a penalty as set by
resolution of the board, shall be paid to the city clerk with and in addition
to the regular annual license fee for such dog.
   (G)   It shall be the duty of the person making application for any dog
license to provide the city clerk with the name and address of the owner or
custodian of such dog and the name, breed, color of such dog owned or kept by
such owner or custodian. Upon proof, by the applicant for any dog license of
the inoculation herein required, the payment of the proper annual license fee
and any penalties applicable and upon providing the information herein
required, the city clerk shall issue an appropriate dog license or certificate
stating the calendar year for which such license fee is paid, the date of
payment, the name and residence address of the persons to whom such license is
issued, and the description of the dog and shall issue a metal or plastic tag
number to correspond with the license or certificate with the calendar year
stamped thereon. If such tag shall be lost at any time prior to the expiration
date thereof, it shall be the duty of the owner, or person having control of
the dog for which said lost tag was issued, to procure a new tag and pay a fee
as set by resolution of the board therefor to the clerk.
   (H)   All dogs kept, harbored, or maintained in the city limits of the city,
six (6) months of age or older shall be inoculated by a veterinarian with an
antirabies vaccine approved by and in the manner and at such intervals as may
be prescribed by the Nevada department of agriculture, from time to time,
provided that every dog shall be reinoculated at not more than twenty four (24)
month intervals thereafter if inoculated with modified alive vaccine, or at not
more than twelve (12) month intervals if inoculated with killed vaccine. It
shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any dog to keep, maintain, or
allow such dog to remain within the city limits of the city unless such dog
shall have been inoculated with antirabies vaccine by a veterinarian at the
time and in the manner specified in this chapter.
   (I)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs owned by or in
the custody or in the control of persons who are nonresidents of the city and
are temporarily within the city for a period of not to exceed sixty (60) days,
nor to dogs brought into the city exclusively for the purpose of participating
in any dog show or exhibition, nor to a dog which has been trained and is
actually being used to act as a guide for the blind, provided that no such dog
shall run at large in the city and no owner or custodian of such dog shall
permit the same to run at large in the city.
   (J)   Dog tags and licenses shall not be transferable from one dog to
another, and no refund shall be made on any dog license fee because of death of
the dog or the owner's leaving the city before the expiration of the license.
   (K)   All proceeds collected under the provisions of this section for the
licensing of dogs shall be deposited in the general fund of the city. (Ord.
158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-11: DOG COLLAR; LICENSE TAG:
Every owner or custodian of a dog licensed under the provisions of this chapter
shall provide such dog with a suitable collar or harness around the neck or
forepart of the body of such dog to which the license tag issued by the city
and the required inoculation tag shall be affixed, and shall see that the
collar and the tag are constantly worn. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-12: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any dog, whether licensed or
unlicensed under this chapter, to permit or allow such dog to run at large
within the city. For purposes of this chapter, all dogs within the city and off
the premises of the owner or custodian of such dog and not in an automobile,
trailer or similar confinement, or which is not effectively restrained by a
leash, strap, chain or cord not exceeding eight feet (8') in length attached to
the collar or harness of such dog and held by some person or made fast to some
stationary object, at "heel" beside a competent person and obedient to that
person's commands, or under voice control shall be deemed running at large. It
is the owner's or custodian's responsibility to keep such dog confined and
restrained in the manner stated above. There shall be no excuse for failure to
comply with this subsection. Any person finding any dog running at large may
apprehend, capture or take up such dog by any reasonable or humane means, and
immediately turn it over to the animal control officer who shall take such dog
and return it to its rightful owner, if known. Upon returning such dog to the
owner, the animal control officer may issue a citation to the owner for
violation of this chapter and such citation shall indicate that said owner
shall appear before the municipal judge for disposition of said citation at the
date indicated on the citation. If the dog's rightful owner cannot be found
after a good faith effort made by the animal control officer, such dog may be
impounded in the city animal shelter.
This shall not apply to guide dogs for the blind – "seeing eye dogs". Whenever
a "seeing eye dog" is found to be running at large or trespassing and is
captured, the animal control officer shall take such dog and return it to it's
owner. In such instance, no citation shall be issued and no fine shall be
levied. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-13: ANIMALS TRESPASSING:
Any person may apprehend, capture or take up the same by any reasonable and
humane means any animal trespassing upon his property to his injury or
annoyance and immediately turn it over to the owner or custodian of such animal
or to the animal control officer. It shall be unlawful for any person to turn
over any animal to the animal control officer without revealing who the owner
or custodian of such animal is, if such person knows the identity of the owner
or custodian. Upon returning such dog to the owner, the animal control officer
may issue a citation to the owner for violation of this chapter and such
citation shall indicate that said owner shall appear before the municipal judge
for disposition of said citation at the date indicated on the citation. If the
dog's rightful owner cannot be found after a good faith effort made by the
animal control officer, such dog may be impounded in the city animal shelter.
(Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-14: NOTICE TO OWNER; REDEMPTION:
As soon as possible after the impound of any animal, the owner or custodian of
such animal shall be notified by the animal control officer, or if the owner or
custodian of such animal is unknown or cannot be found, written notice shall be
posted for five (5) days at the office of the city clerk. The notice will
describe the animal and the place and time of taking and place where impounded.
The owner or custodian of any dog so impounded may reclaim such dog upon the
payment of all costs and charges incurred by the city for impounding and
maintenance of such dog. The fees charged will be set by the board by
resolution.
A dog may not be adopted from the city animal shelter unless the prospective
owner shall agree to have such dog neutered within ten (10) days. Proof of
neutering shall be presented to the animal control officer. Failure to comply
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subject to penalties.
Any owner or custodian reclaiming any dog shall provide proof of inoculation
and licensing by the city. If said dog is uninoculated and unlicensed, said
owner or custodian shall be given five (5) days to have said dog inoculated and
licensed by this city. Proof of inoculation and licensing shall be presented to
the animal control officer. Failure to comply with this subsection shall be
deemed a violation of this subsection and shall be subject to penalties. The
animal control officer may require proof of ownership from any person
attempting to redeem any animal as the owner or custodian thereof. (Ord. 158,
5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-15: DOG BITE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly own or keep any
vicious or dangerous animal within the city, unless properly contained in an
enclosed area approved by the chief of police. It shall be prima facie evidence
that an animal is dangerous when it has bitten any person, other than a person
who was trespassing upon the property of the owner or custodian of the animal,
or when it has attacked or has bitten, injured or killed any livestock or other
animal, or when it is an animal of vicious character, habit or disposition.
(Ord. 171, 8-12-1992)
   (B)   Should any dog, licensed or unlicensed, while running at large or
trespassing, bite any person or another animal, such dog may be captured by any
reasonable and humane means and it shall be immediately turned over to a city
police officer who shall take custody and confine such animal for a period of
ten (10) days or until a written release is secured from the animal control
officer or a licensed veterinarian. If the owner is not present the animal
control officer or any police officer may seize such animal, whether on or off
the owner's premises, and such animal shall be impounded, at the owner's
expense, for observation, and shall not be released for a period of ten (10)
days or until a written release is issued by said animal control officer or
licensed veterinarian. If a dog has been impounded and the owner appears and
claims the dog, the animal control officer shall release the dog to the owner
who shall confine the dog on his premises for the remainder of the ten (10) day
period. Any animal which has been quarantined and returned to the custody of
the owner or custodian and is not continued to be quarantined for the full ten
(10) day period may be seized, whether or not on the owner's property, by a
city police officer or animal control officer and taken into custody for the
remainder of the ten (10) day period. (Ord. 182, 1-22-1997)
   (C)   If any animal so impounded develops rabies, or becomes vicious beyond
control, said animal shall be destroyed in a humane manner.
   (D)   No person shall kill, or cause to be killed, any rabid animal, any
animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any animal biting a
human, except as herein provided, nor remove the same from the city limits
without written permission from the animal control officer.
   (E)   If a dog has bitten three (3) times, the owner must show cause why
that dog should not be removed from the city. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-
1988)
6-2-16: POISONOUS SNAKES; WILD ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, have, raise, harbor or maintain
any poisonous or dangerous snake or reptile, or any dangerous or vicious wild
animal anywhere within the limits of the city, unless first obtaining written
permission from the chief of police. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-17: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED, UNREDEEMED OR INFECTED ANIMALS:
It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to keep all animals
impounded under the provisions of this chapter for a period of not less than
five (5) days, unless sooner redeemed, released by the owner or disposed of
pursuant to this chapter. If at the expiration of five (5) days from the date
of notice to the owner or the posting of notice any animal is unclaimed it may
be adopted as herein provided and if no person requests to adopt such animal
under the procedures herein provided, such animal may be destroyed in a humane
manner. Any animal which appears to be suffering from rabies, mange, or other
infections or dangerous disease shall not be released but may be forthwith
destroyed by humane means. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-18: ADOPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS:
If the ownership of a dog is not proven within five (5) days then such dog may
be destroyed in a humane manner under the direction of the animal control
officer; provided, however, that any such unredeemed dog hereby authorized for
destruction may be adopted, for a fee set by the board by resolution, by any
person requesting the same. Any dog adopted which shall be kept within the city
limits shall be inoculated and licensed in accordance with this chapter. Proof
of such inoculation and licensing shall be presented to the animal control
officer within five (5) days. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-19: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian to permit or allow his
dog to habitually howl, bark or in any other manner disturb the peace and
quietude of the city or of any person within the city. Such conduct on the part
of any dog is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the animal control officer to notify the owner
or custodian of the public nuisance. In the event the nuisance is not ceased,
the animal control officer shall issue a citation to the owner or custodian of
the dog. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-20: UNLAWFUL PRACTICES:
Except as herein otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to do
any of the following:
   (A)   To maliciously or mischievously apprehend, detain, secrete or impound
the animal of another person, or to knowingly aid or abet in the commission of
any such act by some other person. Any such person aiding or abetting shall be
considered a principal.
   (B)   To maltreat, starve, torture, injure or poison any animal, or having
the right or authority under this chapter to kill any animal, to kill such
animal in any way except in a humane manner.
   (C)   To trap any animal with other than a humane "live" trap which will
inflict no physical injury upon the animal; to lure or entice, by means of food
or otherwise, any animal into other than a humane "live" trap; to leave any
animal trapped by such person without food, water or shelter, for an
unreasonable period of time.
   (D)   To dispose of any trapped animal in any fashion not otherwise provided
by law. If disposal is not permitted by law said person shall call the animal
control officer to have said animal picked up, deliver it to the city animal
shelter, or otherwise dispose of it as directed by the animal control officer.
   (E)   To overcrowd any animal in any crate, box or other receptacle or fail
to provide food, water, shelter or sanitation for same.
   (F)   To kill any animal running at large except as provided in this chapter
in connection with dangerous, fierce, vicious or infected animals or animals
attacking persons or livestock.
   (G)   To take off or remove from any animal its collar or harness or city
license tag or inoculation tag without the consent of the owner or custodian of
such animal.
   (H)   To place any city dog tag or inoculation tag on any dog other than the
dog to which such tag was issued or registered.
   (I)   To take any animal out of the custody, control or possession of the
animal control officer or city animal shelter or any other police officer,
exercising his duty under this chapter by stealth, fraud, force or falsely
claiming to be the owner or custodian of such animal.
   (J)   To interrupt or hinder the animal control officer or any police
officer discharging his duties under the provisions of this chapter.
   (K)   To abandon any animal, living or dead, in a public street, road, alley
or any other public place, or upon the private property of himself or another.
   (L)   To unjustifiably administer any poisonous drug or substance with
intent that the same shall be taken by an animal, whether such animal be the
property of himself or another, or whether said drug or substance exposed upon
such person's property, the private property of another, or any public place;
provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to prevent or restrict the
animal control officer or health officer in the exercise and performance of the
powers and duties of this chapter.
   (M)   To wilfully throw, drop or place, upon any road, highway, street,
alley or public place, or upon the private property of himself or another, any
glass, nails, pieces of metal or other substances or devices calculated to
wound, disable or injure any animal.
   (N)   To carry or enclose, or cause to be carried or enclosed, in or upon
any vehicle or conveyance, any animal in a cruel or inhumane manner.
      1.   No person having charge or custody of any animal, as owner or
otherwise, shall place or confine such animal or allow such animal to be placed
or confined or to remain in a motor vehicle under such conditions or for such
period of time as may endanger the health or well being of such animal due to
heat, cold, lack of food or drink, or such other circumstances as may
reasonably be expected to cause suffering, disability or death.
      2.   The animal control officer or any police officer of the city who
finds an animal in a motor vehicle in violation of this section may break and
enter the motor vehicle if necessary to remove the animal. The officer removing
the animal shall take the animal to the city animal shelter or to a
veterinarian clinic for safekeeping and shall in the event the person having
custody cannot be otherwise contacted, leave in a prominent place in the motor
vehicle a written notice bearing his name and office and the address where the
animal may be claimed by the owner thereof. The animal will be surrendered to
the owner if the owner claims the animal within five (5) days from the time the
animal was removed from the motor vehicle and pays all reasonable charges that
have accrued for the maintenance of the animal. In the event the owner cannot
be contacted, or expresses no interest in reclaiming the animal within five (5)
days after contact or efforts to contact, the animal control officer may
dispose of the animal, in a humane manner.
   (O)   To use any live animal as or for a target.
   (P)   To dye or color any animal for purpose of concealing its identity.
(Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-21: REVOCATION OF CITY LICENSE AFTER THIRD IMPOUNDMENT:
All dog licenses issued as provided by this chapter may be revoked whenever a
dog has been impounded for the third time. It shall be unlawful to keep or
maintain any dog in the city after its license has been revoked.
   (A)   Such dog may not be released from the city animal shelter except with
the written permission of the animal control officer who shall first obtain,
from the owner or custodian, a written agreement that such dog will, if
released, be permanently removed from the city. If the owner of such dog
refuses to so agree, the dog shall be disposed of in a humane manner.
   (B)   The owner or custodian may sign such an agreement under protest and
appeal by a written notice to the board for reinstatement of the dog license.
Pending a decision on such appeal, such dog shall be kept either in the city
animal shelter or outside the city limits.
   (C)   The board shall set such appeal for hearing within forty five (45)
days after the receipt of such appeal and give the owner or custodian of such
dog the opportunity to present witnesses in their behalf. The board's action
shall be final. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-22: PENALTIES:
Any violation or continued violation of this chapter, or any nuisance may be
enjoined or abated by appropriate proceedings instituted by the city. All
penalties provided under this chapter shall double in amount or term if
succeeding similar offenses occur within a three (3) year period. The receipt
and conviction of three (3) violations of this chapter by the owner or
custodian of any animal within a three (3) year period shall constitute prima
facie evidence for a nuisance. All fines imposed by the municipal judge and/or
collected for the violation of this chapter shall be deposited in the general
fund of the city. (Ord. 158, 5-11-1988, eff. 5-18-1988)
6-2-23: APPOINTMENT OF RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY; PROVIDING FOR RABIES CONTROL
PROGRAM:
   (A)   The city hereby establishes the Carlin police department as the rabies
control authority.
   (B)   All dogs, cats and ferrets within the city must be vaccinated against
rabies as prescribed in section
6-2-28 of this chapter. The rabies control authority is authorized to issue a
citation to the owner of a dog, cat or ferret which is not vaccinated against
rabies as prescribed in section
6-2-28 of this chapter. Only a certificate of vaccination against rabies issued
pursuant to section
6-2-29 of this chapter shall be acceptable as proof of vaccination against
rabies. (Ord. 173, 4-14-1993)
6-2-24: RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY; INVESTIGATE REPORT OF PERSON BITTEN BY RABIES
SUSCEPTIBLE ANIMAL; ENSURE PROPER PROCEDURES CARRIED OUT FOR CONFINEMENT,
TESTING, QUARANTINE OR EUTHANASIA OF BITING ANIMAL:
   (A)   The rabies control authority shall investigate each report of a person
bitten by a rabies susceptible animal to confirm the report, to gather
information about the circumstances of the biting incident, to determine the
disposition of the biting animal and to make recommendations for post exposure
rabies prophylaxis.
   (B)   The rabies control authority shall ensure that the proper procedures
are carried out for the confinement, testing, quarantine or euthanasia of the
biting animal as specified in section
6-2-26 of this chapter. Lagomorphs (rabbits and hares) and rodents must be
submitted for laboratory testing under exceptional circumstances such as an
unprovoked attack. (Ord. 173, 4-14-1993)
6-2-25: RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY TO INVESTIGATE CASE OR SUSPECTED CASE OF
ANIMAL RABIES; AUTHORITY OF RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY TO ENTER PRIVATE PROPERTY;
DESTRUCTION OF HEAD OF RABIES SUSCEPTIBLE ANIMAL PROHIBITED:
   (A)   The rabies control authority shall investigate each report of a case
having animal rabies or suspected case considered to have animal rabies to
confirm the diagnosis, to identify the source of infection, to identify any
human or animal contacts, to order the disposition of rabid or suspected rabid
animals and to make recommendations for post exposure rabies prophylaxis.
   (B)   The rabies control authority may enter private property for the
purpose of seizing an animal that has bitten a person, to determine if any
animal kept or harbored therein has rabies or has been exposed to rabies, or to
implement orders for quarantine, confinement, confiscation or euthanasia of an
animal.
   (C)   Unless authorized by the rabies control authority, a person shall not
destroy or allow to be destroyed the head of a rabies susceptible animal which
has bitten a person. (Ord. 173, 4-14-1993)
6-2-26: MANAGEMENT OF ANIMALS THAT HAVE BITTEN PERSONS; RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER
FOR COSTS OF QUARANTINE, VETERINARY CARE AND EXAMINATION:
   (A)   The rabies control authority shall cause a dog or cat, regardless of
current vaccination against rabies, which has bitten a person, to be
quarantined and observed for ten (10) days following the bite under the
supervision of a licensed veterinarian or other person designated by the rabies
control authority. The observation must be within an enclosure or with
restraints deemed adequate by the rabies control authority to prevent direct
contact with a person or an animal.
   (B)   The dog or cat must be examined by a licensed veterinarian at the
first sign of illness during the ten (10) days of observation. Any illness must
be reported immediately to the rabies control authority. If signs of rabies
develop during the ten (10) days of observation the dog or cat must be
euthanatized and its head removed and shipped under refrigeration for
examination at the laboratory of the department of agriculture. If at the end
of the quarantine period, the animal is free of all signs of rabies, the animal
must be returned to its owner upon payment of all costs of quarantine and
veterinary care and examination.
   (C)   If, after a reasonable effort is made to locate the owner of an
unwanted or stray dog or cat, the owner is unknown or cannot be located, or if
the owner agrees, the unwanted or stray dog or cat which has bitten a person
may by euthanatized and the head submitted for laboratory examination without a
period of quarantine.
   (D)   A bat, raccoon, skunk, fox or unvaccinated ferret which has bitten a
person must be euthanatized immediately without a period of quarantine and the
head submitted for laboratory examination.
   (E)   A vaccinated ferret or other species of animal which has bitten a
person must be managed as deemed appropriate in the discretion of the rabies
control authority.
   (F)   The owner of an animal quarantined pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter is responsible for all costs of quarantine and veterinary care and
examination. (Ord. 173, 4-14-1993)
6-2-27: MANAGEMENT OF ANIMALS THAT HAVE BEEN IN CLOSE CONTACT WITH ANIMAL
SUSPECTED OR KNOWN TO HAVE RABIES; RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER FOR COSTS OF
QUARANTINE, VETERINARY CARE AND EXAMINATION:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a wild or exotic animal
that is rabies susceptible, including an unvaccinated ferret, in close contact
with an animal suspected or known to have rabies must be euthanatized
immediately. The rabies control authority may exempt a rare or valuable animal
from the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Unless the owner of the animal objects, a dog or cat which has not
been vaccinated pursuant to subsection
6-2-28(A) of this chapter and which is considered by the rabies control
authority to have been in close contact with an animal suspected or known to
have rabies, must be euthanatized immediately. If the owner of the animal
objects, the dog or cat must be immediately vaccinated against rabies and
quarantined within an enclosure or with restraints deemed adequate by the
rabies control authority to prevent direct contact with a person or an animal
for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days, under the supervision of a
licensed veterinarian or other person designated by the rabies control
authority. The dog or cat must be vaccinated one month before release.
   (C)   A dog, cat or ferret which has been vaccinated pursuant to subsection
6-2-28(A) of this chapter and which is considered by the rabies control
authority to have been in close contact with an animal suspected or known to
have rabies must be:
      1.   Immediately revaccinated and confined for ninety (90) days in a
manner prescribed by the rabies control authority; or
      2.   Upon the request of the owner of the dog, cat or ferret,
euthanatized.
   (D)   A domesticated animal of a rabies susceptible species, other than a
dog, cat or ferret, which is considered by the rabies control authority to have
been in close contact with an animal suspected or known to have rabies, must be
managed according to the discretion of the rabies control authority.
   (E)   The owner of an animal confined pursuant to the provisions of this
section is responsible for all costs of confinement and veterinary care and
examination.
   (F)   As used in this section, "in close contact with an animal suspected or
known to have rabies" means within the past one hundred eighty (180) days, to
have been bitten, mouthed or mauled by, or closely confined on the same
premises with an animal either suspected or known to have rabies. (Ord. 173, 4-
14-1993)
6-2-28: OWNER REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN DOG, CAT OR FERRET CURRENTLY VACCINATED;
EXEMPTION BY LICENSED VETERINARIAN; PROOF THAT CAT OR FERRET CURRENTLY
VACCINATED OR EXEMPTED FROM VACCINATION REQUIRED BEFORE ENTERING STATE;
IMPOUNDMENT; STATE VETERINARIAN REQUIRED TO REVIEW REVISIONS OF RECOMMENDATIONS
FOR VACCINATION:
   (A)   An owner of a dog, cat or ferret shall maintain the dog, cat or ferret
currently vaccinated against rabies in accordance with the recommendations set
forth in "The Compendium of Animal Rabies Control", a publication of the
National Association of State Public Health Veterinarians, Inc., which is
hereby adopted by reference. "The Compendium of Animal Rabies Control" is
available, free of charge, from Virginia Department of Health, Office of
Epidemiology, 109 Governor Street, Room 701, Richmond, VA 23219.
   (B)   A licensed veterinarian may exempt a dog, cat or ferret from
vaccination for health reasons. The veterinarian shall record the reasons for
exemption and a specific description of the dog, cat or ferret, including name,
age, sex, breed and color on a rabies vaccination certificate which must bear
the owner's name and address. The veterinarian shall also record whether the
reason for exemption is permanent, and if it is not, the date the exemption
expires.
   (C)   A dog, cat or ferret exempted from or too young for vaccination
against rabies must be confined to the premises of the owner or kept under
physical restraint by the owner.
   (D)   If the owner of a dog, cat or ferret violates any provision of this
section, the rabies control authority may impound the dog, cat or ferret.
   (E)   The director of the Nevada division of animal industry of the
department of agriculture (state veterinarian) shall review any revision or
amendment of the recommendations for vaccination against rabies of dogs, cats
and ferrets set forth in "The Compendium of Animal Rabies Control" to determine
whether the revision or amendment made to the recommendations is appropriate
for application in this state. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this section, a revision or amendment of the recommendations is effective in
this state ten (10) days after its revision or amendment unless the director of
the Nevada division of animal industry of the department of agriculture (state
veterinarian) files an objection to the amendment or revision with the Nevada
state board of health. (Ord. 173, 4-14-1993)
6-2-29: VETERINARIAN'S ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION AND RABIES
VACCINATION TAGS; COOPERATION WITH INVESTIGATION BY RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY:
   (A)   A veterinarian who vaccinates an animal against rabies shall complete
two (2) copies of a certificate of vaccination against rabies for the animal
vaccinated. The certificate of vaccination against rabies must include, but is
not limited to:
      1.   The name and address of the owner of the animal.
      2.   A description of the animal, including the name, age, sex, breed,
color and weight of the animal.
      3.   The date the vaccination was administered.
      4.   The type of vaccine used (killed or MLV).
      5.   The manufacturer and lot number of the vaccine.
      6.   The date the animal is due for revaccination based on the duration
of immunity provided by the vaccine according to its label.
      7.   The number on the rabies vaccination tag issued pursuant to
subsection (C) of this section.
      8.   The name and address of the veterinarian.
      9.   The signature of the veterinarian who administered the vaccine.
   (B)   The veterinarian shall give the original copy of the certificate of
vaccination against rabies to the owner of the animal and retain one copy for
the period that the vaccination is current.
   (C)   A veterinarian who vaccinates an animal against rabies shall issue to
the owner a metal rabies vaccination tag, serially numbered to match the number
on the certificate of vaccination against rabies. A rabies vaccination tag must
not conflict with the shape or color of local license tags.
   (D)   A veterinarian shall cooperate with any investigation of an animal
bite, or of a case having rabies or suspected case considered to have rabies by
providing all information requested by the rabies control authority. (Ord. 173,
4-14-1993)
6-2-30: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY INVOLVING BAT, SKUNK,
RACCOON, FOX OR COYOTE; RELINQUISHMENT OF ANIMAL; EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (B) of this section:
      1.   A person shall not intentionally keep, harbor or in any way care
for, maintain, lodge or feed on private property a bat, skunk, raccoon, fox or
coyote.
      2.   Any person violating the provisions of this subsection (A) shall,
upon request of the rabies control authority and the Nevada department of
wildlife, relinquish the animal to the rabies control authority or the Nevada
department of wildlife.
   (B)   The rabies control authority with concurrence of the Nevada department
of wildlife may grant to any person an exemption from the provisions of this
section. (Ord. 173, 4-14-1993)
CHAPTER 3
CURFEW – MINORS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Short Title
6-3-2: Definitions
6-3-3: Curfew Hours For Minors
6-3-4: Responsibility Of Owners Of Public Places
6-3-5: Parents' Responsibility And Civil Liability
6-3-6: Special Functions
6-3-7: Procedures
6-3-8: Penalties
6-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as CURFEW – MINORS. (Ord. 180, 12-
11-1996)
6-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
CITY: The city of Carlin.
CUSTODIAN: Any person over the age of eighteen (18) who is in loco parentis to
a juvenile.
GUARDIAN: Any person other than a parent, who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or place
to which the general public has access and a right to resort for business,
entertainment or other lawful purpose. A public place shall include, but not be
limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, cafe, theater,
drugstore, poolroom, shopping center and any other place devoted to amusement
or entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the front or
immediate area of the above. (Ord. 180, 12-11-1996)
6-3-3: CURFEW HOURS FOR MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any minor to be idle, remain, wander, stroll or play
in any public place either on foot or cruise about without a set destination in
any vehicle in, about or upon any place in the city between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., Sunday through Thursday and
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., Friday and Saturday during the school year and between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., Sunday through
Thursday and between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M., Friday and Saturday during the Elko County School District
summer vacation, unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other
adult person having custody or control of such minor or unless the minor is on
an emergency errand of specific business or activity directed or permitted by
his parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the
minor or where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by some
legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation. (Ord. 180, 12-11-1996)
6-3-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS OF PUBLIC PLACES:
Unless otherwise permitted in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation operating or having charge of any public place to
knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors under the age of eighteen
(18) during curfew hours for minors. (Ord. 180, 12-11-1996)
6-3-5: PARENTS' RESPONSIBILITY AND CIVIL LIABILITY:
   (A)   Civil Infraction: It shall be a civil infraction for the parent,
guardian or other adult person having custody or control of any minor under the
age of eighteen (18) to suffer or permit or by ineffective control to allow
such person to be on the streets or sidewalks or in any public property or
public place within the city during curfew hours for minors. However, the
provisions of this section do not apply to a minor accompanied by his parent,
guardian, custodian or other adult person having the care, custody or control
of the minor, or if the minor is on any emergency errand or specific business
or activity directed by his parent, guardian, custodian or other adult having
the care and custody of the minor or if the parent, guardian or other adult
person herein has made a missing person notification to the police department.
The issuance of a citation to a parent creates a rebuttable presumption of
ineffective control of the juvenile.
   (B)   Notice Of Civil Infraction; Form: A notice of civil infraction must be
on the form which is prescribed by the city police department and must contain
the following information:
      1.   The location at which the violation occurred;
      2.   The date and time of the violation;
      3.   The signature of the person who issues the notice of civil
infraction;
      4.   The section of this code which allegedly is being violated;
      5.   Information which advises of the manner in which, and the time
within which, the notice of civil infraction should be answered;
      6.   Any other reasonable information which is prescribed by the police
department.
   (C)   Notice Of Civil Infraction; Duties Of Respondent:
      1.   A person who responds to a notice of civil infraction must either:
         (a)   "Admit" the commission of the infraction and pay the appropriate
civil fine, or
         (b)   "Deny" liability for the infraction.
      2.   A person may "admit" pursuant to subsection (C)1(a) of this section
by paying the amount of the civil fine which is appropriate for the violation
which was committed to the Carlin municipal court.
      3.   A person may "deny" liability pursuant to subsection (C)1(b) of this
section only by appearing in person before the Carlin municipal court.
   (D)   Commencement Of Civil Action; Procedure: Judicial enforcement of
notices of civil infraction must be by way of civil suit in the Carlin
municipal court if a person denies liability. A civil action may be commenced
by the filing of a complaint in the name of the city and the issuance of a
summons with respect thereto, and service of such complaint and summons on the
defendant must be made by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed
to the defendant at his/her last known address or in any other matter which is
authorized by law. The proceedings in Carlin municipal court for actions
commenced pursuant to this chapter shall be governed by rules 1 and 3 through
87 of the justice court rules of procedures except that there shall be no right
of trial by jury.
   (E)   Schedule Of Civil Fines: The civil fines imposed upon a parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor violating
this chapter for civil infractions shall be as follows:
 
First civil infraction                                         $ 50.00
Second civil infraction within 1 year of the date of the first 150.00
infraction
Third civil infraction within 1 year of the date of the first  500.00
infraction
 
(Ord. 180, 12-11-1996)
6-3-6: SPECIAL FUNCTIONS:
Any minor attending a special function or entertainment of any church, school,
club or other organization that requires such minor to be out at a later hour
than that called for in section
6-3-3 of this chapter shall be exempt from the provisions of said section,
provided the police officer is able to verify that the minor qualifies under
the provisions of this section for an exemption. The minors who attend the
function shall be required to be in their homes or usual places of abode within
one-half (1/2) hour after the function is ended. (Ord. 180, 12-11-1996)
6-3-7: PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Any violation of section
6-3-3 of this chapter may result in the minor being cited to the juvenile court
for a violation of said section
6-3-3 of this chapter. In addition, the parents of said juvenile may also be
forthwith personally cited to the municipal court for a violation of section
6-3-5 of this chapter. Any violation of section
6-3-4 of this chapter shall result in that business being cited to the
municipal court.
   (B)   After issuance of a citation, if such minor fails to immediately
return to his or her home, he or she shall be taken to the police department
and the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of
such minor shall be notified to come and take charge of the minor. If the
parent, guardian or other adult person above cannot be located or fails to come
and take charge of the minor, the minor shall be released to the juvenile
authorities. (Ord. 180, 12-11-1996)
6-3-8: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any minor violating the provisions of this chapter may be processed in
accordance with the juvenile court law and procedure.
   (B)   Any person other than a parent convicted of any criminal provision of
this chapter shall be sentenced as provided for in section
1-4-1 of this code. Parents found to have committed a civil violation shall be
fined as set forth in subsection
6-3-5(E) of this chapter.
   (C)   All monies received as a result of the enforcement of this chapter
shall be accounted for in a separate account and such monies shall be used for
the purpose of preventing juvenile crime. (Ord. 180, 12-11-1996)
CHAPTER 4
COMMERCIAL BREEDERS OF DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Annual Permit Required
6-4-2: Permit Fee
6-4-3: Form Of The Application For The Permit
6-4-4: Definition Of Commercial Breeder Of Dogs Or Cats
6-4-5: Approval, Denial, Revocation
6-4-6: Inspection
6-4-7: Incorporation Of State Law
6-4-8: Penalties
6-4-1: ANNUAL PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any commercial breeder of dogs or cats to hereafter
conduct a commercial breeders business in the city of Carlin unless such person
shall have first obtained an annual permit permitting the same from the city as
provided in this chapter. The provisions of this chapter shall supersede and
control in any conflict with other provisions of this code, if any. (Ord. 236,
8-14-2013)
6-4-2: PERMIT FEE:
The permit fee for the annual commercial breeders permit will be set by
resolution of the board of council members of the city of Carlin. The fee
should not exceed the approximate cost of providing the service associated with
the issuance of the annual permits. (Ord. 236, 8-14-2013)
6-4-3: FORM OF THE APPLICATION FOR THE PERMIT:
An application for the licenses required by this chapter shall be made to the
board of council members of the city, and filed with the city clerk. Each
application shall:
   (A)   Be made on such form as the board shall prescribe.
   (B)   Include the name and address of the applicant, who shall be all
persons having an interest in the business to be licensed. If the applicant is
a partnership, the application shall include the names and addresses of all
partners. If the applicant is a corporation, association or other organization,
the application shall include the names and addresses of all officers,
directors, stockholders, resident agents, and all other persons having an
interest in the business to be licensed, and the address of the principal place
of business of the corporation, and the name and address of the person or
persons who shall have the active management of its business.
   (C)   Specify the location by street and number of the premises for which
the license is sought, and the name of the owner or owners of the premises
where the business is to be operated.
   (D)   Be supplemented by such additional information or documents as the
board shall request from the applicant at any time, it being the duty of the
applicant to supply all such matter.
   (E)   Be accompanied by the required annual license fee, which license fee
shall be returned by the city clerk to the applicant in the event the
application is denied.
   (F)   Be signed by all persons who shall conduct or have any interest in the
business activities for which the license is required.
   (G)   Contain a statement that if such application is approved and a license
issued, it will be accepted by the applicant subject to the terms, conditions
and provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 236, 8-14-2013)
6-4-4: DEFINITION OF COMMERCIAL BREEDER OF DOGS OR CATS:
"Commercial breeder" means a dealer, operator or other person who is
responsible for the operation of a commercial establishment engaged in the
business of breeding dogs or cats for sale or trade. The term does not include
a person who breeds dogs or cats as a hobby. (Ord. 236, 8-14-2013)
6-4-5: APPROVAL, DENIAL, REVOCATION:
The board of council members may approve, suspend, revoke, or deny a permit
sought under this chapter as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 574.360 to
575.440, inclusive, to the extent those provisions may be made to apply to
breeders in the city. (Ord. 236, 8-14-2013)
6-4-6: INSPECTION:
The animal control officer or his/her designee may enter and inspect the
premises specified on a permit issued pursuant to this chapter at any
reasonable hour. (Ord. 236, 8-14-2013)
6-4-7: INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW:
The provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 574.356 to 574.510 are hereby
incorporated as if fully set forth and shall be applicable within the city to
the extent such provisions may be made applicable. Violations may be prosecuted
as violations of this code. The titles of these Nevada Revised Statutes
provisions are as follows:
Nevada Revised Statutes
Nevada Revised Statutes
 574.356               Prohibited acts.
 574.360               Buildings and grounds; housing facilities.
 574.370               Enclosures generally.
 574.380               Dogs and cats kept outdoors.
 574.390               Primary enclosures generally.
 574.400               Floor space of primary enclosure.
 574.410               Dogs or cats kept in primary enclosures together.
 574.420               Food and water.
 574.430               Sanitization.
 574.440               Program to control disease and care for health.
                        Examination by veterinarian; sale of cat or dog that
 574.450               requires immediate treatment prohibited; conditions
                        under which presence of parasites requires treatment.
                        Provision of written statement to purchaser of cat:
 574.460               required disclosures; signature of seller and
                        purchaser.
                        Provision of written statement to purchaser of dog:
 574.470               required disclosures; signature of seller and
                        purchaser.
 574.480               Posting of notice concerning dog or cat offered for
                        sale.
                        Imposition of administrative fines for violation of NRS
 574.485               574.460, 574.470 or 574.480; deposit in state general
                        fund.
 574.490               Duties upon determination that pet was sold with
                        condition that requires immediate treatment.
 574.500               Separating dog or cat from mother; penalty.
 574.510               Knowingly selling dog or cat with condition requiring
                        immediate treatment prohibited; penalties.
 
(Ord. 236, 8-14-2013)
6-4-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, shall, upon
conviction be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. Each
day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 236, 8-14-2013)
TITLE 7
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Purpose
7-1-2: Permission; Supervision Required
7-1-3: Sale Unlawful
7-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted to prevent disorderly conduct, breaches of the peace
and for the protection of the health, comfort, safety, life and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city. (Ord. 39, 10-6-1952)
7-1-2: PERMISSION; SUPERVISION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully discharge, explode or cause to
be discharged or exploded any fireworks, firecrackers, Roman candles,
skyrockets or other pyrotechnical displays within the city limits; provided,
however, that fireworks may be discharged for the entertainment of the public
within the city after written consent of the council is obtained. All such
events shall be under the supervision of the fire chief and firemen of the
city. (Ord. 39, 10-6-1952)
7-1-3: SALE UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, barter or give
away any fireworks, firecrackers, Roman candles, skyrockets or other
pyrotechnical displays of any name or nature within the city limits. (Ord. 39,
10-6-1952)
CHAPTER 2
FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS CODE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Adoption Of Flammable And Combustible Liquids Code
7-2-2: Adoption Of Regulatory Standards For Tank Vehicles
7-2-3: Location Of Tanks, Approval By Board Of Councilmen
7-2-4: Deliveries From Tank Vehicles And Trailers
7-2-5: Penalties
7-2-1: ADOPTION OF FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS CODE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion caused from
the delivery and handling of flammable liquids the latest edition of the
"flammable and combustible liquids code" recommended by the national fire
protection association, and the whole thereof, save and except any portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which code not less than three
(3) copies have been and now are filed in the office of the clerk of the city,
and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein, and from the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city. The said
code is hereby adopted as the rules and regulations for the installation of
containers for storing and handling flammable liquids. In the event that any of
the provisions of the latest edition of the flammable and combustible liquids
code conflict with any provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this
chapter shall govern and be controlling. (Ord. 78, 4-23-1975)
7-2-2: ADOPTION OF REGULATORY STANDARDS FOR TANK VEHICLES:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion caused from
the delivery and handling of flammable liquids the latest edition of "flammable
and combustible liquid tank vehicles" recommended by the National Fire
Protection Association, and the whole thereof, save and except any portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended of which regulations not less than
three (3) copies have been and now are filed in the office of the clerk of the
city, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out
at length herein, and from the date on which this chapter shall take effect,
the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city. The
said regulations are hereby adopted as the rules and regulations for the
transportation and handling of flammable liquids. In the event that any of the
provisions of the latest edition of the flammable and combustible liquid tank
vehicles regulations conflict with any provisions of this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern and be controlling. (Ord. 78, 4-23-
1975)
7-2-3: LOCATION OF TANKS 1 , APPROVAL BY BOARD OF COUNCILMEN:
   (A)   Before any underground storage tank is installed, the owner shall
present to the board of councilmen at a regularly held meeting a drawing
showing the location of said tank. Upon approval by the board of councilmen,
the city clerk shall issue a permit for the installation of said tank.
   (B)   The owner shall leave the installation open until inspection is made
by the board of councilmen or its authorized agents. (Ord. 78, 4-23-1975)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-3-8 of this title.
7-2-4: DELIVERIES FROM TANK VEHICLES AND TRAILERS:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no person shall make delivery of any flammable
or combustible liquids from a tank vehicle and trailer unless all tanks and
trailers are attached to the tractor of the vehicle. (Ord. 78, 4-23-1975)
7-2-5: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of this chapter or fail to comply
therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
thereunder or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permits issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the city or
by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall
severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00), or by
imprisonment for not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days or
by both such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days
that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 78, 4-23-1975)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
7-3-1: Adoption Of Code
7-3-2: Establishment And Duties Of Bureau Of Fire Prevention
7-3-3: Definitions
7-3-4: Appeals
7-3-5: Penalties
7-3-6: Copies Of Code Available
7-3-7: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies Which May Require Permits
7-3-8: Tank Storage And Bulk Storage Compliance
7-3-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
code known as the international fire code (IFC) recommended by the
International Code Council being particularly the latest edition thereof and
the whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified or amended, such to become effective thirty (30) days after public
notice of the filing in the Carlin city clerk's office hereinafter specified
and posting. One copy of the latest edition being adopted shall be approved by
the board of councilmen and placed on file in the office of the clerk of the
city of Carlin. From the date on which such filed edition of said code shall
take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of
the city. The said code is hereby adopted as the rules and regulations for
governing conditions hazardous to life from fire or explosion. In the event
that any of the provisions of the latest edition of the IFC conflict with any
provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall govern and be
controlling.
All supplements to the IFC, issued by the International Code Council between
editions and approved by the board of councilmen and filed in the office of the
clerk of the city of Carlin shall become part of this IFC effective thirty (30)
days after public notice of such filing is given by posting in two (2)
conspicuous places within the city. Certain section of the international fire
code and appendices may be added or deleted by resolution. (Ord. 211, 2-22-
2006)
7-3-2: ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION:
   (A)   The IFC shall be enforced by the bureau of fire prevention in the fire
department of the city of Carlin which is hereby established and which shall be
operated under the supervision of the chief of the fire department.
   (B)   The chief in charge of the bureau of fire prevention shall be
appointed by the board of councilmen on the basis of examination to determine
his qualifications.
   (C)   The chief of the fire department may detail such members of the fire
department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The chief of
the fire department shall recommend to the board of councilmen the employment
of technical inspectors, who, when such authorization is made, shall be
selected through an examination to determine their fitness for the position.
The examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the fire department,
and appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite term with
removal only for cause. (Ord. 211, 2-22-2006)
7-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
CORPORATION COUNCIL: Whenever used in the IFC shall be held to mean the
attorney for the city of Carlin.
JURISDICTION: Whenever used in the IFC shall mean the city of Carlin. (Ord.
211, 2-22-2006)
7-3-4: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a permit
applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do not apply
or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been misconstrued or
wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the chief to
the board of councilmen within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision
appealed. (Ord. 211, 2-22-2006)
7-3-5: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of the code hereby adopted or fail
to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
thereunder or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permits issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the city or
by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall be
subject to the penalty provision of title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 211,
2-22-2006)
7-3-6: COPIES OF CODE AVAILABLE:
One copy of this IFC, with all amendments and supplements thereto after adopted
shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk for use and examination
by the public in the office of the clerk. (Ord. 211, 2-22-2006)
7-3-7: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS:
The city manager, the chief and the chief of the "bureau of fire prevention"
shall act as the committee to determine and specify, after giving affected
persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or
occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated
in said code. The chief of "the bureau of fire prevention" shall post such
lists in a conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies thereof to
interested persons. (Ord. 211, 2-22-2006)
7-3-8: TANK STORAGE AND BULK STORAGE COMPLIANCE 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any lessee, owner, individual, partnership,
corporation, firm, business, or other entities of any type or nature to own,
suffer, permit, or allow any tank or bulk storage aboveground outside or inside
a building; or underground outside a building; or to abandon any tank without
complying with chapter 34 of the 2003 IFC and any other referenced codes. (Ord.
211, 2-22-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  7-2-3 of this title.
TITLE 8
TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose, Amendment, Interpretation And Conflict
8-1-2: Mandatory Motor Vehicle Insurance
8-1-3: Miscellaneous
8-1-1: PURPOSE, AMENDMENT, INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT:
   A.   The purposes of this Title are to adopt, by reference, the traffic laws
of NRS Chapters 484A through 484E. inclusive, as amended from time to time, to
apply to the City insofar as such may be made applicable. In the event the City
may not enact or exercise jurisdiction over various portions of any such laws
by reason of preemption by State law or otherwise, those portions shall be of
no force and effect within the Municipal Court of the City and may only be
enforced as allowed by State law.
   B.   The City Council may amend the provisions adopted by reference at any
time by ordinance as provided by law. In the event any of the State laws herein
adopted are amended by the State, such amendments are hereby adopted by the
City to the extent permissible by law. If amendments are made by the State and
the foregoing is not sufficient to establish the City Code herein is thereby so
amended, the City Council may adopt any such amendments as deemed desirable by
resolution, which changes to the Code shall be effective upon approval thereof.
   C.   Whenever an adopted provision of NRS Chapters incorporated herein
refers to another provision of the Nevada Revised Statutes, the referenced
provision is also adopted by reference to the extent it is consistent with the
purpose herein set forth. During the prosecution of a complaint involving a
substantially continuous event that involves at least one misdemeanor
established by this Chapter and additional violations which are civil
infractions, the City may elect to treat all offenses/violations as
misdemeanors and/or may treat offenses/violations as a combination of
misdemeanors and/or civil infractions provided that the traffic laws of the
State of Nevada do not prohibit such prosecution.
   D.   Violations of adopted provisions of NRS Chapters 484A through 484E,
inclusive, within the City shall be deemed violations of this Chapter. The
Municipal Court may exercise jurisdiction over any violation of NRS Chapters
484A through 484E, inclusive, which occurs within the City, regardless of
whether the charging document alleges a specific violation of a provision of
this Chapter under the City Code or a specific violation of a provision of NRS
Chapters 484A through 484E, inclusive, and regardless of which law enforcement
agency investigated the violation or instituted the charging document.
   E.   In the event of a conflict between any State law and any City code
adopted in this Chapter, the State law shall prevail. (Ord. 255, 12-15-2022)
8-1-2: MANDATORY MOTOR VEHICLE INSURANCE:
The City hereby adopts the provisions of NRS 485.187 UNLAWFUL ACTS; FINES;
EXCEPTIONS concerning mandatory motor vehicle insurance to the full extent such
can be made applicable to the City. (Ord. 255, 12-15-2022)
8-1-3: MISCELLANEOUS:
   A.   Imprudent Driving:
      1.   It shall be a violation for any person operating, riding or in
charge of any vehicle upon any public highway in said city of Carlin to
operate, drive or propel such vehicle upon such highway in other than a careful
and prudent manner and without due regard for the safety and convenience of
persons, vehicles or other property. A violation of this subsection constitutes
imprudent driving.
      2.   It shall be a violation for any person to start or accelerate any
motor vehicle with an unnecessary exhibition of speed on any public way within
the city limits. Prima facie evidence of such unnecessary exhibition of speed
shall be unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds emitted by the tires or
the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires of said vehicle or both. A
violation of this subsection constitutes imprudent driving.
   B.   Zone of Quiet: The city council may, by resolution, declare and
designate any street or alley within two hundred feet (200') of a hospital,
church, courthouse or sick chamber, a "zone of quiet", and upon and in this
zone, where so declared and designated, there shall be no ringing of bells,
sounding of gongs or whistles or unnecessary noises or itinerant music.
   C.   Police Orders: Drivers of vehicles shall, at all times, comply with any
direction, by voice or hand or whistle, of any member of the police force or
peace officer, as to stopping, starting, approaching or departing from any
place, and as to the manner of taking on or discharging passengers or loading
or unloading goods, or as to parking vehicles, or as to the speed at which a
motor vehicle is being driven.
   E.   Sports in Streets: No person shall engage in any sport, amusement or
occupation likely to create a hazard to drivers, passengers of vehicles or
others, upon any street.
   F.   Speed Regulations:
      1.   Maximum Limits: No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater
than:
         a.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour when passing a school building or the
grounds thereof, contiguous to a street, alley or highway on the days when
school is in session from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. until five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. Such prima facie limit also shall apply when passing any school grounds
which are not separated from the street or highway by a fence, gate or any
other physical barrier, while such grounds are in use by children.
         b.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on all streets, alleys and
highways unless a different speed limit is posted pursuant to the provisions
set forth in this code. All speed zones established for which signs have been
posted for a rate of speed other than twenty five (25) miles per hour as of the
effective date of this chapter are hereby ratified and approved.
         c.   Seventy five (75) miles per hour on that portion of Interstate 80
within the limits of the city.
      2.   Determination Of Speed: Any relevant evidence of speed is admissible
including, and without being limited to, the following:
         a.   Estimation by visual observation of a moving vehicle.
         b.   The speedometer reading of a following vehicle at a speed not
greater than the speed of the vehicle being followed.
         c.   Readings from radar equipment designed for such purpose when the
equipment has been tested with a tuning fork after being set up at the location
where the reading was taken.
         d.   Speed may be determined by a speedometer in the vehicle.
   G.   Bells, Horns: It shall be a violation for any person to ride, drive or
propel any motorcycle, automobile or other motorized vehicle within the limits
of the city without having attached to such motorcycle, automobile or other
motorized vehicle a bell, gong or horn in good working order, and sufficient to
give warning of such vehicle to pedestrians and to riders or drivers of other
vehicles. Said bell, gong or horn shall be of such size only as may be
necessary to give such warning. Every person operating a motor vehicle shall
sound said bell, horn, gong, whistle or other device whenever necessary, as a
warning of danger, but not at other times or for any other purposes.
   H.   Mufflers on Vehicles; Noise:
      1.   It shall be a violation for any person to ride, drive or propel, or
to cause or permit to be ridden, driven or propelled, any motor vehicle in,
upon or along any street, or to operate or cause or permit to be operated, the
motor in any such vehicles in any street or other public place, if such motor
vehicle or the motor in such vehicle is not provided with a good and sufficient
muffler properly attached thereto, or if the exhaust from the motor in which
such vehicle is ejected otherwise than through such muffler, or if such exhaust
is ejected toward the surface of the street or ground.
      2.   It shall be a violation for anyone operating a self-propelled
vehicle upon the streets to permit the pipes, mufflers or other devices to emit
the sounds of exhaust in a loud and annoying manner; it being the intention of
this subsection to compel the operation of such self-propelled vehicles in as
noiseless a manner as possible.
   I.   Draining of Gasoline: It shall be a violation for any person operating
any automobile or any machinery or apparatus using electricity, gasoline or
other product of petroleum for its motor power, to drain from the crank or gear
case, or from any other part of said machinery, upon any street.
   J.   Parking for Sale or Display Prohibited: It shall be a violation for any
person to park any automobile or other vehicle in or on any street or alley in
the city for the purpose of sale or display or for any person to use a street
or alley as a place of storage for automobiles or other vehicles.
   K.   Parking and Stopping: It shall be a violation for any person to park or
cause to be parked any motor vehicle or horse drawn vehicle upon any street,
roadway or highway within the city, otherwise than on the right hand side of
any street, roadway or highway and parallel to the boundary thereof, save and
except in those areas where parking lanes are designated on any street, highway
or roadway at forty five degree (45°) angles. In said areas parking shall be
done at forty five degree (45°) angles within said parking lanes. The city
council shall designate the areas on said streets, roadways or highways upon
which parking shall be done at said forty five degree (45°) angles. Wherever
said areas are established they shall clearly be designated by painted stripes.
   L.   Removal of Cars: It shall be a violation for any person in charge of
any vehicle standing on any public highway in the city to fail, refuse or
neglect to move such vehicle when requested so to do by any police officer, and
in the event the person in charge cannot be found, the officer may remove such
vehicle to a safe place and notify said person in charge. Should a person
violate the provisions of this section, removal of the vehicle shall be at the
expense of the owner or the person in charge of the vehicle.
   M.   Trains on Crossings: It shall be a violation for any person or persons
in charge or control, either as engineer, conductor, brakeman, trainmaster, or
otherwise, of any engine, car, train of cars, or any part of a train of cars,
or combination of any engines, cars, trains of cars, or parts of any trains of
cars, on any railroad operated within or passing through the city, to cause or
allow such engine, car, train of cars, or part of a train of cars, or a
combination thereof, to stand or remain on or across two (2) or more street
crossings within the city at the same time so as to hinder or obstruct travel
on or over any street, for any period of time exceeding ten (10) minutes;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any passenger train
running through the city.
   N.   Designation of Traffic Districts: The city council may, by resolution,
when it is deemed advisable for safety or convenience of traffic, designate
certain places or districts known as "no parking districts" in which places and
districts it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle, or to hitch any animals, or
leave any animals standing, and the council may, by resolution, when it is
deemed advisable for the safety or convenience of traffic, designate what shall
be known as "one-way streets", upon which the traffic shall always travel in
one direction, and may also, when it is deemed advisable for the safety or the
convenience of traffic, designate, by resolution, certain streets, or portions
of streets, on which the traffic shall always turn in one direction, and may
also, when it is deemed advisable for the safety or convenience of traffic,
designate by resolution, certain streets, or portions of streets, as
boulevards, and requiring each and every vehicle to come to a full stop before
crossing such streets designated as boulevards, and may, when it is deemed
advisable for the safety or convenience of traffic, designate and create, by
resolution, traffic districts in the city, and regulate the traffic, speed and
direction of travel in said districts; and any violation of said resolution
shall be a violation of this code.
   O.   Truck and Hazardous Material Routes:
      1.   Definitions:
 
        Any commercial vehicle designed or operated for the transportation of
TRUCKS: property and whose body weight or combined body and load weight exceeds
        ten thousand (10,000) pounds.
 
      2.   Schedule of Routes:
         a.   Truck Route:
Chestnut Street (SR221).
Eighth Street, beginning at Chestnut Street (SR221) and terminating at Fir
Street.
Fir Street, beginning at Eighth Street and terminating at Twelfth Street.
Fourth Street, beginning at Chestnut Street (SR221) and terminating at Main
Street.
Griffin Street.
Hamilton Street, beginning at Second Street and terminating at Fourth Street.
Main Street, beginning at Fourth Street and terminating at Thirteenth Street.
Poplar Street.
South Seventh Street, beginning at Main Street and terminating at city limits.
Spruce Street.
Tenth Street (SR278).
Twelfth Street, beginning at Chestnut Street (SR221) and terminating at Fir
Street.
         b.   Hazardous Material Route:
Chestnut Street (SR221).
Griffin Street.
Main Street, beginning at Tenth Street (SR278) and terminating at Thirteenth
Street.
Poplar Street.
Spruce Street.
Tenth Street (SR278).
      3.   Application of Regulations: It is a violation for any truck to
operate within the city limits other than over and along the truck and/or
hazardous material route(s) herein established:
         a.   Exceptions:
            (1) The operation of trucks upon any street where necessary to
conduct business at a destination point, provided streets upon which such
traffic is permitted are used until reaching the intersection nearest the
destination point.
            (2)   The operation of emergency vehicles upon any street in the
city.
            (3)   The operation of trucks owned or operated by the city, public
utilities, any contractor while engaged in the repair, maintenance or
construction of street, street improvements or street utilities within the
city.
      4.   Parking of Trucks in Residential Areas: It is a violation for any
person to stand, park or leave running any truck in any residential area zoned
neighborhood residence, intermediate residence, rural residence and farming or
mobile home districts except when engaged in the loading or unloading of
merchandise or when such vehicle is being used in conjunction with the
performance of service, repair, construction or similar use.
      5.   Loads on Vehicles: No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any public
street, highway or alley within the city unless such vehicle is so constructed
or loaded as to prevent any of its load from dropping, shifting, leaking or
otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand may be dropped for the purpose
of securing traction, or water or other substances may be sprinkled on a
roadway in cleaning or maintaining such roadway.
      6.   Issuance of Special Permits for Movement of Buildings and Other
Structures; Conditions; Applications:
         a.   The city manager or designee may at his discretion, upon
application in writing filed with the city clerk at least forty eight (48)
hours in advance of the requested movement, issue a special permit in writing
authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle, combination of vehicles
or special mobile equipment for the purpose of transporting a building or other
structure of a size or weight in excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds within,
into or through the City of Carlin.
         b.   Such permits shall be issued on a single trip basis only.
         c.   In issuing such permits, the city manager or designee may impose
such conditions thereon, such as routes to be followed, place of operation or
movement, time of operation or movement or other matters which shall be deemed
necessary or proper to protect the streets, highways and alleys from excessive
damage or to minimize the dangers, inconveniences or delays to the general
public.
         d.   Application for such permit:
            (1)   Specifically describe the vehicle, combination of vehicles or
special mobile equipment and load thereon including the width, length and total
gross weight with load imposed and number of axles of the vehicle or equipment
and the width, length and height of the building or other structure to be moved
thereby.
            (2)   Indicate the particular streets, highways or alleys over
which the special permit to operate or move is requested.
            (3)   State the date and time for which such permit is requested.
         e.   The city manager may notify the police and fire departments of
the issuance of such special permits at least twenty four (24) hours in advance
of the requested movement, describing the conditions of the permit and the
appointed route and time of the movement.
      7.   Vehicles Containing Hazardous Materials: It is a violation for any
operator or owner to park any vehicle overnight or deviate off the hazardous
material route for any purpose, when such vehicle is laden with hazardous,
flammable or explosive materials as defined by title 49 of the code of federal
regulations, parts 171-179, inclusive, of the hazardous materials regulations,
as from time to time amended; hazardous materials as defined in title 10 of the
code of federal regulations, part 71 of the nuclear regulatory commission, as
from time to time amended, and title 29 of the code of federal regulations,
parts 390-397, inclusive, of the federal motor carrier safety regulations, as
from time to time amended.
      8.   Enforcement:
         a.   Maintain Maps Of Routes: The city clerk shall keep and maintain
accurate maps setting out the commercial truck and hazardous material routes
and streets upon which truck and hazardous material traffic is permitted.
         b.   Weigh In: The chief of police or any other appropriate city,
county or state law enforcement authority shall have the power to require any
person driving or in control of any commercial truck not proceeding over the
truck or hazardous material routes to proceed to any public or private scale
available for the purpose of weighing and determining whether this chapter has
been complied with.
         c.   Posting Routes: The city of Carlin shall make reasonable efforts
to place commercial truck or hazardous material routes signs on all streets
designated as a truck and hazardous material route.
         d.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this
chapter shall have committed a civil infraction of the City code and shall be
subject to penalties permitted for traffic civil infractions as provided by the
Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 255. 12-15-2022)
CHAPTER 2
BICYCLES
(Repealed by Ord. 255)
CHAPTER 3
RECKLESS DRIVING
(Repealed by Ord. 255)
CHAPTER 4
TRUCK AND HAZARDOUS MATERIAL ROUTES
(Repealed by Ord. 255)
CHAPTER 5
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE USE AND OPERATION
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Operator Requirements
8-5-3: Additional Restrictions Regarding Driving Or Operating OHVs
8-5-4: General Rules And Regulations
8-5-5: Designated Routes And Trails
8-5-6: Parent/Adult Responsibility
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, and their derivations, when used in
this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way maintained by
a public authority when any part of such way is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular traffic.
LARGE ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE: Any all-terrain vehicle that includes seating
capacity for at least two (2) people abreast and total seating capacity for at
least four (4) people; or a truck bed. This definition has that same meaning
and intent as Nevada Revised Statutes 490.043.
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE (OHV): A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for off
highway and all-terrain use.
   (A)   The term includes, but is not limited to:
      1. Large all-terrain vehicle whether or not the large all-terrain vehicle
is registered with the Nevada Department of Motor Vehicles;
      2. An all-terrain vehicle (including a four- wheeler);
      3. An all-terrain motorcycle;
      4. A dune buggy; and
      5. Any motor vehicle used on public lands for the purpose of recreation.
   (B)   The term does not include:
      1. A motor vehicle designed primarily for use in water;
      2. A motor vehicle that is registered by the Department of Motor
Vehicles;
      3. A "low speed vehicle" as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 484B.637;
      4. A "golf cart" as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 482.044; and
      5. Any vehicle excluded by law under Nevada Revised Statutes 490.060(2)
or any other chapter of the Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 246, 9-26-2018, eff.
10-4-2018)
8-5-2: OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Except as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 490.090(2), as may be
amended or renumbered from time to time, no person shall operate an OHV on a
public street, road or highway in the City of Carlin that is not designated for
use by OHVs.
   (B)   No person under the age of sixteen (16) shall operate an OHV on any
public street, road or highway in the City of Carlin.
   (C)   No person sixteen (16) years of age or older may operate an OHV on any
public street, road or highway designated for OHV use in the City of Carlin
unless the person possesses:
      1.   A valid motor vehicle operator's license as provided by Nevada law;
and
      2.   Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 490.082, as may be amended or
renumbered from time to time, a certificate of registration shall be attached
to the OHV. A certificate of registration is not required for an off highway
vehicle which:
         (a)   Is owned and operated by:
            (1) A Federal agency;
            (2) An agency of this State; or
            (3) A county, incorporated city or unincorporated town in this
State;
         (b)   Is part of the inventory of a dealer of off highway vehicles;
         (c)   Is registered or certified in another state and is located in
this State for not more than ninety (90) days;
         (d)   Is used solely for husbandry on private land or on public land
that is leased to the owner or operator of the off highway vehicle; or
         (e)   Is used for work conducted by or at the direction of a public or
private utility.
   (D)   Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 490.110, as may be amended or
renumbered from time to time, no person permitted to operate an OHV on a public
street, road or highway designated for OHV use in the City of Carlin shall
travel more than two (2) miles on a paved highway of this State (State highway)
on an OHV to reach a private or public area that is open for use by OHVs.
   (E)   All operators of off highway vehicles shall follow all requirements of
Nevada Revised Statutes 490.090 through 490.130.
   (F)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment of not more than six (6) months in jail,
or by both such fine and imprisonment in accordance with the provisions of
title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 246, 9-26-2018, eff. 10-4-2018)
8-5-3: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS REGARDING DRIVING OR OPERATING OHVs:
   (A)   No owner or other person in the care or custody of an OHV may give
another person who is under sixteen (16) years of age permission to operate an
OHV on any public street, road or highway designated for OHV use in the City of
Carlin or may suffer, allow or permit such operation by a person who is under
sixteen (16) years of age.
   (B)   Mistake of age shall not be a defense to a charge under this section.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment of not more than six (6) months in jail,
or by both such fine and imprisonment in accordance with the provisions of
title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 246, 9-26-2018, eff. 10-4-2018)
8-5-4: GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Unattended OHVs Prohibited: No person shall leave or allow any OHV
owned and operated by him/herself to remain unattended on any public highway or
public property while the motor is running or with the starting key left in the
ignition.
   (B)   Traffic Laws Applicable: To the fullest extent practicable, the
traffic laws of the State of Nevada, as set forth in the Nevada Revised
Statutes, and the City of Carlin, as set forth in this Code, are hereby made
applicable to the operation of OHVs under this chapter on any designated public
streets, roads, and/or highways of the City.
   (C)   Speed Limit: There shall be a maximum speed limit for the operation of
every off highway vehicle of fifteen (15) miles per hour when:
      1.   The off highway vehicle is within five hundred feet (500') of any
residential home or neighborhood, that distance being measured from the off
highway vehicle to the nearest point of the lot or parcel of such home or
neighborhood; or
      2.   The off highway vehicle is being operated on any designated public
street, road or highway unless otherwise signed for an approved special event.
Such public streets, roads and/or highways are designated herein as part of the
exit/entry approved routes/trails.
   (D)   Number Of Occupants: There shall be no more than the approved number
of occupants per vehicle pursuant to the manufacturer's recommendation and
design, operating and/or riding the off highway vehicle.
   (E)   Hours Of Operation: Operation of any off highway vehicle under this
chapter shall occur between the hours of sunrise and sunset. If the operation
of the off highway vehicle occurs after sundown the vehicle must have legal
lighting to permit nighttime use.
   (F)   Violation: Any person convicted of a violation of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or imprisonment of not more than six (6) months
in jail, or by both such fine and imprisonment in accordance with the
provisions of title 1, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 246, 9-26-2018, eff. 10-4-
2018)
8-5-5: DESIGNATED ROUTES AND TRAILS:
   (A)   OHVs shall be used and operated within the City of Carlin only over
such public streets, roads, or highways that are designated by resolution of
the City Council as open to such OHV use and operation. OHVs shall not be
operated on sidewalks.
   (B)   Signage or authorization concerning designated routes will be
provided, but:
      1.   Designating or authorizing such routes does not assure the safety of
any operators, passengers or users of the route; and
      2.   Designating or authorizing such routes does not assure that the
route itself is safe for off highway vehicle use or for any other purpose.
   (C)   The City Council shall adopt by resolution an "off highway travel map"
which will describe and identify the routes where off highway vehicle use is
permitted under this chapter and to establish the routes appropriate for off
highway vehicle use.
   (D)   The City of Carlin shall seek permission from the Nevada Department of
Transportation to incorporate certain portions of State highways into the City
of Carlin's designated off highway vehicle routes. (Ord. 246, 9-26-2018, eff.
10-4-2018)
8-5-6: PARENT/ADULT RESPONSIBILITY:
   (A)   In addition to any juvenile culpability which may be imposed due to
violations of this chapter, the responsibility for complying with the
provisions of this chapter shall rest upon the adult owner or custodian of any
OHV or the head of household where any OHV is kept, whether or not ownership of
the OHV is claimed by any other person residing in said household. A husband or
wife, or two (2) or more adults living together, may jointly or separately be
charged as heads of the household where an OHV is kept.
   (B)   If the true owner of an OHV is of such minor age as to prohibit the
minor from being required to answer in court, the parent or guardian of such
minor may be required to appear and assume full responsibility for the actions
or omissions of the minor. The age of the minor is no defense to a violation of
the provisions of this chapter, and the parent, guardian, owner/custodian of
the OHV or the head of the household of where the OHV is kept may be held
responsible for the actions or omissions of a minor's violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 246, 9-26-2018, eff. 10-4-2018)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
SALE, EXCHANGE OR LEASE OF CITY REAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
9-1-1: Requirement And Process For Using Appraisers
9-1-2: Notice For Sale Or Lease
9-1-3: Resolution Required For And Method Of Sale Or Lease
9-1-4: Exceptions To Public Auction Sales
9-1-5: Additional Powers Of The City
9-1-6: Powers Regarding Eminent Domain
9-1-1: REQUIREMENT AND PROCESS FOR USING APPRAISERS:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 268.048 to
268.058, inclusive, and 278.479 to 278.4965, inclusive, except as otherwise
required by federal law or pursuant to be a cooperative agreement entered into
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 277.050 or 277.053 or an interlocal
agreement in existence on October 1, 2004, and except if the governing body is
entering into a joint development agreement for real property owned by the city
to which the governing body is a party or if the sale or lease of real property
larger than one acre is approved by the voters at a primary or general
election, primary or general city election or special election, the governing
body shall, when offering any real property for sale or lease:
      1.   Obtain two (2) independent and confidential appraisals of the real
property before selling or leasing it. The appraisals must be based on the
zoning of the real property as set forth in the master plan for the city and
have been prepared not more than six (6) months before the date on which real
property is offered for sale or lease.
      2.   Select the two (2) independent appraisers from the list of
appraisers established pursuant to article A of this chapter.
      3.   Verify the qualifications of each appraiser selected pursuant to
subsection (A)2 of this section. The determination of the governing body as to
the qualifications of the appraiser is conclusive.
   (B)   An appraiser chosen pursuant to subsection (A) of this section must
provide a disclosure statement which includes, without limitation, all sources
of income of the appraiser that may constitute a conflict of interest and any
relationship of the appraiser with the property owner or the owner of an
adjoining property.
   (C)   An appraiser shall not perform an appraisal on any real property
offered for sale or lease by the governing body if the appraiser or a person
related to the appraiser within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity
has an interest in the real property or an adjoining property. (Ord. 208, 8-10-
2005)
9-1-2: NOTICE FOR SALE OR LEASE:
Except as otherwise provided in this section and section
9-1-4 of this chapter, Nevada Revised Statutes 268.048 to 268.058, inclusive,
and 278.479 to 278.4965, inclusive, except as otherwise provided by federal law
or pursuant to a cooperative agreement entered into pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 277.053 or an interlocal agreement in existence on October 1, 2004,
and except if the governing body is entering into a joint development agreement
for real property owned by the city to which the governing body is a party or
if the sale or lease of real property larger than one acre is approved by the
voters at a primary or general election, primary or general city election or
special election:
   (A)   If a governing body has determined by resolution that the sale or
lease of any real property owned by the city will be the best interest of the
city, it may sell or lease the real property in the manner prescribed for the
sale or lease of real property in section
9-1-3 of this chapter.
   (B)   Before the governing body may sell or lease any real property as
provided in subsection (A) of this section, it shall:
      1.   Post copies of the resolution described in subsection (A) of this
section in three (3) public places in the city; and
      2.   Cause to be published at least once a week for three (3) successive
weeks, in a newspaper qualified under chapter 238 of Nevada Revised Statutes
that is published in the county in which the real property is located, a notice
setting forth:
         (a)   A description of the real property proposed to be sold or leased
in such a manner as to identify it;
         (b)   The minimum price, if applicable, of the real property proposed
to be sold or leased; and
         (c)   The places at which the resolution described in subsection (A)
of this section has been posted pursuant to subsection (B)1 of this section,
and any other places at which copies of that resolution may be obtained.
   (C)   If the governing body by its resolution finds additionally that the
real property to be sold is worth more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
the board shall conduct an appraisal pursuant to section
9-1-1 of this chapter to determine the value of the real property and, except
for real property acquired pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 371.047, shall
not sell or lease it for less than the highest appraised value.
   (D)   If the real property is appraised at one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
or more, the governing body may:
      1.   Lease the real property; or
      2.   Sell the real property for:
         (a)   Cash; or
         (b)   Not less than twenty five percent (25%) cash down and upon
deferred payments over a period of not more than ten (10) years, secured by a
mortgage or deed of trust bearing such interest and upon such further terms as
the governing body may specify.
   (E)   A governing body may sell or lease any real property owned by the city
without complying with the provisions of this section and sections
9-1-1 and
9-1-3 of this chapter to:
      1.   A person who owns real property located adjacent to the real
property to be sold or leased if the governing body has determined by
resolution that:
         (a)   The real property is a:
            (1) Remnant that was separated from its original parcel due to the
construction of a street, alley, avenue or other thoroughfare or portion
thereof, flood control facility or other public facility;
            (2) Parcel that, as a result of its size, is too small to establish
an economically viable use by anyone other than the person who owns real
property adjacent to the real property offered for sale or lease; or
            (3) Parcel which is subject to a deed restriction prohibiting the
use of the real property by anyone other than the person who owns real property
adjacent to the real property offered for sale or lease; and
         (b)   The sale or lease will be in the best interest of the city.
      2.   Another governmental entity if:
         (a)   The sale or lease restricts the use of the real property to a
public use; and
         (b)   The governing body adopts a resolution finding that the sale or
lease will be in the best interest of the city.
   (F)   A governing body that disposes of real property pursuant to subsection
(E) of this section is not required to offer to reconvey the real property to
the person from whom the real property was received or acquired by donation or
dedication.
   (G)   If real property that is offered for sale or lease pursuant to this
section is not sold or leased at the initial offering of the contract for the
sale or lease of the real property, the governing body may offer the real
property for sale or lease a second time pursuant to this section. If there is
a material change relating to the title, zoning or an ordinance governing the
use of the real property, the governing body must obtain a new appraisal of the
real property pursuant to the provision of section
9-1-1 of this chapter before offering the real property for sale or lease a
second time. If real property that is offered for sale or lease pursuant to
this section is not sold or leased at the second offering of the contract for
the sale or lease of the real property the governing body may list the real
property for sale or lease at the appraised value with a licensed real estate
broker, provided that the broker or a person related to the broker within the
first degree of consanguinity or affinity does not have an interest in the real
property or an adjoining property. (Ord. 208, 8-10-2005)
9-1-3: RESOLUTION REQUIRED FOR AND METHOD OF SALE OR LEASE:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and section
9-1-2 of this chapter and Nevada Revised Statutes 268.048 to 268.058,
inclusive, and 278.479 to 278.4965, inclusive, except as otherwise required by
federal law or pursuant to a cooperative agreement entered into pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes 277.050 or 277.053 or an interlocal agreement in
existence on October 1, 2004, and except if the governing body is entering into
a joint development agreement for real property owned by the city to which the
governing body is a party or if the sale or lease of real property larger than
one acre is approved by the voters at a primary or general election, the
governing body shall, in open meeting by a majority vote of the members and
before ordering the sale or lease at auction of any real property, adopt a
resolution declaring its intention to sell or lease the property at auction.
The resolution must:
      1.   Describe the property proposed to be sold or leased in such a manner
as to identify it;
      2.   Specify the minimum price and the terms upon which the property will
be sold or leased; and
      3.   Fix a time not less than three (3) weeks thereafter, for a public
meeting of the governing body to be held at its regular place of meeting, at
which sealed bids will be received and considered.
   (B)   Notice of the adoption of the resolution and of the time and place of
holding the meeting must be given by:
      1.   Posting copies of the resolution in three (3) public places in the
county not less than fifteen (15) days before the date of the meeting; and
      2.   Causing to be published at least once a week for three (3)
successive weeks before the meeting, in a newspaper qualified under chapter 238
of Nevada Revised Statutes that is published in the county in which the real
property is located, a notice setting forth:
         (a)   A description of the real property proposed to be sold or leased
at auction in such a manner as to identify it;
         (b)   The minimum price of the real property proposed to be sold or
leased at auction; and
         (c)   The places at which the resolution described in subsection (A)
of this section has been posted pursuant to subsection (B)1 of this section,
and any other places at which copies of that resolution may be obtained.
   (C)   At the time and place fixed in the resolution for the meeting of the
board, all sealed bids which have been received must, in public session, be
opened, examined and declared by the governing body. Of the proposals submitted
which conform to all terms and conditions specified in the resolution of
intention to sell or lease and which are made by responsible bidders, the bid
which is the highest must be finally accepted, unless a higher oral bid is
accepted or the governing body rejects all bids.
   (D)   Before accepting any written bid, the governing body shall call for
oral bids. If upon the call for oral bidding, any responsible person offers to
buy or lease the property upon the terms and conditions specified in the
resolution, for a price exceeding by at least five percent (5%) the highest
written bid, then the highest oral bid which is made by a responsible person
must be finally accepted.
   (E)   The final acceptance by the governing body may be made either at the
same session or at any adjourned session of the same meeting held within the
ten (10) days next following.
   (F)   The governing body may, either at the same session or at any adjourned
session of the same meeting held within the ten (10) days next following, if it
deems the action to be for the best public interest, reject any and all bids,
either written or oral, and withdraw the property from sale or lease.
   (G)   Any resolution of acceptance of any bid made by the governing body
must authorize and direct the mayor to execute a deed or lease and to deliver
it upon performance and compliance by the purchaser or lessor with all the
terms or conditions of his contract which are to be performed concurrently
therewith. (Ord. 208, 8-10-2005)
9-1-4: EXCEPTIONS TO PUBLIC AUCTION SALES:
   (A)   The city may sell, lease or otherwise dispose of real property for the
purposes of redevelopment or economic development:
      1.   Without first offering the real property to the public; and
      2.   For less than fair market value of the real property.
   (B)   Before the board of councilmen may sell, lease or otherwise dispose of
real property pursuant to this section, the city council must:
      1.   Obtain an appraisal of the property pursuant to section
9-1-1 of this chapter; and
      2.   Adopt a resolution finding that it is in the best interests of the
public to sell, lease or otherwise dispose of the property:
         (a)   Without offering the property to the public; and
         (b)   For less than fair market value of the real property.
   (C)   As used in this section:
    ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT: 1. The establishment of new commercial enterprises or
facilities within the city;
      2.   The support, retention or expansion of existing commercial
enterprises or facilities within the city;
      3.   The establishment, retention or expansion of public, quasi-public or
other facilities or operations within the city;
      4.   The establishment of residential housing needed to support the
establishment of new commercial enterprises or facilities or the expansion of
existing commercial enterprises or facilities; or
      5.   Any combination of the activities described in subsections 1 to 4 of
this definition, inclusive, to create and retain opportunities for employment
for the residents of the city.
   REDEVELOPMENT: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes
279.408. (Ord. 208, 8-10-2005)
9-1-5: ADDITIONAL POWERS OF THE CITY:
The city of Carlin may:
   (A)   Have and use a common seal, which it may alter at pleasure.
   (B)   Purchase, receive, hold and use personal and real property wherever
situated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in sections
9-1-1,
9-1-2 and
9-1-3 of this chapter, sell, convey and dispose of such personal and real
property for the common benefit.
   (D)   Determine what are public uses with respect to powers of eminent
domain.
   (E)   Acquire, own and operate a public transit system both within and
without the city.
   (F)   Receive bequests, devises, gifts and donations of all kinds of
property wherever situated in fee simple, in trust or otherwise, for charitable
or other purposes and do anything necessary to carry out the purposes of such
bequests, devises, gifts and donations with full power to manage, sell, lease
or otherwise dispose of such property in accordance with the terms of such
bequest, devise, gift or donation. (Ord. 208, 8-10-2005)
9-1-6: POWERS REGARDING EMINENT DOMAIN:
   (A)   The Carlin board of councilmen may reconvey all the right, title and
interest of the city in and to any land donated, dedicated, acquired in
accordance with chapter 37 of Nevada Revised Statutes, or purchased under the
threat of an eminent domain proceeding, for a public park, public square,
public landing, agricultural fairground, aviation field, automobile parking
ground or facility for the accommodation of the traveling public, or land held
in trust for the public for any other public use or uses, or any part thereof,
to the person:
      1.   By whom the land was donated or dedicated or to his heirs, assigns
or successors, upon such terms as may be prescribed by a resolution of the
governing body; or
      2.   From whom the land was acquired in accordance with chapter 37 of
Nevada Revised Statutes, or purchased under the threat of an eminent domain
proceeding, or to his heirs, assigns or successors, for an amount equal to the
amount paid for the land by the governing body.
   (B)   If the governing body determines that maintenance of the property is
unnecessarily burdensome to the city or that reconveyance would be in the best
interest of the city and its residents, the governing body may formally adopt a
resolution stating that determination. Upon the adoption of the resolution, the
presiding officer of the governing body shall issue a written offer of
reconveyance to the person from whom the land was received or acquired or his
successor in interest.
   (C)   If the person from whom the real property was received or acquired, or
his successor in interest:
      1.   Accepts the offer of reconveyance within forty five (45) days after
the date of the offer, the governing body shall execute a deed of reconveyance.
      2.   Refuses to accept the offer of reconveyance or states in writing
that he is unable to accept the reconveyance, the governing body may sell or
lease the real property in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 208, 8-10-2005)
ARTICLE A. APPRAISERS
SECTION:
9-1A-1: Requirements And Process For Using Appraisers
9-1A-2: List Of Appraisers
9-1A-1: REQUIREMENTS AND PROCESS FOR USING APPRAISERS:
   (A)   The city manager or designee shall compile a list of appraisers
residing in Elko County qualified to conduct appraisals of real property in
Elko County.
   (B)   The list shall:
      1.   Contain the names of all persons qualified to act as a general
appraiser in Elko County; and
      2.   Be organized at random and rotated from time to time.
   (C)   An appraiser chosen pursuant to subsection (B) of this section must
provide a disclosure statement which includes, without limitation, all sources
of income of the appraiser that may constitute a conflict of interest and any
relationship of the appraiser with the property owner or the owner of an
adjoining property.
   (D)   An appraiser shall not perform an appraisal on any real property
offered for sale or lease by the governing body if the appraiser or a person
related to the appraiser within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity
has an interest in the real property or an adjoining property. (Ord. 209, 8-24-
2005)
9-1A-2: LIST OF APPRAISERS:
   (A)   The list of qualified appraisers shall be amended annually to delete
appraisers no longer residing or qualified in Elko County and to add new
appraisers residing and qualified in Elko County. (Ord. 209, 8-24-2005)
CHAPTER 2
ELECTRIC SERVICE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Rules And Regulations On File
9-2-2: Character Of Service
9-2-3: Establishment Of Credit
9-2-4: Discontinuance Of Service
9-2-5: Meters And Appliances
9-2-6: Meter Tests
9-2-7: Adjustment Of Bills For Meter Error
9-2-8: Readings Of Separate Meters Not Combined
9-2-9: Service Rates
9-2-10: Electric Extensions
9-2-11: Electric Service Connection
9-2-12: Shortage Of Electric Supply And Interruption Of Delivery
9-2-13: Separate Premises; Resale Of Energy
9-2-14: Access To Premises
9-2-15: Consumer Responsible For Equipment
9-2-16: Change Of Apparatus Or Equipment
9-2-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS ON FILE:
The rules and regulations contained in this chapter have been regularly filed
with the public service commission of Nevada and are the effective rules and
regulations of the Carlin municipal light company. (1975 Code)
9-2-2: CHARACTER OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Lighting, Heating, Cooking And Miscellaneous Service:
Energy supplied for lighting, heating, cooking and miscellaneous uses will be
60 cycle, single phase, alternating current, 2- or 3-wire service, 115 or 230
volts.
Residence and apartment lighting installations, not exceeding 3,300 watts or 66
sockets will be supplied through a 2-wire service at a nominal voltage of 115
volts.
Business lighting installations not exceeding 2,000 watts or 40 sockets will be
supplied through a 2-wire service at a nominal voltage of 115 volts.
Heating or cooking loads, X-ray apparatus, etc., not exceeding 2,000 watts and
where the maximum current does not exceed 30 amperes, will be supplied through
a 2-wire service at a nominal voltage of 115 volts.
Installations exceeding above sizes will be supplied through a 3-wire service
at a nominal voltage of 115-230 volts or through a 2-wire service at a nominal
voltage of 230 volts.
   (B)   Alternating Current Power Service:
Sixty (60) cycle alternating current energy will be supplied to all motor
installations.
All motor installations of less than five (5) horsepower capacity will be
supplied with single phase 220 volt energy only, except motors of one-half (1/
2) horsepower capacity and smaller, which may be 110 volts.
Motor installations of five (5) horsepower or not more than fifty (50)
horsepower capacity will be supplied with 3- phase, 220 volt energy.
Motor installations over fifty (50) horsepower will be supplied with 3-phase
energy at such standard voltages as are available.
   (C)   Motor Protection:
      1.   No-Voltage Protection: No-voltage protection shall be provided on
all motors.
      2.   Overload Protection: Overload protection shall be provided on all
motors.
      3.   Phase Reversal: Reverse phase relays and circuit breakers or
equivalent devices are recommended on all polyphase elevator installations,
cranes and similar service to protect the installation in case of phase
reversal or loss of one phase.
   (D)   Special Power Service:
      1.   Mercury Arc Rectifiers: Mercury arc rectifiers shall be considered
as power apparatus and receive service under the industrial power schedule of
rates.
      2.   Motor Generator Sets: Motor generator sets shall be considered as
power apparatus and receive service under the industrial power schedule of
rates.
      3.   Service To Brooders, Chicken Houses, Etc.: Electric service for the
operation of brooders, including incidental lighting of chicken houses, or for
other similar uses, shall be considered as heating or power services and
rendered under the heating and cooking, or industrial power schedule of rates,
at the option of the consumer.
   (E)   Miscellaneous:
      1.   Interference With Service: The company reserves the right to refuse
to supply loads of a character that may seriously impair service to any other
consumers.
The company shall have the right to discontinue electric service to any
consumer who shall continue to use appliances or apparatus detrimental to the
service after being notified by the company of such detriment to the service.
      2.   Allowable Instantaneous Starting Current Values: The instantaneous
current drawn from the line by any motor must not exceed the normal value
guaranteed by manufacturers. (1975 Code)
9-2-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF CREDIT:
Each applicant for service will be required to establish his credit to the
satisfaction of the company before service will be rendered. In the event
credit is not established a minimum deposit of five dollars ($5.00) will be
required and not to exceed a sum equal to twice the estimated average periodic
bill for that service. (1975 Code)
9-2-4: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Nonpayment Of Bills: A consumer's electric service may be discontinued
for the nonpayment of a bill for electric service rendered, provided that the
bill has not been paid within:
Fifteen (15) calendar days after presentation when bills are normally made out
monthly,
Seven (7) calendar days after presentation when bills are normally made out
fortnightly,
Four (4) calendar days after presentation when bills are normally made out
weekly,
and provided further, that in case a deposit to guarantee bills has been made,
the service will not be discontinued until the amount of the deposit has been
materially depleted.
   (B)   Discontinue Service: A consumer's electric service may be discontinued
for nonpayment of a bill for electric service rendered him at a previous
location served by the company, provided said bill is not paid within thirty
(30) days after presentation at the new location. A charge of one dollar fifty
cents ($1.50) will be made for reconnecting when service is discontinued on
account of nonpayment of bills.
   (C)   Unsafe Apparatus: The company shall have the right of refusing to or
of ceasing to deliver electric energy to a consumer if any part of the
consumer's lines, appliances or apparatus shall at any time be unsafe.
   (D)   Fraud: The company shall have the right to refuse to serve electric
energy to any premises and at any time to discontinue service if found
necessary to do so in order to protect itself against abuse or fraud.
   (E)   Noncompliance With The Company's Rules: If the consumer shall fail to
comply with any of the company's rules and regulations from time to time in
force, the company will advise the consumer of such failure. If the consumer
does not remedy same within a reasonable time, the company shall have the
right, after giving due notice, to discontinue service to the consumer. (1975
Code)
9-2-5: METERS AND APPLIANCES:
   (A)   Meters And Appliances: All meters, service wires, appliances,
fixtures, etc., installed by the company at its expense upon the consumer's
premises for the purpose of delivering electric energy shall continue to be the
property of the company, and may be repaired, replaced or removed by the
company at any time.
   (B)   Meter Installation: All meters shall be installed by the company in
some convenient place approved by the company upon the consumer's premises, and
so placed as to be at all times accessible for inspection, reading and testing.
In all buildings in which separate meters are hereafter required to be
installed for various floors or groups of rooms in order to measure the
electric energy supplied to each tenant, all meters shall be located at a
central point, and each such meter shall be clearly marked to indicate the
particular location supplied by it. (1975 Code)
9-2-6: METER TESTS:
Any consumer may, upon not less than five (5) days' notice, require the company
to test his electric meter. No payment or deposit will be required from the
consumer for such test except where a test is requested more than once in any
six (6) months' period. (1975 Code)
9-2-7: ADJUSTMENT OF BILLS FOR METER ERROR:
   (A)   When, as the result of any test, a meter is found to be more than two
percent (2%) fast, the company shall refund to the consumer the overcharge
based on the corrected meter readings for the period in which the meter was in
use, not exceeding six (6) months, unless it can be shown that the error was
due to some cause, the date of which can be fixed. In this case the overcharge
shall be computed back to, but not beyond such time.
   (B)   If a meter for commercial service, upon test as herein provided, is
found to register more than two percent (2%) slow, the company may render a
bill for electricity consumed but not covered by bills previously rendered for
a period not to exceed three (3) months, subject to review by the public
service commission of Nevada. (1975 Code)
9-2-8: READINGS OF SEPARATE METERS NOT COMBINED:
For the purpose of making charges, all meters upon the consumer's premises will
be considered separately, and the readings thereof will not be combined. (1975
Code)
9-2-9: SERVICE RATES:
   (A)   The rates to be charged by and paid to the company for electric
service will be the rates legally in effect and on file with the public service
commission of Nevada. Complete schedules of all rates legally in effect for any
district will be kept at all times in the company's local office for that
district, where they will be available for public inspection.
   (B)   Where there are two (2) or more rate schedules applicable to any class
of service, the company or its authorized employees will call applicant's
attention, at the time application is made, to the several schedules, and the
consumer must designate which rate or schedule he desires. (Electric Rules and
Regulations) (1975 Code)
9-2-10: ELECTRIC EXTENSIONS:
Extensions of electric distribution lines on public roads and highways
necessary to supply bona fide applicants for electric service of a permanent
and established character will normally be made in accordance with the
following rules:
   (A)   Urban Territory: All such extensions along public roads and highways
in urban territory and centers of population will normally be constructed by
the company without cost to such applicants, except where line extension
exceeds two hundred feet (200') excluding the service wires proper.
   (B)   Exceptional Cases: In unusual circumstances, when the application of
these rules appears impracticable or unjust to either party or in case of the
extension of lines of a higher voltage, the company or the applicant may refer
the matter to the public service commission of Nevada for special ruling, or
for the approval of special conditions mutually agreed upon.
   (C)   Extensions Not Made: Extensions for temporary service or speculative
business will not be made under these rules. (1975 Code)
9-2-11: ELECTRIC SERVICE CONNECTION:
   (A)   Overhead Service: Upon application by a bona fide applicant for
service, the company will, at its own expense, furnish and install service
wires from its pole line to the first approved point of permanent support,
existing or proposed, on the consumer's premises, providing the company's pole
line is located on the street, highway, lane or alley adjoining consumer's
premises.
Should the length of service wires be such as to require one or more poles for
support, the company will furnish and install at its own expense only that
portion of the wires extending between its pole line and the first pole of the
service.
   (B)   Underground Service: The company will not, at its own expense, furnish
and install underground service from its overhead lines to the consumer's
premises.
   (C)   Temporary Service: Temporary or short term service will be supplied in
accordance with special arrangement to be agreed upon in each case. (1975 Code)
9-2-12: SHORTAGE OF ELECTRIC SUPPLY AND INTERRUPTION OF DELIVERY:
The company will exercise reasonable diligence and care to furnish and deliver
a continuous and sufficient supply of electric energy to the consumer, and to
avoid any shortage or interruption of delivery of same. The company will not be
liable for interruption or shortage or insufficiency of supply, or any loss or
damage occasioned thereby, if same is caused by inevitable accident, act of
God, fire, strikes, riots, war or any other cause not within its control.
The company, whenever it shall find it necessary for the purpose of making
repairs or improvements to its system, will have the right to suspend
temporarily the delivery of electric energy, but in all such cases as
reasonable notice thereof as circumstances will permit will be given to the
consumer, and the making of such repairs or improvements will be prosecuted as
rapidly as may be practicable, and if practicable, at such times as will cause
the least inconvenience to the consumer.
In case of shortage of supply and during the period of such shortage, the
company will make such apportionment of its available supply of energy among
its consumers as shall be ordered or directed from time to time by the public
service commission of Nevada, acting either directly or by a power
administrator or other official appointed by it for that purpose. In the
absence of such order or direction by the public service commission, the
company will, in times of shortage, apportion its available supply of energy
among all consumers in the most reasonable manner possible to continue service
equitably and without discrimination. (1975 Code)
9-2-13: SEPARATE PREMISES; RESALE OF ENERGY:
Where the company has adequate service facilities to supply separate premises,
such separate premises, even though owned by the same consumer, will not be
supplied with electric energy through the same meter.
Unless specially agreed upon, the consumer shall not resell any of the electric
energy received by him from the company to any other person, or for any other
purpose, or on other premises than specified in his application for service.
(1975 Code)
9-2-14: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
The company shall at all times have the right of ingress to and egress from the
consumer's premises at all reasonable hours for any purpose reasonably
connected with the furnishing of electric energy and the exercise of any and
all rights secured to it by law, or these rules and regulations.
As provided for in the rules and regulations herein contained, the company
shall have the right to remove any and all of its property installed on the
consumer's premises at the termination of service. (1975 Code)
9-2-15: CONSUMER RESPONSIBLE FOR EQUIPMENT:
The consumer shall, at his own risk and expense, furnish, install and keep in
good and safe condition all electrical wires, lines, machinery and apparatus,
which may be required for receiving electric energy from the company, and for
applying and utilizing such energy, including all necessary protective
appliances and suitable building therefor, and the company shall not be
responsible for any loss or damage occasioned by the consumer or any of his
agents, employees or licenses on the part of the consumer, in installing,
maintaining, using, operating or interfering with any such wires, lines,
machinery or apparatus. (1975 Code)
9-2-16: CHANGE OF APPARATUS OR EQUIPMENT:
In the event that the consumer shall make any material change, either in the
amount or character of the electrical lamps, appliances or apparatus installed
upon his premises to be supplied with electric energy by the company, the
consumer shall immediately give the company written notice of this fact.
(Electric Rules and Regulations) (1975 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CEMETERY
SECTION:
9-3-1: Perpetual Cemetery Care Fund
9-3-2: Open And Close Graves
9-3-3: Perpetual Care
9-3-4: Reservation Of Plots
9-3-5: Payments; Perpetual Care
9-3-6: Interments
9-3-7: Headstone Regulations
9-3-8: Care Of Plots
9-3-9: Failure To Subscribe
9-3-10: Penalty
9-3-1: PERPETUAL CEMETERY CARE FUND:
A special fund will be set up, separate from all other funds of the city, and
designated as the "City of Carlin Perpetual Cemetery Care Fund". This fund is
to be established from revenues paid to the city for cemetery lots, opening and
closing graves, grants, endowments or from any other source. This fund is to be
established for funding perpetual care of the city cemetery. (Ord. 61, 12-9-
1970)
   (A)   All funds received shall be deposited in a special account at a
banking institution, savings and loan or other investment institution to be
decided upon by the board of councilmen of the city of Carlin. (Ord. 142, 3-27-
1985, eff. 4-3-1985)
   (B)   No expenditures from said special account shall be made against the
fund or earnings accrued, for a period of ten (10) years, to commence from the
effective date hereof.
   (C)   After said ten (10) year period, the earnings only, which accumulate,
can be withdrawn from the special account and deposited to the general fund, to
be used as revenue to pay for such perpetual cemetery care. In no instance may
the principal be withdrawn from said account, which shall be left to perpetuate
itself, to thus guarantee forever, perpetual care for the city cemetery. (Ord.
61, 12-9-1970)
9-3-2: OPEN AND CLOSE GRAVES:
The city and no other person shall be responsible for opening and closing all
graves in the city cemetery. The council shall establish a fee for opening and
closing each grave as the council may from time to time determine to be a
proper charge. Said fee shall be paid in cash in advance prior to the opening
of the grave. (Ord. 61, 12-9-1970)
9-3-3: PERPETUAL CARE:
The city does hereby undertake to provide perpetual care for all graves opened
henceforth from the date hereof. The cost of the perpetual care of each grave
will be established from time to time by the board of councilmen of the city,
and the said cost of perpetual care for each grave shall be paid in advance in
cash at the time of the grave opening. Perpetual care shall include, but not be
limited to, the planting and proper tending of grass on each plot. (Ord. 61,
12-9-1970)
9-3-4: RESERVATION OF PLOTS:
Any person desiring to reserve any plot or plots may do so by applying to the
city clerk and designating on the cemetery map the location of the plots to be
reserved. Those desiring to reserve plots for future use shall pay the charge
for perpetual care as then determined by the board of councilmen within one
year from the date of reservation of the plots, or at the opening of the grave,
whichever date occurs first. The application to the city clerk for the
reservation of a plot or plots as specified herein shall be accompanied by at
least ten percent (10%) of the total amount due for perpetual care, and the
balance, if any, shall be paid for in at least twelve (12) equal monthly
installments. Failure to pay perpetual care charge in one year from date of
application with the clerk shall result in a forfeiture of the monies paid and
shall cancel the application and reservations of the individual or individuals
so applying. The fee for opening and closing the grave can be paid for in
advance or can be deferred until the date of opening the grave. (Ord. 61, 12-9-
1970)
9-3-5: PAYMENTS; PERPETUAL CARE:
On the effective date hereof, all unopened plots shall become subject to the
requirements of this chapter and persons now reserving plots shall be required
to pay to the city at least ten percent (10%) of the total amount owed for
perpetual care as determined by the board of councilmen for the plots reserved
within thirty (30) days from the effective date of this chapter and the
balance, if any, shall be paid in at least twelve (12) equal monthly
installments, the first being due one month from the effective date hereof.
Failure to pay the perpetual care charge as provided for in this section shall
result in a forfeiture of any monies paid and shall cancel the reservation or
reservations of the individual or individuals so applying. The fee for opening
and closing the grave can be paid for in advance or can be deferred until the
date of opening of the grave. (Ord. 61, 12-9-1970)
9-3-6: INTERMENTS:
Two (2) interments in any one plot will be allowed, but in all events a cement
vault or a metal vault must be used with each burial. (Ord. 61, 12-9-1970)
9-3-7: HEADSTONE REGULATIONS:
All stones of identification or ornament are to be ground level and not to
exceed thirty inches by twenty five inches (30" x 25") per plot except that
markers can be combined on adjoining plots. All curbing, standing headstones,
shrubs or any other means of identification which is intended for ornamental
purposes on any grave of any name or nature shall not be permitted. (Ord. 61,
12-9-1970)
9-3-8: CARE OF PLOTS:
Owners of plots already used will be allowed to keep improvements presently
there, but hereafter said plots will be governed by the terms of this chapter.
Owners of plots now occupied can subscribe to the perpetual care service
offered by the city upon payment of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per
plot, upon such terms as the city shall determine. (Ord. 61, 12-9-1970)
9-3-9: FAILURE TO SUBSCRIBE:
If any provisions of this chapter or the application thereof to any person is
held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect any other provision or
application thereof which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions of this chapter are declared to be
severable. Failure on the part of any persons who have reserved plots at this
date to subscribe to perpetual care as provided herein shall cause said persons
to lose their preference rights to said plot or plots. (Ord. 61, 12-9-1970)
9-3-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating section
9-3-2,
9-3-6 or
9-3-7 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine in a sum not to exceed fifty dollars
($50.00). (Ord. 61, 12-9-1970)
CHAPTER 4
CARLIN WATER CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Short Title
9-4-2: Definitions
9-4-3: Inspection Of Water Service And Attachments
9-4-4: Testing Of Water
9-4-5: Water Service
9-4-6: Discontinuance Of Service
9-4-7: Termination For Waste Of Water
9-4-8: Termination For Unsafe Apparatus
9-4-9: Termination For Fraudulent Use Of Service
9-4-10: Restoration Of Service
9-4-11: Refusal To Serve
9-4-12: Continuity Of Service
9-4-13: Service And Charges To All Water Users Outside The City Limits
9-4-14: Extension Of Water Main Facilities
9-4-15: Billing; Payment And Lien Rights
9-4-16: Appeals
9-4-17: Penalties
9-4-18: Mandatory Connections
9-4-19: Design, Construction Of New Connections
9-4-20: Permit Required
9-4-21: Rules And Regulations
9-4-22: Credit; Deposit Required For Services Rendered
9-4-23: Review Of Operational Maintenance Charges
9-4-24: Notification
9-4-25: Capital Improvement Charge
9-4-26: Connection Charge
9-4-27: Capital Improvement Service Charge
9-4-28: Temporary Service
9-4-29: User Charge
9-4-30: Vacancies
9-4-31: Annual Review Of Financial Status
9-4-32: General Provisions
9-4-33: Inconsistent Agreements
9-4-34: Water Unit Schedule
9-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CARLIN WATER CODE. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
are to mean:
BOARD: The elected officials of the city of Carlin.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE: A fee charged to each new installation whether
connected directly or indirectly to the Carlin municipal water system, for the
purpose of establishing monies for improvements or expansions to the water
system.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT SERVICE CHARGE: A charge made to the user for the purpose
of establishing monies for improvements or expansions to the water system.
CARLIN MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM OR WATER SYSTEM: The system of conduits, pumps,
tanks and structures used for the purpose of conveying from its sources,
treating in any manner and conveying to final points of use, all water services
requested of the city and on a schedule approved by the board. Specifically
included as integral parts of the system are all conduits of any nature forming
a part of the general network of conduits or connected directly or indirectly
to said network; all pumps, treatment facilities, tanks and structures of any
kind used in connection with the collection, treatment and disposition of
water; and all appurtenances to any of the above, either physically or
functionally connected therewith.
CITY ENGINEER: Either the said city engineer personally, or any of his duly
authorized representatives.
CONNECTION CHARGE: A charge made for the installation of service to a customer.
The cost includes connection into the water main serving the property and
installation of the service line to a point at or near the property line.
DIRECTOR: Any duly authorized representative or representatives appointed by
the Carlin board.
METERS: Includes meter yolk or setters and boxes to facilitate water metering.
PREMISES: A continuous tract of land, building or group of adjacent buildings
under a single control with respect to use of water and responsibility for
payment therefor. Subdivision of such use or responsibility shall constitute a
division into separate premises as herein defined, except that where more than
one dwelling is being served through the same water service in which case each
of said dwellings shall constitute a separate premises and shall be subject to
the same separate charges as if separate single-family dwellings.
REPLACEMENT COST: The cost to replace items which in the course of repair or
new installation become damaged unnecessarily.
USER CHARGE: A charge made to the user in order to cover operation, maintenance
and replacement costs associated with the water system.
WATER DEPARTMENT: The city of Carlin water department, located at 101 South
Eighth Street.
WATER UNIT (WU): A value assigned to different types of water connections to
reflect demand of the water system. Water units shall be utilized for billing
purposes. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-3: INSPECTION OF WATER SERVICE AND ATTACHMENTS:
The director, or any other authorized city official or employees of the city
bearing proper credentials, shall have the right to enter upon premises served
water or connected with any public water service at all reasonable hours to
ascertain whether the provisions of this code relative to water usage have been
complied with. If said water service, or its attachments, are in conflict with
the provisions of any law or ordinance in regard thereto, the owner of said
premises, or his agent, shall be notified to cause said water service or its
attachments to be so altered, repaired or reconstructed as to make them conform
to the requirements of the laws and ordinances within fifteen (15) days from
the time of receipt of such notice. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-4: TESTING OF WATER:
The director, or any other authorized city official or employees of the city
bearing proper credentials, may enter upon any and all premises at all
reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing of water in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter; and it is unlawful for any person to prevent or attempt to prevent any
such entrance or obstruct or interfere with any such official or employee while
so engaged. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-5: WATER SERVICE:
   (A)   Applications:
      1.   Contents: Each applicant for water service shall be required to
sign, on a form provided by the water department, an application which shall
set forth:
         (a)   Date.
         (b)   Location of premises to be served, giving street address and
description of property to be served.
         (c)   The name and mailing address of the legal owner of the premises.
         (d)   Purpose for which the property will be used (residential,
commercial, apartments, etc.).
         (e)   Person and address to which the monthly bills are to be mailed.
         (f)   The date the applicant will be ready for water service.
         (g)   The name of the contracting or plumbing agency that will be
hooking the premises to the city water system (new connections).
         (h)   The applicant must be the legal owner of the property.
      2.   Purpose: The application is merely a written request for service and
does not bind the applicant to take service for any period of time, nor does it
bind the city to serve except under reasonable conditions.
      3.   Responsibility: The city shall bill the monthly service charge
according to the instructions in the application. The legal owner of the
premises may request termination of the water service. The legal owner is
responsible for the payment of all water charges at the premises for which an
application is made.
   (B)   Change In Customer's Equipment Or Operations: The property owner
making any change in the size, character or extent of the equipment or
operations for which the service is utilized shall immediately file with the
water department a new application for additional service.
   (C)   Individual Service And Shutoff: Each residence shall have an
individual service and shutoff, whether the homes are constructed on the same
lot or not.
Existing residences wherein more than one are served by a single service shall
be allowed to continue as long as all bills for water service are kept current
and so long as all rules are abided by. The water department may, at its own
discretion and at any time the above conditions are violated, decline to
furnish water until separate services are provided. In all cases where water
has been supplied to several parties or tenants from connection with supply
controlled by one valve, the water department has contracted with one of the
several parties and upon his or their failure to abide by the said rules and
regulations the water may be shut off.
Billings for commercial accounts shall be based on individual services and shut
off whether or not there are several separate commercial users of said service.
One billing shall be made to the property owner.
   (D)   Alterations, Extensions: No person shall make any alterations or
extensions in any water pipe or fixture except in compliance with the
provisions of this code.
   (E)   Service Lines: Service lines shall be placed in a covered trench with
at least forty two inches' (42") cover over the pipe.
   (F)   Master House Or Building Valve: Every building or premises served by a
water service line shall have a master house or building valve installed at the
expense of the owner, in addition to the city valve, so that the occupant or
owner can shut off the water supply to the building or premises without using
the city valve or requiring the city water department to close any city or
other valves to permit repairs or to shut off the water to the property for any
purpose. The property owner's shutoff valve shall be located inside the
structure located upon his property.
   (G)   Authorized Personnel: No person, other than authorized city personnel,
shall open, close, operate, tamper with, tap or connect into any city valve or
any city mains, pipes, laterals, hydrants or other valves or pipes owned or
controlled by the city or used by the city in connection with the municipal
waterworks, unless authorized by the director.
   (H)   Application: Application hereunder may be made by any owner of
property to be served, or such owner's duly authorized agent.
   (I)   Connection Fees: Except as herein provided, subdividers and developers
who install complete water facilities including service connections to
individual services in their developments as provided in this code, are exempt
from the connection fees when these facilities are acceptably installed solely
at the expense of the subdivider or developer. The normal connection charge
will be paid prior to the issuance of grading and/or building permits.
   (J)   Water Charge: The water charge begins when a service connection is
installed unless the water is ordered to be left shut off when the service
connection is ordered to be installed. Before water is turned on by the water
department for any purpose whatever, the property owner must sign a form in
which he guarantees payment of future water bills for the service required. The
person signing the guarantee form will be held liable for water used until the
board is notified in writing to discontinue service or to transfer the account
to another property owner.
   (K)   Water Used Without Water Service Application Being Made: A person
taking possession of premises and using water from an active service connection
without having made application to the water department for water service,
shall be held liable for the water delivered from the date of the last recorded
billing. If proper application for water service is not made, upon written
notification to do so by the water department, and if accumulated bills for
service are not paid within two (2) days from the written notification, the
service may be discontinued by the water department without further notice.
   (L)   Damages Through Leaking Pipes And Fixtures: When turning on the water
supply as requested and the house or property is vacant, the water department
will endeavor to ascertain if water is running on the inside of the building.
If such is found to be the case, the water will be left shut off at the curb
stop. The board's jurisdiction and responsibility ends at the property line and
the board will in no case be liable for damages occasioned by water running
from open or faulty fixtures, or from broken or damaged pipes inside the
property lines. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-6: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Property Owner's Request For Discontinuance:
      1.   The property owner may have service discontinued by giving not less
than one business day's advance notice thereof at the office of the water
department. Charges for service may be required to be paid until the requested
date of discontinuance or such later date as will provide not less than the
required one business day's advance notice.
      2.   When such notice is not given, the property owner will be required
to pay for service until one business day after the water department has
knowledge that the property owner has vacated the premises or otherwise has
discontinued water service.
      3.   Emergency situations will not require this prior notice. (Ord. 219,
10-11-2006)
9-4-7: TERMINATION FOR WASTE OF WATER:
Where negligent or wasteful use of water exists from a customer's premises, the
water department may terminate the service if such practices are not remedied
after it has given the customer written notice to such effect by certified mail
or citation issued by the city police, three (3) days prior to proposed date of
termination. No person shall waste water by permitting water to escape through
defective plumbing, or by sprinkling, watering or irrigating shrubbery, trees,
lawns, grass, ground covers, plants, gardens, vegetables, flowers or any other
vegetation in such a manner or to such an extent as to permit water to escape
and flow onto adjoining property or into or along a public street or gutter.
Watering lawns through the use of an "open hose" to which no sprinkling
irrigation or other such device is attached, shall be considered a wasteful use
of water. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-8: TERMINATION FOR UNSAFE APPARATUS:
If any condition is found to exist on a customer's premises which, in the
opinion of the director, constitutes a hazard to health, or which may
contaminate the water supply, or which threatens to damage any portion of the
city water system, or if the use of water thereon by apparatus, appliances,
equipment or otherwise is found to be detrimental or damaging to the water
supply, the water department or its customers, the service may be terminated
without notice. The water department will notify the customer immediately of
the reasons for the discontinuance and the corrective action to be taken by the
customer before service can be restored. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-9: TERMINATION FOR FRAUDULENT USE OF SERVICE:
When the water department has discovered that a customer has obtained service
by fraudulent means, or has diverted the water service for unauthorized use,
the service to that customer may be discontinued without notice. The water
department will not restore service to such customer until that customer has
complied with the Carlin water code and rules and reasonable requirements of
the water department and the water department has been reimbursed for the full
amount of the service rendered and the actual cost to the water department
incurred by reason of the fraudulent use. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-10: RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Reconnection Charge: Where service has been terminated for a violation
of this chapter, the water department shall charge a fee established by the
board by resolution.
   (B)   Reconnection Be Made During Regular Working Hours: The water
department will endeavor to make reconnections during regular working hours on
the date of the request, if conditions permit, otherwise reconnections will be
made on the regular working day following the date the request is made.
   (C)   Reconnection Be Made At Other Than Regular Working Hours: When a
customer has requested that the reconnection be made at other than regular
working hours, the water department will reasonably endeavor to make the
reconnection if practicable under the circumstances, but will be under no
obligation to do so, unless an emergency exists or the property owner is
willing to pay an additional fee as set by the board through resolution. (Ord.
219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-11: REFUSAL TO SERVE:
   (A)   Conditions For Refusal: The water department may refuse to serve an
applicant for service under the following conditions:
      1.   If the applicant fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   If the intended use of the service is of such nature that it will be
detrimental or injurious to existing customers.
      3.   If, in the judgment of the director, the applicant's installation
for utilizing the service is unsafe or hazardous, or subject to freezing, or of
such nature that satisfactory service cannot be rendered.
      4.   Where service has been discontinued for fraudulent use, the director
will not serve an applicant until it has been determined that all conditions of
fraudulent use or practice have been corrected.
   (B)   Notification To Customers: When an applicant is refused service under
the provisions of this chapter, the water department will notify the applicant
that he may appeal the decision of the water department to the board. (Ord.
219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-12: CONTINUITY OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Emergency Interruptions:
      1.   The water department will make all reasonable efforts to prevent
interruptions to service and when such interruptions occur will endeavor to
reestablish service with the shortest possible delay consistent with the safety
to its customers and the general public.
      2.   Where any emergency interruption of service affects the service to
any public fire protection device, the water department will promptly endeavor
to notify the fire chief of such interruption and of subsequent restoration of
normal service.
   (B)   Scheduled Interruptions: Whenever the water department finds it
necessary to schedule an interruption to its service, it will, where feasible,
notify all customers to be affected by the interruptions, stating the
approximate time and anticipated duration of the interruption. Scheduled
interruptions will be made at such hours as will provide least inconvenience to
the customers consistent with reasonable water department operations.
   (C)   Apportionment Of Supply During Times Of Shortage: During times of
threatened or actual water shortage the director will apportion the supply in
the manner that appears most suitable under the circumstances then prevailing,
and with due regard to public health and safety. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-13: SERVICE AND CHARGES TO ALL WATER USERS OUTSIDE THE CITY LIMITS:
   (A)   The board shall have authority to make and enter into such contract as
may be necessary, convenient or proper with respect to water service to improve
property outside the territorial limits of the city and with respect to the
payment of proper charges for such service, including, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, connection charges, and justly relating to, but in
no case less than the rates established for users within the city. Provided
that no such contract shall impair the ability of the water department to
properly serve its customers within the city.
   (B)   All water charges, except connection charges, to applicants and
customers of any class outside the city limits shall be one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the amount normally charged for services within the city
limits for such classification. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-14: EXTENSION OF WATER MAIN FACILITIES:
   (A)   Construction And Extension: Water main facilities may be extended by
subdivider, developer, property owner or other person or entity in the city of
Carlin in accordance with plans and specifications submitted to and approved by
the city engineer.
      1.   The size of the water main shall be determined by the city engineer.
The subdivider, developer, property owner or other persons shall construct all
water mains in accordance with the plans and specifications as submitted and
approved by the city engineer and shall pay any and all costs.
      2.   The subdivider, developer, property owner or other persons shall
notify the city engineer for an inspection on all water mains constructed on
property owned and controlled by the city prior to covering the pipe work.
   (B)   Construction Of Larger Mains: Whenever, in the opinion of the city
council and city engineer, it is necessary that a water main be constructed of
a larger capacity than a minimum capacity as determined by the city engineer,
the city shall pay the difference in pipe material cost for the oversized water
main. The subdivider, developer, property owner or other persons shall be
required to purchase materials, construct and install such oversized main
required.
   (C)   Reimbursement: In a situation where water main facilities are required
to be extended at least one hundred feet (100') from an existing main and the
city council determines that the area through which the main will be extended
is well suited for growth, the city council may determine to apply the
following reimbursement process:
      1.   Extension Of Water Main Facilities: Water main facilities may be
extended by a subdivider, developer, property owner, the city or other person
(the applicant).
      2.   Payment Of Extension: The actual cost of extending the water main
(cost of materials and labor) shall be paid by the applicant.
      3.   Fee Area: In order to establish the amount of the "water extension
connection fee" per connective hookup, the city will first, using its
discretion, establish a "water extension connection fee area", hereinafter
referred to as "fee area". The area will be established by the city using a
good faith effort to predict the ultimate area and properties that may be
served by the water extension line. The actual amount of the water extension
connection fee shall be computed by the city as follows: The city engineer will
recommend to the city council a method to establish the "water extension
connection fee" for any fee area. The method may include as factors the total
acreage and the total frontage feet of the area to be served by the water
connection. The city council shall approve by resolution the method of
calculating the "water extension connection fee" for the fee area. The city
shall then collect the established "water extension connection fee" prior to
any water connection hookup.
      4.   Extension Connection Fees: Extension connection fees (but not the
regular connection fee) shall be paid by the city to the applicant originally
installing such extension as reimbursement up to an amount equal to ninety
percent (90%) of the cost of the extension which has been established for
reimbursement purposes.
         (a)   The use of extension connection fees for reimbursement to the
applicant shall be limited to no longer than forty (40) years after the date
the extension is originally connected to the city's water system.
         (b)   The city shall in no way be obligated to either assure that the
applicant making such extension is paid ninety percent (90%) of the total costs
thereof or to initiate any action or incur any expense to collect any sum to be
paid as reimbursement to the applicant.
         (c)   Upon extension to the water system, the subdivider, developer,
property owner or other persons shall dedicate all water mains located on
property owned or over which there is an easement to the city. Upon dedication
and after the contractor warranty period has expired, the city will operate and
maintain the water main located on said property.
         (d)   Where different applicants contribute to the making of the
extension, such sums shall be refunded to such applicants prorated according to
the amounts which they separately contributed toward the extension and pursuant
to the preceding plan.
      5.   Special Reimbursement Agreements: Where special conditions exist in
the opinion of the city to the person paying the costs of a main water
extension which justify reimbursement on any basis other than that provided in
this reimbursement section, the board may authorize a special reimbursement
contract by the city and the person or persons constructing the main extension.
Said special reimbursement agreement shall be made and entered into prior to
acceptance of the work and water main of the city. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-15: BILLING; PAYMENT AND LIEN RIGHTS:
All bills for water services or for the availability of services, shall be for
the previous month and shall be payable on the first of each month, following
the month of services rendered. Each bill shall show the amount of the water
user charge. In the event the water bill, or any part thereof, is not paid in
full by the tenth of each month, it will be considered delinquent and subject
to a penalty fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month. In the event any such
bill remains unpaid for a period of twenty (20) days after the date rendered or
in the event the twentieth day falls on a holiday, Saturday or Sunday, then on
the next succeeding working day during which time the bill has not been paid in
full, the city clerk shall mail notice to the property owner at the address
receiving service, that the water service will be terminated not less than ten
(10) days after the date of mailing of such notice. If the water bill is not
paid within that ten (10) day notice, services will be terminated and the city
may claim a lien on the property for the amount of the bill together with any
penalties and additional costs pursuant to the provisions of the city charter.
In all cases the property owner is responsible for the payment of the water
bill. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-16: APPEALS:
The board shall review any decision made by the director in interpreting,
applying or enforcing the provisions of this chapter, upon the receipt of an
application or petition in writing, requesting a review of such decision. In
exercising its powers of review the board may, in conformity with the
provisions of the law, reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirements, decision or determination of the director appealed from
and make such order, requirement or determination as ought to be made. The
board may also initiate a review of the director's interpretation of the
provisions of this chapter by a motion and by a vote of a majority of the
quorum or a majority of the members present if such number exceeds a quorum. In
all cases, the decision of the board shall be final. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-17: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4
of this code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-18: MANDATORY CONNECTIONS:
Each owner of houses, buildings or other properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, commercial, industrial or other like purposes situated
within the incorporated areas of the city shall connect to the city water
system. Connections to the water system are the sole responsibility of the
owner of the property so connected. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-19: DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION OF NEW CONNECTIONS:
No new connection shall be made to the municipal water system unless the same
is properly designed and constructed. All new services shall be made in such a
manner that metering can be accomplished at a later date. The method of
installing new services shall be approved in advance by the director. The
services shall provide necessary meter yokes or setters and boxes to facilitate
future metering by simply installing a water meter at a later date. The
materials of construction of the building water and service connections and
methods to be used in excavating, placing of pipe, jointing, testing and
backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the building
and plumbing codes as have been adopted by the city. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-20: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public water or appurtenance or perform any
work on any water system without first obtaining a written permit from the
director. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-21: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The board shall have the power to adopt and may from time to time amend rules
and regulations for the operation of the Carlin municipal water system
including, but not limited to, rules and regulations concerning the method of
hooking up and the type of use of the water, so long as such rules and
regulations are not in conflict with federal or state statutes or this chapter.
(Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-22: CREDIT; DEPOSIT REQUIRED FOR SERVICES RENDERED:
   (A)   Establishment And Maintenance: Each applicant for service shall
establish and provide a deposit fee established by the board before service
will be rendered. Deposit fees will be established by the board by resolution.
   (B)   Loss And Reestablishment Of Credit: Any amount due for water service
that remains unpaid for twenty (20) days after presentation of a bill therefor,
may be deducted from the guarantee deposit and service shall be subject to
discontinuance until the deposit is again restored to the original amount.
   (C)   Return Of Deposit: If, during the course of twelve (12) consecutive
months, all charges for water service to an applicant have been paid when due,
the deposit may be returned to the applicant. If, after the deposit has been
returned to the applicant, the applicant becomes delinquent on any charges for
water service, the deposit may again be collected. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-23: REVIEW OF OPERATIONAL MAINTENANCE CHARGES:
The board shall review not less than every two (2) years, the water
contribution of users and user classes, the total cost of operation and
maintenance of the water system, and its approved user charge system. The board
shall revise the charges for users or user classes to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportionate distribution and maintenance costs among
users and user classes as required herein.
   (B)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operations and
maintenance costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the treatment works.
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-24: NOTIFICATION:
The city shall notify each user, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges or ad valorem
taxes which are attributable to water treatment services. (Ord. 219, 10-11-
2006)
9-4-25: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE:
   (A)   Charge Payment: For each initial or new connection made to the water
system, the property owner shall pay the city an initial payment as a capital
improvement charge. Capital improvement charges shall be set by resolution by
the board and shall be expressed as dollars per water unit. All monies
generated by capital improvement charges shall be placed in the water fund and
shall be designated for use by the board by a resolution.
   (B)   Modification And Expansion Of Facilities: If any modification or
expansion to the premises increases the WU count, the director shall determine
the additional capital improvement charge. In converting a residential building
to a commercial use on a lot with previous water service (in which the building
has been demolished or removed) the applicant shall pay the capital improvement
charge based upon the net increase in WUs.
   (C)   Payment: The capital improvement charge shall be payable on demand to
the city at the time of the application and prior to installation. (Ord. 219,
10-11-2006)
9-4-26: CONNECTION CHARGE:
The charge for connecting into the water main and installing the water service
lateral to the property line. Connection charges shall be set by resolution by
the board. This charge shall be levied only on new installations which are
installed by city forces. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-27: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT SERVICE CHARGE:
Monthly water system service charges shall contain a capital improvement
service charge. Capital improvement service charges shall be set by resolution
by the board and shall be expressed in dollars per water unit per month. All
monies generated by capital improvement service charges shall be placed in the
water fund and shall be designated for use by the board by resolution. (Ord.
219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-28: TEMPORARY SERVICE:
   (A)   Duration Of Service: Temporary service connections shall be
disconnected and terminated within six (6) months after installation unless an
extension of time is granted in writing by the director.
   (B)   Deposit: The applicant shall deposit, in advance, the estimated cost
of installing and removing the facilities required to furnish said service
exclusive of the cost of salvageable material. Upon discontinuance of service
the actual cost shall be determined and an adjustment made as an additional
charge, refund or credit. If service is supplied through a fire hydrant, the
applicant will be charged according to gallons used.
   (C)   Installation And Operation: All facilities for temporary service to
the customer connection shall be made by the water department and shall be
operated in accordance with its instruction.
   (D)   Responsibility For Meters And Installations: The customer shall use
all possible care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other loaned
facilities of the water department which are involved in furnishing temporary
service from the time they are installed until they are removed, or until forty
eight (48) hours' notice in writing has been given to the water department that
the contractor or other person is finished with the meter or meters and the
installation. If the meter or other facilities are damaged, the cost of making
repairs shall be paid by the customer.
   (E)   Supply From Fire Hydrant: An applicant for temporary use of water from
a fire hydrant must secure a permit therefor from the water department and pay
the regular fee charged for the temporary service connection and provide
himself with a hydrant wrench necessary to operate such hydrant, or pay the
water department a refundable deposit for the loan of such equipment, and pay
for the water use in accordance with the meter readings at the rates prescribed
by the board. The water department will notify the fire department of any such
connections and/or use.
   (F)   Unauthorized Use Of Hydrants: Tampering with any fire hydrant for the
unauthorized use of water therefrom, or for any other purpose, is a city
offense, punishable by fine and/or incarceration.
   (G)   Rates: The rates for temporary service shall be established by
resolution. Water charges shall be billed monthly.
   (H)   Credit: The applicant shall pay the estimated cost of service in
advance or shall be otherwise required to establish credit. (Ord. 219, 10-11-
2006)
9-4-29: USER CHARGE:
Monthly water system service charges shall contain a user charge. User charges
shall be set by resolution by the board and shall be expressed as dollars per
water unit per month. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-30: VACANCIES:
Every premises to which service is furnished by the water system shall be
charged for such service in accordance with the rates and charges herein placed
in effect by this code and resolutions adopted. Legal owners, applicants or
occupants of the premises have the right to request the city, in writing, to
physically turn off the water to the premises and after the water has been
turned off, the water charge to the premises shall be deleted. This shall apply
only to unoccupied premises. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-31: ANNUAL REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATUS:
The board will annually review the statement of expenditures and revenues of
the department. The board will use the information from the review and
recommendations from the city clerk, auditors and the director to adjust
schedules of rates, fees and charges for all service by the department. System
revenues shall be sufficient at all times, after making reasonable allowances
for contingencies and errors in estimates to pay the operation and maintenance
expenses and produce net revenues to retire any outstanding indebtedness, and
maintain any reserve accounts for system replacement and capital improvements.
If recommended actions are not taken, the board shall specifically address why
recommended action was not taken. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-32: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Pools And Tanks: When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired
for filling a swimming pool or other purposes, arrangements must be made with
the water department prior to taking such water. Permission to take water in
unusual quantities will be given only if it can be safely delivered through the
water department facilities and if other consumers are not inconvenienced
thereby.
   (B)   Responsibility For Equipment: The customer shall, at his own risk and
expense, furnish, install and keep in good and safe condition all equipment
that may be required for receiving, controlling, applying and utilizing water,
and the water department shall not be responsible for any loss or damage caused
by the improper installation of such equipment, or the negligence or wrongful
act of the customer or of any of his tenants, agents, employees, contractors,
licensees or permittees in installing, maintaining, operating or interfering
with such equipment. When an applicant requests the water to be turned on at
the curb stop, the water department shall not be responsible for damage to
property caused by faucets, valves and other equipment that are open or are
defective, either originally or when turned on after a temporary shutdown.
   (C)   Water Connections: No residential customer shall be allowed more than
one water service per residence. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-33: INCONSISTENT AGREEMENTS:
The provisions of this code shall take precedence over any terms or conditions
of agreements or contracts between the city and users (including industrial
users, special districts, other municipalities, or federal agencies or
installations). (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006)
9-4-34: WATER UNIT SCHEDULE:
All capital improvement charges, capital improvement service charges and user
charges shall be as follows:
   (A)   Residential: Rates for water use and consumption shall be set by
resolution of the city council.
   (B)   Classes Of Service Other Than Residential:
      1.   Rates Set By Resolution: Classifications and rates for water use and
consumption for all other classes and types of uses shall be set by resolution
of the city council.
      2.   Water Fixture Unit Count For Existing Accounts: The water fixture
unit count for all existing accounts shall be determined by the building
inspector.
      3.   New Water Fixture Counts: New water fixture counts shall be
determined by the building inspector who will conduct a fixture unit survey at
the time a building permit is requested from the construction drawings provided
by the applicant or when a final building inspection is done by the building
inspector of the completed structure.
      4.   Revision Of Water Fixture Unit Count: The director, or his designee,
may revise any water fixture unit count based on a resurvey of any
establishment or property at his sole discretion.
      5.   Resurvey Of Water Fixture Unit Count; Fee: The property owner may
also request a resurvey of his water fixture unit count at any time upon
payment of a fee set by resolution of the city council.
   (C)   Meter Rates:
      1.   As an alternative to the water fixture unit method of billing, the
city will bill based upon a metered quantity consumed. The user must submit a
method of reporting meter readings satisfactory to the director to assure
safeguards against tampering with the meter. Once the user selects to use a
meter as a basis of his billing, he may revert to a WFU basis only on the
anniversary date of his selection to use the meter as the basis for billing.
The user shall purchase his water meter from the city and the user shall pay
all costs incurred in installing such meter.
      2.   The meter rate shall be set by resolution of the city council.
      3.   Fire protection service line fee will be set by resolution of the
city council.
   (D)   Minimum Charge: The minimum charge for water service for any
classification of water user shall be established by resolution by the city
council.
   (E)   Changes In Rates: All changes in user rates for water use and
consumption shall first be proposed to the city council at a regularly
scheduled meeting. The proposed change in rates shall not be acted upon until
the following regularly scheduled or subsequent meeting. (Ord. 219, 10-11-2006;
amd. Ord. 250, 4-27-2022)
TITLE 10
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
10-1-1: General Provisions
10-1-2: Definitions
10-1-3: Duty Of Maintaining Property; Offenses; Remedies
10-1-4: Written Administrative Compliant Of Existence Of Nuisance; Emergency
Declaration And Abatement
10-1-5: Investigation Of Written Complaint Of Nuisance; Inspection Authority
10-1-6: Notice To Property Owner And Occupant Of Nuisance
10-1-7: Setting Of Hearing Regarding Nuisance; Hearing And Decision
10-1-8: Appeal
10-1-9: Referral To City Attorney; Issuance Of Citations
10-1-10: Abatement/Enforcement By The City
10-1-11: Assessments Of Costs Of Abatement
10-1-12: Collection Of The Special Assessment
10-1-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Title: This chapter shall be known as the Nuisances Ordinance of the
City of Carlin, may be cited as such, and will be referred to hereafter as the
"nuisance code."
   (B)   Purpose and Scope:
      1.   It is determined and declared as follows:
         (a)   The city has a substantial and legitimate interest in seeing
that its community, including property, buildings, and premises within its
limits, is kept in a safe and reasonable condition in accordance with generally
accepted community standards.
         (b)   The keeping or maintaining of property, buildings, and premises
at variance with the level of maintenance of surrounding properties will result
in blight and/or unsafe conditions and substantial diminution in the
employment, use, and property values of such surrounding properties.
         (c)   It is desirous to promote the maintenance of property,
buildings, and premises in order to enhance the community appearance, and the
safe, social, and economic conditions of the community.
      2.   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of Carlin and to promote the maintenance of property,
buildings, and premises in order to enhance the livability, community
appearance, and the safe, social, and economic conditions of the community.
      3.   This chapter shall apply to all property, buildings, and premises
within the city without regard to the use, or the date of construction or
alteration.
      4.   The Board of Council Members hereby provides that an action to
declare and abate a public nuisance may proceed through municipal court and/or
administratively through the Board of Council Members. (Ord. 253, 9-14-2022)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   "Owner" shall mean the responsible party, person or entity owning the
vacant lot as shown on the last tax assessment roll maintained in the Elko
County Assessor's office; or any person, co-partnership, agent, operator, firm,
association, corporation or other business entity, or fiduciary having a legal
or equitable interest in the property or who otherwise exercises control of the
property, including the trustee or guardian of the estate of any such person,
and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if ordered to
take possession or control of the vacant lot by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter, the term "nuisance or public
nuisance" means any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which
constitutes a hazard to the health, safety, peace, comfort, convenience,
enjoyment and/or welfare of the public, is detrimental to the property of
others or which causes or tends to cause substantial diminution in the value of
other property in the neighborhood in which such premises are located. This
includes, but is not limited to, the following matters declared, without
limitation, to constitute public nuisances:
      1.   Every act unlawfully done and every omission to perform a duty,
which act or omission:
         (a)   Shall annoy, injure, or endanger the safety, health, comfort, or
repose of any considerable number of persons.
         (b)   Shall offend public decency;
         (c)   Shall unlawfully interfere with, befoul, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage a public park, square, street, alley,
bridge, causeway, or highway, or a river, stream, canal, ditch, pond, or other
body of water;
         (d)   Shall in any way render a considerable number of persons
insecure in life or the use of property.
      2.   Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent and offensive to
the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
      3.   Any dangerous structure or condition which may cause injury to, or
endanger the health, life, property, safety, or welfare of the general public
or the occupants, if any, of the real property on which the structure or
condition is located. The term includes, without limitation, a structure or
condition that:
         (a)   Injures or endangers the life, safety, health, or property of
the general public or the occupants of the property upon which the structure or
condition is located, or in any way annoys or endangers the comfort or repose
of a considerable number of persons;
         (b)   Violates an ordinance, rule, or regulation regulating health and
safety enacted, adopted, or passed by the city, the violation of which is
designated as a nuisance in the ordinance, rule, or regulation; or
         (c)   Does not meet the requirements of a code or regulation adopted
pursuant to NRS 268.413 with respect to minimum levels of health, maintenance,
or safety.
      4.   Debris, rubbish, trash, and refuse which includes all non-
putrescible waste matter or debris, manure, combustible and non-combustible
materials that result from normal household, community, and business activities
including, without limitation, grass clippings, tree trimmings, paper,
cardboard, cans, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
      5.   Garbage which includes all kitchen and table food waste, animal
waste, vegetable waste, and all household waste or residue resulting from the
preparation, storage, cooking, handling, or treatment of food.
      6.   The violation of any state law or city ordinance which defines
violation thereof as a nuisance or as nuisance activity.
      7.   Abandoned, discarded, or unused objects or equipment such as motor
vehicles, machinery, furniture, stoves, household appliances, cans, containers,
boxes, waste, old building material, and other such items.
      8.   Outside storage of inoperable vehicles, equipment, building
materials, and other property, unless fully screened from view from outside the
property and fully enclosed or otherwise protected in such manner as to prevent
the harboring of insects, flies, rodents, snakes, and other animals.
      9.   Excessive emission of dense smoke and air pollution caused by
excessive soot, cinders, fly ash, dust, noxious acids, fumes, and gasses within
the city.
      10.   Excessive noise which is injurious to health or which interferes
unreasonably with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property within the
city.
      11.   Weeds and noxious plant growth which includes weeds or overgrown
grass, brush, or vegetation that is offensive to the senses or injurious to
health.
      12.   Criminal activity which is defined as a nuisance under City code or
State law. (Ord. 253, 9-14-2022)
10-1-3: DUTY OF MAINTAINING PROPERTY; OFFENSES; REMEDIES:
   (A)   No person owning, leasing, occupying, or having charge or control of
any premises or property shall maintain, keep, or permit to be maintained or
kept, a nuisance thereon, nor shall any such person keep, maintain, or permit
to be maintained or kept, such premises in a manner causing substantial
diminution in the value of the other property in the neighborhood in which such
premises are located.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to commit or maintain a
public nuisance or willfully refuse to perform any legal duty relating to the
removal of such public nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for any person or
entity to rent or lease, or permit to be used, any building or portion thereof,
knowing that the same is intended to be or is being used for, committing or
maintaining any such nuisance. Said crime shall be a misdemeanor offense
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, in addition to any other penalties, abatement orders,
injunctive relief and fines provided herein. Such punishment shall include,
without limitation, a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or
by a sentence of confinement in the city or county jail not to exceed six (6)
months, or both such fine and imprisonment, in addition to any other penalties,
abatement measures and fines authorized in this Chapter.
   (C)   The remedies provided herein are cumulative and the City may proceed
under one or more such remedies. A Court of competent jurisdiction for a
violation hereof shall have full authority to order all measures of abatement,
civil penalty, criminal penalty, injunctive relief, assessment, costs, liens
and abatement by the City as part of any sentencing or civil remedies as may be
made consistent such matters found in this Chapter. Each day a violation
continues, whether pursued criminally or civilly, constitutes a separate
violation and/or offense. The Board of Council Members shall have full
authority to order all fines, abatement measures and penalties as provided
herein, except imprisonment.
   (D)   The transfer of the property interests of any person receiving notice
herein shall not relieve that party from liability hereunder.
   (E)   A civil fine may be imposed in any court or administrative action to
enforce the provisions of this chapter for up to five hundred dollars
($500.00)/day for each day of a continuing violation after notice of violation
and the expiration of the time set forth therein to abate said violation. (Ord.
253, 9-14-2022)
10-1-4: WRITTEN ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLAINT OF EXISTENCE OF NUISANCE; EMERGENCY
DECLARATION AND ABATEMENT:
   (A)   The City will not proceed on an administrative allegation of a
nuisance except upon a written complaint, which can be filed by a private
citizen or any appointed officer or department head of the City. Whenever a
written complaint is filed with the City Clerk alleging the existence of a
nuisance, the City Clerk shall notify the City Manager, who in turn shall
notify the Public Works Director, or such other city official as may appear to
said City Manager to be appropriate.
   (B)   Whenever the Building Inspector, City Manager or other city official
delegated to investigate determines a public nuisance exists and the public
health, safety or welfare may be in immediate danger, then he/she shall notify
the Mayor and/or a councilmember to call an emergency meeting to seek an
immediate order of abatement. When emergency abatement is authorized, notice to
the owner prior to abatement is not required but the provisions regarding
notice of the statement of costs shall be applicable. (Ord. 253, 9-14-2022)
10-1-5: INVESTIGATION OF WRITTEN COMPLAINT OF NUISANCE; INSPECTION AUTHORITY:
Except in cases of emergency as described above, the official to whom such
notice is given by the City Manager shall forthwith investigate the facts
claimed to amount to a nuisance and shall report verification, or lack thereof,
to the City Manager within ten (10) days. Said official and any person or
officer authorized to investigate public nuisances or enforce this Chapter are
authorized to enter upon any property or premises to ascertain whether the
provisions of the Code or applicable state codes are being obeyed, and to make
any examinations, inspections and surveys as may be necessary in the
performance of their enforcement or investigative duties. These may include the
taking of photographs, samples or other physical evidence. All inspections,
entries, examinations and surveys shall be conducted in a reasonable manner. If
an owner, occupant or agent refuses permission to enter or inspect, the
enforcement/investigative official may seek an administrative inspection
warrant pursuant to the applicable procedures provided for in the Nevada Code
of Civil Procedure or any applicable process established by a court of
competent jurisdiction. In the case of a criminal investigation, law
enforcement may seek a search warrant consistent with the applicable laws of
the State of Nevada. (Ord. 253, 9-14-2022)
10-1-6: NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER AND OCCUPANT OF NUISANCE:
   (A)   Upon receipt of a verification, the City Manager shall mail by
certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of the complaint of
existence of a nuisance to the person owning the premises according to the
current tax roll and to the person in possession, in charge, or in control of
the yard, lot, or premises upon which the nuisance exists. The notice shall
describe the nuisance allegation, the work of abatement to be performed, and
any penalties or fines.
   (B)   The notice shall require:
      1.   Payment of fines, compliance with penalties and commencement of work
for the removal of the nuisance within fourteen (14) days after mailing of the
notice, and removal of the nuisance by a date certain thereafter, affording a
minimum of thirty (30) days if the condition is not an immediate danger to the
public health, safety or welfare; or
      2.   Within fourteen (14) days, a written request to the City Manager
that a hearing be held before the City Manager to contest whether a nuisance
exists, whether said nuisance should be abated or removed, whether the fines
and penalties should be imposed and/or whether it be shown that there is no
nuisance or that the nuisance was caused by the City. The date specified in the
notice by which the owner must abate the condition and comply with the notice
is tolled for the period during which the owner requests a hearing and receives
a decision.
   (C)   If a hearing is not timely requested, the right to a hearing to
contest the declaration of nuisance, the imposition of fines and penalties and/
or the requirement of abatement shall be deemed to be waived. Further, upon a
failure of the owner/occupant to comply with the notice, the City Manager shall
prepare and serve a notice of a finding of public nuisance and order of
abatement and matters related thereto to be served by certified mail return
receipt requested. (Ord. 253, 9-14-2022)
10-1-7: SETTING OF HEARING REGARDING NUISANCE; HEARING AND DECISION:
   (A)   If a written request for hearing has been received by the City Manager
within the time specified, the City Manager shall forthwith fix a date to hear
the owner and/or occupant of the real property whereon the alleged nuisance is
claimed to exist and of any other person desiring to be heard.
   (B)   At the hearing before the City Manager or the City Manager's designee,
the respondent and the City shall each be given an opportunity to present
arguments and evidence, to include witness testimony. The rules of evidence
shall not apply. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee may terminate
the hearing at a time determined in advance by the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee, provided a reasonable time shall be given to permit the
respondent and the City to present their respective arguments and evidence. The
City Manager or City Manager's designee may terminate a hearing at any time
upon a determination that the additional evidence and argument to be proffered
by the respondent and the City will be duplicative or not relevant to the
issues to be resolved. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall
issue and serve a written decision upon the respondent with five (5) business
days of the hearing. The written decision shall set forth the findings
concerning the nuisance matter, the fines, penalties and remedies ordered in
conjunction therewith, if any, and the appeal rights applicable to the
decision, if any. (Ord. 253, 9-14-2022)
10-1-8: APPEAL:
   (A)   An owner or occupant may appeal the written decision of the City
Manager within fourteen (14) calendar days of service thereof, by certified
mail return receipt requested, to the Board of Council Members by filing a
"Notice of Appeal to the Board of Council Members" with the City Clerk
containing a statement of the basis for the appeal. The Board of Council
Members shall, within forty-five (45) calendar days thereafter, conduct a
hearing on the decision of the City Manager or City Manager's designee. At the
hearing before the City Council, the appellant and the City shall each be given
an opportunity to present arguments and evidence, to include witness testimony.
The rules of evidence shall not apply. The Board of Council Members may
terminate the proceeding at a time determined in advance by the Board, provided
a reasonable time shall be given to permit the appellant and the City to
present their respective arguments and evidence. The Board of Council Members
may terminate a hearing at any time upon a determination that the additional
evidence and argument to be proffered by the appellant or the City will be
duplicative or not relevant or necessary to the issues to be resolved. The
Board of Council Members shall render a decision at the hearing, to include a
continuation thereof in the event the hearing is tabled.
   (B)   A written decision shall be prepared based upon the decision of the
Board of Council Members and may be served upon the appellant at the hearing or
forthwith thereafter by certified mail return receipt requested. This decision
shall set forth the findings regarding the nuisance, if an, and any matters
appropriate to abatement and penalties and fines.
   (C)   If work to abate and remove the nuisance is not commenced within the
required period, if the nuisance is not abated or removed within the required
period, if the nuisance is not abated or removed within a reasonable time after
the commencement of work, or if no written appeal notice has been received by
the City Manager within the time specified, the City may proceed to abate the
nuisance and recover the costs, fines and penalties provided in the
determination and order by the Council.
   (D)   The failure of an owner or occupant to appeal a decision within the
times required in this Chapter shall result in the waiver of those appeal
rights and strict compliance with the decision of the City Manager shall be
required.
   (E)   The decision of the Board of Council Members at an appeal hearing
pursuant to this Chapter shall be final for purposes of judicial review. Any
action for judicial review shall be commenced by filing a petition with the
District Court for the Fourth Judicial District, in and for the County of Elko,
State of Nevada, no more than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the
decision of the Board of Council Members.(Ord. 253, 9-14-2022)
10-1-9: REFERRAL TO CITY ATTORNEY; ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS:
   (A)   In addition to the administrative process set forth herein, an alleged
nuisance may at any time be referred to the City Attorney, who may elect to
file a complaint in municipal court for a violation of this chapter and seek a
conviction and abatement order from the Court separate from the actions taken
in the administrative process.
   (B)   In addition to the administrative process set forth herein, the Chief
of Police, his or her designee, or any code enforcement officer or other
officer authorized to issue citations for violations of the City code may
initiate a prosecution for a violation of this Chapter by the issuance of a
citation into Municipal Court. Upon a conviction, the Court shall have full
authority to order abatement and the other remedies set forth herein, in
addition to the other penalties for a misdemeanor. (Ord. 253, 9-14-2022)
10-1-10: ABATEMENT/ENFORCEMENT BY THE CITY:
If an order of the Board of Council Members is not complied with within such
time as the Board of Council Members has designated, the Board shall cause the
abatement and removal of the nuisance and make the cost of abatement a special
assessment against the real property. If fines or penalties are not paid as
provided in the order, the Board shall make such penalties a special assessment
against the real property as provided in this Chapter and/or the Nevada Revised
Statutes. If a court order for abatement is not complied with, the Carlin City
Attorney shall pursue remedies available to him/her through the court,
including, but not limited to, a court order for abatement and all other
remedies, costs, fines, assessments and lien procedures which could be imposed
by the Board of Council Members in this Chapter. (Ord. 253, 9-14-2022)
10-1-11: ASSESSMENT OF COSTS OF ABATEMENT:
Upon the completion of abatement and removal of a nuisance by the City after
the Board of Council Members has ordered the owner to abate the nuisance:
   (A)   The city employee in charge of the work of abating and removing the
nuisance shall file with the City Clerk a description of the premises and a
verified statement of the work done and all expenses and costs incurred of any
nature whatsoever, and the name of the owner of the premises. The owner shall
be charged with the costs and expenses by the City.
   (B)   The Board of Council Members shall make a determination regarding the
costs and expenses of abatement by the City at a regular meeting and shall:
      1.   Determine whether the costs and expenses were proper, the name of
the owner of the premises, and the premises to be assessed; and
      2.   Adopt or revise the statement by resolution levying assessment and
require the city clerk to record the resolution and statement in the Office of
the Elko County Recorder.
   (C)   Upon such recording, the assessment shall be due and payable and shall
constitute a lien upon the premises and shall remain until paid. (Ord. 253, 9-
14-2022)
10-1-12: COLLECTION OF THE SPECIAL ASSESSMENT:
   (A)   The special assessment may be collected at the same time and in the
same manner as ordinary property taxes are collected and shall be subject to
the same penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as
provided for ordinary property taxes. All laws applicable to the levy,
collection, and enforcement of property taxes and shall be applicable to such
special assessment.
   (B)   The Elko County Assessor shall:
      1.   Make an assessment roll and levy a special assessment upon the
premises and against the person chargeable;
      2.   After such levy, transfer the assessment roll to the Elko County
Treasurer.
   (C)   The Elko County Treasurer shall record the assessment in his/her
office in the same manner as street assessments are recorded.
   (D)   Any civil penalties that have not been collected may not be made a
special assessment against the property unless:
      1.   At least twelve (12) months have elapsed from the date specified in
the notice by which the owner must abate the condition or the date specified by
the governing body or court by which the owner must abate the condition,
whichever is later;
      2.   The owner has been billed, served or otherwise notified that the
civil penalties are due; and
      3.   The amount of uncollected civil penalties is more than five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00).
   (E)   If a special assessment is imposed under this section, the City clerk
shall submit a written report to the Board of Council Members at least one each
calendar quarter that sets forth, for each property against which such
assessment has been imposed:
      1.   The street address or Assessor's parcel number of the property;
      2.   The name of each owner of record of the property as of the date of
the assessment; and
      3.   The total of the assessment, stating the amount assessed for the
expense of the abatement. (Ord. 253, 9-14-2022)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND WASTE CODE
SECTION:
10-2-1: Short Title
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-3: Deposit Upon Public Place
10-2-4: Collection And Disposal
10-2-5: Receptacles
10-2-6: Scavengers
10-2-7: Vehicles Transporting Solid Waste
10-2-8: Fly Breeding Conditions
10-2-9: Right Of Entry
10-2-10: Conflict With Other Codes Or Ordinances
10-2-11: Violations And Penalties
10-2-12: Enforcement
10-2-13: Billing And Payment
10-2-14: Rates To Be Charged
10-2-15: Repeal Of Ordinances And Resolutions
10-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF CARLIN GARBAGE AND
WASTE CODE. (Ord. 175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall, when
used in this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this
section:
ANIMAL OFFAL: Meat scraps, bones or other waste resulting from the processing
of animals for food, and dead animals to be processed for their commercial
value.
BODY WASTES: Animal or human body excrement.
CLASS I SOLID WASTE: All nonputrescible solid wastes such as cinders, ashes,
wastepaper, excelsior, rags, wooden boxes, cardboard boxes or paper boxes,
bottles, broken ware, tin cans, metal scraps, small mechanical parts, shavings,
floor sweepings.
CLASS II SOLID WASTE: All nonputrescible solid wastes, such as tree trimmings,
tree limbs, yard clippings, grass cuttings, weeds, shrubs and brush.
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any building or structure or premises not a residence
and includes places of business, institutions, motels, hotels, governmental
agencies, schools, nursing homes, hospitals.
COMMERCIAL SOLID WASTE: Any solid waste produced by a business, commercial
establishment or institution.
DEBRIS: Left over, superfluous, disposable or unwanted material resulting from
construction, repair, demolition or cleanup of premises that is not "Class II
Solid Waste".
EXPLOSIVES: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion which contains any oxidizing
and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities or
packing that an ignition by fire, friction, percussion or detonator of any part
of the compound or mixture may cause such a sudden generation of highly heated
gases that the resultant gaseous pressures are capable of producing destructive
effects on contiguous objects or destroying life or limb.
FLAMMABLE MATERIAL OR LIQUID: Any material or liquid which has a flash point of
seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by a Tagliabue or
equivalent closed cup test device.
GARBAGE: All animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking or consumption of foods or other worthless offensive
matter, the accumulation of which may create a nuisance or be deleterious to
public health or offensive to sight or smell, that is not "Class I Solid
Waste".
HAZARDOUS WASTE: A waste or combination of wastes which because of its
quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may
either:
   (A)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious, irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness.
   (B)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment if improperly disposed.
   (C)   A substance which has been determined by the United States department
of transportation under title 49, code of federal regulations, to be capable of
posing an unreasonable risk to health, safety and property if transported in
commerce.
   (D)   Any material that is subject to the hazardous waste manifest of the
department of health services or the United States environmental protection
agency.
HEALTH AND SAFETY CONSIDERATIONS: Approval of the sanitary methods for storing
waste, debris, etc., prior to collection by a permitted private collector, the
adequacy of transportation of the same in a sanitary and safe manner to the
disposal site of said waste, debris, etc., together with the adequacy of the
disposal site for the purpose of receiving the waste, debris, etc., in a safe
and sanitary manner which creates no public health danger or nuisance.
INDUSTRY OR INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE: Waste which is the byproduct of a
manufacturing process.
PREMISES: Land, building or other structures or parts thereof.
RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL OR RADIOACTIVE SUBSTANCE: Any substance which emits
ionizing radiation.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid waste, including garbage,
animal offal, rubbish, trash, wastes, but not including body wastes or debris.
RESIDENCE: Any building or structure used as a family domicile including
single- and multi-family dwelling units, apartments, rooming houses, boarding
houses and trailer courts.
TOXIC CHEMICALS OR TOXIC SUBSTANCES: A substance, other than a radioactive
substance which has the capacity to produce injury or illness to man through
ingestion, inhalation or absorption through any body surface.
WASTE: Unwanted or superfluous matter. (Ord. 175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-3: DEPOSIT UPON PUBLIC PLACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit upon the streets, alleys, public
grounds or upon any vacant lot of the city, any garbage, solid waste class I or
II, or debris of any nature, except at such times and places and under such
regulations as the board of councilmen of the city may, from time to time,
permit or adopt. (Ord. 175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-4: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
Except as may be otherwise provided, the collection and removal of any and all
garbage and waste herein provided shall be performed exclusively by the city or
such collection may be handled exclusively for the city through a private
collector approved by the city council.
The services provided by the city through a franchisee shall be compulsory, and
no property owner, tenant, occupant or resident within the city to whom such
services are extended shall haul or cause to be hauled garbage and waste from
the premises owned or occupied by such persons, save and except by application
to the city or on motion by the board of councilmen, good cause appearing, the
board of councilmen may order that the service by the city shall not be
compulsory as to any certain property or premises.
   (A)   By City:
      1.   The city council may carry out the provisions of this chapter; and
      2.   May haul all or part of the refuse; and
      3.   May purchase such equipment as may be required to carry out the
provisions of this chapter, and charge and collect charges for services
provided pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   By Contractor:
      1.   Franchise Contract: The city council may, if considered to be for
the best interests of the city, enter into a franchise contract or contracts
with one or more persons authorizing the collecting, removing and disposing of
all refuse within the city and for the assessing and collecting of charges for
such services. The city council, in letting any such contract or contracts
under the provisions of this chapter, shall include therein such provisions as
may be deemed necessary to protect the best interests of the city and its
citizens and inhabitants and, particularly, provisions relieving the city from
any responsibility for any acts of such contractor or contractors and from any
damages that may result from collecting, hauling or disposing of refuse.
      2.   Written Agreement Required: The franchise granted hereunder shall
not become effective until a written agreement is entered into between the
franchisee and the city, such agreement shall include all the requirements set
forth herein. The franchisee shall be required to perform all of the following:
         (a)   Garbage Collection:
            (1) Guarantee that garbage service shall be available to business
locations, public places and all other locations within the city which the city
may designate at all times and that all garbage in connection therewith within
the city shall be removed in an expeditious manner in accordance with all the
terms of the franchise.
            (2) Collect garbage from all business locations, public places and
other locations which the city may designate wherever situated in the city at
least once a week.
            (3) Guarantee that in the collection of garbage from any location
in the city, care shall be taken to deposit all garbage inside the collection
truck leaving no evidence or bits or pieces of garbage upon any streets, alleys
or other public places within the city or any private property used for the
collection of garbage.
            (4) Provide safe, adequate and clean equipment which is constructed
in a manner to be completely covered so as to prevent the sifting, spilling,
dropping or blowing of any of the garbage contained therein upon any of the
streets, alleys or public places in the city.
            (5) The equipment used by the franchisee shall be modern, up to
date and watertight. The outside of the equipment shall be kept free from dirt
and the inside of carriers of garbage shall be thoroughly cleaned after dumping
each day.
         (b)   Guarantee Against Liability: Guarantee that in the exercise of
the duties under the franchise every reasonable and proper precaution to avoid
damage or injury to persons or property shall be used, and the franchisee shall
covenant, contract and agree to indemnify and hold harmless the city and all
customers of the franchise from which garbage, rubbish and waste matter is
removed from any and all claims, damages, costs, fees and liabilities by reason
of injury or damage to persons or property growing out of any act of the
franchisee and the agents and employees of the franchisee in removing, hauling
and dumping any garbage, rubbish and waste matter by reason of the contract.
Franchisee shall further agree that if the city is sued by any person of any
kind to recover damage to any person or property on account of actions during
the performance of duties under the franchise, the franchisee, its heirs,
successors and assigns shall defend all such suits and pay all judgments courts
may enter in such suit. Further, it shall be required to provide liability
insurance of a minimum of seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000.00)
bodily injury coverage and seven hundred fifty thousand dollars ($750,000.00)
property damage.
         (c)   Bond Provided: Provide a performance bond or time certificate in
an amount set forth by resolution of the board of councilmen to ensure faithful
performance of the requirements of the franchise, the form of bond or time
certificate subject to approval by the city attorney.
         (d)   Performance Agreement: Agree that in the event that the
franchise fails to perform any condition of the franchise, fails to abide by
all of the laws, rules and regulations pertaining to the franchise or become
bankrupt or insolvent, the city shall have the right to terminate the franchise
and agreement so awarded if the franchisee fails to correct the deficiency
within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice of such deficiency from
the board of councilmen.
         (e)   Transfer Agreement: Agree that no assignment or transfer of the
franchise shall be made without written consent of the board of councilmen.
         (f)   Responsibility Agreement: Agree to be responsible to the board
of councilmen or other officials designated by the board of councilmen.
      3.   Sealed Bids/Proposals: Before awarding any such contract or
contracts, sealed proposals or bids may be called for under such notice as may
be deemed reasonable and as may be provided by the city council. Persons
submitting any bids or proposals shall include therein all statements or
requirements required by the council including descriptions, plans and
specifications of all equipment used or to be used, and fees to be charged for
regular services and for additional or special hauling of refuse. The council,
in awarding one or more contracts hereunder shall take into consideration the
type of equipment used or to be used, the responsibility of the bidder, the
rates and charges named in the bid and all other pertinent matters as well as
the amount of money offered by the bidder to the city for the awarding of such
contracts.
The board shall have the right to waive formalities in awarding contracts
hereunder. It may award one or more contracts with such designations,
differences and restrictions as to districts, areas, nature of hauling, charges
and other matters, as may be deemed proper and may make such contracts
exclusive in the contractor or contractors or exclusive as to districts, nature
of hauling or otherwise. (Ord. 175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-5: RECEPTACLES:
   (A)   Receptacles Required:
      1.   No owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of any public or private
premises shall permit to accumulate upon his premises any garbage, refuse or
waste except in approved type receptacles approved by the city. These
receptacles shall be of adequate capacity and be provided in sufficient number
to hold all garbage, refuse or waste that accumulates between collections.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or deposit, or cause to
be dumped or deposited any garbage, refuse or waste in any receptacle not owned
or maintained by him or by an approved franchise collector.
      3.   The lids or covers of refuse containers or receptacles shall be kept
securely in place at all times, except when the refuse is being deposited or
removed for collection, so that flies and other insects may not have access to
the contents thereof.
   (B)   Placing For Collection:
      1.   All receptacles, containers, bins or enclosures used by commercial
establishments and residential users shall be placed in areas designated by the
city.
      2.   No receptacles, containers, bins or enclosures shall be placed
beneath a fire escape or so as to restrict egress from an exit door. None shall
be placed under a street floor window unless the window is of fire resistant
construction. All containers, receptacles, bins or enclosures not in existence
shall be required to meet the construction and placement specifications
provided in this chapter; except that the sanitation department may temporarily
waive these requirements in extreme hardship cases.
   (C)   Special Handling Of Refuse:
      1.   All large items of refuse such as boxes, cartons and crates over
twenty eight inches (28") on any one side shall be collapsed for each handling
by collection crews.
      2.   Tree trimmings, branches and limbs shall be cut into four foot (4')
lengths. Trunk sections shall be cut so as not to exceed fifty (50) pounds for
any one section. It shall not be necessary to provide receptacles, but it shall
be necessary to have refuse contained in wooden or cardboard boxes or plastic
bags. It shall be placed in a neat and orderly manner.
      3.   Ashes shall not be placed in the same receptacle with any
inflammable substance, but shall be placed in separate metal containers of the
type required for garbage. Ashes shall be soaked with water when necessary to
extinguish live embers.
      4.   Disposal of following types of refuse is prohibited: auto bodies,
septic tank or cesspool pumping, hazardous waste, toxic chemicals,
insecticides, pathological or biological waste, radioactive material,
explosives and flammable material.
      5.   Body wastes and debris shall not be placed with refuse for
collection, but shall be disposed of directly by the person or persons owning,
occupying or leasing the premises wherein such matter is accumulated; however,
animal offal of domestic pets may be placed with refuse, provided it is
securely wrapped.
      6.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, tenant, lessee or
contractor to dispose of or cause to be disposed of all construction rubbish or
debris accumulated as a result of construction operations.
         (a)   Every contractor or builder engaged in the erection or repair of
a building shall provide a receptacle for the deposit of garbage and other
refuse. He shall keep surroundings free of debris and trash at all times.
      7.   Any person who shall place any refuse or debris upon any private or
public property not owned or under the control of said person, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, in addition to any fine which may be imposed for
violation of any provision of this code, shall be liable for all charges which
may be assessed for the removal of said refuse or debris. It is unlawful for
any person not authorized by the city to remove any waste or other material
from any existing or any previously operational landfill of the city. (Ord.
175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-6: SCAVENGERS:
It is unlawful for any person not authorized by the owner of a solid waste
receptacle to remove any solid waste from a receptacle or scatter the same upon
a public alley, street or public place. It is unlawful for any person not
authorized by the city to remove any solid waste from any city landfill or to
scatter the same upon a public alley, street, public place or the area of the
landfill. (Ord. 175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-7: VEHICLES TRANSPORTING SOLID WASTE:
It is unlawful for any person or permitted private franchise collector to haul
or cause to be hauled on or along any public street or alley any refuse unless
it shall be contained in vehicles or receptacles so constructed as to prevent
the contents from falling, leaking or spilling or any noxious odor escaping
therefrom and to prevent any flies, insects or rodents from having access to
the contents. Every person hauling any refuse along any street or alley shall
replace immediately in the conveyance used for such hauling any of the contents
which may fall therefrom in or upon any street, alley or public or private
premises. (Ord. 175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-8: FLY BREEDING CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Premises To Be Kept Free Of Fly Breeding Substances: It shall be the
responsibility of every owner, lessee or tenant of any premises within the city
to keep the premises at all times clean and inoffensive and free from any
accumulation of garbage, refuse, ashes, rubbish, putrescible wastes, vegetable
waste, animal offal, carcasses of dead animals and any other conditions wherein
houseflies or other flies will breed.
   (B)   Fly Breeding Conditions Declared Nuisance; Abatement; Penalty: Any
condition wherein flies breed is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Any
person who, upon written notification of the sanitation department, its
authorized agent or the city clerk, fails purposely to abate such nuisance
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. If found guilty by the city municipal court,
the nuisance shall be abated and removed by the city at the expense of such
person. (Ord. 175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-9: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The city or its authorized agent shall be and is hereby authorized to enter
into or upon any premises within the corporate limits of the city for the
purpose of making necessary inspections and issuing instructions for abatement
and correction of any and all violations of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-10: CONFLICT WITH OTHER CODES OR ORDINANCES:
Whenever the provisions of this chapter shall conflict with any other
provisions of this code or other ordinance, the provisions of this chapter
shall prevail. (Ord. 175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-11: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each person shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and every
day during which any portion or part of this chapter is violated. (Ord. 175,
10-13-1993)
10-2-12: ENFORCEMENT:
When the owner, lessee, tenant or other possessor of land being served under
the provisions of this chapter has had charges or penalties assessed against
them, and payment has not been received, the city clerk may assign the account
of a bona fide collection agency or institute legal action for the recovery of
the amount due. (Ord. 175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-13: BILLING AND PAYMENT:
   (A)   When Payable: All bills for solid waste collection, hauling and/or
landfill dumping charges provided herein shall be for the previous month and
shall be payable on the first of each month, following the month of services
rendered. Each bill shall show the amount of the solid waste collection,
hauling and or landfill dumping charges. In the event the garbage bill, or any
part thereof, is not paid in full by the tenth of each month, it will be
considered delinquent and subject to a penalty fee. In the event any such bill
remains unpaid for a period of forty (40) days after the date rendered or in
the event the fortieth day falls on a holiday, Saturday or Sunday, then on the
next succeeding working day during which time the bill has not been paid in
full, the city clerk shall mail notice to the legal owner, applicant for
service, and the occupant at the address receiving service, that the garbage
service will be terminated not less than ten (10) days after the date of
mailing of such notice. If the garbage bill is not paid within that ten (10)
day notice, services will be terminated and legal action will follow.
   (B)   Mandatory Solid Waste Collection: No person or commercial
establishment within the city shall be permitted to avoid or refuse to accept
such solid waste collection and disposal service, including franchise permitted
private collector services, and the failure of any person to accept such
service shall not exempt him from the payment of the charges for such
collection and disposal services.
   (C)   Establishment Of Rates: There shall be assessed and charged against
the occupant or owner of all premises within the city, fees for the collection,
hauling and landfill disposal of solid waste. Any such fees billed by the city
shall be set by resolution. Any such fees billed by a private franchise
collector shall be set by the franchise collector and approved by the city.
(Ord. 175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-14: RATES TO BE CHARGED:
   (A)   A charge shall be made and collected by the refuse collector from all
occupied premises in the city for collection and hauling. This charge shall be
specifically indicated in the application for permission to collect and haul
garbage, refuse and waste and this charge shall not be changed except by
consent of the city council at a regular meeting.
   (B)   A separate charge for landfill disposal shall be set by resolution by
the board of councilmen. The landfill disposal charges shall be collected by
the city.
   (C)   Use of the city landfill by industrial firms, contractors or by
businesses disposing of "debris" and class II solid waste generated within the
city, as defined in section
10-2-2 of this chapter, shall be billed as set forth below as amended, from
time to time, by resolution of the city council. It shall be unlawful for any
business to dispose of debris or waste at the city landfill without payment of
the aforementioned charges. Penalties shall be imposed pursuant to section
10-2-11 of this chapter.
   (D)   Building permits issued for demolition, roofing, new construction and
remodeling shall have added to the permit issued by the city planning
department the following sums for the specified projects as a disposal fee for
construction materials, if such construction debris is disposed of in the city
landfill:
      1.   Demolition:
         (a)   Structures up to five hundred (500) square feet: thirty dollars
($30.00).
         (b)   Structures from five hundred one (501) to one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet: eighty dollars ($80.00).
         (c)   Structures above one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet:
one hundred sixty dollars ($160.00).
      2.   Asphalt Pavement Removal:
         (a)   Fifty dollar ($50.00) permit plus a two dollar ($2.00) per ton
landfill disposal charge.
      3.   Roofing:
         (a)   Complete new sheeting including removal of existing paper,
shingles and other support materials: fifty dollars ($50.00).
      4.   New Construction And Remodeling:
         (a)   Construction costing between ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
and forty nine thousand dollars ($49,000.00): thirty five dollars ($35.00).
         (b)   Construction costing between fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
and seventy nine thousand dollars ($79,000.00): seventy dollars ($70.00).
         (c)   Construction costing eighty thousand dollars ($80,000.00) and
above: one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus ten dollars ($10.00) for each
additional ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) value.
      5.   Remodeling:
         (a)   Projects costing from ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) up to
twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00): twenty dollars ($20.00).
         (b)   Projects costing twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) to
seventy six thousand dollars ($76,000.00): thirty dollars ($30.00).
         (c)   Projects costing over seventy six thousand dollars ($76,000.00):
eighty dollars ($80.00).
Any costs referred to in this section shall be based on the valuation
calculated by the city at the time of issuance of any building permit. (Ord.
175, 10-13-1993)
10-2-15: REPEAL OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS:
   (A)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances and resolutions in conflict
herewith are hereby repealed, but only to the extent of such conflict.
   (B)   If any section, clause or provision of this chapter shall for any
reason be held to be invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, the invalidity, unenforceability or unconstitutionality
of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any remaining
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 175, 10-13-1993)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Short Title
10-3-2: Definitions
10-3-3: Matter Excluded From All Sewers
10-3-4: Matter Excluded From Storm Drains
10-3-5: Matter Excluded From Sanitary Sewers
10-3-6: Sewer Service
10-3-7: Discontinuance Of Service
10-3-8: Termination For Noncompliance With Rules
10-3-9: Termination For Unsafe Apparatus
10-3-10: Termination For Fraudulent Use Of Service
10-3-11: Restoration Of Service
10-3-12: Refusal To Serve
10-3-13: Continuity Of Service
10-3-14: Mandatory Connections
10-3-15: Unlawful Installations
10-3-16: Inspection Of Treatment Facility, Sewers And Attachments
10-3-17: Testing Of Sewage Waste
10-3-18: Septic Tank Contents
10-3-19: Determination Of Character Of Waste Matter
10-3-20: Pretreatment Of Sewage
10-3-21: Design, Construction Of New Connections, Inflow Sources
10-3-22: Prohibition Against Altering Connections
10-3-23: Extension Of Sewer Main Facilities
10-3-24: Amendments To Sewer Use Ordinance
10-3-25: Sewer Revenue System
10-3-26: Capitalization Fund
10-3-27: User Charge System
10-3-28: Infiltration/Inflow
10-3-29: Biennial Review Of Operation And Maintenance Charges
10-3-30: Annual Notification
10-3-31: Billing (Payment And Lien Rights)
10-3-32: Credit (Deposit Required For Services Rendered)
10-3-33: Vacancies
10-3-34: Appeals
10-3-35: Penalties
10-3-36: Fixture Unit Value Table
10-3-37: Advise Of Changes
10-3-38: Precedence
10-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the CARLIN SEWER CODE. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
are to mean:
BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in parts per
million (1,000,000) by weight.
BOARD: The board of councilmen of the city of Carlin.
CAPITAL COSTS: Costs of major rehabilitation, expansion or upgrading required
as facilities reach the end of their useful life.
CAPITAL OUTLAYS: Expenditures which result in the acquisition of, or addition
to, fixed or capital assets.
CAPITALIZATION CHARGE: A charge made to the user to produce revenues to retire
outstanding indebtedness and maintain reserve accounts for capital improvements
to the sewer system, and other such nonoperating, maintenance and replacement
items as the board may specify. All fees collected are deposited in the
capitalization fund.
CAPITALIZATION FUND: The reserve account to which capitalization charges,
connection charges, penalty fees and any other miscellaneous fees accrue, and
from which capital costs are met. The fund may be used to meet debt service,
depreciation and such other expenses as the board determines (except OM&R).
CARLIN MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM OR SEWER SYSTEM: The system of conduits, pumps,
structures used for the purpose of conveying from their source, treating in any
manner and conveying to final points of disposal all wastes of any nature
permitted by this chapter to enter said system. Specifically included as
integral parts of the system are all conduits of any nature forming a part of
the general network of conduits or connected directly or indirectly to said
network; all pumps, treatment plants and structures of any kind used in
connection with the collection, treatment and disposal of the wastes handled by
the system; and all appurtenances to any of the above, either physically or
functionally connected therewith. "Combined sewers", sanitary sewers, and storm
sewers, as defined herein, are all included as parts of the Carlin municipal
sewer system.
CITY ENGINEER: Either the said city engineer personally, or any of his duly
authorized representatives.
COMBINED SEWERS: Those sewers which are designated to carry all waste matter
permitted by this chapter.
CONNECTION FEES: A fee charged in order to equalize the investment in sewer
plant equipment and related facilities. The charge is applied to all new users
of sewer facilities in approximate proportion to their anticipated usage and is
for the right of service in the system. All fees collected are deposited in the
capitalization fund.
DEPARTMENT: The division of municipal government empowered by the board with
responsibility for and authority over the operations and policies of the Carlin
municipal sewer system.
DIRECTOR: Any duly authorized representative or representatives appointed by
the board.
EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU): The annual allowance of one hundred twenty six
thousand (126,000) gallons of domestic strength wastewater the average
residential user is estimated to contribute annually to the total wastewater
flow including the user's proportionate share of infiltration and inflow.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: The accounting and budgetary procedures utilized
in the development and application of the user charge system, following
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and those of the governmental
accounting standards board (GASB).
FIXED ASSETS (Also Known As CAPITAL ASSETS): Permanent property such as land,
buildings, sewer collection pipelines, tanks, etc.
FIXTURE UNIT: The arbitrary value assigned to various plumbing fixtures based
upon the fixtures typical discharge loading contribution to the sewer system.
Utilized in the development of proportional connection charges and user charge
rates (derived from "Uniform Plumbing Code").
INFILTRATION: Water other than wastewater that enters the sewerage system
(including sewer service connections) from the ground, through such means as
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manholes, etc.
INFLOW: Water other than wastewater that enters the sewerage system through
such sources as: roof, yard and cellar drains, catch basins, surface runoff,
street wastewaters or drainage.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (OM&R): Those functions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities,
and other items which are necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage
works to achieve the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement" as defined below. The term shall exclude expenditures for fixed
or capital assets and any consideration of or for debt service or depreciation.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUND (OM&R FUND): The fiscal account to which all
user charge revenues shall accrue and through which funds are disbursed to meet
only OM&R expenses.
PREMISES: A continuous tract of land, building or group of adjacent buildings
under a single control with respect to use of sewer and responsibility for
payment therefor. Subdivision of such use or responsibility shall constitute a
division into separate premises as herein defined, except that where more than
one dwelling is being served through the same sewer service in which case each
of said dwellings shall constitute a separate premises and shall be subject to
the same separate charges as if separate single-family dwellings.
REPLACEMENT COSTS: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement". The term excludes replacement of any fixed or capital asset.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial wastewaters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants
and institutions.
SEWER DEPARTMENT: The city of Carlin sewer department, located at 101 South
Eighth Street.
SEWER USE ORDINANCE: Legally binding document which establishes parameters
controlling connection to, and wastes contributed to a wastewater treatment
system, including a mandate that: All residences shall be connected; all
connections shall be properly designed and constructed; the introduction of
hazardous or toxic wastes which may threaten public safety or the plant's
physical integrity shall be prohibited; new sources of inflow shall be
prohibited.
SEWERAGE FIXTURES: Approved type installed receptacles, devises or appliances
which are supplied with water or which receive liquid or liquid borne wastes,
and discharge such wastes into the drainage system to which they may be
directly or indirectly connected. Industrial or commercial tanks, vats and
similar processing equipment are not sewerage fixtures, but may be connected to
or discharged into approved sewerage fixtures.
SHALL: Is an imperative; "may" is permissive.
STORM DRAIN: A drain (sewer line) intended to carry only storm waters, surface
runoff, street wash waters and drainage.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
TAP FEE: A charge made for the installation of service to a customer. The cost
includes all materials and labor. All fees collected are deposited in the
operation, maintenance and replacement fund (OM&R). The connection shall be
made into the sewer main serving the property and installation of the service
line to a point at or near the property line.
TREATMENT WORKS: Treatment facility, sewer plant, sewer system; any devices and
systems for the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal
sewage, domestic sewage or liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting
sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping, power, and other
equipment and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling,
additions and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable
recycled supply and any works that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
treatment.
USER: A recipient of wastewater treatment services. "Residential user" shall
mean any contributor to the city's treatment works whose lot, parcel or real
estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.
USER CHARGE FUND: This distinct account to which user charge revenue shall
accrue and through which OM&R expenses are met, also known as OM&R fund.
USER CHARGE RATE (UCR): The charge assessed users of a wastewater treatment
facility to obtain revenue to fund the users proportionate share of OM&R
expenses. The rate shall be proportionate to their usage (volume and loading)
of the facility. The rate is determined through the application of the user
charge system. The user charge is a distinct portion of the monthly sewer fees,
reflecting only OM&R expenses.
USER CHARGE SYSTEM: The process through which OM&R expenses are determined and
the correlating user charge rate derived and assessed to users of the treatment
facility (proportionate to usage), to generate revenue to meet those OM&R
expenses, thereby assuring fiscal self-sufficiency of the plant over its useful
life. Inclusive of:
Rates proportionate to usage.
Annual notification to each user of the UCR and OM&R costs.
A financial management system which accounts for OM&R expenses and establishes
the user charge rates.
Disposition of infiltration/inflow expense.
Precedence over conflicting legal enactments.
Disposition of earned (or capital income). (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-3: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM ALL SEWERS:
Sewage, waste or any matter having any of the following characteristics shall,
under no conditions, be discharged into, be placed where they might find their
way into, or be allowed to run, leak or escape into any part of the sewer
system including:
   (A)   Ashes, cinders, sand, earth, coal, rubbish or any matter which is
chemically or physically stable for at least five (5) days at twenty degrees
centigrade (20°C) or which would form a deposit or obstruction or damage or
reduce the capacity of the sewer into which it was placed.
   (B)   Inflammable, explosive or poisonous liquids, gases or solids or any
matter which after entrance into a sewer might reasonably be expected to form
into flammable, explosive or poisonous liquids, gases or solids.
   (C)   Liquid matter of any nature containing suspended solids in excess of
one thousand (1,000) parts per million (1,000,000).
   (D)   Matter of any nature containing five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand
in excess of three hundred (300) parts per million (1,000,000) or any petroleum
products.
   (E)   Animal or vegetable greases, oils or matter containing animal or
vegetable greases or oil of any nature in excess of three hundred (300) parts
per million (1,000,000).
   (F)   Liquid matter with a hydrogen ion (pH) concentration below five and
five-tenths (5.5) or above nine and zero-tenths (9.0) measured at the point
where discharge enters the sewer main.
   (G)   Any matter that would be poisonous to or inhibit the biologic
organisms associated with any sewage treatment process and which, in the
opinion of the department, might interfere with the satisfactory operation of
any treatment facility or any portion of the sewer system.
Upon obtaining the written approval of the director, sewage wastes or other
matters herein excluded may be discharged into the sewage system upon the
payment to the city the additional costs for processing the same as hereinafter
provided and set forth. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-4: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM STORM DRAINS:
In addition to the matter excluded heretofore, all other matter of any nature
shall be excluded from those parts of the sewer system designated by the
director as storm sewers, excepting only surface drainage waters. All drainage
waters shall be directed into storm sewers only under the authorization and
direction of the director. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-5: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM SANITARY SEWERS:
In addition to the matter excluded heretofore, all surface drainage water
(inflow) shall be excluded from all parts of the sewer system designed by the
director as the sanitary sewer system. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-6: SEWER SERVICE:
Applications, changes, shut offs, valves, service lines.
   (A)   Applications:
      1.   Contents: Each applicant for sewer service shall be required to
sign, on a form provided by the sewer department, an application which shall
set forth:
         (a)   Date.
         (b)   Location of premises to be served, giving street address and
description of property to be served.
         (c)   Applicant's name and mailing address and the name and mailing
address of the legal owner of the premises.
         (d)   Purpose for which the property will be used (residential,
commercial, apartments, etc.).
         (e)   Person and address to which the monthly bills are to be mailed.
         (f)   The date the applicant will be ready for sewer service.
         (g)   The name of the contracting or plumbing agency that will be
hooking the premises to the city sewer system (new connections).
         (h)   If the applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the
applicant shall provide written evidence of authorization to apply for service
from the legal owner of the property.
      2.   Purpose: The application is merely a written request for service and
does not bind the applicant to take service for any period of time, nor does it
bind the city to serve except under reasonable conditions.
      3.   Responsibility: The city shall bill the monthly service charge
according to the instructions in the application. Either the applicant or the
legal owner of the premises may request termination of the sewer service. Only
the legal owner of the premises may request a change in the person or address
to which the monthly sewer bill is to be sent. The legal owner is ultimately
responsible for the payment of all sewer charges at the premises for which an
application is made.
   (B)   Change In Customer's Sewerage Fixtures Equipment Or Operations: A
customer making any change in the size, character or extent of the equipment or
operations for which the service is utilized shall immediately file with the
sewer department a new application for additional service.
   (C)   Sewer Service Laterals: All sewer service laterals shall be
constructed and maintained by the property owner in accordance with sewer
department standards, rules and regulations. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-7: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
Sewer service will normally be considered terminated when the water service to
the property has been shut off. The billing for sewer service will be
discontinued at that time and the customer will be billed in accordance with
this chapter.
If, in the opinion of the director, unusual circumstances warrant continued
billing for sewer service or partially billing for service, the customer shall
be so notified. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-8: TERMINATION FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH RULES:
The sewer department may terminate water and/or sewer service to any customer
for violation of these rules after it has given the customer written notice of
such intention. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-9: TERMINATION FOR UNSAFE APPARATUS:
If any condition is found to exist on a customer's premises which constitutes a
hazard to health or which threatens to damage any portion of the city sewer
system, the service may be terminated without notice. The sewer department
shall notify the customer immediately of the reasons for the discontinuance and
the corrective action to be taken by the customer before service can be
restored. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-10: TERMINATION FOR FRAUDULENT USE OF SERVICE:
When the sewer department declares that a customer has obtained service by
fraudulent means, the service to that customer may be discontinued without
notice. The sewer department shall not restore service to such customer until
that customer has complied with the provisions of this chapter and rules and
reasonable requirements of the sewer department and the sewer department has
been reimbursed for the full amount of the service rendered and the actual cost
to the sewer department incurred by reason of the fraudulent use. Connection to
the sewer system without having first obtained the necessary permit(s) shall be
considered such fraudulent use and is subject to a fine. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-11: RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
Sewer service shall be considered restored and subject to billing at such a
time as the water reconnection takes place. Sewer service will not be restored
until all costs associated with discontinuing and restoring the service have
been paid. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-12: REFUSAL TO SERVE:
   (A)   Conditions For Refusal: The sewer department may refuse to serve an
applicant for service under the following conditions:
      1.   If the applicant fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   If the intended use of the service is of such a nature that it will
be detrimental or injurious to existing customers.
      3.   If, in the judgment of the sewer department, the applicant's
installation for utilizing the service is unsafe or hazardous, or subject to
freezing, or of such nature that satisfactory service cannot be rendered.
      4.   Where service has been discontinued for fraudulent use, the sewer
department will not serve an applicant until it has determined that all
conditions of fraudulent use or practice have been corrected.
      5.   If, in the judgment of the sewer department, there is insufficient
capacity to serve the applicant.
   (B)   Notification To Customers: When an applicant is refused service under
the provisions of this chapter, the sewer department will notify the applicant
that he may appeal the decision of the sewer department to the board. (Ord.
168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-13: CONTINUITY OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Emergency Interruptions: The sewer department will make all reasonable
efforts to prevent interruptions to service, if and when such interruptions
occur and will endeavor to reestablish service with the shortest possible delay
consistent with the safety of its customers and the general public.
   (B)   Scheduled Interruptions: Whenever the sewer department finds it
necessary to schedule an interruption to its service it will, where feasible,
notify all customers to be affected by the interruptions, stating the
approximate time and anticipated duration of the interruption. Scheduled
interruptions will be made at such hours as will provide least inconvenience to
the customers consistent with reasonable sewer department operations. (Ord.
168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-14: MANDATORY CONNECTIONS:
Each owner of houses, buildings or other properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, commercial, industrial or other like purposes situated
within the incorporated areas of the city shall connect to such sewer within
ninety (90) days after such sewer is available for use wherever such public
sewer line is within three hundred feet (300') of any building discharging
sanitary or industrial waste. Connections to the sewer system are the sole
responsibility of the owner of the property so connected. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-15: UNLAWFUL INSTALLATIONS:
It is unlawful to install, change, bypass, adjust or alter any metering device
or any piping arrangement connected therewith as to show the quantity of sewage
discharged from the premises to be less than the actual quantity. (Ord. 168, 7-
8-1992)
10-3-16: INSPECTION OF TREATMENT FACILITY, SEWERS AND ATTACHMENTS:
Authorized individuals including employees and officials of the city, may enter
any premises connected to the sewer system and the treatment facility to
ascertain if all applicable ordinances and regulations are being met. If an
exception to compliance with a law or ordinance is noted the owner of said
premises, or his agent, shall, upon notice, cause such sewer or its attachments
to be so altered, repaired or reconstructed so as to make them conform to the
requirements of the laws and ordinances within fifteen (15) days from the time
of receipt of such notice. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-17: TESTING OF SEWAGE WASTE:
Authorized city officials and employees may enter upon any and all premises at
all reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing of sewage waste in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter; and it is unlawful for any person to prevent or attempt to prevent any
such entrance or obstruct or interfere with any such officer or employee while
so engaged. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-18: SEPTIC TANK CONTENTS:
It is unlawful for anyone to discharge the contents of any septic tank,
cesspool or chemical toilet into the Carlin municipal sewer system except in
accordance with:
   (A)   Designation Of Places And Manner Of Discharge Of Septic Tank Contents:
The director shall designate, in writing, the particular points where the
contents of septic tanks, cesspools or chemical toilets can be discharged into
the municipal sewer system and the manner in which said contents shall be
discharged. No matter prohibited from sewers by this chapter shall be permitted
to be so discharged.
   (B)   Charges For Discharge Of Septic Tank Contents: A fee shall be charged
for each truckload or container load of material discharged into the sewer
system and shall be paid to the city and credited to the sewer utility. (Ord.
168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-19: DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER OF WASTE MATTER:
Prior to the introduction of any material which may reasonably be expected to
threaten public safety, effluent water quality, the physical integrity of the
plant or any section of this chapter or of state or federal regulations, the
department shall be apprised of such proposed discharge and upon analysis shall
issue conditional approval permits or prohibition (within 21 days). The
department shall have responsibility for instituting and/or completing such
analysis, assigning costs for such analysis and issuing permits. The fact that
any matter has been discharged into the sewer system prior to the passage of
this chapter or subsequent thereto, but without any objection from the
department does not constitute a valid right to so discharge such matter. If,
upon discovery that matter being discharged into the sewer does not conform to
the requirements of this chapter, the department may immediately stop the
discharge of such matter into the sewer system. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-20: PRETREATMENT OF SEWAGE:
Any discharge matter which may be made to comply with the discharge standards,
herein contained, may be discharged into the sewer system provided it is
treated, at the producer's expense, prior to discharge (pretreatment) thereby
bringing it into compliance with the declared standards. Such pretreatment
plans shall be understood to include grease traps, chemical or biochemical
plants, sedimentation chambers and any other devices which effect a change of
any nature in the characteristics of the matter being treated. Any and all such
devices and equipment shall be subject to the approval of the director, shall
not be put into operation without written approval of the city engineer, shall
be provided with all necessary features of construction to permit inspection of
operations and testing of material passing through them and shall be open to
the inspection of the director at any time; provided, however, that the
producer, in lieu of the treatment of said sewage, as hereinabove provided for,
may, with the written approval of the director being first obtained discharge
said sewage, waste or other matter into the said sewage system. (Ord. 168, 7-8-
1992)
10-3-21: DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION OF NEW CONNECTIONS, INFLOW SOURCES:
No new connection shall be made to the Carlin municipal sewer system unless the
same is properly designed and constructed to comply with the current building
code. All inflow sources as defined in EPA regulations, section (40 CFR part
35) including, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar, yard and area drains,
foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm sewers and combined sewers,
catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage
shall not be permitted to be connected to the sewer system. (Ord. 168, 7-8-
1992)
10-3-22: PROHIBITION AGAINST ALTERING CONNECTIONS:
It is unlawful to change, bypass, adjust, or alter any piping arrangement
(including metering devices) from a premises and connecting to the sewer system
without the prior written consent of the sewer department. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-23: EXTENSION OF SEWER MAIN FACILITIES:
   (A)   In the event the city elects to extend any main sewer line within the
city and pays for the costs of such extension with city funds without the use
of a special assessment district, a one time fee, established and adopted by
resolution, shall be charged. In such event, any property owner who orders a
sewer connection on that portion of the sewer line extended by the city with
city funds, shall pay to the city that fraction of the total cost of such
extension as is determined by the director by dividing the total cost of the
extension, including labor and materials, by the total potential users of such
extension.
   (B)   Sewer main facilities may be extended by subdivider, developer,
property owner or other person in accordance with plans and specifications
submitted to and approved by the city engineer.
      1.   The inside diameter of every sewer main shall not be less than eight
inches (8"), except as may be determined by the city engineer. The subdivider,
developer, property owner or other persons shall construct all sewer mains in
accordance with the plans and specifications as submitted and approved by the
city engineer and shall pay any and all costs.
      2.   Upon connection to the sewer system, the subdivider, developer,
property owner or other persons shall dedicate all sewer mains located on
property owned or controlled by the city to the city. Upon dedication and after
the one year contractor warranty period has expired, the city will operate and
maintain the sewer main located on said property.
      3.   Whenever, in the opinion of the city engineer, it is necessary that
a sewer main be constructed of a larger capacity than that established in
subsection (B)1 of this section, the city shall pay the difference in materials
costs for the oversized main. The subdivider, developer, property owner or
other person shall be required to purchase all materials and install such
oversized sewer main.
   (C)   Sewer main facilities may be extended by the city in the course of
providing service to a property owner. In such cases, the actual cost of
extending said sewer mains shall be paid to the city by the property owner.
Where the cost of the installation of any new sewer main line has been paid by
the property owner pursuant to this section, the city shall thereafter, but for
not longer than fifteen (15) years after the date said extension is originally
connected to the city sewer system, collect from any sewer user connection to
such extension that fraction of the cost of such extension, as approved by the
board, as the number of front feet or acreage, or combination of the two (2),
held by said sewer user bears to the total number of the front feet or acreage,
or combination of the two (2), which may be served by such extension when
connected to the city's sewer system. Such sums as are thus actually received
by the city shall be paid by the city only to the property owner originally
installing such extension, but the city shall in no way be obligated to assure
that the property owner making such extension is paid the total cost thereof
nor to initiate any action or incur any expense to collect any sum to be paid
to the property owner. Where different property owners contribute to the making
of the extension, such sums shall be refunded to such property owners pro rata
according to the amounts which they severally contributed towards the extension
and pursuant to the preceding plan. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-24: AMENDMENTS TO SEWER USE ORDINANCE:
The board shall have the power and duty to adopt and may from time to time
amend rules and regulations for the operation of the Carlin municipal sewer
system; including, but not limited to, rules and regulations concerning the
method of hooking up, and the type of use of the sewer, so long as such
amendments are not in conflict with the rules and regulations of the U.S.
environmental protection agency, Nevada division of environmental protection or
city and county law. The Nevada division of environmental protection shall be
advised of all amendments to this chapter at least fourteen (14) days prior to
the effective date. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
   SEWER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
10-3-25: SEWER REVENUE SYSTEM:
The board shall be responsible for the fiscal operations of the Carlin
municipal sewer system. The sewer revenue system shall consist of two (2)
separate and discrete programs: the capitalization fund and the user charge
system. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-26: CAPITALIZATION FUND:
This fund shall provide funding for capital expenditures and all other
nonoperating maintenance and replacement costs as the board may consider
appropriate, including redemption of the principal and payment of the interest
on sewer bonds or other borrowed monies.
   (A)   Revenue components for the sewer capitalization fund shall include:
      1.   Capitalization Charges: Assessed charges to recover non-OM&R costs
(for which the user charge system is not appropriate) including late payment
and other penalties; the sewer connection fees; and the monthly capitalization
service charge. The rate of the capitalization service charge shall be
established by the board, by resolution, and customers shall be notified of the
charge as a portion of their monthly sewer fee schedule.
      2.   Revenue Offsets: Funds generated through activities other than
wastewater treatment services including sales of excess equipment or
facilities. However, revenue derived from the sale of treatment related
byproducts shall accrue only to the user charge system.
      3.   Sewer Connection Charges:
         (a)   For each initial or new connection made to the sewer system,
there shall be charged an initial payment in the form of a connection fee in
accordance with the following schedule:
            (1) One Dwelling Unit: Each separate residential unit or other
individual housing unit, within a multi-family dwelling, apartment house or
permanent trailer park, shall be considered one equivalent dwelling unit (equal
to 25 SFUs).
            The connection charge shall apply to all parcels and lots which
have not previously been served by the Carlin municipal sewer system and each
lot of any new subdivision to be served by the Carlin municipal sewer system.
            (2) Determine Number: For all initial or new commercial and
industrial sewer connections, the number of SFUs is determined by using the
schedule for commercial and industrial buildings as set forth in this chapter.
The minimum SFU count for commercial and industrial buildings shall be twenty
five (25).
            (3) Modification And Expansion Of Facilities: If any modification
or expansion to any premises causes an increase in the SFUs, the sewer
connection charge will be calculated based on the net increase in the SFU above
the twenty five (25) minimum.
            In converting a residential building to commercial use or
developing a commercial use on a lot with previous sewer service (subsequent to
this chapter) the applicant shall pay a connection charge based on the net
increase in fixture units. In the event there is no record of the fixture units
in the original structure, the applicant will be charged with a minimum of
twenty five (25) fixture units. In no case will a refund be granted for a
reduction in fixture units.
            (4) Determination Of Sewer Fixture Unit Charge: The city building
inspector will conduct a fixture unit survey at the time a building permit is
requested. This review will be done through an assessment of the construction
plans provided by the applicant. The final count will be based upon the final
inspection, of the completed structure, by the city building inspector.
   A.   Payment: The sewer connection charge shall be payable on demand to the
city at the time the building permit is issued. All connection charges
collected shall accrue to the capitalization fund.
   B.   Equivalent Units: Until further resolution, one equivalent dwelling
unit (EDU) shall be recognized as having the equivalent of twenty five (25)
sewer fixture units.
   C.   Minimum Count: The minimum SFU count for the purpose of calculating the
sewer connection charge under this subsection shall be twelve and one-half
(12.5) SFUs, equal to one-half (1/2) of an equivalent dwelling unit (EDU).
      4.   Fees, Penalties And Extraordinary Charges: Charges collected not
related to regular OM&R expenses shall accrue to the capitalization fund. (Ord.
168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-27: USER CHARGE SYSTEM:
User charge system shall be based on actual use of the Carlin municipal sewer
system. Each user (user class) shall pay their proportionate share of
operation, maintenance and replacement based upon estimated or actual
contribution to the flow volume and loading of the system, thereby assuring the
fiscal self- sufficiency of the facility over its useful design life. The user
charge system shall include:
   (A)   Financial management system shall prescribe accounting budgetary
procedures to accurately depict revenue requirements and procedures to generate
revenue sufficient to operate and maintain the plant.
   (B)   Separate accounts shall be maintained for the user charge system and
the capitalization fund.
   (C)   Operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) costs of the sewer
system shall be enumerated through a line item budget including the following
categories:
      1.   Salaries and wages.
      2.   Indirect salary and wage costs.
      3.   Contractual services.
      4.   Materials and supplies.
      5.   Utilities.
      6.   Equipment replacement.
      7.   Administrative expenses.
OM&R costs shall include the costs required to achieve and maintain compliance
with discharge permits.
   (D)   Revenue generated through sale or use of treatment related byproducts
shall be credited to OM&R expenses.
   (E)   User charge rate shall generate revenue sufficient to meet OM&R costs
assuring the facilities fiscal operation viability, through charges to
customers which are proportionate to their usage of volume and loading.
      1.   Residential User Charge Rate: A uniform rate shall be assessed based
upon the average discharge volume and strength of the predominant user class
(residential) and as further specified in subsection (F) of this section. This
fee shall be recalculated annually based upon the adopted budget for OM&R
expenses.
      2.   Commercial And Industrial (C/I) User Rate: All sewer users not
specifically identified above shall be classified as commercial or industrial
users and their user charge rate shall be based upon the sewer unit schedule
and a surcharge based upon the established flow and loading factors flows are
metered, the meter flows shall take precedence over the fixture unit count in
determining EDUs.
      3.   Annual User Charge Rate (UCR): Annual user charge rate (UCR) shall
be based on the following formula for one equivalent dwelling unit (EDU):
 
OM+R = UCR/EDU
EDUT
 
Total OM&R expenses divided by the total number of EDUs (EDUT) is the user
charge rate for one EDU.
   (F)   Equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) shall form the basis for the user
charge system until such time as water metering is instituted. An equivalent
dwelling unit shall be the equivalent volume of: three hundred fifty (350)
gallons per day; ten thousand five hundred (10,500) gallons per month and one
hundred twenty six thousand (126,000) gallons per year.
   Equivalent Dwelling Unit Table
 
All single-family dwellings            1
Each unit of multiple-family dwellings 1
Apartments (per unit)                  1
Permanent mobile homes                 1
 
   EDU Loading Levels
 
Parameter    Domestic Wastewater
          Strength  Loading
BODr      200 mg/l  0.65 lbs/day
SSd       200 mg/l  0.46 lbs/day
Pp        11.0 mg/l 0.03 lbs/day
Nn        26.0 mg/l 0.07 lbs/day
25 sewer fixture units equals 1 EDU.
 
   (G)   Surcharge: A surcharge shall be levied upon customers whose discharge
loadings exceed those found to be the average amongst the predominant
residential user class. The surcharge shall be based on treatment costs of
loadings over standard loading levels, expressed as an EDU or fractions
thereof.
      1.   Discharge Permit Fees/Toxic Pollutants: All commercial or industrial
dischargers must obtain a discharge permit at the time of their service
application. All dischargers whose anticipated discharge level of toxic
pollutants which can be expected to increase the cost of treating the
wastewater or effluent sludge shall pay for such increased costs. (Ord. 168, 7-
8-1992)
10-3-28: INFILTRATION/INFLOW:
Costs shall be commingled with operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R)
expenses and shall be distributed among customers proportionate to their usage
of the Carlin municipal sewer system. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-29: BIENNIAL REVIEW OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE CHARGES:
The board shall review not less often than every two (2) years the contribution
of users and user classes, the total cost of operation and maintenance of
treatment works and its approved user charge system. The board shall revise the
charges for users or user classes to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes as required herein.
   (B)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and maintenance
costs necessary for the proper operation and maintenance (including necessary
equipment replacement) of the treatment works.
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-30: ANNUAL NOTIFICATION:
The city shall notify each user, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which are
attributable to wastewater treatment services. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-31: BILLING (PAYMENT AND LIEN RIGHTS):
All bills for sewer services or for the availability of services, shall be for
the previous month and shall be payable on the first of each month, following
the month of services rendered. Each bill shall show the amount of the user
charge and the capitalization charge.
In the event the bill, or any part thereof, is not paid in full by the tenth of
each month, it will be considered delinquent and subject to a penalty. In the
event any such bill remains unpaid for a period of twenty five (25) days after
the date rendered or in the event the twenty fifth day falls on a holiday,
Saturday or Sunday, then on the next succeeding working day during which time
the bill has not been paid in full, the Carlin city clerk shall mail notice to
the legal owner, applicant for service, and the occupant at the address
receiving service, that the sewer service will be terminated not less than five
(5) days after the date of mailing of such notice. If the sewer bill is not
paid within that five (5) day period, services will be terminated and legal
action will follow. In all cases, the property owner shall be ultimately
responsible for the payment of the sewer bill. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-32: CREDIT (DEPOSIT REQUIRED FOR SERVICES RENDERED):
   (A)   Establishment And Maintenance: Each applicant for service shall
establish and provide a deposit fee established by the board before service
will be rendered. Deposit fees will be established by the board by resolution.
   (B)   Loss And Reestablishment Of Credit: Any amount due for sewer service
that remains unpaid for twenty five (25) days after presentation of a bill
therefor, may be deducted from the guarantee deposit and service shall be
subject to discontinuance until the deposit is again restored to the original
amount.
   (C)   Return Of Deposit: If, during the course of twelve (12) consecutive
months, all charges for sewer service to an applicant have been paid when due,
the deposit may be returned to the applicant. If, after the deposit has been
returned to the applicant, the applicant becomes delinquent on any charges for
sewer service, the deposit may again be collected. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-33: VACANCIES:
Every premises to which service is furnished by the sewer system shall be
charged for such service in accordance with the rates and charges herein placed
in effect by this chapter and resolutions adopted. Legal owners, applicant or
occupant of the premises have the right to request the city, in writing, to
physically turn off the water to the premises and after the water has been
turned off, the sewer charge to the premises shall be deleted. This shall apply
only to unoccupied premises. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-34: APPEALS:
The board shall review any decision made by the director or his representatives
or agents in interpreting, applying or enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, upon the receipt of an application or petition in writing, requesting
a review of such decision. In exercising its powers of review the board may, in
conformity with the provisions of the law, reverse or affirm wholly or partly,
or may modify the order, requirements, decision or determination of the
director. The board may also initiate a review of the director's interpretation
of the provisions of this chapter by a motion and by a vote of a majority of
the quorum or a majority of the members present if such number exceeds a
quorum. In all cases, the decision of the board shall be final. (Ord. 168, 7-8-
1992)
10-3-35: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 4
of this code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-36: FIXTURE UNIT VALUE TABLE:
Fixture unit surveys are conducted and fixture units established in accordance
with the following table:
Description Of Fixture Fixture Value Per Unit
Description Of Fixture                   Fixture Value Per Unit
Bathroom group:
  
 Bathtub and/or shower                  2
 Water closet, private installation     4
 Water closet, public installation      6
 Lavatory                               1
 Sink, private bar                      1
 Sink, public bar                       2
 Sink, commercial                       3
 Sink, service                          3
 Urinal                                 2
Bathtub (with or without shower)         2
Bidet                                    2
Dental unit cuspidor                     1
Dental unit lavatory                     2
Dishwashers:
  
 Conveyor                               6
 Under counter, public                  3
 Residential                            2
Disposal                                 3
Drinking fountains                       1
Floor drains:                            2
  
 Interceptors for grease, oil, solids   3
 Interceptors for sand, car wash, etc.  6
Laundry tub and faucets                  2
 
 Clothes washer                         2
 Automatic:    8 pounds              6
    12–19 pounds                   8
    20–39 pounds                   10
    40–50 pounds                   12
    50+ per pounds                   0.2
     of machine weight
Receptors for refrigerator, coffee urn,  1
soft drinks, ice machines, etc.
Showers per head and drain               1
Sinks:
  
 Bar                                    1
 Flushing rim (clinic)                  6
 Industrial–wash up, etc.             3
 Kitchen                                2
 Lavatory                               1
Standby fee (property with sewer hookup, Shall be set by resolution of the City
not otherwise actively using service)    Council
Swimming pool                            5
Trailer parks:
  
 Dump station                           12
 Recreation vehicle park per pad        Shall be set by resolution of the City
                                         Council
Urinals:
  
 Pedestal–siphon                      6
 Stall                                  2
 Wall                                   2
 Trough/2 foot                          2
Water closet:
  
 Tank                                   4
 Flush valve                            6
 
For fixture types not listed, fixture units shall be estimated using the latest
edition of the uniform plumbing code, or as otherwise set by resolution of the
City Council.
For nonresidential facilities which operate or are open to the public in excess
of twelve (12) hours per day, a multiplier of one and five-tenths (1.5) shall
be applied to the fixture unit value per unit. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992; amd. Ord.
251, 4-27-2022)
10-3-37: ADVISE OF CHANGES:
The Nevada division of environmental protection shall be advised of any and all
changes to these sewer regulations thirty (30) days before their effective
date. (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
10-3-38: PRECEDENCE:
The sewer use ordinance and user charge system incorporated in these sewer
regulations shall take precedence over the terms and conditions of any
agreement or contracts which the city is party to which are inconsistent with
the requirements of the water quality act (as amended 1986) and the regulations
of the U.S. EPD (40 CFR parts 35.2005–35.2208). (Ord. 168, 7-8-1992)
