COUNTY CODE
of
ELKO COUNTY, NEVADA
1976
Code current through:
Ord. 2024-04, passed 8-7-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the County of Elko County, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2024-04, passed August 7, 2024.
Ordinances of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the County office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alteration
1-1-5: Adoption
1-1-6: Effective Date
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Board of County Commissioners, this County Code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official County Code
of the County of Elko, State of Nevada, and it is hereby published by authority
of the Board of County Commissioners 1  and shall be kept up to date as
provided in Section
1-1-3 under the direction of said Commissioners. Any reference to the number of
any Section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of
the same number, its appropriate Chapter and Title heading, and to the general
penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the Section itself, when
reference is made to this County Code by title in any legal document.
 
Notes
1 1. N.R.S. 244.116 et seq.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This County Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the County of general and
permanent effect, except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1.
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this County Code shall set forth the Title, Chapter and
Section number of the Section or Sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this County Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this County Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the County Code.
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any Section or any page of this County Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the County Board. The County official so designated by the County Board shall
see that the replacement pages are properly inserted in the official copies
maintained in the office of the Manager.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of this County Code shall
make every effort to maintain said Code in an up to date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the County
Manager. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the County and shall be
returned when directed so to do by order of the County Board. (1976 Code)
1-1-5: ADOPTION:
As authorized by Section 244.116 through 244.119 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes, there is adopted the "COUNTY CODE, COUNTY OF ELKO, NEVADA - 1976" a
revision and codification of the general ordinances of the County of Elko.
1-1-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The County Code shall become effective on August 23, 1976. (Ord. 1976-T, 8-5-
76, Eff. 8-23-76)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Separability of Provisions
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the County passed prior to the adoption of this
County Code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being
still in force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in the following Section), from which
are excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: Tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the County, and all special ordinances.
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this County Code or by
virtue of the preceding Section, excepting as this County Code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case this County Code shall be considered
as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the County herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
County under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this County Code.
1-2-4: SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
Each Section, paragraph, sentence, clause and provision of this Code is
separable and if any provision is held unconstitutional or invalid for any
reason, such decision shall not affect the remainder of this Code nor any part
thereof, other than that part affected by such decision. (1976 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines of County Code
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any Section of this County Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this County Code by
words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction
shall not be applied to any Section of this County Code which contains any
express provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter or
content may be repugnant thereto.
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: The word "agent" as used in this Code shall mean a person acting on
behalf of another.
BOARD: The word "Board", unless otherwise indicated, shall mean the Board of
County Commissioners of the County of Elko, State of Nevada.
CODE: The word "Code" shall mean the County Code of the County of Elko, and
amendments thereto.
COMMISSIONERS: The word "Commissioners" shall mean the County Commissioners of
the County of Elko.
COUNTY: The word "County" shall mean and refer to the County of Elko, State of
Nevada.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a County employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
County of Elko".
FEE: The word "fee" as used in this Code, shall mean a sum of money charged by
the County for the carrying on of a business, profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year for the County shall begin July 1 of each year. 1
KNOWINGLY: The word "knowingly" imports only a knowledge that the facts exist
which bring the act or omission within the provisions of this Code. It does not
require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The word "license" as used in this Code shall mean the permission
granted for the carrying on of a business, profession or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: The word "misdemeanor" shall mean any offense deemed a violation
of the provisions of this Code which is a lesser offense than a felony as
defined by State law. 2
NEGLIGENT: The word "negligent", as well as "neglect", "negligence" and
"negligently" imports a want of such attention to the nature of probable
consequences of the act or omission as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in
acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: The word "nuisance" shall mean anything offensive or obnoxious to the
health and welfare of the inhabitants of the County; or any act or thing
repugnant to or creating a hazard to or having a detrimental effect on the
property of another person or to the County.
OCCUPANT: The word "occupant" applied to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
OFFENSE: The word "offense" shall mean any act forbidden by any provision of
this Code or the omission of any act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a County officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the County of
Elko".
OFFICIAL TIME: Pacific Standard Time shall be the official time for the
transaction of the County business, except during applicable daylight savings
time set by National or State standards, when the official time shall be
advanced one hour. All clocks and other timepieces in or upon public buildings
or other premises maintained by or at the expense of the County shall be set
and run at the official time prescribed by this paragraph.
OPERATOR: The word "operator" as used in this Code shall mean the person who is
in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: The word "owner" applied to a building or land shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of
a part of such building or land.
PERSON: The word "person" shall mean any natural individual, firm, trust,
partnership, association or corporation in his or its own capacity or as
administrator, conservator, executor, trustee, receiver or other representative
appointed by the court. Whenever the word "person" is used in any Section of
this Code prescribing a penalty or fine as applied to partnerships or any such
word as applied to corporations, shall include the officers, agents or
employees thereof who are responsible for any violation of said Section.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: The term "personal property" shall include every description
of money, goods, chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action and all
written instruments by which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to
property is created, acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged
or diminished and every right or interest therein.
RETAILER: The word "retailer" as used in this Code, unless otherwise
specifically defined shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things in small quantities direct to the consumer.
STATE: The word "State", unless otherwise indicated, shall mean the State of
Nevada.
STREET: The word "street" shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards,
public squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: The word "tenant" applied to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The words "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to persons who
purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: The word "wilfully" when applied to the intent with which an act is
done or omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or
make the omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law,
or to injure another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: The terms "written" or "in writing" may include printing
and any other mode of representing words and letters, but when the written
signature of any person is required by law to any official or public writing or
bond required by law, it shall be in the proper handwriting of such person, or
in case he is unable to write, by his proper mark.
 
Notes
1 1. Nevada Constitution, Article IX, sec. 1
2 2. N.R.S. 193.120
1-3-3: CATCHLINES OF COUNTY CODE:
The catchlines of the several Sections of this County Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the Section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such Sections, nor as any part of the Section, nor unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such Sections,
including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted. (1976 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: License
1-4-3: Application
1-4-4: Liability of Officers
1-41: GENERAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any Section of this County Code shall be
fined in a sum not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one
offense, and the person may be confined in the County jail for a period of not
more than six (6) months. 1
 
Notes
1 1. N.R.S. 193.120
1-4-2: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any Section of this County Code,
any license previously issued to him by the County may be revoked by the court
or by the County Commissioners.
1-4-3: APPLICATION:
The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every Section of
this County Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate
Section. Any person convicted of a violation of any Section of this County Code
where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act which is
of a continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this County Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or Sections of this County Code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any Section or provision of this County Code and there shall be no
fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
Chapter shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues.
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
The failure of any officer or employee to perform any official duty imposed by
this Code shall not subject such officer or employee to the penalty imposed for
violation of this Code unless a penalty is specifically provided for. (1976
Code)
CHAPTER 5
COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings
1-5-2: Elections
1-5-1: MEETINGS:
The board of county commissioners of the county of Elko, state of Nevada, shall
meet to conduct the regular business before the board three (3) days per month,
each and every month of the year. The first regular meeting day shall be the
first Wednesday in each month. The second regular meeting day shall be the
first Thursday after the first Wednesday of each month. The third regular
meeting day shall be the third Wednesday of each month. Should any of such
regular meeting days fall on a holiday, the meeting day shall be on the first
nonholiday working day following the holiday. (Ord. 1985-C, 4-4-1985, eff. 4-
22-1985)
1-5-2: ELECTIONS:
   (A)   Election Districts: The County of Elko shall be, and the same hereby
is, divided into five (5) separate districts for the election of County
Commissioners to the Board of Elko County Commissioners, said districts to be,
and are, hereby identified as follows:
   DISTRICT I: District one shall consist of Elko County voting precincts 18,
19, 20, 21, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38 and 39. Population by
2020 census of 10,141.
   DISTRICT II: District two shall consist of Elko County voting precincts 01,
02, 03, 04, 05, 06, and 07. Population by 2020 census of 10,634.
   DISTRICT III: District three shall consist of Elko County voting precincts
08, 09, 10, 11, 13 and 14. Population by 2020 census of 11,326.
   DISTRICT IV: District four shall consist of Elko County voting precincts 12,
15, 16, 17, 32, 40 and 41. Population by 2020 census of 10,982.
   DISTRICT V: District five shall consist of Elko County voting precincts 22,
23, 24, 25, and 26. Population by 2020 census of 10,619.
   The district boundaries are more particularly established and identified in
the 2020 decennial census and voting precinct maps for the cities of Carlin,
Elko, Wells and West Wendover and County of Elko, which are on file in the
office of the Elko County Clerk, State of Nevada, and which are incorporated
herein by reference.
   Each of the districts shall be a single member district, and any candidate
for the office of Elko County Commissioner must be a bona fide resident of the
district which the candidate seeks to represent on the board.
   Each board member shall, however, be elected at large by a qualified
electorate of the entire county.
   A Commissioner shall be elected from District II at the General Election in
1994, and every four (4) years thereafter. Commissioners from Districts I and
III shall be elected at the General Election in 1992 and every four (4) years
thereafter. Commissioners from Districts IV and V shall be elected at the
General Election in 1992 with District IV initially being a two (2) year term
and District V initially being a four (4) year term. When the initial terms
expire for Districts IV and V the subsequent terms for each new position will
be four (4) years.
   (B)   Election Worker Compensation:
 
Election Training                                      $25.00 Per Attendance
Polling Place Setup                                    $25.00
Election Worker                                        $120.00 Full Day
                                                      $60.00 Half Day
Team Leader                                            $145.00 Full Day
Counting and Duplicating Boards and Additional Workers $11.00 Per Hour
Mileage: Mileage shall be paid at the current County reimbursement rate only
to those who reside 10 or more miles from the Polling Place, Counting Facility
or Training Facility.
 
(Ord. 2002-A, 2-7-2002; amd. Ord. 2021-05, 12-15-2021)
CHAPTER 6
COUNTY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-6-1: Establishment of Office
1-6-2: Appointment of County Manager
1-6-3: Removal of County Manager
1-6-4: Policies and Duties of County Manager
1-6-5: Bond of County Manager
1-6-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE:
There is hereby established the office of County Manager, pursuant to N.R.S.
244.125.
1-6-2: APPOINTMENT OF COUNTY MANAGER:
The County Manager shall be appointed by a majority vote of the County
Commissioners for an indefinite term.
He shall be chosen by the County Commissioners solely on the basis of his
executive and administrative qualifications, and need not be a resident of the
State or County to receive appointment, but during his tenure of office must
reside in the County.
No person who is or has been an elected officer of the County may be appointed
County Manager unless he has been out of office for at least one year prior to
such appointment.
1-6-3: REMOVAL OF COUNTY MANAGER:
The County Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of County
Commissioners, and may be removed from office at any time by a majority vote of
its members.
1-6-4: POLICIES AND DUTIES OF COUNTY MANAGER:
The County Manager shall be the administrative head of the County government.
The Board of County Commissioners, acting as a Board, will express its policies
to the County Manager through its ordinances, minute orders, rules and
regulations, or through duly appointed committees of one or more Board members
specifically authorized to act on behalf of the Board.
The County Manager shall execute on behalf of the Board its administrative
control and supervision of the affairs of the County, and of all officers,
departments, institutions or districts for whom the Board is required by law to
adopt an annual budget, except elective officers or boards, commissioners or
institutions which have such administrative authority authorized by law or
County ordinance.
All such offices shall submit all matters requiring Board action or attention
to the County Manager who shall submit them to the Board with recommendations
as may be deemed necessary.
The County Manager, with the approval of the Board of County Commissioners, may
appoint such assistants and other employees as are necessary to the proper
functioning of his office. The salaries of such assistants and the employees
and the expenses of conducting the office of County Manager shall be fixed by
the County Manager, with the consent and approval of the Board of County
Commissioners.
The County Manager shall perform all other duties as may be specifically
directed and keep the Board informed as to the execution of its policies and
directives.
1-6-5: BOND OF COUNTY MANAGER:
The Board of County Commissioners may require bond of the County Manager, at
the discretion of the Board and in the amount set by the Board. Expense of such
bond shall be borne by the County. (Ord. 1966-B; 9-28-66)
CHAPTER 7
COUNTY PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Definition of Actual Service
1-7-2: Salary Steps
1-7-3: Pay Rate Covers Full-Time Service
1-7-4: Minimum Rate
1-7-5: New Employees Pay Rate
1-7-6: Probationary Period
1-7-7: Annual and Biannual Advancements
1-7-8: Civic Duty Leave of Absence
1-7-9: Military Leave of Absence
1-7-10: Reduction in Rate for Unsatisfactory Performance
1-7-11: Pay Pattern for Change of Level and Transfer
1-7-12: Reclassification Request
1-7-13: Right to Appeal by Employee
1-7-14: Vacation Credits
1-7-15: Prorated Allowance for Part-Time Employees
1-7-16: Extra Help
1-7-17: Vacation Credit Upon Termination of Employment
1-7-18: Rights of Heirs of Deceased Officer or Employee
1-7-19: Sick Leave
1-7-20: Leave of Absence
1-7-21: Holidays
1-7-22: Workmen's Compensation
1-7-23: Compensatory Vacation Time and Overtime Pay
1-7-24: Records
1-7-25: Fair Employment Practices; Discriminations Prohibited
1-7-26: Prohibitions
1-7-27: Dismissal
1-7-28: Computation of Monthly Pay
1-7-29: Computation of Hourly Pay
1-7-30: Normal Work Week
1-7-31: Confidential Records
1-7-1: DEFINITION OF ACTUAL SERVICE:
For the purpose of determining sick leave and vacation earned, the term "actual
service" shall mean the number of days actually worked on the job and the major
portion of working days within a calendar month shall be deemed one month of
actual service; providing, however, that absence from work due to sick leave
with pay, vacation with pay, injury or illness occurring in County service, and
absence on temporary military duty shall be deemed actual service. (Ord. 1976-
P, 8-5-76, Eff. 8-26-76)
1-7-2: SALARY STEPS:
   (A)   STEP I. MINIMUM HIRING RATE FOR THE RANGE. New employees shall be
employed at the minimum rate for the range unless:
      1.   A qualified person cannot be hired at that rate;
      2.   The person to be employed possesses higher step qualifications;
A new employee shall not be allowed to start higher than the Third Step.
In any of the above actions, the elected officer will notify the County Manager
of the action that was taken regarding employee hiring. Department heads will
coordinate with the County Manager when hiring an employee above the beginning
Step.
   (B)   STEP II. INDICATES SUCCESSFUL COMPLETION OF PROBATIONARY PERIOD. No
employee shall spend less than four (4) full months at Step I commencing with
the date of hire or transfer from part-time to full-time at a designated range.
If the elected officer or department head feels that additional time is needed
for the employee to more adequately demonstrate his ability, a total of six (6)
months probationary period may be exercised at Step I. Step II advancement is
upon the recommendation of the elected officer or department head and recorded
in the Board of Commissioners minutes. (Ord. 1976-K, 5-5-76)
   (C)   STEP III, FIRST ANNIVERSARY ADVANCEMENT. The employee shall spend no
less than eight (8) months at a Step II commencing with date of hire or
advancement to said Step.
Effective June 1, 1978, advancement to Step Ill shall be accomplished on the
first day of the month following the fulfillment of Step II criteria and the
time in Step requirement. The anniversary date for all employees at Step III
and above shall be on the first day of a month. (Ord. 1978-G, 5-4-78, eff. 5-
18-78)
   (D)   STEPS IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, AND X ANNUAL ADVANCEMENT FOR MERIT AND
CONTINUOUS SERVICE. Upon the completion of one full year of service beginning
with Step III, the employee is eligible for advancement to the next highest
step. The advancement shall be upon the recommendation of the elected officer
or department head and the action taken recorded in the Board of County
Commissioners' minutes. (Ord. 1976-K, 5-5-76; amd. Ord. 1978-G, 5-4-78, eff. 5-
18-78; Ord. 1987-A, 4-15-87, eff. retroactive 7-1-85)
1-7-3: PAY RATE COVERS FULL-TIME SERVICE:
The pay rate set forth shall be gross compensation for full- time service in
the several positions. By full-time service is meant the number of hours which
regularly constitutes the scheduled weekly period of service. This may involve
either an eight (8) hour work day or a seven (7) hour work day, depending on
position classification.
In instances when job functions are compensated for by more than one
jurisdiction, the total of the other salary or salaries will be deducted from
the rate established, and Elko County will be obligated for this difference.
1-7-4: MINIMUM RATE:
No person in the classified service shall be paid at a rate below the minimum
step in the range to which his position class is assigned.
1-7-5: NEW EMPLOYEES PAY RATE:
New County employees shall be employed at the minimum rate for the class,
unless it is impossible to recruit a qualified person at this rate or the
person being employed possesses higher qualifications, in which case the County
Manager may authorize hiring at a higher step upon recommendation of the
department head.
1-7-6: PROBATIONARY PERIOD:
At the completion of a probationary period of not less than four (4) months or
greater than six (6) months, an employee whose service has been certified as
satisfactory by the elected officer or department head may be advanced to the
Second Step. Should an employee be judged to require an additional probationary
period to more adequately determine the level of performance, the reasoning
shall be documented and made record.
1-7-7: ANNUAL AND BIANNUAL ADVANCEMENTS:
The employee, after completion of the probationary period, and upon reaching
the anniversary date in the present classification, may be eligible for
advancement to the next step and may be so advanced upon the recommendation of
the elected officer or department head and approval by the Board of County
Commissioners. (Ord. 1968-C, 8-8-68, Eff. 9-1-68)
1-7-8: CIVIC DUTY LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
A leave of absence with pay shall be granted to any County employee who serves
on a jury or as a witness for the Federal government, the State of Nevada, or a
political subdivision thereof. The employee shall be paid his regular salary
while on court leave and retain any witness or jury duty fees, when summoned
for jury duty or serving as a witness in any case. When an employee, serving in
his official capacity as a County employee and as part of his required duties,
serves as a witness in any case, he shall not receive witness fees. Per diem
and transportation costs may be paid by the requesting jurisdiction,
considering such variables as whether or not the case is a criminal or civil
matter, whether it is in State or out-of-state, the length of time the employee
is required to stay away from the job and who receives ultimate benefit from
the County employee's testimony. Court leave shall not be charged to any
employee's annual leave balance.
1-7-9: MILITARY LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
Any officer or employee of the County who is an active member of the United
States Army Reserve, the United States Air Force Reserve, the United States
Naval Reserve, the United States Marine Corps Reserve, the United States Coast
Guard Reserve, the United States Public Health Service Reserve or the Nevada
National Guard shall be relieved from his duties, upon request, to serve under
orders on training duty without loss of his regular compensation for a period
not to exceed fifteen (15) working days in any one calendar year. Any such
absence shall not be deemed to be such employee's annual vacation provided for
by law. (Ord. 1976-P, 8-5-76, eff. 8-26-76)
1-7-10: REDUCTION IN RATE FOR UNSATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE:
The County Commissioners, upon the request of the elected officer or department
head, may authorize reducing an employee from any step of the salary range,
other than the first step, to any appropriate lower step of the same range upon
failure of the employee to maintain a satisfactory standard of work for the
step of the salary range upon which the employee has been placed. In such
event, the employee may again be raised by the officials above designated to
any step not higher than that from which he was reduced without any time
requirement or other consent, if in the opinion of the officials, the
employee's standard of service has been re- established.
1-7-11: PAY PATTERN FOR CHANGE OF LEVEL AND TRANSFER:
When an employee is promoted to a position allocated to a higher pay range, he/
she shall receive the pay rate for the new range in the step that is
commensurate with date of hire. When an employee is transferred to a position
in another class allocated to the same salary range, the employee shall
continue at the then existing step rate. When an employee is demoted to a
position in a class allocated to a lower pay range, the employee shall receive
the rate of pay in the step of said range that is commensurate with the date of
hire.
1-7-12: RECLASSIFICATION REQUEST:
Any employee may request a job reclassification. Upon receiving a request for a
job reclassification, the elected officer or department head of the employee
requesting the reclassification may request authorization from the Board of
County Commissioners. An elected officer or department head may request a
reclassification of an employee from the Board of County Commissioners.
1-7-13: RIGHT TO APPEAL BY EMPLOYEE:
Any employee who, without satisfactory cause, has not been advanced upon his
anniversary date, has not been reclassified upon request, or who has been
reduced in pay rate, may appeal before the Board of County Commissioners at
their next regular meeting following such action. (Ord. 1975-C, 8-7-75, eff. 9-
1-75)
1-7-14: VACATION CREDITS:
   (A)   Elected Officials: All elected officers of Elko County shall be
entitled to vacation leave with pay of one and one- fourth (11/4) days for each
month of service which may be cumulative. Annual leave shall not be accumulated
to exceed thirty (30) working days at the beginning of any calendar year.
Amounts in excess of thirty (30) working days at the beginning of any calendar
year shall be forfeited.
   (B)   Appointed Officials and Employees With Less than Five Years' Service:
      1.   All appointed officials and employees working on a full- time basis
shall be entitled to vacation leave with pay of five-sixths (5/6) working days
for each month of service which may be accumulative.
      2.   The time when annual leave is taken shall be determined by the
appointing authority after considering the needs of the service and the
seniority and wishes of the employees. Annual leave shall not be accumulated to
exceed thirty (30) working days at the beginning of any calendar year. Amounts
in excess of thirty (30) working days at the beginning of any calendar year
shall be forfeited. Annual leave shall not be granted in excess of the annual
leave credit earned.
      3.   During the first six (6) months of employment of any appointed
officer or employee, vacation leave shall accrue as provided in this Section,
but no vacation leave shall be taken during such period.
   (C)   Appointed Officials and Employees After Five Years' Service:
      1.   All appointed officials and employees working on a full- time basis
who have completed five (5) or more consecutive years of employment shall earn
vacation leave of one and one- fourth (11/4) working days for each month of
service which may be accumulative.
      2.   The time when annual leave is taken shall be determined by the
appointing authority after considering the needs of the service and the
seniority and wishes of the employees. Annual leave shall not be accumulated to
exceed thirty (30) working days at the beginning of any calendar year. Amounts
in excess of thirty (30) working days at the beginning of any calendar year
shall be forfeited. Annual leave shall not be granted in excess of the annual
leave credit earned.
   (D)   Appointed Officials and Employees After Fifteen Years' Service:
      1.   All appointed officials and employees working on a full- time basis
who have completed fifteen (15) or more consecutive years of employment shall
earn vacation leave of one and two-thirds (12/3) working days for each month of
service, which may be accumulative.
      2.   The time when annual leave is taken shall be determined by the
appointing authority after considering the needs of the service and the
seniority and wishes of the employees. Annual leave shall not be accumulated to
exceed thirty (30) working days at the beginning of any calendar year. Amounts
in excess of thirty (30) working days at the beginning of any calendar year
shall be forfeited. Annual leave shall not be granted in excess of the annual
leave credit earned. (Ord. 1976-P, 8-5-76, eff. 8-26-76)
1-7-15: PRORATED ALLOWANCE FOR PART-TIME EMPLOYEES:
Permanent employees who are regularly scheduled to work twenty (20) or more,
but less than thirty five (35) hours per week, are hereby designated as part-
time employees. Part-time employees earn prorated annual leave, sick leave and
holiday pay, based upon the applicable provisions of the Elko County General
Employees Collective Bargaining Agreement. The benefits provided for in this
Section do not apply to seasonal or temporary employees. (Ord. 1993-F, 8-5-93,
eff. 8-23-93)
1-7-16: EXTRA HELP:
Employees whose term of continuous employment is less than six (6) months or
who work less than fifty (50) hours per month, shall be designated as extra
help. Hiring of such employees shall be for such periods and at such salaries
or wages as may be approved by the Board of County Commissioners, but such
extra help shall not be entitled to any of the benefits provided by this
Chapter.
1-7-17: VACATION CREDIT UPON TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT:
   (A)   Upon termination of employment for any reason, an appointed officer or
employee who has earned vacation time may be granted a vacation for the time so
earned not to exceed the maximums specified in Section
1-7-14 of this Chapter. Such vacation must be taken prior to the effective date
of termination of employment, or in lieu of such vacation, the employee may be
granted a lump sum payment for vacation time accrued to his credit.
   (B)   No appointed officer or employee shall be paid for accumulated
vacation leave upon termination of his service unless he or she has been
employed six (6) months or more.
   (C)   No elected County officer shall be paid for accumulated vacation leave
upon the termination of his service.
1-7-18: RIGHTS OF HEIRS OF DECEASED OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE:
If an appointed officer or employee dies and was entitled to accumulated
vacation leave under the provisions of this Chapter, the heirs of such deceased
officer or employee, who are given priority to succeed to the assets of
decedent's estate under the laws of intestate succession of this State, or the
executor or administrator of the decedent's estate, upon submitting
satisfactory proof to the Board of County Commissioners of their right, shall
be paid an amount of money equal to the number of days of accrued vacation
leave multiplied by the daily salary or wages of such deceased officer or
employee. (Ord. 1976-P, 8-5-76, eff. 8-26-76)
1-7-19: SICK LEAVE:
   (A)   Elected and appointed officers and employees shall be entitled to sick
and disability leave with pay of one and one-fourth (11/4) working days for
each month of service, which shall be cumulative from year to year not to
exceed one hundred twenty (120) working days. Following the expiration of
allowed sick and disability leave, the County Commissioners may grant an
elected or appointed officer or employee up to an additional one hundred twenty
(120) days sick leave. The granting of such additional sick leave shall be at
the sole discretion of the Elko County Commissioners, based upon the best
interests of the County of Elko. (Ord. 1982-D, 4-8-82, eff. 5-1-82)
   (B)   Part-time employees may be allowed prorated sick leave on the basis of
one and one fourth (11/4) days of credit for each equivalent month of full-time
service.
   (C)   An elected official, appointed officer or employee separated from
service shall earn sick leave only through the last working day for which he is
entitled to pay. If this date is earlier than the last day of the month, the
sick leave with pay shall be prorated. No payment for unused sick leave shall
be made upon separation.
   (D)   An elected official, appointed officer or employee is entitled to use
sick leave only when incapacitated to perform the duties of his position due to
sickness or injury, when quarantined, or when receiving required medical or
dental service or examination, or illness or death in his immediate family.
      1.   In the event a serious illness in an elected official's, appointed
officer's or employee's immediate family requires his attendance, he may use
sick leave not to exceed five (5) days in any one calendar year. For this
purpose, immediate family is defined as the elected official's, appointed
officer's or employee's parents, spouse, children (natural, adopted or foster),
brothers, sisters, grandparents, great grandparents, uncles, aunts, nephews,
grandchildren, nieces, great grandchildren, step-parents and, if living in the
elected official's, appointed officer's or employee's household, shall include
father-in-law, mother-in-law, son- in-law or daughter-in-law, grandfather-in-
law or grandmother- in-law, great grandfather-in-law or great grandmother-in-
law, uncle-in-law or aunt-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, grandson-in-
law or granddaughter-in-law, nephew-in-law or niece-in-law, great grandson-in-
law or great granddaughter- in-law and step-children. With the approval of the
Board of County Commissioners, additional family sick leave may be granted.
The Board of County Commissioners may approve an exception to this limitation
where an elected official's, appointed officer's or employee's attendance is
required to provide, participate in or arrange for intensive care and/or
treatment or receive extensive training in the proper utilization of equipment,
techniques and supplies essential for continued maintenance of good health. In
this case, the elected official, appointed officer, or employee submits his
request for an exception of the limitation to the Board of County
Commissioners. The request must be accompanied by an individual certification
from a physician or other suitably qualified person as to the actual need for
the elected official's, appointed officer's or employee's participation. The
certificate of need must identify the immediate family member's illness and
contain an explanation as to:
         (a)   Relative seriousness of the illness and a projection of the
probable length of time the elected official's, appointed officer's or
employee's attendance will be required; and
         (b)   The exact role of the employee while in attendance.
The appointing authority or Board of County Commissioners may request the
submittal of supplemental information.
      2.   In the event of a death in the elected official's, appointed
officer's or employee's immediate family, he may use sick leave not to exceed
five (5) working days for each death. For this purpose, immediate family is
defined as the employee's parents, spouse, children, brothers, sisters,
grandparents, great grandparents, uncles, aunts, nephews, grandchildren,
nieces, great grandchildren, father-in-law or mother-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, grandfather-in- law or grandmother-in-law, uncle-in-law or
aunt-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, grandson-in-law or granddaughter-
in-law, nephew-in-law or niece-in-law, great grandson-in-law or great
granddaughter-in-law, and step- parents or step-children.
   (E)   An elected official, appointed officer or employee is entitled to use
accumulated sick leave for adoption purposes or as maternity leave regardless
of the type of delivery or results of pregnancy, if the provisions below are
fully complied with:
      1.   A maternity leave may be taken prior to the expected birthdate of
the child.
      2.   If, after exhausting her accumulated sick leave, an elected
official, appointed officer or employee needs additional time off from work,
annual leave shall be granted. If additional time is required, leave without
pay may be granted by the Board of County Commissioners if the Board considers
it justifiable and for the good of the public service.
      3.   Pregnancy shall not jeopardize an elected official's, appointed
officer's or employee's job or merit status except for leave without pay
limitations. The elected official, appointed officer, or employee shall be
responsible for reporting the pregnancy as soon as it is an established fact so
that steps may be taken to protect the elected official's, appointed officer's
or employee's health or modify her working conditions and in order that any
necessary staffing adjustments may be planned.
1-7-20: LEAVE OF ABSENCE:
Upon good cause shown and upon approval of the Board of County Commissioners,
any appointed officer or employee may be granted a leave of absence without pay
for the period of time and upon the conditions determined by said Board.
1-7-21: HOLIDAYS:
When any holiday falls on Sunday, the next day, Monday is observed as the
holiday. Employees working other than the standard work week (that is Monday
through Friday) are entitled to the same number of holidays as employees
working the standard work week. An equivalent holiday will be allowed within
ten (10) working days of the officially designated holiday.
The following holidays are declared legal holidays for all officers and
employees of the County of Elko:
January 1                               New Year's Day
Third Monday in February                Washington's Birthday
Last Monday in May                      Memorial Day
July 4                                  Independence Day
First Afternoon of the Elko County Fair
First Monday in September               Labor Day
October 31                              Nevada Day
November 11                             Veteran's Day
Fourth Thursday in November             Thanksgiving Day
December 25                             Christmas Day
 
And any day designated by the President of the United States, by the Governor
of Nevada or the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 1976-P, 8-5-76, eff. 8-
26-76)
When any of the following holidays fall on a Saturday, the preceding Friday
shall be observed as a holiday:
 
January 1   New Year's Day
July 4      Independence Day
October 31  Nevada Day
December 25 Christmas Day
 
(Ord. 1976-Y, 12-9-76, eff. 1-1-77)
1-7-22: WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION:
When any elected or appointed officer or employee of the County is eligible at
the same time for benefits under Chapters 616 or 617 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes and for any sick leave benefit:
   (A)   The amount of sick leave benefit paid to such elected or appointed
officers, or employees for any pay period shall not exceed the difference
between his or her normal salary and the amount of any benefit received,
exclusive of reimbursement or payment of medical or hospital expenses under
chapters 616 or 617 of the Nevada Revised Statutes for that pay period.
   (B)   If the amount of the elected or appointed officer's or employee's sick
leave benefit is reduced pursuant to Section
1-7-19(A) below the amount normally payable, the amount of sick leave charged
such elected or appointed officer, or employee as taken during that pay period
shall be reduced in the same proportion.
   (C)   The elected or appointed officer, or employee of the County may
decline to use any or part of the sick leave benefit normally payable to him or
her while receiving benefits under chapters 616 or 617 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes. During such period of time, the elected or appointed officer or
employee shall be considered on leave of absence without pay. (Ord. 1976-K, 5-
5-76)
1-7-23: COMPENSATORY VACATION TIME AND OVERTIME PAY:
   (A)   Each County employee not exempted by the Federal Fair Labor Standards
Act, 29 U.S.C. 201 et seq., and the regulations applicable thereto, as may be
amend ed from time to time, except law enforcement employees and public safety
employees, who by prior authorization works any time in excess of his specified
work week and any law enforcement employee or public safety employee who works
overtime as herein-below defined during any scheduled work period, shall be
compensated for such work as follows:
      1.   Effective April 15, 1986, pursuant to the department policy then in
effect and on file with the County Auditor, the employee who works any overtime
will be compensated for the overtime either by compensatory vacation time equal
to one and one-half (11/2) times the amount of overtime worked or by payment of
wages at one and one-half (11/2) times the employee's regular rate of pay.
      2.   Effective April 1, 1986, at the discretion of the department head
under whose supervision any employee works, an employee who has worked more
than the designated hours in one work day, or more than the designated number
of hours in any one work week, may take time off on an equal, time for time,
basis during the same designated work period to avoid accruing overtime in the
designated work period.
      3.   Terms of a collective bargaining agreement applicable to any
employee or group of employees takes precedence over these general terms of
overtime compensation insofar as the cash payment for overtime work or the
accrual of compensatory time; provided, however, that any compensatory vacation
time accrued under such collective bargaining agreement after April 1, 1986,
shall be accrued and awarded at one and one- half (11/2) times the overtime
worked and pay for overtime accrued under such collective bargaining agreement
shall be awarded at one and one-half (11/2) times the regular rate of pay for
such employee for the overtime worked.
      4.   Any employee whose work week is thirty five (35) hours shall be
compensated for services rendered in excess of thirty five (35) hours, but not
more than forty (40) hours by compensatory vacation time of one and one-half
(11/2) times the amount of time worked in excess of thirty five (35) hours, but
not more than forty (40) hours.
      5.   Any employee compensated for overtime by compensatory vacation time
may accrue up to four hundred eighty (480) hours of such compensatory time if
the employee works in law enforcement, public safety, emergency response or
seasonal work and up to two hundred forty (240) hours of compensatory time for
all other employees. Hours accrued in excess of those stated limits must be
paid by the next issued paycheck or warrant at one and one-half (11/2) times
the employee's regular rate of pay.
      6.   All accrued compensatory vacation time shall be permitted to be
taken by the employee, at the employee's request, within a reasonable time
after it is accrued, provided that the requested time off will not unduly
disrupt the operation of the office, department or the County. In no event
shall the employee be deprived of taking the compensatory time within six (6)
months of the time it is accrued.
   (B)   Definitions Applicable to This Chapter:
      1.   Collective Bargaining Agreement: An agreement entered into pursuant
to NRS chapter 288, between Elko County, through its Board of Commissioners,
and a recognized employee organization, acting as a bargaining agent for a
specifically recognized bargaining unit which controls conditions of
employment.
      2.   Emergency Response Employees: Employees who respond to medical
emergencies or disasters and who are not volunteers, including but not limited
to, doctors, nurses, emergency medical technicians, ambulance crews and
drivers.
      3.   Hours Worked: Hours worked, for purposes of calculating whether or
not an employee is entitled to overtime pay, is all time during which an
employee is necessarily required to be on the employer's premises, or at a
prescribed place of work, or otherwise on duty; provided however, that hours
worked do not include the following:
         (a)   Meal periods during which the employee is relieved of duties.
         (b)   Travel time to and from work, unless there is a collective
bargaining agreement which controls and specifies otherwise or the employee is
required to travel from his normal daily workplace to another place to complete
his duties.
         (c)   Preparation time which is not an integral part of the principal
activity of the employee's employment; this includes, but is not limited to,
time for changing clothing before or after a work shift.
         (d)   Stand-by time where the employee is not restricted as to what he
can or cannot do, or as to where he can or cannot go, within a limited range,
during this time. This includes time during which the employee carries a beeper
call system or transmitter.
         (e)   Time worked in excess of the prescribed work week for which
prior authorization was not granted.
         (f)   Hours worked pursuant to a voluntary agreement between
employees, for the convenience of at least one of those employees, and not the
convenience of the County, including but not limited to, trading time or
switching shifts or tours of duty and coming in early to relieve another
employee.
         (g)   Time worked in excess of the designated work week by an employee
who works no more than seven (7) months per calendar year for the County or who
earns seventy six percent (76%) or more of his total earnings from the County
in six (6) months or less of a calendar year, provided, however, that such time
in excess of the work week in any designated work period shall be compensated
at straight time or compensatory vacation time, on an hour for hour basis at
the election of the department head and as set forth in written department
regulations prior to the time so worked.
         (h)   Time worked by fire, public safety, emergency response or law
enforcement employees in voluntary response to a call for help from a
neighboring jurisdiction.
         (i)   Time worked as a volunteer in a capacity different from the
employee's normal duties.
      4.   Law Enforcement Employees: Elko County Sheriff's Department
personnel, whose work is not exclusively clerical and who are not otherwise
exempted by statute or regulation.
      5.   Overtime: Overtime is:
         (a)   For all employees, except law enforcement employees, public
safety employees and emergency response employees, seasonal employees or
recreational employees, and others exempted by statute, all time worked in
excess of forty (40) hours during a designated work period.
         (b)   For law enforcement employees, public safety employees, seasonal
employees and emergency response employees, all time worked in excess of one
hundred seventy one (171) hours during a designated work period.
      6.   Part-time Employee: An employee who is regularly scheduled to work
less than thirty five (35) hours per work week.
      7.   Public Safety Employees: Employees whose duties consist primarily of
protecting public safety or providing services relating to public safety,
including but is not limited to, fire fighters, ambulance crews, ambulance
drivers, emergency medical technicians, employees of the Department of
Emergency Response.
      8.   Recreational Employees or Personnel: Any employee whose primary
duties relate to providing or supervising recreation or services related to
recreation, including but not limited to, groundskeepers for parks or golf
courses, professional athletic instructors, recreation counselors or leaders,
life guards, activity directors or supervisors, who work seven (7) or less
months in a calendar year for Elko County or earn seventy six percent (76%) or
more of their gross in come from Elko County in six (6) months, or less, of a
calendar year at recreational facilities in Elko County or instruct, supervise
or conduct recreational activities for Elko County.
      9.   Regular Rate of Pay: The regular rate of pay is the employee's rate
of pay, per hour, calculated by dividing the amount of pay for the employee's
class and step, per pay period by the number of hours in the employee's normal
designated work week. The amount of pay per period includes shift differential
pay, retroactive pay, incentive pay and pay for controlled standby time.
      10.   Seasonal Employee: Any employee who works for the County of Elko
seven (7) months or less in any calendar year or who earns seventy six percent
(76%) of his gross income from Elko County in six (6) months or less in any
calendar year.
      11.   Standby Time: Time during which an employee must be available to
work, i.e. either to go to work at his normal place of employment or otherwise
respond to a call to engage in prescribed duties of his employment.
      12.   Travel Time: Time spent getting from one location to another by
whatever means of transportation.
      13.   Volunteer: Any person who has agreed in advance to provide, at no
cost, time, services, work, advice or consultation, to benefit Elko County or
any department, or division, or any employee or employees thereof, or to
provide such time, service, work, advice or consultation to benefit the
community or members of the community or the public through the auspices of
Elko County or a department or division of County government. Provided,
however, that any person otherwise employed by the County is a volunteer only
if the services provided as a volunteer are in a distinct and different
capacity from the duties performed in his/her capacity as an employee of the
County.
      14.   Workday: This is the number of hours in each twenty four (24) hour
period as designated in department regulations, that an employee is regularly
scheduled to work or be on duty, excluding overtime; the specified number of
hours for each employee's position are set forth in department regulations and
in a resolution of the Elko County Board of Commissioners; any changes in the
workday for any employee or group of employees shall be made by resolution of
the Elko County Board of Commissioners and a written departmental regulation
which is given in advance to each employee affected and which is posted within
the department.
      15.   Work Week: The work week is the number of hours in each week, from
Sunday at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight through the following Sunday at
eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M., that an employee is regularly scheduled
to be on the County premises or otherwise on duty and engaged in his designated
duties. Designated work weeks for each position are set forth in department
regulations and resolutions by the Board of County Commissioners. Any change in
the designated work week for any employee or group of employees shall be made
by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners and department regulations
in advance of such change. Each employee affected shall be given written notice
in advance of the effective change date.
      16.   Work Period: The work period for all employees, except law
enforcement personnel and public safety or emergency personnel, is a seven (7)
day period from Sunday at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight through the following
Sunday at eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. beginning with March 30, 1986.
The work period for law enforcement personnel is a twenty eight (28) day period
from Sunday at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to eleven fifty nine o'clock
(11:59) P.M., of the twenty eighth day thereafter, beginning on March 30, 1986.
   (C)   Any and all overtime must be authorized in advance by the department
head, or in the case of law enforcement, public safety, emergency response
personnel or road department, overtime must be within the department guidelines
for working overtime, and must be approved by the employee's immediate super
visor prior to the overtime, or must result from acting as a witness in a
criminal action, pursuant to being serviced with subpoena.
   (D)   Any employee who works for the County no more than seven (7) months
per calendar year or earns seventy six percent (76%) of his total earnings in
six (6) months of a calendar year, shall not receive overtime pay at one and
one-half (11/2) times his regular rate of pay for any time he works in excess
of the specified number of hours for his designated work week for his job. Any
such employee who works time in excess of the designated work week shall be
paid straight time for those extra hours worked or accrue compensatory time on
an equal hour-for-hour basis.
   (E)   Each employee shall sign, at the end of such designated work period, a
record of the time he has worked during that work period, which record shall be
kept as part of the central record-keeping of the County for a period of at
least three (3) years. (Ord. 1986-B, 3-19-86, eff. 4-1-86)
1-7-24: RECORDS:
Department heads shall submit each month a record of: any reclassification,
leave requests, vacation credits, sick leave credits or leaves of absence to
the officer of the County Manager for proper central recording. (Ord. 1976-P,
8-5-76, eff. 8-26-76)
1-7-25: FAIR EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES; DISCRIMINATIONS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   All personnel actions taken by County departments, agencies, boards or
appointing officers shall be based solely on merit and fitness.
   (B)   County appointing officers shall not:
      1.   Refuse to hire a person because of such person's race, color, creed,
national origin, age, or sex, unless based upon a bona fide occupational
classification.
      2.   Discharge or bar any person from employment because of such person's
race, creed, color, national origin, sex, or age.
      3.   Discriminate against any person in recruitment, appointment,
compensation, training, promotion, retention, or any other personnel action
because of political or religious opinions or affiliations or because of race,
national origin, age, sex, or other non-merit factors.
1-7-26: PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   Full-time Service Required. Each employee shall, during his hours of
duty as an employee and subject to such other laws, rules, or regulations as
pertain thereto, devote his full time, attention, and efforts to County
employment.
   (B)   Strikes Against County Service. The Legislature declares it to be the
public policy of the State of Nevada that strikes against the State or any
local government employer are illegal. Elko County shall be defined as a local
government employer.
1-7-27: DISMISSAL:
   (A)   Public Hearings for Dismissed Employees. When an employee of a County
other than a department head, County Manager or County Administrator who has
been employed by the County for twelve (12) or more months is dismissed from
employment, he may request within fifteen (15) days of the date of dismissal a
written statement specifically setting forth the reasons for such dismissal.
Within fifteen (15) days of the date of such request, he shall be furnished
such a written statement. Within thirty (30) days after receipt of such written
statement, the dismissed employee may, in writing, request a public hearing
before the Board of County Commissioners to determine the reasonableness of
such action. The Board of County Commissioners shall grant the dismissed
employee a public hearing within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the written
request. At the public hearing, technical rules of evidence shall not apply.
(Ord. 1976-K, 5-5-76)
1-7-28: COMPUTATION OF MONTHLY PAY:
When the rate for an employee under this Ordinance is on a monthly basis, such
salary shall be computed on a working day basis, and an employee who serves
less than a full number of working days in a month and such absence is not
compensated for by sick leave, vacation, etc., shall have his salary reduced by
one-twenty first (1/21) of his regular monthly pay for each day's absence.
1-7-29: COMPUTATION OF HOURLY PAY:
When the rate of an employee is on an hourly basis, any portion of an hour
worked up to one-half (1/2) hour (thirty [30] minutes) shall be credited as a
full one-half (1/2) hour. Any portion of an hour worked beyond the one-half (1/
2) hour shall be credited as a full hour worked.
1-7-30: NORMAL WORK WEEK:
The normal work week shall be considered as five (5) working days from Monday
through Friday. Departments requiring a seven (7) day coverage may require the
five (5) working days to include any five (5) days of the week. (Ord. 1976-P,
8-5-76, eff. 8-26-76)
1-7-31: CONFIDENTIAL RECORDS:
   (A)   The following records are confidential and not open to the public:
      1.   Any materials to be used in the development and administration of
examinations.
      2.   Names and identities of applicants, eligible and special examiners.
      3.   Test scores, individual rating sheets, and evaluations. However,
applicants or employees may receive notification of their own test results upon
request.
      4.   Employee personnel files.
      5.   Employee performance records or information, disciplinary records or
information and medical information.
      6.   Reports of employers and appointing authorities regarding
applicants, eligible or employees.
   (B)   Basic employee Information: Basic employee information may be released
consisting of job title, current salary, date of hire, salary history,
promotional history, date of separation, employment status, department
assignment and duties.
   (C)   Release of records:
      1.   Records under subsection “A” may be released by written approval of
the employee, in accordance with the law, subpoena or court order compelling
release, or in defense of claims or complaints against the County or its
employees by the employee or applicant.
      2.   Employees may obtain access to their own employment files by written
request. (Ord. 2022-03, eff. 10-15-2022)
CHAPTER 8
ADDITIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Finance
1-8-2: Uses of County Motor Vehicles Restricted
1-8-3: Fees for Photocopying and Certifying Documents
1-8-4: Additional Compensation for Issuance of Marriage Licenses After Hours
1-8-5: (Rep. by Ord. 1980-N, 8-7-80, eff. 9-1-80)
1-8-6: Fund for Medical Assistance to Indigent Persons
1-8-1: FINANCE:
The method of transacting the business of the County of Elko shall be changed
from the "cash" basis to the "modified accrual" basis. (Res. dated 6-6-67)
1-8-2: USE OF COUNTY MOTOR VEHICLES RESTRICTED:
   (A)   At no instance may a County officer or County employee use a County
motor vehicle for purposes that are for his own benefit and which do not serve
in either a direct or indirect manner to benefit the County.
   (B)   Examples of uses that are prohibited are: Using the vehicle to
transport members of the family to their place of employment; transport
children whether they be the children of the employee or others to and from
school and similar activities. The above- noted activities are not to be held
inclusive but to merely serve as examples of conduct that is considered to be
prohibited by this Section.
   (C)   Any County official or County employee found to be in violation of any
of the provisions of this Section shall forfeit not less than ten dollars
($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first violation of
said section, and up to six (6) months in jail or five hundred dollars
($500.00) fine for any subsequent offense. (Ord. 1975-F, 9-11-75, eff. 10-1-75)
1-8-3: FEES FOR PHOTOCOPYING AND CERTIFYING DOCUMENTS:
   (A)   Each and every County officer may charge a fee for copying,
photocopying and certifying any public record.
   (B)   Where the information has been requested by letter and where said
information is to be returned by mail, any County official may charge the party
requesting the information the cost of mailing the information to said party.
   (C)   This Section shall be deemed not to apply to any Federal, state,
county, city, district governmental subdivision and quasi-municipal
corporations which supply the same or similar type information to Elko County
free of charge. (Ord. 1975-G, 9-11-75, eff. 10-1-75)
1-8-4: ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION FOR ISSUANCE OF MARRIAGE LICENSES AFTER HOURS:
   (A)   Deputy County Clerks shall be entitled to a commission of two dollars
thirty cents ($2.30) for each marriage license personally issued after regular
hours at the office of the County Clerk. Such deputies shall submit a monthly
payroll claim setting forth the number of such licenses issued after hours by
each deputy. Compensation to each deputy shall be determined by multiplying the
total number of licenses issued personally by each deputy by two dollars thirty
cents ($2.30).
   (B)   The County Clerk shall adjust the hours of the deputies so as to
equalize compensation for additional work insofar as such equalization is
reasonably possible. Additionally, the County Clerk shall set the times that
the office of the County Clerk shall be open after regular hours. (Ord. 1979-U,
9-6-79, eff. 10-1-79)
1-8-5: (Rep. by Ord. 1980-N, 8-7-80, eff. 9-1-80)
1-8-6: FUND FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE TO INDIGENT PERSONS:
   (A)   There is hereby created a separate fund in the County Treasury
designated as Fund for Medical Assistance to Indigent Persons.
   (B)   The money in this said fund shall be used for reimbursement of any
unpaid charges for medical care furnished to an indigent person who falls sick
in the County of Elko, other than care furnished on account of an injury
suffered in a motor vehicle accident.
   (C)   All monies collected or recovered pursuant to Assembly Bill 422 are to
be deposited to the said Fund for Medical Assistance to Indigent Persons, and
any interest earned on the money in the said fund must be deposited for credit
to the fund. Any claims against the fund shall be paid only on approval by the
Board of County Commissioners. Any monies remaining in the fund at the end of
any fiscal year shall not revert to the County General Fund, but shall remain
in the Fund for Medical Assistance to Indigent Persons.
   (D)   For each fiscal year beginning on or after July 1, 1985, the Board of
County Commissioners shall, before the end of each fiscal year, remit to the
State Treasurer, from the money in the Fund for Medical Assistance to Indigent
Persons, an amount of money equivalent to three-tenths (3/10) of one percent
(1%) of each one hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed valuation of all taxable
property in the County for credit to the "supplemental fund" as defined by
section 2 (2) of the act.
   (E)   Such fund, shall be funded and administered as set forth in Assembly
Bill 422, amending chapter 428 of Nevada Revised Statutes, enacted by the 65th
Nevada State Legislature, 1985, and as it may be hereafter amended. (Ord. 1985-
J, 8-8-85, eff. 7-1-85)
CHAPTER 9
TOWNSHIPS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Descriptions
1-9-1: DESCRIPTIONS:
The townships within Elko County include the following areas:
   (A)   Carlin Township: Elko County voting precincts 15, 16, and 17.
   (B)   Eastline Township: Elko County voting precincts 20 and 21.
   (C)   Elko Township: Elko County voting precincts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 40, and 41.
   (D)   Wells Township: Elko County voting precincts 18, 19, 33, 34, 35, 36,
37, 38, and 39. (Ord. 2016-04, 7-20-2016, eff. 8-13-2016)
CHAPTER 10
COUNTY PUBLIC DEFENDER
SECTION:
1-10-1: Creation Of Office
1-10-2: Qualifications
1-10-3: Appointment Of Public Defender And Deputies
1-10-4: Compensation; Law Practice
1-10-5: Representation
1-10-6: Duties
1-10-7: Disclaimer Of County Code
1-10-8: Recoupment By County Of Expenses Incurred In Providing A Public
Defender For Indigent Defendants
1-10-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
In accordance with N.R.S. 260.010, the office of Public Defender is created in
Elko County. The office of Public Defender is a full-time position. (Ord. 03-
2019, 6-5-2019)
1-10-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
The Public Defender must be a qualified attorney licensed in the State of
Nevada for a minimum of five (5) years, with a minimum of three (3) years
practicing criminal defense. The Public Defender shall become a resident of
Elko County upon appointment. Before entering upon the duties of their offices,
the Public Defender and all deputies will take the constitutional oath of
office. (Ord. 03-2019, 6-5-2019)
1-10-3: APPOINTMENT OF PUBLIC DEFENDER AND DEPUTIES:
   (A)   The Public Defender will be appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners of Elko County at a regularly held commission meeting. The Public
Defender serves at the pleasure of the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   The Public Defender may appoint deputies necessary for the proper
operation of the office, subject to prior budgetary approval by the Board of
County Commissioners. All deputies shall be qualified attorneys licensed in the
State of Nevada or qualified to practice law in the State of Nevada under the
rules of the Supreme Court and the Nevada State bar. (Ord. 03-2019, 6-5-2019)
1-10-4: COMPENSATION; LAW PRACTICE:
The compensation of the Public Defender and all deputy public defenders will be
fixed by the Board of Commissioners. Neither the Public Defender, nor any
deputy, may engage in the private practice of law, either civil or criminal,
from the date of appointment, except as allowed under their collective
bargaining agreement or at the discretion of the County Manager. (Ord. 03-2019,
6-5-2019)
1-10-5: REPRESENTATION:
   (A)   Indigent Defendant: The Public Defender will act as counsel for
indigent persons charged with a criminal offense or alleged to be mentally ill
in all cases when ordered to do so by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Delinquent Juvenile: The Public Defender will act as counsel for
indigent juveniles and non-indigent juveniles alleged to be delinquent or in
need of supervision, if a parent or guardian does not retain an attorney and is
not likely to retain an attorney for the child.
   (C)   Child Welfare: The Public Defender will act as counsel for indigent
persons responsible for the welfare of a child and/or children and is alleged
to have abused or neglected a child and/or children.
   (D)   Other Cases: The Public Defender will act as counsel for indigent
persons whenever ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction or by the County
Manager.
   (E)   Discretionary: Nothing in this section should be construed to limit or
otherwise devoid the Public Defender’s discretion to represent indigent persons
in matters not herein mentioned, if the Public Defender determines that such
representation is required by the United States Constitution, the Nevada State
Constitution, or Nevada State Law. (Ord. 03-2019, 6-5-2019)
1-10-6: DUTIES:
The Public Defender will perform all duties as described and directed by Nevada
Statute and this chapter. (Ord. 03-2019, 6-5-2019)
1-10-7: DISCLAIMER OF COUNTY CODE:
Nothing contained in this chapter may be interpreted or construed as a creation
of, or an acknowledgment of, any duty owed to persons represented by the County
of Elko other than those specific requirements levied upon the County of Elko
by the Nevada Legislature. (Ord. 03-2019, 6-5-2019)
1-10-8: RECOUPMENT BY COUNTY OF EXPENSES INCURRED IN PROVIDING A PUBLIC
DEFENDER FOR INDIGENT DEFENDANTS:
If a defendant for whom an attorney is appointed at the public’s expense on
account of indigence has property subject to execution or has acquired such
property within six (6) years after the termination of the attorney’s
representation, the Court will determine the value of the legal services
provided and will render judgement for that amount in favor of the county which
furnished the Public Defender or otherwise paid for the defense. (Ord. 03-2019,
6-5-2019)
CHAPTER 11
UNINCORPORATED TOWNS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Unincorporated Town Government Law Adopted
1-11-2: Jackpot Unincorporated Town; Formation
1-11-3: Unincorporated Town Of Jarbidge; Formation
1-11-1: UNINCORPORATED TOWN GOVERNMENT LAW ADOPTED:
The Unincorporated Town Government Law, NRS 269.500 to 269.625, inclusive, as
amended, be and it is hereby adopted, and shall henceforth be applicable to
each unincorporated town in the County of Elko. (Ord. 1980-N, 8-7-1980, eff. 9-
1-1980)
1-11-2: JACKPOT UNINCORPORATED TOWN; FORMATION:
   (A)   Boundaries: The boundaries of the specific contiguous unincorporated
area in Elko County now known as Jackpot are amended as follows:
      1.   Sections 1, 2, 11 and 12 of T. 47 N., R. 64 E., M.D.B.&M., and
Government Lots 3 and 4 of Section 6 of T. 47 N., R 65 E., M.D.B.&M., as shown
on that certain map filed for record in File No. 59631 in the Map Case in the
office of the Elko County Recorder on April 19, 1971;
      2.   The northeast quarter (NE1/4) of the northeast quarter (NE1/4) of
Section 13 of T. 47 N., R. 64 E., M.D.B.&M.;
      3.   Government Lot 2 of Section 6 of T. 47 N., R. 65 E., M.D.B.&M.;
      4.   Government Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Section 7 of T. 47 N., R. 65 E.,
M.D.B.&M.; and
      5.   Government Lot 1 of Section 18 of T. 47 N., R. 65 E., M.D.B.&M.;
(Ord. 1980-R, 10-9-1980, eff. 10-30-1980)
      6.   A parcel of land lying westerly of the centerline of U.S. Highway 93
located within the E1/2 E1/2 and the E1/2 W1/2 SE1/4 of Section 14, Township 47
North, Range 64 East, M.D.B.&M. containing 188.01 acres, more or less, and
being further described as follows:
Commencing at the NE corner of Section 14, Township 47 North, Range 64 East,
M.D.B.&M., marked with a standard BLM brasscap monument; Corner No. 1, the true
point of beginning of this description;
thence S. 1°17'43" W. along the east section line of said Section 14 for a
distance of 1701.67 feet to Corner No. 2, a point on the centerline of U.S.
Highway 93;
thence S. 4°05'03" W. along the centerline of U.S. Highway 93 for a distance of
1763.32 feet to a point of curvature said centerline of U.S. Highway 93, Corner
No. 3;
thence along the centerline of U.S. Highway 93, through a curve to the right
with a back tangent bearing of N. 4°05'03" E., a central angle of 21°17'20", a
radius of 5000.00 feet for an arc distance of 1857.81 feet to Corner No. 4, a
point on the southerly section line of said Section 14 and being the SE corner
of the property being described;
thence S. 88°42'19" W. along the south section line of said Section 14 for a
distance of 1448.31 feet to the SW corner of the SE1/4 SW1/4 SE1/4 of said
Section 14, Corner No. 5, being the SW corner of the property being described;
thence N. 0°44'45" E. along the west line of the E1/2 W1/2 SE1/4 of said
Section 14 for a distance of 2647.29 feet to the NW corner of the NE1/4 NW1/
4 SE1/4 of said Section 14, Corner No. 6;
thence N. 89°34'39" E. along the E-W quarter-section line of said Section 14
for a distance of 662.68 feet to the SW corner of the SE1/4 NE1/4 of said
Section 14, Corner No. 7;
thence N. 0°55'35" E. along the west line of the E1/2 NE1/4 of said Section 14
for a distance of 2622.96 feet to the NW corner of the NE1/4 NE1/4 of said
Section 14, Corner No. 8, a point on the north section line of said Section 14,
the NW corner of the property being described;
thence N. 89°48'00" E. along the north section line of said Section 14 for a
distance of 1342.10 feet to the NE corner of said Section 14, Corner No. 1, the
true point of beginning of this description.
         (a)   The petitioner for the annexation or its successor shall develop
sanitary sewer and water service lines and acquire the necessary easements to
provide such services to the above- described addition.
         (b)   The petitioner for the annexation or its successor shall cause a
map or plat of the above-described addition to be filed pursuant to NRS
269.650.
         (c)   The petitioner for the annexation or its successor shall request
the Elko County Planning Commission to reopen the Jackpot Master Plan for
inclusion of the above-described addition before changing zoning on said lands.
(Ord. 1998-A, 3-4-1998, eff. 3-23-1998)
All in the County of Elko, State of Nevada. (Ord. 1980-R, 10-9-1980, eff. 10-
30-1980)
   (B)   Services Provided: The services to be provided the unincorporated area
now known as Jackpot are amended, designated or adjusted as follows:
Town services to be provided to the residents include:
      1.   Sewage and wastewater collection, treatment and disposal services
administered in compliance with Federal water quality standards.
      2.   Solid waste disposal services.
      3.   Fire protection services.
      4.   Park services.
      5.   Recreation services.
      6.   Street services.
      7.   Street lighting services.
      8.   Water pumping, storage, transmission, treatment and distribution
services.
      9.   Franchising of cable television services. (Ord. 1980-S, 10-9-1980,
eff. 10-30-1980)
   (C)   Formation Of Unincorporated Town: The specific, contiguous
unincorporated area in Elko County, the boundaries of which are described in
subsection (A) of this Section is hereby formed into an unincorporated town,
pursuant to the Unincorporated Town Government Law and Section
1-11-1 of this Chapter, the services to be provided are described in subsection
(B) of this Section 1 . (Ord. 1980-T, 10-9-1980, eff. 10-30-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  2-1C-1 of this Code.
1-11-3: UNINCORPORATED TOWN OF JARBIDGE; FORMATION:
   (A)   Upon petition of a sufficient number of registered voters within the
proposed unincorporated Town of Jarbidge, the Board of Elko County
Commissioners finds that it is in the best interests of the residents of the
proposed unincorporated Town of Jarbidge to form an unincorporated town to
provide certain of those town services listed in NRS 269.575.
   (B)   Accordingly, the unincorporated Town of Jarbidge is hereby formed to
provide for water distribution to the residents of the unincorporated Town, and
to comply with State and Federal water quality standards.
   (C)   The boundaries of the unincorporated Town of Jarbidge shall be the
contiguous unincorporated area as shown on the Official Map of Jarbidge
Townsite, accepted and approved by Judge Taber as the trustee for the use and
benefit of the occupants of the townsite of Jarbidge on August 26, 1920, and
filed on November 5, 1921, in the office of the Elko County Recorder as
document number 31210.
   (D)   The Board of Elko County Commissioners has determined that it can best
be served by the appointment of a Town Advisory Board consisting of three (3)
members. The Citizen's Advisory Council, Jarbidge, Nevada, as it exists by
authority of Elko County Code Section
2-1D-1, shall serve as the first Town Advisory Board. Elko County Code Section
2-1D-1 shall be amended and the Citizen's Advisory Council as therein
designated shall be hereinafter known and referred to as the Town Advisory
Board. (Ord. 1993-E, 8-18-1993, eff. 9-1-1993)
CHAPTER 12
PUBLIC GUARDIAN'S OFFICE
SECTION:
1-12-1: Office Of Public Guardian Established
1-12-2: Vacancy
1-12-3: Powers, Duties, Rights, And Responsibilities
1-12-4: Caseload
1-12-5: Records
1-12-6: Retention Of Attorney
1-12-7: Subordinates, Consultants And Assistants
1-12-8: Qualifications Of Person For Whom Public Guardian May Be Appointed;
Petition For Appointment
1-12-9: Investigation Of Financial Status Of Person For Whom Public Guardian Is
Requested
1-12-10: Allocation Of Costs Incurred In Appointment Proceedings And
Administrative Costs
1-12-11: Value Of Guardian's Services Allowable As Claim Against Ward's Estate;
Deposit Of Money Received By Public Guardian
1-12-12: Termination Of Appointment
1-12-13: Revocation Of Previous Appointments And Designations For Public
Guardian
1-12-14: Conflict Between Nevada Revised Statutes And This Code
1-12-1: OFFICE OF PUBLIC GUARDIAN ESTABLISHED:
The Elko County board of commissioners (hereinafter board) hereby establishes
the office of the public guardian for Elko County, Nevada.
   (A)   The public guardian is appointed for a term of four (4) years and
serves at the pleasure of the board.
   (B)   The public guardian must be a qualified elector of Elko County.
   (C)   The board shall set the compensation for the public guardian, which
shall be payable from the general fund. (Ord. 2004-B, 8-4-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
1-12-2: VACANCY:
   (A)   If any vacancy occurs in the office of public guardian, the vacancy
must be filled promptly by the board, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
253.170.
   (B)   The district court may designate any qualified person to serve as
acting public guardian until the board fills the vacancy in the office. (Ord.
2004-B, 8-4-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
1-12-3: POWERS, DUTIES, RIGHTS, AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The public guardian shall have all the powers and duties of the individual
guardianships created by appointments of previous public guardians for
particular wards.
In the administration of any guardianship, to which the public guardian is
appointed, the public guardian shall have all the powers, duties, rights and
responsibilities as required by the Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 2004-B, 8-4-
2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
1-12-4: CASELOAD:
The public guardian caseload must be no more than twenty five (25) active cases
at one time.
   (A)   All referrals in excess of the authorized caseload must be placed upon
a waiting list. The public guardian shall have the discretion to accept
referrals from the waiting list based upon greatest need.
   (B)   The public guardian shall immediately inform the board if the waiting
list exceeds twenty five (25) referrals. (Ord. 2004-B, 8-4-2004, eff. 9-26-
2004)
1-12-5: RECORDS:
The public guardian must keep financial and other appropriate records
concerning all cases in which he/she is appointed as an individual guardian.
(Ord. 2004-B, 8-4-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
1-12-6: RETENTION OF ATTORNEY:
For the proper administration of a guardianship, the public guardian may retain
an attorney to assist him/her, rotating this employment in successive
guardianships among the attorneys practicing in Elko County, Nevada, who are
qualified by experience and willing to serve. The attorney fees must be paid
from the assets of the ward, if available. (Ord. 2004-B, 8-4-2004, eff. 9-26-
2004)
1-12-7: SUBORDINATES, CONSULTANTS AND ASSISTANTS:
The public guardian, with the consent of the board, may:
   (A)   Employ subordinates necessary for the proper performance of his/her
duties.
   (B)   Contract for the services of consultants or assistants. (Ord. 2004-B,
8-4-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
1-12-8: QUALIFICATIONS OF PERSON FOR WHOM PUBLIC GUARDIAN MAY BE APPOINTED;
PETITION FOR APPOINTMENT:
   (A)   A resident of Elko County, Nevada, who is eighteen (18) years of age
or older is eligible to have the public guardian appointed as his/her
individual guardian if he/she:
      1.   Has no relative or friend in Nevada able and willing to serve as
guardian, due to illness or other circumstance which prevents their effective
performance of guardian.
      2.   Lacks sufficient assets to provide the requisite compensation to a
private guardian.
      3.   Has been exploited or neglected by friends or family members.
      4.   By reason of mental illness, mental deficiency, advanced age,
disease, weakness of mind, or any other cause, is unable, without assistance to
properly manage and take care of self.
   (B)   The public guardian is the guardian of last resort. A referral to the
public guardian must be submitted and will be evaluated by the public guardian
prior to acceptance. (Ord. 2004-B, 8-4-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
1-12-9: INVESTIGATION OF FINANCIAL STATUS OF PERSON FOR WHOM PUBLIC GUARDIAN IS
REQUESTED:
The public guardian must investigate the financial status of any person for
whom the appointment of the public guardian as is requested. In connection with
the investigation, the public guardian may require that person to execute and
deliver any written requests or authorizations necessary to provide the public
guardian with access to records, otherwise confidential, needed to evaluate
eligibility. The public guardian may obtain information from any public record
office of the state or any of its agencies or subdivisions upon request and
without payment of any fees. (Ord. 2004-B, 8-4-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
1-12-10: ALLOCATION OF COSTS INCURRED IN APPOINTMENT PROCEEDINGS AND
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS:
The costs incurred in the appointment proceedings and the administrative costs
of the guardian's services are not chargeable against the income or the estate
of the ward unless the district court determines at any time that the ward is
financially able to pay all or part of the costs. The district court shall
measure the ward's ability to pay pursuant to the factors listed in Nevada
Revised Statutes 253.230(2). (Ord. 2004-B, 8-4-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
1-12-11: VALUE OF GUARDIAN'S SERVICES ALLOWABLE AS CLAIM AGAINST WARD'S ESTATE;
DEPOSIT OF MONEY RECEIVED BY PUBLIC GUARDIAN:
The reasonable value of the public guardian's services rendered must be allowed
as a claim against the estate of the ward. Money received in payment of a claim
against the estate of the ward must be deposited by the public guardian to the
credit of the county general fund. (Ord. 2004-B, 8-4-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
1-12-12: TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENT:
The district court may, at any time, terminate the appointment of the public
guardian as an individual guardian upon petition by the ward, of any interested
person, or on the district court's own motion if the services of the public
guardian are no longer necessary. (Ord. 2004-B, 8-4-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
1-12-13: REVOCATION OF PREVIOUS APPOINTMENTS AND DESIGNATIONS FOR PUBLIC
GUARDIAN:
The board revokes all previous appointments and designations of public
guardians regardless of the means by which these appointments and designations
were made and which predate the effective date hereof. (Ord. 2004-B, 8-4-2004,
eff. 9-26-2004)
1-12-14: CONFLICT BETWEEN NEVADA REVISED STATUTES AND THIS CODE:
In the event of a conflict of Nevada Revised Statutes, as those sections may be
amended from time to time, the provisions of state statute will control. (Ord.
2004-B, 8-4-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
CHAPTER 13
GOVERNMENTAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-13-1: Protection To Local Governmental Officers And Employees Against
Reprisal And Retaliation
1-13-2: Definitions
1-13-3: Procedure To Report Improper Governmental Action
1-13-4: Reprisal And Retaliation Prohibited
1-13-5: Procedure To Report Reprisal Or Retaliatory Conduct
1-13-6: Procedure For Selecting A Hearing Officer
1-13-7: Procedure For Hearing Appeal
1-13-8: Procedure For Appeal To The Board Of Review
1-13-9: Use Of Provisions For Harassment Prohibited
1-13-1: PROTECTION TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES AGAINST
REPRISAL AND RETALIATION:
The public policy of Elko County is that an officer or an employee of Elko
County is encouraged to disclose, to the extent not expressly prohibited by
law, improper governmental action, and it is the intent of the Elko County
Board of Commissioners to protect the rights of Elko County officers and
employees who make a disclosure of improper governmental actions. (Ord. 05-
2020, 7-15-2021)
1-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION: The same meaning as indicated in NRS 281.611(1).
                              (Ord. 05-2020, 7-15-2021)
 
1-13-3: PROCEDURE TO REPORT IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION:
   (A)   Any person, officer, or employee may report improper governmental
action to any or all of the following:
      1.   The Director of the Elko County Human Resources Department;
      2.   The Elko County District Attorney;
      3.   The Elko County Public Defender; or
      4.   The Elko County Sheriff's Office.
   (B)   The report of improper governmental action may be made by phone,
email, mail, letter or any other manner that clearly communicates the improper
governmental action, and may be made anonymously.
   (C)   The Director of Human Resources, District Attorney, Public Defender or
Elko County Sheriff's Office receiving the report shall insure that the report
is investigated. (Ord. 05-2020, 7-15-2021)
1-13-4: REPRISAL AND RETALIATION PROHIBITED:
   (A)   An Elko County Officer or Employee:
      1.   Shall use official authority or influence of the officer or employee
to remedy any reprisal or retaliatory action of which the officer or employee
becomes aware.
      2.   Shall not:
         (a)   Directly or indirectly use or attempt to use the official
authority or influence of the officer or employee to intimidate, threaten,
coerce, command, influence or attempt to intimidate, threaten, coerce, command
or influence another Elko County officer or employee, or any other local
governmental officer or employee, in an effort to interfere with, or prevent
the disclosure of, information concerning improper governmental action,
including, without limitation, by intimidating, threatening, coercing,
commanding, influencing or attempting to intimidate, threaten, coerce, command
or influence the other officer or employee to take reprisal or retaliatory
action.
         (b)   Fail to use the official authority or influence of the officer
or employee to remedy any reprisal or retaliatory action of which the officer
or employee becomes aware.
      2.   For the purposes of this section, use of "official authority or
influence" includes taking, directing others to take, recommending, processing
or approving any personnel action such as an appointment, promotion, transfer,
assignment, reassignment, reinstatement, restoration, reemployment, evaluation
or other disciplinary action. (Ord. 05-2020, 7-15-2021)
1-13-5: PROCEDURE TO REPORT REPRISAL OR RETALIATORY CONDUCT:
   (A)   If an alleged violation of
1-13-4 occurs or any alleged reprisal or retaliatory action is taken against an
Elko County officer or employee who discloses information concerning improper
governmental action within 2 years after the information is disclosed, the
officer or employee may file a written appeal with any of the following County
Officers:
      1.   The Director of Human Resources for Elko County or designee;
      2.   The Elko County District Attorney or designee;
      3.   The Elko County Public Defender or designee;
      4.   The Elko County Sheriff's Office or designee.
   (B)   The written appeal must be accompanied by a statement that sets forth
with particularity, as applicable:
      1.   The facts and circumstances relating to the alleged violation.
      2.   The facts and circumstances under which the disclosure of improper
governmental action was made and the reprisal or retaliatory action that is
alleged to have been taken against the County Officer or employee. (Ord. 05-
2020, 7-15-2021)
1-13-6: PROCEDURE FOR SELECTING A HEARING OFFICER:
The hearing officer shall be selected as follows:
   (A)   The officer or designee receiving the appeal shall act as the hearing
officer, unless the officer or designee receiving the appeal was the officer or
designee or officer or designee's agency that received the original complaint
for improper governmental action.
   (B)   If the officer or designee receiving the appeal is the officer or
designee or officer or designee's agency that received the original complaint
for improper governmental action, the officer or designee shall select another
officer listed in section five of this Chapter to be the hearing officer.
   (C)   If the officer or designee receiving the appeal determines there is a
conflict or a perceived conflict with the officer or designee acting as the
hearing officer or the officer or designee's office, the officer or employee
shall select another agency listed in Section Five of this Chapter to be the
hearing officer. (Ord. 05-2020, 7-15-2021)
1-13-7: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING APPEAL:
   (A)   After receiving the appeal, the hearing officer shall give notice to
the officer or employee who is the subject of the appeal.
   (B)   The notice shall include the following:
      1.   The written appeal and information submitted to the hearing officer.
      2.   That the officer or employee has thirty (30) days to supply a
written response to the written appeal and any additional information helpful
to the hearing officer.
      3.   That the officer or employee's employment may be terminated as a
result of the hearing.
      4.   The date, time, and place where the hearing will take place.
      5.   The following warning: Please be advised that any further
retaliatory or reprisals against the appealing employee or officer may result
in further disciplinary action by the hearing officer.
   (C)   The hearing officer, after receiving any response from the officer or
employee, will hold a hearing. At the hearing, the hearing officer shall review
all the material and any further information offered by the appealing officer
or employee and the officer and employee who is the subject of the appeal. The
hearing officer may render a decision at the hearing or may make a written
response after the hearing. The hearing officer may make one of the following
two orders:
      1.   The proper person to desist and refrain from engaging in such a
violation or action that violates the provisions of this chapter; or
      2.   The termination of the employment of the proper person. (Ord. 05-
2020, 7-15-2021)
1-13-8: PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL TO THE BOARD OF REVIEW:
   (A)   If the hearing officer terminates employment, the officer or employee
subject to the termination may appeal the decision to a Board of Review. The
Board of Review shall review all records and make one of the following
determinations:
      1.   Sustain the decision of the hearing officer.
      2.   Vacate the decision of the hearing officer.
   (B)   If the Review Board vacates the hearing officer's decision, the Review
Board may make an order to desist and refrain from engaging in such violation
or action that violates the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The decision of the Review Board shall be final.
   (D)   The Review Board shall consist of the following:
      1.   One person from the Elko County Human Resources Department.
      2.   One person from the Elko County District Attorney's Office.
      3.   One person from the Elko County Public Defender's Office.
   (E)   The representative from each office shall be the appointed or elected
official, or a designee selected by the appointed or elected official. (Ord.
05-2020, 7-15-2021)
1-13-9: USE OF PROVISIONS FOR HARASSMENT PROHIBITED:
An Elko County officer or employee shall not use the provisions of this Chapter
to harass another officer or employee, as applicable.
The provisions of this Chapter, inclusive, do not prohibit an Elko County
officer or employee from initiating proper disciplinary procedures against
another officer or employee, as applicable, who discloses untruthful
information concerning improper governmental action.
(Ord. 05-2020, 7-15-2021)
CHAPTER 14
ELKO COUNTY REGIONAL COMMUNICATIONS CENTER
SECTION:
1-14-1: Purpose
1-14-2: Organization
1-14-3: Duties
1-14-4: Criminal Justice Information
1-14-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Elko County Regional Communications Center is to perform the
functions of a Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP), provide and administer the
emergency communication and dispatch of law enforcement, fire, emergency
medical services, and other public safety within the incorporated and
unincorporated areas of Elko County, except for in West Wendover and Owhyee.
(Ord. 2024-02, 2-7-2024)
1-14-2: ORGANIZATION:
The Elko County Regional Communications Center is an Elko County agency within
Elko County Emergency Management. The Elko County Emergency Manager shall
direct the operation and administration of the Elko County Regional
Communications Center.
(Ord. 2024-02, 2-7-2024)
1-14-3: DUTIES:
The Elko County Regional Communications Center has the following duties:
   A.   Provide public safety dispatch services for emergency and non-emergency
purposes for the various agencies of Elko County, incorporated cities within
the county, and other public safety agencies based within Elko County including
those that contract with Elko County or an incorporated city within the county.
   B.   Receive, screen, and take appropriate action on all emergency and non-
emergency calls for service from the public including requesting law
enforcement, fire, EMS or other public safety entities
   C.   Enter emergency assistance call information into the computer-aided
dispatch (CAD).
   D.   Input, modify, confirm, and validate information into and from NCIC and
NCJIS systems for agencies.
   E.   Provide information, instructions, and assistance to the public within
the appropriate scope of authority.
   F.   Provide detailed call information to first responders as needed,
maintain status and awareness of unit locations and relays information as
required.
   G.   Receives and relays information regarding incidents and other
activities to the appropriate agencies and staff.
   H.   Performs inquiries and criminal history checks for law enforcement
staff through NCIC and NCJIS systems or successor systems.
   I.   Through Elko County enter into contracts to provide similar services to
other public safety agencies.
   J.   Provide internal and external training as required to employees and
affiliated public safety personnel. Provide internal quality assurance for the
performance of duties and key system components.
   K.   Serves as an alternate or backup Public Safety Answering Point for
other emergency dispatch centers or agencies when necessary.
(Ord. 2024-02, 2-7-2024)
1-14-4: CRIMINAL JUSTICE INFORMATION: 
The Elko County Regional Communications Center shall comply with all the laws,
regulations, and rules applicable to the use and dissemination of NCIC and
NCJIS or any successor system’s criminal justice information.
(Ord. 2024-02, 2-7-2024)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1A
CITIZEN'S ADVISORY COUNCIL MOUNTAIN CITY
SECTION:
2-1A-1: Citizen's Advisory Council Created
2-1A-1: CITIZEN'S ADVISORY COUNCIL CREATED:
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners, acting as the Mountain City Town
Board, Town of Mountain City, State of Nevada, has determined the Town board
can best be served by the appointment of a Citizen's Advisory Council to act in
an advisory and liaison capacity.
   (B)   The provisions designating the powers and duties and providing the
qualifications of the members of said Citizen's Advisory Council shall be
substantially the same as those listed in NRS 269-0242.
   (C)   The Citizen's Advisory Council shall consist of not less than three
(3) nor more than five (5) members.
   (D)   Each member of the Advisory Council shall be a resident and qualified
elector in the Town of Mountain City.
   (E)   The members of the Advisory Council must be appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners from a list of a number of qualified persons, equal in
number to the number of positions on the Advisory Council which are to be
filled, elected at an informal election. Notice of the election must be posted
in accordance with NRS 241.020. The election must be held in the Town in
November of the year of the general election.
      1.   Any qualified person seeking election to the Advisory Council shall
submit his name to the Council not less than thirty (30) days prior to the next
Council meeting in the year of the election.
      2.   The Council shall post the names of all persons seeking election on
its agenda consistent with NRS 241.020.
      3.   An informal vote in a manner designated by the Council shall be held
for each member seeking election.
   (F)   The list of names of the persons elected must be presented to the
Board of County Commissioners at their first meeting in December of the year of
the general election. The persons appointed to the Advisory Council shall serve
their respective terms at the pleasure of the Board. (Ord. 1982-K, 9-8-82, eff.
10-1-82)
   (G)   The members of the Advisory Council first appointed by the Board of
County Commissioners shall serve until the first Monday in January following
the next general election, and thereafter the terms of office of the members of
the Advisory Council are for two (2) years and begin on the first Monday in
January following each general election. If a vacancy occurs in the membership
of the Citizen's Advisory Council due to removal by the Board of County
Commissioners, resignation of a member, death of a member or other cause, the
Board of County Commissioners shall appoint a qualified resident of the Town to
fill the vacancy and become a regular member of the Citizen's Advisory Council
for the unexpired term. (Ord. 1982-K, 9-8-82, eff. 10-1-82; amd. Ord. 1984-H,
9-13-84, eff. 10-1-84)
   (H)   The Advisory Council shall assist the Board of County Commissioners in
governing the Town by acting as liaison between the residents of the Town and
the Board. The Advisory Council and the Board shall cooperate to inform each
other of all matters of interest to the Town and its residents. The Advisory
Council shall not expend or contract any Town money for any purpose.
   (I)   The members of the Advisory Council shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 1982-K, 9-8-82, eff. 10-1-82)
   (J)   Should the population of the Town of Mountain City exceed one thousand
(1,000) persons, then, in that event, members of the Advisory Council shall not
be elected officials or elected members of any other governmental entity or
body, or any public or quasi-public corporation organized under the laws of
this State, including, without limitation, counties, cities, unincorporated
towns, school districts, hospital districts, general improvement districts and
other special districts. (Ord. 1987-J, 12-16-87, eff. 1-21-88)
CHAPTER 1B
TOWN ADVISORY BOARD, MONTELLO
SECTION:
2-1B-1: Town Advisory Board Created
2-1B-1: TOWN ADVISORY BOARD CREATED:
   (A)   The Town Advisory Board shall have the powers and duties and require
for membership the qualifications described in chapter 269 of the Nevada
Revised Statutes.
      1.   The unincorporated Town of Montello shall include all of the portion
of Section 17, Township 39 North, Range 69 East, MDB & M, which lies
northwesterly of a line parallel with and two hundred feet (200') distant from,
in a northwesterly direction measured at right angles, the original center line
of the Southern Pacific Transportation Company's main line track between
Sacramento, California and Ogden, Utah; which area includes, but is not limited
to, the original townsite of Montello as described in the "Map of the Town of
Montello" recorded in the office of the Elko County Recorder with file Number
107470, filed September 15, 1977.
      2.   The unincorporated Town of Montello shall also include the "certain
buildings and property known as the Culver House and the Burton House situated
in the Town of Montello, County of Elko, State of Nevada, which buildings are
on a parcel of land one hundred sixty nine feet by one hundred feet (169' x
100') north of the southeast corner of the NE1/4 of Section 18, in T. 39 N. R.
69 E. MDB & M and running thence first, west a distance of one hundred sixty
nine feet (169') to a point, then north a distance of one hundred feet (100')
to a point; then at right, angles east a distance of one hundred sixty nine
feet (169') to a point; thence right angles south a distance of one hundred
feet (100') to the place of beginning. (Ord. 1982-K, 9-8-82, eff. 10-1-82)
   (C)   The Town Advisory Board shall be composed of five (5) members who
shall be selected by and serve at the pleasure of the Elko County Board of
Commissioners. Each member of the Advisory Board shall be a resident and
qualified elector in the Town of Montello. (Ord. 1982-K, 9-8-82, eff. 10-1-82;
amd. Ord. 1984-H, 9-13-84, eff. 10-1-84)
   (D)   The terms of office of the Town Advisory Board members shall be two
(2) years. The terms shall expire on the first Monday in January of each odd
numbered year. If a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Town Advisory
Board, due to removal by the Board of County Commissioners, resignation of a
member, death of a member, or other cause, the Board of County Commissioners
shall appoint a qualified resident of the Town to fill the vacancy and become a
regular member of the Town Advisory Board for the unexpired term. (Ord. 1984-H,
9-13-84, eff. 10-1-84)
   (E)   The Town Advisory Board of the unincorporated Town of Montello shall
specifically have the power to manage the water distribution and sewage
collection services; subject to the limitation that no expenditure shall exceed
the amount budgeted for such expenditures in an annual budget previously
approved by the Elko County Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   The members of the Town Advisory Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (G)   The Advisory Board shall assist the Board of County Commissioners in
governing the Town by acting as liaison between the residents of the Town and
the Board and by keeping the Board advised as to all matters of interest to the
Town and the residents thereof; but, the Advisory Board shall not expend or
contract any Town funds for any purpose. (Ord. 1982-K, 9-8-82, eff. 10-1-82)
   (H)   Should the population of the Town of Montello exceed one thousand
(1,000) persons, then, in that event, members of the Town Advisory Board shall
not be elected officials or elected members of any other governmental entity or
body, or any public or quasi-public corporation organized under the laws of
this State, including, without limitation, counties, cities, unincorporated
towns, school districts, hospital districts, general improvement districts and
other special districts. (Ord. 1987-J, 12-16-87, eff. 1-21-88)
CHAPTER 1C
TOWN ADVISORY BOARD JACKPOT,NEVADA
SECTION:
2-1C-1: Town Advisory Board Created
2-1C-1: TOWN ADVISORY BOARD CREATED:
   (A)   The Town Advisory Board shall have the powers and duties and require
for membership the qualifications described in chapter 269, of Nevada Revised
Statutes.
   (B)   The number of members of the Advisory Board of said unincorporated
Town is five (5).
   (C)   Each member of the Advisory Board shall be a resident and a qualified
elector in the Town of Jackpot. (Ord. 1982-K, 9-8-82, eff. 10-1-82)
   (D)   The members of the Advisory Board shall be appointed by and serve at
the pleasure of the Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 1982-K, 9-8-82, eff.
10-1-82; amd. Ord. 1984 H, 9-13-84, eff. 10-1-84)
   (E)   The terms of office of the Town Advisory Board members shall be two
(2) years. The terms shall expire on the first Monday in January of each odd
numbered year. If a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Town Advisory
Board, due to removal by the Board of County Commissioners, resignation of a
member, death of a member, or other cause, the Board of County Commissioners
shall appoint a qualified resident of the Town to fill the vacancy and become a
regular member of the Town Advisory Board for the unexpired term. (Ord. 1984-H,
9-13-84, eff. 10-1-84)
   (F)   The Advisory Board shall assist the Board of County Commissioners in
governing the Town by acting as liaison between the residents of the Town and
the Board and by keeping the Board advised as to all matters of interest to the
Town and the residents thereof; but, the Advisory Board shall not expend or
contract any Town funds for any purposes.
   (G)   The members of the Advisory Board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 1982-K, 9-8-82, eff. 10-1-82)
   (H)   Should the population of the Town of Jackpot exceed one thousand
(1,000) persons, then, in that event, members of the Town Advisory Board shall
not be elected officials or elected members of any other governmental entity or
body, or any public or quasi-public corporation organized under the laws of
this State, including, without limitation, counties, cities, unincorporated
towns, school districts, hospital districts, general improvement districts and
other special districts. (Ord. 1987-J, 12-16-87, eff. 1-21-88)
CHAPTER 1D
TOWN ADVISORY BOARD, JARBIDGE, NEVADA
SECTION:
2-1D-1: Town Advisory Board Created
2-1D-1: TOWN ADVISORY BOARD CREATED:
   (A)   The Town Advisory Board: The Board of Elko County Commissioners has
determined that it can best be served by the appointment of a Town Advisory
Board representing the unincorporated Town of Jarbidge, to act in an advisory
and liaison capacity with respect to governing the affairs of such
unincorporated town.
   (B)   Membership: The Town Advisory Board shall consist of three (3)
members.
   (C)   Requirements: Each member shall be a resident and qualified elector of
the unincorporated Town of Jarbidge.
   (D)   Appointment: The members of the Town Advisory Board shall be appointed
by the Board of Elko County Commissioners from a list of a number of qualified
and interested persons.
      1.   Any qualified and interested person seeking appointment to the Town
Advisory Board shall submit his or her name to the Board of Elko County
Commissioners at their first meeting in December of the year of appointment.
      2.   The persons appointed to the Town Advisory Board shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Elko County Commissioners.
   (E)   Terms: The terms of the members of the Town Advisory Board shall be
for two (2) years, and begin on the first Monday in January following each
general election. If a vacancy occurs in the membership of the Town Advisory
Board due to removal of a member by the Board of Elko County Commissioners,
resignation of a member, death of a member, or other cause, the Board of Elko
County Commissioners shall appoint a qualified resident of the unincorporated
Town to fill the vacancy and become a regular member of the Town Advisory Board
for the unexpired term.
   (F)   Assistance to County Commissioners: The Town Advisory Board shall
assist the Board of Elko County Commissioners in governing the unincorporated
town by acting as liaison between the residents of the unincorporated town and
the Board of Elko County Commissioners. The Town Advisory Board and the Board
of Elko County Commissioners shall cooperate to inform each other of all
matters of interest to the unincorporated town and its residents. The existence
and activities of the Town Advisory Board shall in no way diminish the
responsibility of the Board of Elko County Commissioners in performing its
duties, but that the Town Advisory Board shall bring to bear on the problems of
the unincorporated town the knowledge of a representative group of residents
thereof.
   (G)   Expenditures: The Town Advisory Board shall not expend or contract to
expend any money for any purpose.
   (H)   Rules and Regulations: The Town Advisory Board shall elect officers
from within its membership, fix such time and place of meetings, adopt such
rules and procedures, and keep such minutes and records as it shall determine
consistent with the purposes of this Chapter.
   (I)   Quorum: A majority of the Town Advisory Board shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum, and a vote of the majority of the whole Advisory Board
shall be necessary to carry any question.
   (J)   Compensation: The members of the Town Advisory Board shall serve
without compensation.
   (K)   Open Meetings: The meetings of the Town Advisory Board shall be
subject to the Open Meeting Law - NRS 241.010 et. seq.
   (L)   Growth: Should the population of the unincorporated Town of Jarbidge
exceed one thousand (1,000) persons, then in that event, members of the Town
Advisory Board shall not be elected officials or elected members of any other
governmental entity or body, or any public or quasi-public corporation
organized under the laws of this State, including, without limitation,
counties, cities, unincorporated towns, school districts, hospital districts,
general improvement districts, and other special districts. (Ord. 1993-R, 12-
12-93, eff. 12-20-93)
CHAPTER 2
FAIR AND RECREATION BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Created
2-2-2: Duties Of County Clerk
2-2-1: BOARD CREATED:
The powers granted in the Nevada Revised Statutes 244.640 to 244.780,
inclusive, as amended, shall hereby be exercised and the County Fair and
Recreation Board shall be created therefor, pursuant to such law. (Ord., 8-6-
1963)
2-2-2: DUTIES OF COUNTY CLERK:
The County Clerk shall forthwith comply with the above cited provisions of law.
(Ord., 8-6-1963)
CHAPTER 3
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
2-3-1: Department Created
2-3-2: Powers And Duties
2-3-3: Creation Of Separate Positions
2-3-4: Parcel Maps; Authority Of Department
2-3-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created the Elko County Department of Community Development
with the following Divisions included: Public Works, Building and Safety,
Planning and Zoning and County Engineer. (Ord. 1996-N, 2-6-1997, eff. 2-24-
1997)
2-3-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   (A)   The Department of Community Development shall perform or supervise the
following functions and shall perform all related duties as required in this
Chapter or by operation of the laws of the State or as hereinafter required by
future ordinances or future Nevada State laws and as required by Chapter 8 of
Title 5 of this County Code:
      1.   Supervise or perform all the duties of the County Surveyor as
provided in the Nevada Revised Statutes 255.110.
      2.   Supervise or perform all County water right surveying and comply
with the provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes 533.080.
      3.   Supervise or perform all County engineering services as defined by
the Nevada Revised Statutes 254.040.
      4.   Supervise or perform all duties of drafting, blue printing, and
similar professional or technical work for all County offices including, but
not limited to, the County Commissioners, the County Assessor, the County
Manager, the County District Attorney, the County Recorder, and the County
Planning Commission.
      5.   Supervise or perform all inspections, plan checking and code
enforcement of the County.
      6.   Aid in the enforcement of all State subdivision laws and County
subdivision ordinances.
      7.   Aid in the enforcement of all State zoning laws and County zoning
ordinances.
   (B)   The County Commissioners expressly reserve herein the powers and
rights granted in chapters 254 and 255 of Nevada Revised Statutes.
   (C)   The Department of Community Development shall advise on a regular
basis with the County Commissioners, reporting to that body as periodically
required by the Commissioners on matters coming within the duties of that
office as herein defined or as hereinafter provided in future ordinances or
State laws.
   (D)   The Department of Community Development shall lend full cooperation
and advice upon request to all County agencies including, but not limited to,
the County Road Supervisor, the County Planning Commission, the County District
Attorney, and any other local governmental agencies and offices which
hereinafter may be created for the purpose of dealing with the use,
development, subdivision, zoning classification, variance requests, building
permits of and on lands within the County.
   (E)   The Department of Community Development shall also advise upon request
any commission, group, or body, comprised of the various local government
entities in the County who have been duly and lawfully formed to deal with the
use, development, subdivision, zoning classification, variance request,
building permit and structure approval, concerning lands within the County.
   (F)   The Department of Community Development is designated to execute, when
needed, a certificate approving a boundary line adjustment. (Ord. 1996-N, 2-6-
1997, eff. 2-24-1997)
2-3-3: CREATION OF SEPARATE POSITIONS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall prevent the County Commissioners from creating
separate County positions to undertake any of the duties as they are defined
for the Department of Community Development and at their discretion fix the
compensation for the same. (Ord. 1996-N, 2-6-1997, eff. 2-24-1997)
2-3-4: PARCEL MAPS; AUTHORITY OF DEPARTMENT:
   (A)   The Department of Community Development shall have the power and
authority to approve a parcel map, or waive the requirements of a parcel map or
survey for a parcel map, without further action by the Planning Commission or
the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   All parcel maps shall comply with the requirements of chapter 278 of
Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 1996-N, 2-6-1997, eff. 2-24-1997)
CHAPTER 4
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Members of Planning Commission; Appointment, Compensation, Term,
Removal, Vacancies
2-4-2: Meetings and Records of County Planning Commission
2-4-3: Chairman; Election Term
2-4-4: Employees
2-4-5: Expenditures
2-4-6: Master Plan; Adoption
2-4-7: Subject Matter of Master Plan
2-4-8: School Board Notified of Master Plan
2-4-9: Commission to Promote Public Interest in Master Plan; Powers
2-4-10: Form of Master Plan
2-4-11: Notices, Hearing on Adoption of Master Plan
2-4-12: Governing Body to Put Adopted Master Plan Into Effect
2-4-13: Acquisition and Abandonment of Property; Construction of Public
Buildings
2-4-14: Land Use, Classification and Districts; Regulations
2-4-15: Changes of Land Use Classifications; Notice and Hearing
2-4-16: Jurisdiction of Planning Commission
2-4-17: Definitions
2-4-1: MEMBERS OF PLANNING COMMISSION; APPOINTMENT, COMPENSATION, TERM,
REMOVAL, VACANCIES:
   (A)   The Elko County Planning Commission shall consist of seven (7)
members. The members of the Planning Commission shall be appointed by the
Chairman of the Board of County Commissioners, with the approval of the
governing body. The members shall hold no other public office, except that one
such member may be a member of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   All members of the Commission shall serve as such without
compensation, except reasonable travelling expenses made necessary in the
fulfillment of their duties.
   (C)   The term of each member appointed after the date of passage of this
Ordinance shall be four (4) years, or until his successor takes office, except
that the term of two (2) of the members of the first Commission shall be three
(3) years and the respective terms of two (2) members of the first Commission
shall be one and two (2) years..
   (D)   Members may be removed, after public hearing, by a majority vote of
the Board of County Commissioners for inefficiency, neglect of duty or
malfeasance of office.
   (E)   Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term
shall be filled for the unexpired term.
2-4-2: MEETINGS AND RECORDS OF COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION:
   (A)   The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each month.
   (B)   It shall adopt rules for transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which
records shall be a public record. (Ord. 1976-H, 4-5-76)
2-4-3: CHAIRMAN; ELECTION, TERM:
The Planning Commission shall elect its chairman from among the appointed
members. The term of chairman shall be one year with eligibility for re-
election.
2-4-4: EMPLOYEES:
   (A)   In addition to electing its chairman, the Commission shall create and
fill such other of its offices as it may determine.
   (B)   The Commission may appoint such employees as it may deem necessary for
its work, whose appointment, promotion, demotion and removal shall be subject
to the same provisions of law as govern other corresponding civil employees of
the County.
   (C)   The Commission may also contract with city and County planners,
engineers, architects and other consultants for such services as it may
require.
2-4-5: EXPENDITURES:
The expenditures of the Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be within the
amounts appropriated for the purpose by the Board of County Commissioners,
which shall provide the funds, equipment and accommodations necessary for the
Commission's work.
2-4-6: MASTER PLAN; ADOPTION:
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall prepare and adopt a comprehensive, long-
term, general plan for the physical development of the County, which in the
Commission's judgment bears relation to the planning thereof.
   (B)   The plans shall be known as the Master Plan and shall be so prepared
that all or portions thereof may be adopted by the Board of County
Commissioners, as provided in this Chapter, as a basis for the development of
the County for such reasonable period of time next ensuing after the adoption
thereof as may practically be covered thereby. (Ord. dated 8-8-61)
2-4-7: SUBJECT MATTER OF MASTER PLAN:
   (A)   The Master Plan, with the accompanying charts, drawings, diagrams,
schedules and reports, shall include each of the following subject matter or
portions thereof as are appropriate to the County of Elko and as may be made
the basis for the physical development thereof:
      1.   COMMUNITY DESIGN. Standards and principles governing the subdivision
of land and suggestive patterns for community design and development.
      2.   CONSERVATION PLAN. For the conservation, development and utilization
of natural resources, including water and its hydraulic force, underground
water, water supply, forests, soils, rivers and other waters, harbors,
fisheries, wildlife, minerals and other natural resources. The Plan shall also
cover the reclamation of land and waters, flood control, prevention and control
of the pollution of streams and other waters, regulation of the use of land in
stream channels and other areas required for the accomplishment of the
conservation plan, prevention, control and correction of the erosion of soils
through proper clearing, grading and landscaping, beaches and shores, and
protection of water sheds. The Plan shall also indicate the maximum tolerable
air pollution level.
      3.   ECONOMIC PLAN. Showing recommended schedules for the allocation and
expenditure of public funds in order to provide for the economical and timely
execution of the various components of the plan.
      4.   HOUSING. Survey of housing conditions and needs and plans and
procedure for improvement of housing standards and for the provision of
adequate housing.
      5.   LAND USE PLAN. An inventory and classification of natural land types
and of existing land cover and uses, and comprehensive plans for the most
desirable utilization of land.
      6.   POPULATION PLAN. An estimate of the total population which the
natural resources of the County will support on a continuing basis without
reasonable impairment.
      7.   PUBLIC BUILDINGS. Showing locations and arrangement of civic centers
and other public buildings, including the architecture thereof and the
landscape treatment of the grounds thereof.
      8.   PUBLIC SERVICES AND FACILITIES. Showing general plans for sewage,
drainage and utilities, and rights-of-way, easements and facilities therefor.
      9.   RECREATION PLAN. Showing a comprehensive system of recreation areas,
including natural reservations, parks, parkways, reserved river bank strips,
beaches, playgrounds and other recreation areas, including when practicable the
locations and proposed development thereof.
      10.   SEISMIC SAFETY PLAN. Consisting of an identification and appraisal
of seismic hazards such as susceptibility to surface ruptures from faulting, to
ground shaking or to ground failures.
      11.   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL PLAN. Showing general plans for disposal of
solid waste.
      12.   STREETS AND HIGHWAYS PLAN. Showing the general locations and widths
of a comprehensive system of major traffic thoroughfares and other traffic ways
and of streets and the recommended treatment thereof, building line setbacks,
and a system of street naming or numbering, and house numbering, with
recommendations concerning proposed changes.
      13.   TRANSIT PLAN. Showing a proposed system of transit lines, including
rapid transit, streetcar, motorcoach and trolley coach lines and related
facilities.
      14.   TRANSPORTATION PLAN. Showing a comprehensive transportation system,
including location of rights-of-way, terminals, viaducts and grade separations.
The plan may also include port, harbor, aviation and related facilities.
   (B)   The Commission may prepare and adopted, as part of the Master Plan,
other and additional plans and reports dealing with such other subjects as may
in its judgment be related to the physical development of the County of Elko.
and nothing contained in this Ordinance shall be deemed to prohibit the
preparation and adoption of any such subject as a part of the Master Plan.
(Ord. 1976-H, 4-8-76)
2-4-8: SCHOOL BOARD NOTIFIED OF MASTER PLAN:
The Planning Commission shall, during the formulation of plans for community
design and public buildings, notify the Board of Trustees of the Elko County
School District of the preparation of such plans to the end that adequate and
properly located school sites may be provided for. (Ord. dated. 8-8-61)
2-4-9: COMMISSION TO PROMOTE PUBLIC INTEREST IN MASTER PLAN; POWERS:
   (A)   The Commission shall endeavor to promote public interest in an
understanding of the Master Plan and of official plans and regulations relating
thereto. As a means of furthering the purpose of a Master Plan, the Commission
shall annually make recommendations to the Elko County Board of Commissioners
for the implementation of the Plan.
   (B)   It shall also consult and advise with public officials and agencies,
public utility companies, civic, educational, professional and other
organizations, and with citizens generally with relation to the carrying out of
such plans.
   (C)   The Commission and its members, officers and employees, in the
performance of their functions, may enter unto any land and make examinations
and surveys and place and maintain necessary monuments and marks thereon.
   (D)   In general, the Commission shall have such power as may be necessary
to enable it to fulfill its functions and carry out the provisions of this
Ordinance.
2-4-10: FORM OF MASTER PLAN:
The Master Plan shall be a map, together with such charts, drawings, diagrams,
schedules, reports, ordinances or other printed or published material, or any
one or a combination of any of the foregoing as may be considered essential to
the purposes set forth in this Ordinance. (Ord. 1976-H; 4-8-76)
2-4-11: NOTICES, HEARINGS ON ADOPTION OF MASTER PLAN:
   (A)   Adoption of Master Plan and Amendments by the Commission; Notice,
Hearings, Resolutions, Attested Copies:
      1.   Before adopting the Master Plan or any part of it, or any
substantial amendments thereof, the Planning Commission shall hold at least one
public hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall be given at
least by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the County,
at least ten (10) days before the date of the hearing.
      2.   The adoption of the Master Plan, or of any amendments, extensions or
additions thereof, shall be by resolution of the Commission carried by the
affirmative votes of not less than two- thirds (2/3) of the total membership of
the Commission.
The resolution shall refer expressly to the maps, descriptive matter and other
matters intended by the Commission to constitute the Plan or any amendment,
addition or extension thereof, and the action taken shall be recorded on the
map and plan and descriptive matter by the identifying signatures of the
secretary and chairman of the Commission.
      3.   No plan or map, hereafter, shall have indicated thereon that it is a
part of the Master Plan until it shall have been adopted as part of the Master
Plan by the Commission as herein provided for the adoption thereof, whenever
changed conditions or future studies by the Commission require such amendments,
extensions or additions.
      4.   An attested copy of any part, amendment, extension of or addition to
the Master Plan adopted by the Planning Commission shall be certified to the
Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Adoption of Master Plan by Governing Board; Notice, Hearings,
Procedure for Changes in Plan:
      1.   Upon receipt of a certified copy of the Master Plan, or of any part
thereof, as adopted by the Planning Commission, the Board of County
Commissioners may adopt such parts thereof as may practicably be applied to the
development of the County for a reasonable period of time next ensuing.
      2.   The parts shall thereupon be endorsed and certified as Master Plans
thus adopted for the territory covered, and are hereby declared to be
established to conserve and promote the public health, safety and general
welfare.
      3.   Before adopting any plan or part thereof, the Board of County
Commissioners shall hold at least one public hearing thereon, notice of the
time and place of which shall be published at least once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the County at least ten (10) days before the date of the
hearing.
      4.   No change in or additions to the Master Plan or any part thereof, as
adopted by the Planning Commission, shall be made by the Board of County
Commissioners in adopting the same until the proposed change or additions shall
have been referred to the Planning Commission for a report thereon. An attested
copy of the report shall have been filed with the Board of County
Commissioners. Failure of the Planning Commission to so report within forty
(40) days, or such longer period as may be designated by the Board of County
Commissioners, after such reference shall be deemed to be approval of the
proposed change or addition.
2-4-12: GOVERNING BODY TO PUT ADOPTED MASTER PLAN INTO EFFECT:
   (A)   When the Board of County Commissioners shall have adopted a master
plan or part thereof for the County of Elko, or any major section or district
thereof, the Board of County Commissioners shall, upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission, determine upon reasonable and practical means for putting
into effect the master plan or part thereof, in order that the same will serve
as a pattern and guide for that kind of orderly physical growth and development
of the County of Elko which will cause the least amount of natural resource
impairment and will conform to the adopted population plan, where required, and
as a basis for efficient expenditure of funds thereof relating to the subjects
of the Master Plan.
   (B)   The Board of County Commissioners may adopt and use such procedures as
may be necessary for this purpose. (Ord. 1976-H, 4-8-76)
2-4-13: ACQUISITION AND ABANDONMENT OF PROPERTY; CONSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC
BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Whenever the Board of County Commissioners shall have adopted a Master
Plan or one or more subject matters thereof for the County or for any major
section or district thereof, no street, square, park or other public way,
ground or open space shall be acquired by dedication or otherwise except by
bequest, and no street or public way shall be closed or abandoned and no public
building or structure shall be constructed or authorized in the area for which
the Master Plan or one or more subject matters thereof shall have been adopted
by the Board of County Commissioners until the location, character and extent
thereof shall have been submitted to and shall have been approved by the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   In case of disapproval thereof by the Planning Commission, the
Planning Commission shall communicate its reasons to the Board of County
Commissioners which may overrule the disapproval by a majority vote of its
entire membership.
   (C)   If the authorization, acquisition, financing or acceptance of such
public street, square, park or other public way, grounds or open space or the
construction or authorization of such public building or structure be vested by
law or charter provisions in some governmental body, commission or board other
than the Board of County Commissioners, then such governmental body, commission
or board having jurisdiction shall first submit to the Planning Commission the
location, character and extent of the proposed public improvement for its
approval. In the event that the Planning Commission shall disapprove the same,
its disapproval may only be overruled by such other governmental body, board or
commission by a vote of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of its entire
membership.
   (D)   Failure of the Commission to act upon such submission within forty
(40) days from and after the date of the official submission to the Commission
by the Board of County Commissioners or by such other governmental body, board
or commission, shall be deemed approval by the Planning Commission. (Ord. dated
8-8-61)
2-4-14: LAND USE, CLASSIFICATIONS AND DISTRICTS; REGULATIONS:
   (A)   For any and all of the purposes of this Ordinance, the Board of County
Commissioners may divide the County of Elko into districts of such number,
shape and area as may be deemed best suited to carry out the purposes of this
Ordinance. Within such districts it may regulate and restrict the erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of the buildings,
structures or land.
   (B)   Such regulations shall be made in accordance with the Master Plan for
land use and shall be designated:
      1.   To preserve the quality of air and water resources.
      2.   To promote the conservation of open space and the protection of
other natural and scenic resources from unreasonable impairment.
      3.   To provide for recreational needs.
      4.   To protect life and property in areas subject to floods, landslides
and other natural disasters.
      5.   To conform to the adopted population plan, if required by this
Ordinance.
      6.   To develop a timely, orderly and efficient arrangement of
transportation and public facilities and services.
      7.   To insure that the development on land is commensurate with the
character and the physical limitations of the land.
      8.   To take into account the immediate and long-ranged financial impact
of the application of particular land to particular kinds of development, and
the relative suitability of such land for such development.
      9.   To promote health and the general welfare.
   (C)   Such regulations shall be made with reasonable consideration, among
other things, to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses, and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the County of Elko.
2-4-15: CHANGES OF LAND USES CLASSIFICATIONS; NOTICE AND HEARING:
The Board of County Commissioners shall provide for the manner in which such
regulations and restrictions and the boundaries of such districts shall be
determined, established and enforced, and from time to time amended,
supplemented or changed.
However, no such regulation, restriction or boundary shall become effective
until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties in interest
and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. At least ten (10) days'
notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be published in an official
newspaper, or a newspaper of general circulation, in the County of Elko. (Ord.
1976-H, 4-8-76)
2-4-16: JURISDICTION OF PLANNING COMMISSION:
The jurisdiction of the Planning Commission shall be Countywide except within
the limits of the incorporated cities and towns wherein a city or town planning
commission has been formed and is acting. (Ord. dated 8-8-61)
2-4-17: DEFINITIONS:
Words and terms used herein are as defined by N.R.S. 278.010, as amended from
time to time. (Ord. 1976-H, 4-8-76)
CHAPTER 5
ADVISORY COMMITTEES
SECTION:
2-5-1: Advisory Committees Created
2-5-1: ADVISORY COMMITTEES CREATED:
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners may create advisory committees by
resolution for any purpose relating to the County about which the Board desires
study or advice.
   (B)   The resolution shall provide for:
      1.   The size of the committee,
      2.   The qualifications of the committee members,
      3.   The selection of the committee members,
      4.   The exact purpose of the committee,
      5.   Any other requirements or procedures as the Board of County
Commissioners deems appropriate.
   (C)   Any County advisory committee formed under this Chapter shall be
subject to the Nevada Open Meeting Law. (Ord. 1997-C, 3-19-1997, eff. 4-3-1997)
CHAPTER 6
ADVISORY BOARD ON DOMESTIC VIOLENCE
SECTION:
2-6-1: Advisory Board Created
2-6-2: Qualifications
2-6-3: Duties of Board
2-6-4: Duties of Advisory Board
2-6-1: ADVISORY BOARD CREATED:
There shall be an Advisory Board on Domestic Violence. Such a Board shall
consist of three (3) members appointed by the Elko County Commissioners.
2-6-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
   (A)   At least one member will be a representative of Elko County, or
District Health Department, or the Rural Mental Health Center; and
   (B)   The other two (2) members shall be persons familiar with the problems
associated with domestic violence, such as former victims of domestic violence,
representatives of organizations which assist such victims, attorneys
experienced in domestic relations, social workers, counselors, teachers and
ministers.
   (C)   The terms of each member shall be as follows:
      1.   One member shall be designated by the Elko County Commissioners to
serve the duration of 1982. The subsequent appointed member shall serve a term
of three (3) calendar years.
      2.   One member shall be designated by the Elko County Commissioners to
serve through the calendar year of 1983. The subsequent appointed member shall
serve a term of three (3) calendar years.
      3.   One member shall be designated by the Elko County Commissioners to
serve through the calendar year of 1984. The subsequent appointed member shall
serve a term of three (3) calendar years.
2-6-3: DUTIES OF BOARD:
The Advisory Board on Domestic Violence shall advise the Elko County
Commissioners on how best to distribute funds collected for victims of domestic
violence.
2-6-4: DUTIES OF ADVISORY BOARD:
The Advisory Board on domestic violence shall:
   (A)   Examine the quarterly and annual reports as provided by each
organization receiving a grant from the Board of County Commissioners for the
assistance to victims of domestic violence; and
   (B)   Evaluate the effectiveness of the respective organizations in aiding
victims of domestic violence; and
   (C)   Report its conclusions and recommendations to the Board of County
Commissioners. (Ord. 1982-F, 4-19-82, eff. 5-11-82)
CHAPTER 7
CENTRAL NEVADA REGIONAL WATER AUTHORITY
SECTION:
2-7-1: Agreement To Join
2-7-2: Directors Appointed
2-7-3: Effective Date Of Membership
2-7-1: AGREEMENT TO JOIN:
Elko County agrees to join the central Nevada regional water authority as
outlined in the cooperative agreement approved by the Elko County board of
commissioners on August 4, 2005. (Ord. 08-2005, 10-6-2005, eff. 10-7-2005)
2-7-2: DIRECTORS APPOINTED:
Elko County shall appoint three (3) directors of the central Nevada regional
water authority.
   (A)   The qualifications of each director shall be determined by the Elko
County board of commissioners.
   (B)   Each director shall serve a two (2) year term. Each director may be
appointed to two (2) additional two (2) year terms.
   (C)   The Elko County board of commissioners may remove a director by a
majority vote before the director's term expires. (Ord. 08-2005, 10-6-2005,
eff. 10-7-2005)
2-7-3: EFFECTIVE DATE OF MEMBERSHIP:
Elko County's membership in the central Nevada water authority shall be
effective when the cooperative agreement is approved by another member and the
cooperative agreement is approved or deemed approved by the Nevada attorney
general, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 277.140. (Ord. 08-2005, 10-6-2005,
eff. 10-7-2005)
CHAPTER 8
BOARD ATTENDANCE POLICY
SECTION:
2-8-1: Short Title
2-8-2: Purpose And Intent
2-8-3: Application
2-8-4: Policy
2-8-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ELKO COUNTY BOARD ATTENDANCE POLICY. (Ord.
03-2009, 5-6-2009, eff. 7-28-2009)
2-8-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Elko County boards, commissions and committees have had problems in getting
quorums present at meetings. The lack of a quorum creates a burden on staff and
attending board members. The lack of a quorum causes needless expense to the
county for payment of travel expenses, and meeting advertising. (Ord. 03-2009,
5-6-2009, eff. 7-28-2009)
2-8-3: APPLICATION:
This policy applies to any Elko County appointed board, commission, or
committee now or hereinafter existing, unless the Nevada Revised Statutes
provide otherwise. (Ord. 03-2009, 5-6-2009, eff. 7-28-2009)
2-8-4: POLICY:
   (A)   Any member of an Elko County appointed board, commission, or committee
shall notify staff of an absence prior to the meeting. Staff shall notify the
Elko County manager if a board, commission or committee member is absent from
three (3) regularly scheduled meetings in a row or is absent from five (5)
meetings within one calendar year without notifying staff.
   (B)   Any member missing three (3) regularly scheduled meetings in a row or
misses five (5) meetings within one calendar year without notifying staff prior
to the meeting shall be deemed to have resigned from the board, commission or
committee. (Ord. 03-2009, 5-6-2009, eff. 7-28-2009)
TITLE 3
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Codes Adopted
3-1-2: Future Editions Adopted
3-1-3: Definitions
3-1-4: Amendments And Modifications To Building Codes
3-1-5: Restrictions
3-1-6: Hazardous Wastes, Storage Or Disposal Permits Prohibited
3-1-7: Penalties
3-1-1: CODES ADOPTED:
In all construction hereafter to be made within Elko County, the same shall be
in accordance with what is now known as the International Codes (I-codes), as
published by the International Code Council, the Uniform Codes, as published by
the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials. The
following codes are hereby adopted as a revision to this chapter:
   (A)   The Administrative Code as adopted by Elko County, includes the
administration chapter in the following codes: International Building Code
(IBC), International Residential Code (IRC), National Electrical Code (NEC),
Uniform Mechanical Code (UMC), Uniform Plumbing Code (UPC), Uniform Swimming
Pool, Spa, and Hot Tub Code, Uniform Solar, Hydronics and Geothermal Code, and
the International Existing Building Code (IEBC); excluding fee schedules as
adopted by resolution, and hereinafter referred to as the administrative code.
   (B)   The 2018 edition of the International Building Code (IBC) and building
code standards with changes, modifications, and supplements, including the
appendix chapters, hereinafter referred to as the building code.
   Appendix chapters included:
   C - Group U Agricultural Buildings.
   E - Supplementary Accessibility Requirements.
   G - Flood Resistant Construction (excluding section G601).
   H - Signs, except the following:
      1.   Ground signs under section H109.1 constructed entirely of
noncombustible material shall not be erected to a height greater than 50 feet
(15 240 mm) above the ground, unless a variance is approved by the Elko County
Planning Commission.
      2.   Roof signs under section H110.4 which the uniform open area is not
less than 40 percent of total gross area shall not exceed a height of 40 feet
(12 192 mm) on buildings of Type 1 or Type 2 construction. On buildings of
other construction types, the height shall not exceed 25 feet (7 620 mm).
      3.   Roof signs under section H110.5 A close roof sign shall not be
erected to a height greater than 40 feet (12 192 mm) above the roof of the
buildings of Type 1 or 2 construction or more than 25 feet (7 620 mm) above the
roof of buildings or Type 3, 4 or 5 construction.
   I - Patio Covers.
   J - Grading.
   K - Administrative Provisions.
   (C)   The 2018 edition of the International Residential Code (IRC)
[excluding the plumbing and mechanical sections; refer to the 2018 UPC and UMC
for general requirements] and building code standards with changes,
modifications and supplements, including appendix chapters, hereinafter
referred to as the residential code.
   Appendix chapters:
   H - Patio Covers.
   J - Existing Building and Structures.
   K - Sound Transmission.
   Q - Tiny House.
   (D)   The 2017 National Electrical Code (NEC), standard for electrical
wiring and apparatus as recommended by the National Fire Protection
Association, hereinafter referred to as the electrical code.
   (E)   The 2018 Uniform Mechanical Code (UMC), as recommended by the
International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, hereinafter
referred to as the mechanical code,
   (F)   The 2018 Uniform Plumbing Code (UPC), as recommended by the
International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, hereinafter
referred to as the plumbing code.
   (G)   The 2018 Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa, and Hot Tub Code, as recommended
by the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials,
hereinafter referred to as the Uniform Swimming Pool, Spa, and Hot Tub Code.
   (H)   The 2018 edition of the International Existing Building Code (IEBC)
and standards with changes, modifications and supplements as recommended by the
International Code Council, hereinafter referred to as the existing building
code.
   (I)   The 2018 Uniform Solar, Hydronics and Geothermal Code, as recommended
by the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials,
hereinafter referred to as the Uniform Solar, Hydronics and Geothermal Code.
   (J)   The 2018 edition of the International Energy Conservation Code (IECC)
in accordance with the state of Nevada energy conservation standards for new
building construction, promulgated by the state of Nevada public works board,
shall be adopted for reference unless used in the design of a structure by a
design professional, contractor, or owner-builder.
   (K)   The 2018 editions of the International Mechanical (IMC) and Plumbing
(IPC) Codes shall be adopted for cross reference only. (Ord. 05-2005, 9-7-2005,
eff. 10-7-2005; amd. Ord. 03-2020, 7-17-2021; Ord. 2021-06, 1-19-2022)
3-1-2: FUTURE EDITIONS ADOPTED:
Revisions of the hereinbefore mentioned codes are hereby expressly adopted as
they appear in the future except as to amendments and modifications contained
in this chapter. Within one hundred twenty (120) days after the receipt by the
county building official of a code edition intended by the promulgators (ICC)
thereof to replace one of the before mentioned codes, unless said replacement
edition is specifically disapproved by the county commission pursuant to this
section, the county building official shall:
   (A)   Post a notice at his office and in the Elko County courthouse that the
replacement code is the code governing all matters to which it pertains with
regard to any building for which a building permit is thereafter issued until
that code itself is replaced pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The building official shall provide each person or entity to which a
building permit is thereafter issued with such notice.
With regard to any code intended by its promulgators to replace one of the
before mentioned codes, such code shall govern with regard to the subject
matter thereof all building pursuant to building permits issued after such
notice and posting until that code itself is replaced pursuant to this chapter.
All previous adoptions of editions of the hereinbefore mentioned codes are
hereby specifically repealed. (Ord. 05-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005)
3-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
All references in any of the foregoing codes to "city" or "municipality" shall
be deemed to refer to Elko County. (Ord. 05-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005)
3-1-4: AMENDMENTS AND MODIFICATIONS TO BUILDING CODES:
   (A)   Adoption of the 2018 Northern Nevada Amendments as modified are
applicable to Elko County.
      1.   The following structures are excluded from the applicability of any
permit requirements:
         (a)   Agricultural structures not used for human habitation containing
less than four hundred (400) square feet, when used for agricultural use as
defined by NRS 361A.030.
         (b)   All one-story detached accessory structures used as tool and
storage sheds, animal shelters, play houses and similar uses, and not used for
human habitation containing less than two hundred (200) square feet and not
exceeding a 10 foot eave wall height. (IBC & IRC section 105.2.1.)
         (c)   Non-structural cosmetic remodeling valued at less than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00), including material and labor, which does not
change the existing floor plan or the use or occupancy of the structure.
         (d)   Sidewalks, driveways and uncovered decks (when deck is not used
as the primary exit from a residence) not more than 30 inches above adjacent
grade and not over any basement or story below. (IRC section 105.2.5)
         (e)   Private stairways 30 inches (762mm) or less in height may have a
handrail on one side only.
         (f)   Agricultural Hoop House/High Tunnel: A "Hoop House" or "High
Tunnel" is defined as an enclosure that is used exclusively for the production
or storage of live plants and is designed to cover and protect crops from the
sun, wind, excessive rainfall, or cold, to extend the growing season in an
environmentally safe manner. The covering for these enclosures utilize
transparent/semi-transparent, flexible, non-rigid materials having a life span
of approximately 5 years.
Agricultural Hoop Houses or High Tunnels are used exclusively for the
production or storage of live plants. Note: the installation of Electrical,
Mechanical, and Sanitary Plumbing are not exempt from permits. The installation
of hoop houses/high tunnels may be subject to Elko County zoning codes.
      2.   Section 309.1 (1997 UBC): Use Or Occupancy.
         (a)   No building or structure of groups A, B, E, F, H, I, M, R, S or
U, all divisions of those occupancies, shall be used or occupied, and no change
in the existing occupancy classification of a building or structure, or portion
thereof, shall be made until the building official has issued a certificate of
occupancy therefor, as provided herein.
         (b)   The designation of R-3 shall be for a one (1) and two (2) family
dwelling unit and U-1 for residential garages (attached and detached) as listed
in the 2003 IBC.
      3.   Section 304: Permit Fees.
Permit fees shall be set by resolution by the Elko County board of
commissioners. A copy of the most current resolution is located at the office
of the Elko County community development. Fees and/or valuations shall be
adjusted every other year based on the U.S. department of labor, bureau of
labor statistics, western urban consumer price index as published in the month
of January.
Section 304 of the 1997 uniform administrative code as adopted in section
3-1-1 of the Elko County code is hereby amended by adding the following
paragraph: Any property requiring a permit located in zones 1, 2, and 3 as
described in the approved travel zone map posted in the Elko County community
department shall be assessed a travel fee. The base fee for zone 1 shall be
twenty dollars ($20), for zone 2 shall be forty dollars ($40) and for zone 3
shall be sixty dollars ($60). Zone fees shall be adjusted every other year
based on the U.S. department of labor, bureau of labor statistics, western
urban consumer price index as published in the month of January.
      4.   Section 304.3: Plan Review Fee.
Section 304.3 of the 1997 uniform administrative code as adopted in section
3-1-1 of the Elko County code is amended to provide that the plan review fee
for a review of a plan of a residential dwelling required to be submitted by
section 106.3.2 of the international building code, shall be thirty five
percent (35%) of the cost of the building permit fee as shown on table no. 3-A.
      5.   Section R309.2: Separation Required.
The garage shall be separated from the residence and its attic area by not less
than 5/8" type "X" gypsum applied to the garage side. Where the separation is a
floor-ceiling assembly, the structure supporting the separation shall also be
protected by not less than 5/8" type "X" gypsum or equivalent.
   (B)   All editions of the Uniform Mechanical Code, present and future, are
hereby amended and modified as follows:
      1.   Table 3-C - Mechanical Permit Fees, the following is added:
System fee schedule (note: the following do not include permit issuing fee)
shall be set by resolution adopted by the Elko County commission.
   (C)   All editions of the Uniform Plumbing Code, present and future, are
hereby amended and modified as follows:
      1.   Table 3-D - Plumbing Permit Fees, the following is added:
System fee schedule (note: the following do not include permit issuing fee)
shall be set by resolution adopted by the Elko County commission.
   (D)   Service Equipment - Electrical Disconnecting Means:
The 2002 national electrical code (NEC), article 230 - VI, section 230.70 (A)
(1) shall be amended as followed for the protection of emergency service
personnel:
An exterior service disconnecting means shall be located within 30 feet of the
structure it serves for all structures with electricity including manufactured
homes.
   (E)   When a governmental entity or utility is providing water and/or sewer
services to a project in the County, no building permit for construction shall
be issued unless evidence of paid water and sewer connection fees for the
particular type of construction being considered, if applicable, is produced at
the time of the permit application.
   (F)   All persons and political subdivisions that are statutorily required
to proceed through the State Public Works Board shall also apply to the
Building and Safety Division of the Community Development Department for a
permit. The issuance of a building permit pursuant to this subsection shall be
without charge or fee, and shall not be subject to the County plan check or
building inspection procedure. The County shall not be liable or responsible
for any deficiencies, errors, or omissions in the plans or the building
inspection procedure, for plans approved by the State Public Works Board. (Ord.
05-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005; amd. Ord. 2016-02, 4-6-2016, eff. 2-25-2017;
Ord. 2017-03, 4-5-2017, eff. 2-11-2018; Ord. 03-2020, 7-17-2021)
3-1-5: RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Building Permit Fees: All editions of the International Building and
Residential Codes, present and future, are hereby amended and modified as
follows:
   Table 109 - International Building Code and Table 108 - International
Residential Code, shall be set by resolution by the Elko County board of
commissioners. A copy of the most current resolution is located at the office
of the Elko County community development.
   (B)   Plan Review Fees: Shall be set by resolution by the Elko County board
of commissioners. A copy of the most current resolution is located at the
office of the Elko County community development.
   The following fee shall remain in effect, until changed by resolution: A
plan review fee for a review of a residential dwelling required to be submitted
by section 106.3.2 of the international residential code, shall be thirty five
percent (35%) of the cost of the building permit fee as shown on table no. 3-A.
   (C)   Travel Zones: Shall be set by resolution by the Elko County board of
Commissioners.
   The following fees shall remain in effect until change by resolution: Any
property requiring a permit located in zones 1, 2, and 3 as described in the
approved travel zone map posted in the Elko County community department shall
be assessed a travel fee. The base fee for zone 1 shall be twenty dollars
($20), for zone 2 shall be forty dollars ($40) and for zone 3 shall be sixty
dollars ($60).
   (D)   Electrical Permit Fees: All editions of the National Electric Code,
present and future, are hereby amended and modified as follows:
   Table K112 - Electrical Permit Fees, the following is added:
   System fee schedule (note: the following do not include permit issuing fee)
shall be set by resolution adopted by the Elko County commission.
   (E)   Mechanical Permit Fees: All editions of the Uniform Mechanical Code,
present and future, are hereby amended and modified as follows:
   Table 104.5 - Mechanical Permit Fees, the following is added:
   System fee schedule (note: the following do not include permit issuing fee)
shall be set by resolution adopted by the Elko County commission.
   (F)   Plumbing Permit Fees: All editions of the Uniform Plumbing Code,
present and future, are hereby amended and modified as follows:
   Table 104.5 - Plumbing Permit Fees, the following is added:
   System fee schedule (note: the following do not include permit issuing fee)
shall be set by resolution adopted by the Elko County commission.
   (G)   Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Permit Fees: All editions of the
Uniform Plumbing Code, present and future, are hereby amended and modified as
follows:
   Table 104.5 - Swimming Pool, Spa and Hot Tub Permit Fees, the following is
added:
   System fee schedule (note: the following do not include permit issuing fee)
shall be set by resolution adopted by the Elko County commission.
   (H)   Solar, Hydronics and Geothermal Code Fees: All editions of the Uniform
Plumbing Code, present and future, are hereby amended and modified as follows:
   Table 104.5 - Solar, Hydronics and Geothermal Code Fees, the following is
added:
   System fee schedule (note: the following do not include permit issuing fee)
shall be set by resolution adopted by the Elko County commission.
   (I)   When a governmental entity or utility is providing water and/or sewer
services to a project in the County, no building permit for construction shall
be issued unless evidence of paid water and sewer connection fees for the
particular type of construction being considered, if applicable, is produced at
the time of the permit application.
   (J)   All persons and political subdivisions that are statutorily required
to proceed through the State Public Works Board shall also apply to the
Building and Safety Division of the Community Development Department for a
permit. The issuance of a building permit pursuant to this subsection shall be
without charge or fee, and shall not be subject to the County plan check or
building inspection procedure. The County shall not be liable or responsible
for any deficiencies, errors, or omissions in the plans or the building
inspection procedure, for plans approved by the State Public Works Board. (Ord.
05-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005; amd. Ord. 03-2020, 7-17-2021)
3-1-6: HAZARDOUS WASTES, STORAGE OR DISPOSAL PERMITS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   No building permit shall issue for the construction, alteration,
improvement, repair, moving or installation of a structure for hazardous waste
disposal, incineration or treatment or for use in the storage or management of
hazardous wastes for treatment, disposal or incineration for which use a permit
to operate such a facility is required from the State of Nevada or the United
States.
      1.   Hazardous waste is defined as it is defined at Nevada Revised
Statutes 459.430 and includes any hazardous waste or constituents of hazardous
waste which are subject to regulation under 40 CFR 251, as in effect on July 1,
1984.
   (B)   This section shall remain in full force and effect until the earlier
of the State issuing regulations for operation of hazardous waste disposal and
treatment and ending the moratorium on the issuance of State permits to operate
facilities for the disposal, treatment and incineration of such hazardous
wastes, or repeal of this section. (Ord. 05-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005)
3-1-7: PENALTIES
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the International,
National, and Uniform codes hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who
shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall
build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or plans
submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued
thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken or who shall fail to comply
with such an order as affirmed or modified by the county fire commission or by
a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall
severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such
persons shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects
within a reasonable time, and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. If such a
separate offense or further offenses based upon the same conditions which
result in the initial charge shall occur, then, in addition to imprisonment or
fine or both, the court shall have the alternative of closing and sealing or
impounding the premises or property involved until such violation is proved in
court to have been corrected. (Ord. 03-2020, 7-17-2021)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE; FIRE DISTRICT
SECTION:
3-2-1: Adoption Of Fire Code
3-2-2: Establishment And Duties Of Bureau Of Fire Prevention
3-2-3: Definitions
3-2-4: Revisions And Amendments
3-2-5: Appeals
3-2-6: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies Which May Require Permits
3-2-7: Penalties
3-2-8: Elko County Fire Protection District Established
3-2-9: Fee Schedule
3-2-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE:
There is hereby adopted the County Commission for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire,
hazardous materials or explosion, that certain code and standards known as the
International Fire Code and the International Fire Code standards published by
the International Code Council, being particularly the 2018 editions and
appendix B,C,D,F,H,L, and N thereof and the whole thereof, save and except such
portions as are deleted, modified or amended, of which code not less than three
(3) copies have been and are now filed in the Elko County Community Development
Department and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein, and from the date on which this chapter shall take
effect, including any prior adoption of the said International Fire Code and
the International Fire Code standards, and the National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) as adopted by the Nevada State Fire Marshal's office, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the county outside
of the incorporated cities of Elko, Wells, Carlin, and West Wendover:
   (A)   Adoption of the 2018 Northern Nevada Amendments as modified are
applicable to Elko County. (Ord. 06-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005; Ord. 03-
2020, 6-17-2021)
3-2-2: ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION:
   (A)   The International Fire Code and the International Fire Code standards
shall be the minimum standards, and shall be enforced by Fire Prevention
Division of the. Elko County Fire Protection District within their
"jurisdiction" as is defined hereinafter, which is hereby established, and
which shall be operated under the supervision of the Elko County Fire
Protection District.
   Within the township of Jackpot, the International Fire Code, and the
International Fire Code Standards, the 2018 International Building Code, and
2018 Uniform Mechanical Code standards shall be enforced by the Jackpot Fire
Chief, who shall be appointed by, and the terms and conditions of his
employment determined by, the board of Elko County Commissioners.
   (B)   Elko County Fire Protection District shall hire a Chief of Prevention
to provide services within all unincorporated areas of Elko County, with the
exception of Jackpot Township which has a separately appointed fire chief, and
the incorporated cities of Elko, Wells, Carlin, and West Wendover.
   The Chief of Prevention shall recommend to the board of Elko County
Commissioners the employment of technical inspectors, who, if such
authorization is made, shall be selected based on fitness for the position.
(Ord. 06-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005; amd. Ord. 03-2020, 6-17-2021)
3-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Whenever the word "jurisdiction" is used in the international fire
code and international fire code standards, it shall be held to mean Elko
County outside of the incorporated cities of Elko, Wells, Carlin, and West
Wendover.
   (B)   Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the international
fire code, it shall be held to mean the Elko County district attorney.
   (C)   The Elko County board of commissioners shall sit as the Elko County
fire commission. (Ord. 06-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005)
3-2-4: REVISIONS AND AMENDMENTS:
Revisions of the International Fire Code are hereby expressly adopted as they
may appear in the future. That is, each successive future edition of the
International Fire Code, intended by its promulgators, the International Code
Council, to replace one of the herein described codes shall automatically
replace the edition of the particular code herein described unless the future
code intended by its promulgators to replace the version of the International
Fire Code then in use is specifically disapproved by action of the County
Commission. In the latter case, the edition of the International Fire Code then
in force shall continue to govern the subject matter thereof until a
replacement edition is specifically adopted by the County Commission.
Within one hundred twenty (120) days after the receipt by the Chief of
Prevention of an edition of the International Fire Code intended by its
promulgators to replace the edition then in use, unless said replacement
edition is specifically disapproved by action of the County Commission pursuant
hereto, the Chief of Prevention shall:
   (A)   Post a notice at the Elko County Fire Protection District office and
the Elko County Community Development that the replacement edition of the
International Fire Code is the version of the International Fire Code governing
all matters to which it pertains with regard to any type of building,
installation or condition therein referred to until that replacement edition of
the International Fire Code itself is replaced pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The Chief of Prevention and the Elko County Community Development
shall have on file not less than three (3) copies of the replacement edition of
the International Fire Code and with three (3) copies of the notice referred to
in subsection (A) of this section. With regard to any edition of the
International Fire Code intended by its promulgators to replace the edition of
the International Fire Code used by the Chief of Prevention at the time of its
receipt, such replacement edition shall govern pursuant to this chapter with
regard to the subject matter thereof after the Chief of Prevention has posted
notices and provided copies as required by this section, unless such edition of
the International Fire Code or a portion thereof is specifically disapproved by
action of the County Commission. Any such future edition to the International
Fire Code so adopted shall continue to govern with regard to the subject matter
thereof until that edition itself is replaced pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   All private wells shall be wired with a separate disconnect ahead of
all other disconnects and a frost-free hose bib, a minimum three-fourths inch
(3/4") discharge, shall be installed on the pump house or the pressure side of
the water system.
   (D)   Elko County Fire Protection District requires a minimum of thirty
thousand (30,000) gallons of fire water per commercial and industrial
buildings. When a variance is granted by the Nevada State Fire Marshal's Office
requiring less than thirty thousand (30,000) gallons of fire water, the Fire
Protection District will require the minimum standard of thirty thousand
(30,000) gallons of fire water. Dependent on location, outbuildings, wildfire
risk, contents, size, occupancy, and sprinkler hydro calculations in a
building, may generate the need to require more fire water. The fire water tank
shall be UL listed and NFPA 22 approved. Any alternative tank design or method
to provide fire water will be designed per NFPA and approved by the Nevada
State Fire Marshal's office.
   A fire hydrant shall be provided on site as a means of drafting, tank
ventilation, and visual water level indicator approved by the Chief of
Prevention.
   The fire water system will be required to be permitted by the Elko County
Community Development and needs to be designed by a licensed design
professional. (Ord. 06-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005; amd. Ord. 03-2020, 6-17-
2021)
3-2-5: APPEALS:
Whenever the Chief of Prevention shall disapprove an application or refuse to
grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the
code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal the decision of
the county fire marshal to the Elko County Board of Fire Commissioners within
thirty (30) days from the date of the decision appealed. The procedure for
appealing any decision of the Chief of Prevention is as follows:
   (A)   The appellant shall file his signed statement setting forth grounds
for the appeal with the County Fire Commissioners office at least fifteen (15)
days before the next regularly scheduled meeting of the County Commission, and
   (B)   Shall personally appear before the County Fire Commission at its
regularly scheduled meeting. (Ord. 06-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005; amd. Ord.
03-2020, 6-17-2021)
3-2-6: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS:
The Chief of Prevention shall determine and specify, after giving affected
persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies
which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the
International Fire Code. The Chief of Prevention shall post a list of such
requirements in a conspicuous place in his office and distribute copies thereof
to interested persons. Further, the Chief of Prevention shall place three (3)
copies of such list with the Elko County Community Development Department.
(Ord. 06-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005; amd. Ord. 03-2020, 6-17-2021)
3-2-7: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the international fire
code hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail
to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of
any detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved
thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from which no
appeal has been taken or who shall fail to comply with such an order as
affirmed or modified by the county fire commission or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall severally for each and every
such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by
imprisonment for not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse
the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required
to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time, and
when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense. If such a separate offense or further
offenses based upon the same conditions which result in the initial charge
shall occur, then, in addition to imprisonment or fine or both, the court shall
have the alternative of closing and sealing or impounding the premises or
property involved until such violation is proved in court to have been
corrected. (Ord. 06-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005)
3-2-8: ELKO COUNTY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   Reorganization: The Elko County board of commissioners hereby
reorganizes the Elko County fire protection district pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 474.555 and Elko County resolution 18-2014.
   (B)   Boundaries: The Elko County fire protection district shall comprise
the whole of the county, specifically excluding all incorporated cities
situated in said county. The exterior boundaries of said district are more
particularly described as follows:
Beginning at a point on the northeast corner of Section 5, Township 47 North,
Range 70 East, on the boundary common to the State of Utah, State of Idaho, and
State of Nevada, being the most northeasterly corner of Elko County, Nevada;
Thence westerly, along the north boundary of said Elko County, and boundary
common to the State of Idaho and State of Nevada, approximately 159 miles, to
the most northeasterly corner of Humboldt County, Nevada and most northwesterly
corner of said Elko County;
Thence southerly, along the boundary common to said Humboldt County and Elko
County, approximately 68 miles, to the most southwesterly corner of said Elko
County, being common to Lander County, Nevada, said Humboldt County and Elko
County;
Thence easterly, along the boundary common to said Lander County, Eureka
County, Nevada, and said Elko County, approximately 44 miles, being the most
northeasterly corner of said Eureka County, common to said Elko County;
Thence southerly, along the boundary common to said Eureka County and Elko
County, common to said Eureka County;
Thence easterly, along the boundary common to said Eureka County, White Pine
County, Nevada, and said Elko County, approximately 104 miles, being the most
northeasterly corner of said White Pine County, and southeasterly corner of
said Elko County, being a point on the common boundary between the State of
Utah and State of Nevada;
Thence northerly, along the common boundary between the State of Utah and State
of Nevada, and east boundary of said Elko County, approximately 129 miles to
the point of beginning.
This description is intended to be in compliance with Nevada Revised Statutes
243.055 through 243.070, establishing the boundary of Elko County.
   (C)   Purpose: Elko County fire protection district is organized for the
suppression of fire on the privately owned forest, watershed and range lands
situated in said district, and to accomplish said purpose, said district is
authorized to do all things provided under the terms of said chapter 473,
Nevada Revised Statutes.
   (D)   Powers: Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 474.460, the Elko County
fire protection district:
      1.   Is a political subdivision of the state of Nevada;
      2.   Has perpetual existence unless dissolved pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 474;
      3.   May sue and be sued;
      4.   May contract and be contracted with;
      5.   Shall exercise such duties pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
474.470 as may be appropriate for the benefit of the residents of Elko;
      6.   May direct property owners to eliminate and remove fire hazards from
their property, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 474.580.
   (E)   Officers: Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 474.460, the Elko County
board of commissioners shall serve as the ex officio board of fire
commissioners;
      1.   The Elko County clerk shall serve as the clerk of the board of fire
commissioners;
      2.   The Elko County treasurer shall serve as the treasurer for the fire
district.
   (F)   Employees:
      1.   The Board of Fire Commissioners shall employ a Fire Chief who shall
perform all duties and responsibilities set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 474 and/or as directed by the Board of Fire Commissioners.
      2.   The Fire Chief may hire employees as approved by the Board of Fire
Commissioners to help carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Elko
County Fire Protection District. (Ord. 2014-11, 11-5-2014, eff. 1-1-2015; amd.
Ord. 2021-01, 2-3-2021)
3-2-9: FEE SCHEDULES:
Fees for plan reviews, inspections, travel zones, burn permits, and alarm fees
shall be set by resolution. (Ord. 03-2020, 6-17-2021)
CHAPTER 3
SIGN CODE
SECTION:
3-3-1: Title
3-3-2: Sign Code Adopted
3-3-3: Revisions And Amendments
3-3-4: Penalty
3-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ELKO COUNTY SIGN CODE and may be cited as
such and will be referred to herein as "this code". (Ord. 07-2005, 9-7-2005,
eff. 10-7-2005)
3-3-2: SIGN CODE ADOPTED:
The 2018 edition of the International Building Code Appendix “H” addressing
“signs,” of the International Code Council, referred to herein as “this code,”
which code is now and hereafter shall remain on file in the office of the Elko
County community development department, and available for public inspection
and as such code is in this chapter amended, changed, added to and supplemented
to make this code applicable to the conditions in the county, is hereby adopted
by the county and said code is incorporated in this chapter to the same extent
as included in verbatim form, and from the date on which this chapter shall
take effect, the provisions thereof shall apply within the limits of the
county, excluding the cities of Carlin, Wells, Elko and West Wendover. In the
event any of the provisions of said code conflict with any of the provisions of
this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall govern and be controlling.
All amendments and additions to the provisions of said code when ordered by the
county commissioners to be filed with the county clerk, shall thereupon become
amendments and additions hereto and shall have the same force and effect as the
original code herein identified, provided that if any provisions of such
amendments and additions are in conflict with any of the provisions of this
chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall govern and be controlling. Copies
of this code with all changes, additions, amendments and supplements thereto,
now and hereafter made, shall be kept on file in the office of the Elko County
community development department for use and examination by the public. (Ord.
07-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005; amd. Ord. 03-2020, 7-17-2021)
3-3-3: REVISIONS AND AMENDMENTS:
The following changes, amendments, additions and supplements to this code
hereby adopted are hereby made and adopted to make this code applicable to the
conditions in Elko County:
   (A)   Projection of signs of section H112 of this code is amended to read as
follows:
 
   Table No. H112 Projection of Signs
Clearance    Maximum Projection
Less than 8' Not permitted
8' to 14'    5'
14' and Over Project to curb line
 
   (B)   Sec. H106.2.1 Electrical Installation, is hereby amended by adding the
following sentence at the end thereof:
   Every sign shall have a main disconnect or switch located in the sign so as
to be readily accessible or on the structure as exterior of the building upon
which the sign is constructed or to which it is attached. Electrical conduits
shall not be required within the sign.
   (C)   The following new sections are added to the code:
   Sec. H116.1. No permit shall be granted for the erection, construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, use or maintenance of any advertising sign,
signboard, boards as other materials containing advertising matter on any
ground location which may measurably destroy the natural beauty of the scenery
or obscure a view of the road ahead or of curves and grades or intersecting
roads or of any railroad crossings.
   Should the building official, planning director, county engineer or public
works director file a complaint with the county commissioners of Elko County
showing any sign as a hazard to traffic, the county commissioners shall order
the removal of the sign.
   Sec. H116.2. No advertising signs, signboards, boards or other material
containing advertising matter shall:
      (a)   Be placed within the right-of-way for any street or alley within
the unincorporated area of Elko County.
      (b)   Be placed on any bridge.
      (c)   Be so situated with respect to any public highway, street, alley or
railway as to obstruct clear vision of any intersecting highway, street, alley
or railway or otherwise so situated as to constitute a safety hazard to the
safe use of any state highway, or any street or alleys within the county or to
the safe crossing of any railways within the county.
   Sec. H116.3. If any such sign or other advertising structures and matter is
placed in violation of this section, it is thereby declared a public nuisance
and may be removed forthwith by the employees of the county of Elko upon the
order of the county commissioners. The cost of removal shall be paid for by the
owner of the sign.
   Sec. H116.4. Any person, firm or corporation placing any such sign in
violation of the provisions of this section shall be subject to the penalties
provided in chapter 1 of this code and in addition thereto shall also be liable
in damages for any injury to a loss of property sustained by any person by
reason of the violation of the provision of this section.
   SECTION H117 - MISCELLANEOUS
   Sec. H117.1. The building official provided in this code shall be the county
building official.
   Sec. H117.2. Nothing herein is intended to or shall be so construed as to
prevent the posting or maintaining of any notices required by law to be posted
or maintained, or the placing as maintaining of highway, street, road and other
traffic signs and other signs of the county, or the state for traffic or safety
purposes, street names and other signs and markers normally installed, erected
or maintained in connection with its affairs, or to prevent the county from
issuing a permit for the hanging of flags, banners and advertising media
intended to designate holidays, rodeos, fairs, conventions and other civic or
public affairs being held within the county. (Ord. 07-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-
7-2005; amd. Ord. 1969-G, 10-7-1969; Ord. 1997-F, 6-4-1997, eff. 6-23-1997;
Ord. 03-2020, 7-17-2021)
3-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this chapter, upon the
conviction of any violation, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
In addition to prosecuting any such penal action as described above, the county
shall have the right by any appropriate proceeding in any court of competent
jurisdiction to prevent the violation of this chapter; and any owner of
property in said county claiming to be damaged by such violation may in like
manner constitute any such proceedings. (Ord. 1969-G, 10-7-1969)
TITLE 4
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title
4-1-2: Purposes And Intent Of Title
4-1-3: Provision For Continuity
4-1-4: Interpretation
4-1-5: Severability
4-1-6: Districts
4-1-7: Zoning Map
4-1-8: Rules Of Application
4-1-9: Definitions
4-1-10: Elko County Planning Commission Rules And Regulations
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Title shall be known as the ELKO COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE NO. 1975-A
(AMENDED), and may be cited herein as "this Title". (1975-A, 3-5-75, eff. 4-1-
75)
4-1-2: PURPOSES AND INTENT OF TITLE:
The County is a large ranching and recreational territory served by
transcontinental rail, highway and air transportation, and is rich in mineral
resources as well as scenic attractions.
Gaming, tourism and recreational pursuits are expected to play a larger role in
the future economy of the County. In addition, vast open lands are being
subdivided in scattered locations throughout the County.
Because of these factors and Nevada Statutes chapter 278, it is necessary for
this Zoning Ordinance to be in accordance with the County's Master Plan. The
Zoning Ordinance is the expression of public policy so that all future
development can be regulated:
   (A)   To lessen congestion in the streets;
   (B)   To secure safety from fire, panic and other danger;
   (C)   To promote health and general welfare;
   (D)   To provide adequate light and air;
   (E)   To prevent the overcrowding of land;
   (F)   To avoid undue concentration of population;
   (G)   To facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water,
sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements; and (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-
75, eff. 4-1-75)
   (H)   To promote, provide and facilitate an attractive community. (Ord.
1993-U, 1-6-94, eff. 1-24-94)
4-1-3: PROVISION FOR CONTINUITY:
The provisions of this Title, to the extent that they are substantially the
same as those in effect prior to its adoption, shall be construed as
restatements and continuations thereof and not as new enactments. (Ord. 1975-A,
3-5-75, eff. 4-1-75)
4-1-4: INTERPRETATION:
The provisions of this Title shall be held to be the minimum requirements.
Nothing in this Title shall repeal or amend any ordinance requiring a permit or
license to cover any business activity. These regulations are not intended to
impair or interfere with any existing easement, covenant or other agreement
between parties; provided, however, that where this Title imposes a greater
restriction upon any use or upon the height or bulk of a building or structure,
or requires larger building sites, yards or other open spaces than are imposed
or required by any other law, ordinance, covenant or easement, then the
provisions of this Title shall control. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-75, eff. 4-1-75)
4-1-5: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this Title are severable. If a part, sentence, clause or
phrase of this Title is adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, the decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of
this Title. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-75, eff. 4-1-75)
4-1-6: DISTRICTS:
The territory of Elko County lying outside the jurisdiction of incorporated
cities and Indian Reservation lands is hereby divided into parts hereinafter
designated as Districts, within each of which certain uses of land and
buildings are permitted and certain others are restricted or prohibited, and
within which certain combinations of regulations are applied with reference to
building site dimensions, yards and other matters all as set forth in this
title.
There are the following districts, which shall be hereinafter designated by the
symbol shown opposite each in the table:
  Land Use Districts
          Land Use Districts
OS        Open space (agricultural)
SL        Special lands
AR        Agricultural-residential
A         Agricultural-recreational
AR-CRD-1  Agricultural residential conservation reserve
AR-CRD-2  Agricultural residential conservation reserve
R1        One- and two-family residence
R2        Multi-family residential
R3        Conservation reserve
C1        General commercial-retail
 Group I  General commercial-retail
 Group II General commercial-retail
C2        Highway services and tourist commercial
C3        High rise general commercial-tourist commercial
M1        General industrial and extractive
L1        Light industrial
P         Public
             Combined Districts
AA        Airport approach
AT        Altitude-topography
FG        Fish and game critical areas
FP        Floodplain
GW        Groundwater
LM        Dry lake and marshes
ML        Meadowlands
SC        Stream corridor
SH        Scenic highway
SS        Scenic and skyline
UP        Urban perimeter
 
(Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975; amd. Ord. 1980-D, 2-7-1980, eff. 3-1-
1980; Ord. 1981-E, 7-9-1981, eff. 8-1-1981; Ord. 1987-G, 9-3-1987, eff. 9-21-
1987; Ord. 02-2007, 10-4-2007, eff. 11-19-2007)
4-1-7: ZONING MAP:
   (A)   Map Adopted: The districts established and the boundaries of such
districts are shown upon the map entitled "zoning map of the county of Elko",
adopted by the county commissioners. The said map shall be on file in the
division of planning and zoning and all notations, references and other
information shown thereon shall be as much a part of this title as if fully
described herein. (Ord. 2015-09, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
   (B)   Divisions Of: The zoning map may for convenience be divided into
parts, and such parts may be separately employed for the purpose of amending
the map or for any official reference thereto.
   (C)   Uncertainty Of Boundaries: Wherever any uncertainty exists to the
boundary of any district as shown on the zoning map, the county commissioners,
upon written application or upon its own motion, shall determine the location
of said boundary. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
4-1-8: RULES OF APPLICATION:
No building or structure shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally
altered or enlarged, nor shall any building, structure or land be used for any
purpose except as hereinafter specifically provided and allowed in the district
in which such building, structure or land is located. No lot shall be reduced
in area in relation to any building or structure existing thereon so as to be
smaller than required by these regulations, and if already less, the deficient
dimension or area shall not be further reduced. Every department, official and
employee of the county having the authority to issue any permit or license
required by law shall comply with the provisions of this title. Any license or
permit issued in conflict with the provisions of this title shall be void and
of no effect. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
4-1-9: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain terms shall be deemed to have the
meaning ascribed to them and to have the standards and include the elements and
features set forth in the following:
ACCESS: A clear and unobstructed usable all weather approach of not less than
twenty feet (20') in width to a dedicated public way.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building which is subordinate to and the use of which is
incidental to the main building or the principal use on the same lot. No
building in an R district which contains a dwelling unit shall be deemed to be
an accessory building.
ACCESSORY USE: A use incidental and subordinate to the principal use of the
premises, which does not alter the characteristics of the use considered as a
whole and as related to other permitted uses in the same district.
ADVERTISING SIGN: The outdoor display of any device, statuary, symbol,
billboard or structure of any kind or any lettered, figured, printed or
pictorial matter on any premises for the purpose of promoting any business or
activity whatsoever; except a "nameplate", an "identifying sign", a "sale or
lease sign" or a "business sign" as these are defined herein.
AGRICULTURE: A use of land whereby through the grazing and feeding of livestock
and/or the raising of hay, grain or other produce or combination thereof an
income sufficient to provide support for at least one person can be derived.
For the purpose of this definition, such support shall mean capability of
providing income at a level not less than the minimum poverty level established
by the department of health, education and welfare of the United States.
Agricultural use shall not include the raising of livestock or any type of
animal or fowl whatever in a situation where the majority of the basic feeds
for such living animal or fowl are not grown by the animal or fowl raiser, but
imported to the site from elsewhere. Further, this definition shall not include
any activity described herein for which there is not a valid and developed
water right issued by the state engineer or an active application before the
state engineer.
ALLEY: A public thoroughfare, not exceeding thirty feet (30') in width for the
use of pedestrians and/or vehicles, which affords only a secondary means of
access to the abutting property.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-dwelling, designed for,
intended for, suitable as a residence for, and/or occupied by one family.
APARTMENT HOTEL: A building or any portion thereof designed for or containing
both individual guestrooms or suites of rooms and dwelling units.
APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling: Multiple- Dwelling.
AUTOMOBILE AND TRAILER SALES AREA: An open area used for the display, sale or
rental of new or used automobiles or trailers and where repair work is limited
to minor incidental repair of automobiles or trailers to be displayed, rented
or sold on premises.
BASEMENT OR CELLAR: A story partly or wholly underground and having more than
one-half (1/2) of its height below the average level of the adjoining ground. A
basement, when designed for or occupied by dwellings, business or
manufacturing, shall be considered a story.
BED AND BREAKFAST: A building with five (5) or less guestrooms where lodging,
with or without meals, is provided for compensation. No guest may occupy the
bed and breakfast for more than twenty eight (28) consecutive days.
BLOCK: The property abutting on one side of a street between two (2) nearest
intersecting streets, railroad right of way or other natural barrier; provided,
however, that where a street curves so that any two (2) curves thereof form an
angle of one hundred twenty degrees (120°) or less measured on the lot side,
each curb shall be construed as an intersecting street.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than hotel or restaurant, where meals or
lodging or both meals and lodging are provided for compensation for four (4) or
more persons. The term does not include such uses as rest home, convalescent
home or home for the aged.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, fowl, cattle or property of any kind.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average finished ground level
of the site to the highest point of the structure.
BUILDING SITE: The land area, consisting of one or more lots or parcels of land
under common ownership or control, to be considered as the unit of land
occupied by a main building or building and accessory buildings or by a
principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with all the yards, parking
spaces and other open spaces required by this title.
BUSINESS SIGN: The outdoor display of any lettered, figured or pictorial matter
or device for the purpose of designating the name of the owner or occupant of a
business or service facility on the premises, or of identifying or promoting
the said business or service activity.
CAMP, PUBLIC: Land or premises used or intended to be used, let or rented for
camping purposes by two (2) or more camping parties, trailers, tents or
removable or temporary dwellings.
CARPORT: A permanent roofed structure with no more than two (2) enclosed sides
used or intended to be used for automobile shelter and storage.
CEMETERY: Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
dedicated for cemetery purposes, including columbariums, crematoriums,
mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundary of such cemetery.
CENTERLINE: The centerline of a street as referred to in this title shall mean
the right of way centerline as established by the county surveyor, by the state
division of highways or if no such centerline has been established and in any
case in which foregoing definition is not applicable, the planning commission
shall designate the centerline.
CHILD CARE: The housing and care for any period of time with or without
compensation, of more than four (4) children other than those of the occupant
(s) of the premises.
CLINIC: A place for the treatment of nonresident patients. A clinic is
frequently used in connection with medical instruction.
COURT: An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or buildings and which is bounded on two (2) or more sides by such a
building or buildings.
DAIRY: Any premises where milk is produced for sale or distribution and where
three (3) or more cows or goats are in lactation.
DOMESTIC ANIMALS: Shall include any equine or bovine animals, ovine (sheep),
caprine (goat), porcine (swine), domestic dog, domestic cat, poultry, or other
domesticated beast or bird, which lives and breeds in a tame condition and
depends on humankind for survival. Such animals are kept as food sources, work
animals or pets; and through selective breeding, have become notably different
from their wild ancestors. Nothing in this definition is intended to conflict
with Nevada Revised Statutes 561.025. This definition does not apply to
wildlife as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes 501.097, nor animals for which a
permit is required under Nevada Revised Statutes 502.240(5).
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof, used primarily for residential
purposes. The term does not include hotels, clubs, boarding houses, rooming
houses or fraternity or sorority houses.
Living Unit: A building or portion thereof containing one kitchen designed and/
or used to house more than one family.
Multiple-Dwelling: A building designed and/or used to house three (3) or more
families, living independently of each other.
Single-Family Dwelling: A building containing one kitchen designed and/or used
to house not more than one family, including domestic employees of such family.
Two-Family Dwelling: A building containing not more than two (2) kitchens
designed and/or used to house not more than two (2) families, living
independently of each other, including domestic employees.
FAMILY: One person living alone, or two (2) or more persons related by blood,
marriage or legal adoption, or a group of four (4) or less unrelated persons
living together as a single housekeeping unit.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the main
building designed and/or used for the shelter or storage of vehicles of the
occupants of the main building.
GREENHOUSE: Any of several different types of heated glass or plastic covered
structures used for the growing or storage of plants.
GUESTHOUSE: A detached accessory building containing living quarters for use by
temporary guests of the occupant of the dwelling on the same premises, which
may contain a kitchen or cooking facilities and is not rented or otherwise used
as a dwelling unit.
HEDGE: A series of plants, shrubs or other landscape material, so placed as to
form a physical barrier or enclosure.
HOME OCCUPATION: A use otherwise allowed by law which must be incidental to the
primary residential purpose, and which must not change the residential
character of the property.
   (A)   No addition, alteration or remodeling is allowed that would change the
residential character of the premises.
   (B)   Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the total ground floor area of
the dwelling shall be used for a home occupation. This restriction does not
apply to childcare.
   (C)   Signs used in connection with the home occupation shall not be
illuminated, and shall not exceed three (3) square feet in area.
   (D)   The home occupation shall not generate pedestrian or vehicular traffic
greater than that normally found in the area, or cause offensive or
objectionable noise, glare, vibration, odor, dust or smoke.
   (E)   No maintenance on the premises of office staff or business personnel
in excess of one employee outside the immediate family is permitted.
   (F)   Outdoor storage or display of equipment, appliances, materials or
supplies is not permitted.
   (G)   The keeping or storage of registered vehicles in excess of twenty six
thousand (26,000) GVWR (gross vehicle weight rating) is not permitted.
   (H)   One unattached building may be used solely for storage related to the
home occupation. The storage building shall not exceed one thousand (1,000)
square feet in area.
HOSPITAL: A building to which persons are admitted for overnight stay or longer
or the diagnosis or care or treatment of human illness or the prevention
thereof, including convalescent home, sanatorium, nursing home, maternity home.
HOTEL: A building having six (6) or more rental bedrooms or suites, generally
without individual cooking facilities, where overnight lodging is offered to
the public for compensation primarily for the accommodation of transient
guests. A hotel in which twenty percent (20%) or more of the rental units
contain kitchen or kitchenettes shall be subject to all regulations of this
title governing a multiple dwelling.
IDENTIFYING SIGN: A sign or device on the premises which serves exclusively to
designate the name or the name and use of a public or a semipublic building or
to inform as to the use of a recreation area, parking area or other open use
permitted in the District.
ILLUMINATED: When used in reference to signs, the term means the giving forth
of direct artificial light or having artificial light directed to it for the
primary purpose of displaying the sign. The term does not include light cast
upon a sign from an incidental source.
JUNK YARD: Any place where damaged, inoperable or obsolete machinery such as
cars, trucks and trailers, or parts thereof, are stored, bought, sold,
accumulated, exchanged, disassembled or handled.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which five (5) or more dogs over four (4) months
old are kept for boarding, breeding, training or marketing.
KITCHEN: Any room, all or any part of which is designed and/or used for cooking
and the preparation of food.
LABOR CAMP: Premises used for residential purposes for temporary or seasonal
periods by five (5) or more unrelated persons or families employed to perform
agricultural or industrial labor.
LOADING SPACE: An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a building or
contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle which is loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and which abuts
upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
LODGING or ROOMING HOUSE: A building having no more than six (6) guest rooms
with two (2) persons per room where lodging is provided for compensation.
LOT: A parcel of real property which is either a) shown with a separate and
distinct number of designation of a plat recorded in the office of the Recorder
of the County, or b) delineated upon a record of survey, lot split or sub-
parceling map approved pursuant to the Subdivision Ordinance of the County, or
c) containing an area not less than required for the district in which it is
located and abutting at least one public street and held under separate
ownership.
LOT, CORNER: A lot at the intersection of two (2) street lines which intersect
at an angle not greater than one hundred twenty degrees (120o).
LOT, KEY: A lot with the side line coinciding with the rear lot line of one or
more other lots.
LOT, LINE: Any of the boundary lines of a lot. A street lot line is the lot
line abutting a street. Either street lot line of a corner lot may be
designated by the Director of Planning to be the front lot line. A through lot
has two (2) front lot lines. The lot line or lines generally opposite the front
lot line constitute the rear lot line. All other lot lines are side lot lines.
When two (2) or more lots are combined into one building site, the boundary
lines of the building site shall be deemed to be lot lines.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot other than a corner lot which has frontage on two (2)
parallel or approximately parallel streets.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured along a
line parallel to the front lot line and distant therefrom by a distance equal
to the required depth of front yard on the lot.
MAIN BUILDING: One in which is conducted a principal use of the lot upon which
it is situated. Every dwelling in an "R" District is a main building.
MANUFACTURED HOME: See Mobile Home.
MEADOWLANDS: Land areas which produce or are capable of producing grasses as a
result of their natural characteristics. Typically, lowland valleys and
mountain rangelands where one or more of the following is present:
   (A)   Water is likely to concentrate and spread resulting in natural
irrigation and/or sub- irrigation for all or part of the growing season.
   (B)   Water is manually diverted and/or directed to spread resulting in
irrigation and/or sub- irrigation for all or part of the growing season.
   (C)   The extremes of climate are ameliorated due to the greater soil
moisture level.
   (D)   Organic matter represents a high percentage of the surface soil
horizon.
MOBILE HOME: A vehicular structure which is built on a chassis or frame, is
designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation, is capable of being
drawn by a motor vehicle and is used as a dwelling. All mobile homes shall have
the respective HUD (Housing and Urban Development) sticker attached.
MODULAR BUILDING: An office, apartment, school, motel or other building,
whether it is the complete building or a room or rooms attached to another
building, which is either wholly manufactured, or is in substantial part
manufactured, at an off-site location to be wholly or partially assembled on-
site in accordance with the regulations promulgated by the Manufactured Housing
Division of the Department of Commerce, pursuant to NRS 461.170, but does not
include a mobile home. A modular building shall have the UBC (Uniform Building
Code) sticker attached.
NAMEPLATE: A sign affixed against the wall of a dwelling which serves
exclusively to designate the name or the name and occupation of a person
residing therein.
NONCONFORMING: A building, structure or portion thereof, or use of building or
land which does not conform to the regulations of this Title and which lawfully
existed at the time the regulations with which it does not conform became
effective.
NURSERY: Any place where plants, shrubs and trees are grown either for
transplanting or as grafting stock.
ONE-FAMILY DWELLING: A dwelling containing exclusively a single dwelling unit.
OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS: Any sign over one hundred (100) square feet in
surface on one side which is placed near a highway for the purpose of being
seen by passing motorists.
OVERLAY ZONING: Special regulations to be invoked where appropriate or
necessary, in addition to basic zoning regulations.
PARKING LOT: An off-street open area, the principal use of which is to provide
space for the parking of passenger automobiles.
PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE: Space within a public or private parking area or a
building for the temporary parking or storage of one automobile.
PERSON: An individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture, association, club,
corporation, estate, trust, receiver, syndicate, governmental agency or any
other group or combination acting as an entity, excepting therefrom the County
of Elko, Nevada.
PRINCIPAL USE: Any use which is not clearly qualified as accessory to another
use on the same premises.
RECREATIONAL LODGE: A building with five (5) or less guest rooms where lodging
with or without meals is provided in conjunction with any outdoor recreational
pursuit. No guest may occupy the lodge for more than twenty eight (28)
consecutive days.
REST HOME: A building, other than a hospital as defined herein, which is used
to provide, under the supervision of a licensing agency of the State, living
quarters and nonmedical care of one or more aged or infirm persons, and not
involving residence on the premises of either a trained nurse or a physician.
SALE or LEASE SIGN: A sign which serves exclusively to indicate, with pertinent
information, the offer to sell, rent or lease the real property, or the
building or premises thereon, upon which it is located.
SALVAGE YARD: Any outdoor space where junk, waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are stored or handled, including automobile wrecking yard, house
wrecking yard, used lumber yard and storage of salvage materials of all kinds;
but excluding space used for the storage of used vehicles or machinery in
operable condition, and the processing of used or salvaged materials as part of
a lawfully existing manufacturing operation on the same premises.
SCHOOLS, ELEMENTARY AND HIGH: An institution of learning which offers
instruction in the several branches of learning and study required to be taught
in the public schools by the State of Nevada. High schools include junior and
senior.
STABLE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building for the keeping of horses,
burros or mules owned by the occupants of the premises and not for
remuneration, hire or sale.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A stable other than a private stable for keeping of horses.
STEEP MOUNTAIN SLOPE: Any land having an average cross-slope of twenty five
percent (25%) or more.
STREET: Any public or private thoroughfare with a width of twenty feet (20') or
more which affords a primary means of access of abutting property.
STREET LINE: The boundary line between a street and abutting property.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or built, an edifice or building of any kind or
any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in
some definite manner.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a structure
such as the bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders.
TRAILER COACH: A vehicle without motive power designed for human habitation and
for carrying persons and property on its own structure and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle.
TRAILER CAMP or PARK: Any area or premises where space for house trailers is
rented, held for rent or on which free occupancy or camping is permitted to
house trailer owners or users for the purpose of securing their trade, but not
including automobile or trailer sales lots, on which unoccupied house trailers
are parked for inspection and sales.
UBC OVERLAY ZONING: Only structures complying with the latest edition of the
Uniform Building Code adopted by the County pursuant to Title 3, Chapter 1, of
the Elko County Code are allowed:
USE: The purpose for which land or a building or structure is designed,
arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied, maintained, let or leased.
WRECKING YARD: Same as Junk Yard.
YARD: A space on the same lot with a building or structure which is open and
unobstructed, except as otherwise provided in this title, from the ground
upward. Neither landscaping nor ordinary outdoor furnishings shall be deemed to
obstruct a yard, nor shall any underground structure or part of an underground
structure which extends less than eighteen inches (18") above the ground level.
YARD, FRONT: An area extending across the front of the lot between the main
building and the front lot line; depth of the required front yard to be
measured horizontally from the nearest part of the main building toward the
nearest point of the front lot line.
YARD, REAR: An area extending across the full width of the lot between the main
building and the rear lot line; depth of the required rear yard to be measured
horizontally from the nearest part of a main building toward the nearest point
of the rear lot line.
YARD, SIDE: An area between a main building and the side lot line, extending
from the front yard, or front lot line to the rear yard; width of the required
side yard to be measured horizontally from the nearest point of the side lot
line toward the nearest part of the main building. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff.
4-1-1975; amd. Ord. 1982-J, 9-8-1982, eff. 10-1-1982; Ord. 1993-U, 1-6-1994,
eff. 1-24-1994; Ord. 2013-05, 10-23-2013, eff. 3-28-2014; Ord. 2015-06, 4-1-
2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
4-1-10: ELKO COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules, regulations and procedures shall apply to the Elko County
planning commission while exercising the powers and duties delegated to it by
the laws of the state of Nevada, the ordinances of the county of Elko and the
board of Elko County commissioners.
   (A)   Officers: At the first planning commission meeting of the year, a
chairman and vice chairman shall be elected from the voting members.
      1.   Chairman And Vice Chairman: The chairman and vice chairman shall
hold their respective offices until the next annual meeting after election and
until their successors are elected and qualified.
      2.   Term Limits: No member of the planning commission may hold the
position of chairman for a period exceeding two (2) consecutive years.
      3.   Duties Of Chairman: The chairman shall preside at all meetings of
the planning commission. He may present to the commission such matters as in
his judgment require attention and may enter into discussion on these matters
as long as they are properly agendaed. The chairman must vacate his chair (pass
the gavel) to make a motion, but may second a motion without vacating. At the
request of any commissioner, the chairman shall direct that the yeas and nays
be taken and entered on the record on any question before the commission. The
chairman shall exercise general supervision over the business, papers and
property of the commission and shall execute all formal documents on behalf of
the commission.
      4.   Duties Of The Vice Chairman: The vice chairman shall act in the
absence of the chairman; and when the chairman is absent, has been disqualified
for any reason or has vacated his chair, all duties of his office or as a
member of any committee shall temporarily devolve upon the vice chairman.
      5.   Secretary: The Elko County planning director, or his designee, shall
perform the duties and functions of secretary to the planning commission as set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 1995-G, 6-8-1995, eff. 6-28-1995)
   (B)   Meetings And Minutes:
      1.   The planning commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in
each month. The regular meeting date shall be set by the planning commission.
The scheduling of meetings may be adjusted under unusual circumstances by a
majority vote of the planning commission. (Ord. 1996-L, 10-3-1996, eff. 10-21-
1996)
      2.   The purpose of the regular meeting is to conduct business on all
facets of planning as delegated by the Nevada Revised Statutes, this code or
the board of Elko County commissioners.
      3.   Each regular meeting will be taped with all persons except the
planning commissioners and staff stating their first and last name before
speaking.
      4.   All materials submitted by the applicant or the public to the
planning commission and/or displayed for use by the commission as evidence and
used by the commission in arriving at a decision will become part of the
project file and will not be returned.
      5.   Minutes of the previous meeting will be submitted to each member
prior to the next regular meeting. The minutes shall accurately reflect what
was done and said at the meeting based upon the notes taken and transcription
of the tape by the minutes secretary. Corrections to the minutes by any
planning commission member will be limited to typographical errors or other
errors or corrections as determined by listening to the tape.
   (C)   Conduct Of Business:
      1.   Meetings shall be called to order by the chairman, or in his absence
the vice chairman. In the absence of both, the secretary shall call the meeting
to order and the commissioners present shall elect a chairman pro tem.
      2.   The minutes secretary shall keep a record of those commissioners
present and those absent. The minutes of previous meetings shall be submitted
for approval and any errors noted and corrections made, as provided above,
after which the regular order of business may be taken up.
      3.   The further order of business, unless otherwise ordered by the board
of county commissioners, shall be as follows and shall conform to the agenda:
         (a)   Call to order.
         (b)   Action on minutes.
         (c)   Staff update/correspondence.
         (d)   Agenda items.
         (e)   Adjournment.
      4.   For the conduct of planning commission business, the following
number of voting members shall constitute a quorum: all planning commission
business - four (4) members.
   (D)   Hearing Procedures:
      1.   Hearings on an application for a zone change, conditional use permit
or variance shall be conducted according to the following format:
         (a)   Staff shall present the application, including:
            (1)   Background.
            (2)   Consistency with existing zoning.
            (3)   Agency comments and/or recommendations.
            (4)   Written public comments.
            (5)   Project impacts -- negative and positive.
            (6)   Findings of fact and recommendation -- approval, denial,
modification or continuation.
         (b)   Applicant comment.
         (c)   Public comment.
         (d)   Planning commission discussion and action.
      2.   Upon completion of the staff presentation, the chairman will
recognize the applicant and/or its representative to answer, rebut or concur
with staff. The chairman will then open the item for public comment, after
which the public hearing portion of the meeting shall be closed. No further
public testimony will be given or comments taken except for answering questions
as may be directed by the planning commissioners and/or staff. Upon closing
public input, staff will summarize its findings and recommendations.
      3.   Applicant and public comment shall be limited to five (5) minutes
per person, and the chairman of the planning commission shall identify
spokespersons to avoid repetition.
      4.   Persons speaking at a planning commission hearing shall address the
commission or staff.
   (E)   Voting Procedures:
      1.   Only one motion shall be considered by the planning commission at a
time, and each motion shall be resolved by a vote of the commission prior to
considering another motion. A failed motion or a motion that dies for a lack of
a second has no effect. For the planning commission to take action, there must
be a majority vote in favor of the question being considered.
      2.   Motions may be amended only by the person who made the motion with
approval from the person who seconded the motion.
      3.   Planning commissioners desiring to abstain on a question shall do so
at the time the agenda item is called, and shall state the reason for the
abstention. Upon declaring an abstention the abstaining member is not allowed
to influence the planning commission with respect to the item, except as a
member of the public speaking from the public area.
      4.   Every member of the planning commission present at the meeting when
the question is put shall give their vote, unless the commissioner has
abstained. (Ord. 1995-G, 6-8-1995, eff. 6-28-1995)
CHAPTER 2
AGRICULTURAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
4-2-1: OS, Open Space District
4-2-2: SL, Special Lands District
4-2-3: AR, Agricultural-Residential District
4-2-4: A, Agricultural-Recreational District
4-2-5: AR-CRD-1, Agricultural-Residential Conservation Reserve District
4-2-6: AR-CRD-2, Agricultural-Residential Conservation Reserve District
4-2-1: OS, OPEN SPACE DISTRICT:
The open space exclusive district is intended to provide protection for
agricultural areas from urban development of residential subdivisions, and to
serve as an open space area around the more intensive urban uses of the county
of Elko. Noncommercial seasonal recreation activities not requiring fixed
improvements including hunting, fishing, camping, horseback riding, ball games,
archery, picnicking, snowmobiling, skiing and similar uses allowed. (Ord. 1975-
A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The following principal uses are permitted in the OS
district provided there is full compliance with the definition of agriculture:
      1.   Botanical conservatory.
      2.   Field and truck crops.
      3.   Orchards and vineyards.
      4.   Nurseries and greenhouses.
      5.   Crop drying.
      6.   Dairies and the processing of dairy products.
      7.   Animal breeding and raising, including horses, swine, sheep, goats,
cattle, rabbits and similar animals.
      8.   Aviary.
      9.   Riding academies and stables.
      10.   Poultry raising, eggs and hatcheries.
      11.   Hay and straw sale and storage.
      12.   Pasture.
      13.   Livestock ranches.
      14.   Vegetable or flower farms.
      15.   Necessary housing for farm workers whose employment is necessary to
agricultural operations conducted on the same parcel of land.
      16.   Apiary (beehives).
      17.   Home occupations.
      18.   Family cemetery. See section
4-8-14 of this title. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975; amd. Ord. 1993-U,
1-6-1994, eff. 1-24-1994; Ord. 2002-H, 8-8-2002, eff. 9-11-2002)
   (B)   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the OS
district, permitted only when authorized by the planning commission:
      1.   Recreational lodge.
      2.   Church.
      3.   School, attendance at which satisfies the requirements of the
compulsory education laws of the state.
      4.   Utility or public service facility, when operating requirements
necessitate its location within the district.
      5.   Park, playground or community recreation area operated by a
governmental agency or nonprofit community organization.
      6.   Golf course.
      7.   Permanent farm labor camp.
      8.   Bed and breakfast.
      9.   One guesthouse per parcel. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975;
amd. Ord. 1993-U, 1-6-1994, eff. 1-24-1994; Ord. 2015-07, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-
2015)
   (C)   Accessory Uses: Subject to the above provisions, uses customarily
incidental to any of the listed permitted uses may be maintained, and
specifically the following:
      1.   Residence of the owner, owners, lessee or lessor of the kind upon
which use is conducted.
      2.   Residence of bona fide employees.
      3.   Approved incidental uses pertaining to conditional uses when
authorized by the planning commission.
      4.   All necessary farm storage, administration or other buildings or
enclosures customarily required for the efficient operation of any of the
permitted uses. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
   (D)   Minimum Parcel Size: The minimum parcel size of land in an open space
zoning district shall be one-sixteenth (1/16) of a cadastral survey section or
forty (40) acres. No parcel shall have an average width of less than five
hundred feet (500'). (Ord. 06-2010, 8-5-2010, eff. 9-10-2010)
   (E)   Yards: The minimum requirements for yards shall be as follows:
 
Front yard 50 feet
Rear yard  30 feet
Side yard  20 feet
 
(Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
4-2-2: SL, SPECIAL LANDS DISTRICT:
The special lands district is intended for application to open space zoned
rural and rural-urban lands that no longer meet the agricultural land
classification use. Special lands are acreage land. Such land is identifiable
by location, sales price or use, including rural-urban lands which are
subdivided into lots or parcels outside the city or town limits. Special lands
are not a part of a platted townsite or platted and approved subdivision that
has a final map on file with Elko County designating specific lots and/or
parcels.
The special lands district is intended to provide the proper zoning for open
space district land that no longer meets the agricultural land classification.
Special lands districts will provide permitted uses of land that would be
nonconforming under open space district zoning. The special lands district is
intended to provide areas primarily for rural or estate type living, but
allowing certain hobby and/or recreational-agricultural pursuits to be
maintained on land parcels of at least ten (10) acres. Parcels that would be
less than ten (10) acres shall be considered for AR, agricultural-residential
district zoning. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the SL district:
      1.   Single-family dwellings not to exceed one unit on each parcel of
land.
      2.   Orchards.
      3.   Vegetable crops.
      4.   Public parks and campgrounds.
      5.   Nurseries and greenhouses.
      6.   Private stables.
      7.   Home occupations.
      8.   Small animal raising.
      9.   Agricultural uses that are not in full compliance with the
definition of agriculture because the income derived from the operation is
supplemental rather than a full time commercial operation, as follows:
         (a)   Gardens.
         (b)   Pasture.
         (c)   Field and truck crops.
         (d)   Hay and forage crops.
         (e)   Vegetable or flower farms.
         (f)   Aviary.
         (g)   Apiary (beehives).
      10.   Family cemetery. See section
4-8-14 of this title. (Ord. 1993-U, 1-6-1994, eff. 1-24-1994; amd. Ord. 2002-H,
8-8-2002, eff. 9-11-2002)
   (B)   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the SL
District, permitted only when authorized by the Planning Commission:
      1.   Schools.
      2.   Libraries.
      3.   Museums.
      4.   Churches.
      5.   Retreats.
      6.   Monasteries.
      7.   Convents.
      8.   Riding academies.
      9.   Noncommercial clubs.
      10.   One guesthouse per parcel. (Ord. 1993-U, 1-6-1994, eff. 1-24-1994;
amd. Ord. 2015-07, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
   (C)   Minimum Parcel Size: The minimum land parcel size for any permitted
use shall be ten (10) acres. No parcel shall have an average width of less than
five hundred feet (500').
   (D)   Yards: The minimum requirements for yards shall be as follows:
 
Front yard 50 feet
Rear yard  30 feet
Side yard  20 feet
 
(Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
   (E)   Building Height: No building or structure shall have more than three
(3) stories or a height in excess of forty feet (40'). No accessory building
shall have a height in excess of twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 01-2019, 3-6-
2019, eff. 4-19-2019)
   (F)   Automobile Parking: For each dwelling unit, two (2) off street parking
spaces shall be provided. For other permitted or conditional uses, parking
shall be as approved by the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Signs: No sign or nameplate for residences shall exceed three (3)
square feet in size. For conditional uses, signs shall be controlled by the
requirements of chapter 8 of this title. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
   (H)   Maintenance Of Animals: The permanent maintenance of not more than a
reasonable number of "domestic animals" as defined in chapter 1 of this title
on a lot occupied by a dwelling shall be a permitted accessory use so long as
such maintenance is for hobby or family use, and is not a full time commercial
operation. Animals other than those designated shall require Planning
Commission approval. The following limitations shall apply: (Ord. 2015-08, 4-1-
2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
      1.   No accessory building used as a stable for any animals shall be
located less than thirty five feet (35') from any dwelling or less than twenty
feet (20') from any lot line, or less than sixty feet (60') from any front lot
line, any school grounds or any public park or open space. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-
1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
      2.   No paddock, shed, corral, or barn set off for use by domestic or
other animals, shall occupy any part of a required front yard.
      3.   Swine shall not be kept for breeding purposes but may be raised as a
food source for the owner(s) or family on the same property and shall be
limited to a total of three (3) animals.
      4.   The breeding of swine shall be permitted for FFA, 4-H and similar
children's groups. At no time shall there be more than two (2) breeding sows,
the most recent litter for each sow, and one boar on a parcel. Once a breeding
project is completed, the total number of swine shall be a maximum of three (3)
animals. Breeding projects may be from farrow to finish. (Ord. 2015-08, 4-1-
2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
   (I)   Implementation: Special lands districts will be zoned on a per case
basis. When a landowner intends to develop or improve open space land that
meets the special lands definition, the landowner shall apply for a change of
zoning. The application for a change of zoning on land use shall be approved by
the planning commission. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
4-2-3: AR, AGRICULTURAL-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
The agricultural-residential district is intended to provide areas primarily
for rural or estate type living, but allowing certain "hobby and/or recreation"
agricultural pursuits to be maintained on land parcels of at least one acre.
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the AR district:
      1.   Single-family dwellings not to exceed one unit on each parcel of
land.
      2.   Orchards.
      3.   Vegetable crops.
      4.   Gardens.
      5.   Rodeo and roping arenas.
      6.   Public parks and campgrounds.
      7.   Nurseries and greenhouses.
      8.   Private stables.
      9.   Resort hotels or Airbnb.
   (B)   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the AR
district, permitted only when authorized by the planning commission:
      1.   Schools.
      2.   Libraries.
      3.   Museums.
      4.   Churches.
      5.   Retreats.
      6.   Monasteries.
      7.   Convents.
      8.   Riding academies.
      9.   Resort hotels.
      10.   Noncommercial clubs.
      11.   Golf courses.
      12.   Country clubs.
      13.   Riding and polo fields.
      14.   Animal kennels or boarding or other animal care facilities.
      15.   Equestrian riding and training academies (indoor and/or outdoor).
      16.   Restaurants.
      17.   Small business.
      18.   Nurseries or garden centers.
      19.   Private event accommodations.
      20.   Invalid or invalid caretaker secondary housing. A secondary
independent living unit on a lot or parcel already developed to the maximum
density allowed in the district, for the housing of an invalid family member or
a caretaker of an invalid family member residing in the primary residence on
the parcel, subject to the following:
         (a)   The dwelling may be attached or detached from the primary
residence. A mobile home may not be attached to the primary residence.
         (b)   The floor area of the secondary dwelling may not exceed that of
the primary dwelling.
         (c)   The conditional use permit must be reviewed within two (2) years
and every two (2) years thereafter.
         (d)   The secondary dwelling must be removed if it is a mobile
structure when it is no longer used for invalid or invalid caretaker housing.
In the case of an attached or conventionally constructed dwelling where removal
is impractical, the unit may not be utilized as rental housing.
   (C)   Minimum Parcel Size: The minimum land parcel size for any permitted
use shall be one acre. No parcel shall have an average width of less than one
hundred fifty feet (150').
   (D)   Yards: The minimum requirements for yards shall be as follows:
 
Front yard 50 feet
Rear yard  30 feet
Side yard  20 feet
 
   (E)   Building Height: No building or structure shall have more than three
(3) stories or a height in excess of forty feet (40'). No accessory building
shall have a height in excess of twenty five feet (25').
   (F)   Automobile Parking: For each dwelling unit, two (2) off street parking
spaces shall be provided. For other permitted or conditional uses, parking
shall be as approved by the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Signs: No sign or nameplate for residences shall exceed three (3)
square feet in size. For conditional uses, signs shall be controlled by the
requirements of chapter 8 of this title.
   (H)   Maintenance Of Animals: The permanent maintenance of not more than a
reasonable number of “domestic animals” as defined in chapter 1 of this title
not to include swine on a lot occupied by a dwelling shall be a permitted
accessory use so long as such maintenance is for hobby or family use, and is
not a full time commercial operation. Animals other than those designated shall
require Planning Commission approval. The following limitations shall apply:
      1.   No accessory building used as a stable for any animals shall be
located less than thirty five feet (35') from any dwelling or less than twenty
feet (20') from any lot line, or less than sixty feet (60') from any front lot
line, any school grounds or any public park or open space.
      2.   No paddock, shed, corral, or barn set off for use by domestic or
other animals, shall occupy any part of a required front yard.
      3.   The keeping and breeding of swine shall only be permitted for FFA,
4-H and similar children’s development groups as projects related to the
development program. At no time shall there be more than two (2) breeding sows,
the most recent litter for each sow, and one boar on a parcel. Breeding
projects may be from farrow to finish. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975;
amd. Ord. 1993-U, 1-6-1994, eff. 1-24-1994; Ord. 2015-08, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-
2015; Ord. 01-2019, 3-6-2019, eff. 4-19-2019; Ord. 2022-02, eff. 4-29-2022)
4-2-4: A, AGRICULTURAL-RECREATIONAL DISTRICT:
The A, Agricultural-Recreational District is intended to provide for
commercially operated dude ranching, resorts and other commercial recreation
activities, but also including agricultural operations, farming and animal
raising. It is also intended to provide areas for the development of
"residential ranches" or vacation homes in a primarily ranch type setting.
(Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in the A District:
      1.   Single-family dwelling not to exceed one unit on each parcel of
land.
      2.   Lodge, with gaming and entertainment.
      3.   Dude ranches.
      4.   Ski facilities.
      5.   Golf courses.
      6.   Parks, playgrounds, campgrounds.
      7.   Customary accessory uses and buildings.
      8.   Home occupations. (Ord. 1993-U, 1-6-1994, eff. 1-24-1994)
   (B)   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the A
District, permitted only when authorized by the Planning Commission:
      1.   Mobile home park.
      2.   Churches.
      3.   Schools, libraries, museums.
      4.   Utility or public service facilities.
      5.   Motels or hotels.
      6.   Eating and drinking establishments.
      7.   Single-family dwellings of a permanent nature.
      8.   Convents, monasteries, retreats.
      9.   Similar uses to those permitted, which, in the judgment of the
planning commissioners, are allowable as a conditional use.
      10.   Livestock ranches.
      11.   Skeet and trap range.
      12.   Invalid or invalid caretaker secondary housing. A secondary
independent living unit on a lot or parcel already developed to the maximum
density allowed in the district, for the housing of an invalid family member or
a caretaker of an invalid family member residing in the primary residence on
the parcel subject to the following:
         (a)   The dwelling may be attached or detached from the primary
residence. A mobile home may not be attached to the primary residence.
         (b)   The floor area of the secondary dwelling may not exceed that of
the primary dwelling.
         (c)   The conditional use permit must be reviewed within two (2) years
and every two (2) years thereafter.
         (d)   The secondary dwelling must be removed if it is a mobile
structure when it is no longer used for invalid or invalid caretaker housing.
In the case of an attached or conventionally constructed dwelling where removal
is impractical, the unit may not be utilized as rental housing.
      13.   One guesthouse per parcel. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975;
amd. Ord. 1993-U, 1-6-1994, eff. 1-24-1994; Ord. 2015-07, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-
2015)
   (C)   Minimum Parcel Size: The minimum land parcel size for any permitted
use shall be five (5) acres. No parcel shall have an average width of less than
three hundred fifty feet (350').
   (D)   Yards: The minimum requirements for yards shall be as follows:
 
Front yard 50 feet
Rear yard  30 feet
Side yard  20 feet
 
   (E)   Building Height Limits: None.
   (F)   Parking Requirements: None. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
4-2-5: AR-CRD-1, AGRICULTURAL-RESIDENTIAL CONSERVATION RESERVE DISTRICT:
The agricultural-residential conservation reserve district 1 is intended to
provide areas primarily for rural or estate type living, but allowing certain
"hobby and/or recreation" agricultural pursuits to be maintained on land
parcels of at least two and one-half (2.5) acres. The AR-CRD-1 district is
intended to identify outlying lands that may be developed, but where the
character of the land is suitable for moderate density development.
   (A)   Permitted Uses: (Same as agriculture-residential.)
      1.   Single-family dwellings not to exceed one unit on each parcel of
land.
      2.   Orchards.
      3.   Vegetable crops.
      4.   Gardens.
      5.   Rodeo and roping arenas.
      6.   Public parks and campgrounds.
      7.   Nurseries and greenhouses.
      8.   Private stables.
      9.   Home occupations.
   (B)   Conditional Uses: (Same as agriculture-residential.)
      1.   Schools.
      2.   Libraries.
      3.   Museums.
      4.   Churches.
      5.   Retreats.
      6.   Monasteries.
      7.   Convents.
      8.   Riding academies.
      9.   Resort hotels.
      10.   Noncommercial clubs.
      11.   Golf courses.
      12.   Country clubs.
      13.   Riding and polo fields.
      14.   Invalid or invalid caretaker secondary housing. A secondary
independent living unit on a lot or parcel already developed to the maximum
density allowed in the district, for the housing of an invalid family member or
caretaker of an invalid family member residing in the primary residence on the
parcel, subject to the following:
         (a)   The dwelling may be attached or detached from the primary
residence. A mobile home may not be attached to the primary residence.
         (b)   The floor area of the secondary dwelling may not exceed that of
the primary dwelling.
         (c)   The conditional use permit must be reviewed within two (2) years
and every two (2) years thereafter.
         (d)   The secondary dwelling must be removed if it is a mobile
structure when it is no longer used for invalid or invalid caretaker housing.
In the case of an attached or conventionally constructed dwelling where removal
is impractical, the unit may not be utilized as rental housing.
   (C)   Accessory Uses: In addition to the general regulations governing
accessory uses, the following specific limitations and special regulations
shall apply in an AR-CRD-1 district: (Same as R3.)
      1.   Not more than one room in a dwelling unit shall be rented to a
lodger, and no room shall be rented to more than two (2) persons.
      2.   Recreational vehicles/camper units/boats owned and licensed by the
property owner may be stored on any lot interior as to meet all setback limits.
Recreational vehicles/camper units/boats not owned and licensed by the property
owner shall not be stored on any portion of the lot.
      3.   Childcare as a home occupation is permitted for not more than three
(3) children other than members of the resident family.
      4.   A nonpermanent accessory building may occupy part of the rear half
of a required interior side yard or part of a required rear yard; provided,
that an equal area of open space exclusive of required yard space is provided
elsewhere on the lot, and that no such nonpermanent building be distant less
than three feet (3') from any lot line.
   (D)   Minimum Parcel Size: The minimum land parcel size in an AR-CRD-
1 district shall have an area between two and one-half (2.5) and five (5.0)
acres, and a minimum width of three hundred feet (300').
   (E)   Yards: The minimum requirements for yards in AR-CRD-1 districts shall
be as follows:
      1.   Depth of front yard: Fifty feet (50').
      2.   Depth of rear yard: Thirty feet (30').
      3.   Width of side yard: Twenty feet (20').
In no event shall any structure be located closer than fifty feet (50') from
the right of way of any state, county or federal highway.
   (F)   Height: No building shall have a height of more than forty feet (40').
   (G)   Signs: No sign shall have an area in excess of nine (9) square feet.
   (H)   Parking: All vehicles must be parked off the street. (Ord. 02-2007,
10-4-2007, eff. 11-19-2007)
   (I)   Maintenance Of Animals: The permanent maintenance of not more than a
reasonable number of "domestic animals" as defined in chapter 1 of this title
not to include swine on a lot occupied by a dwelling shall be a permitted
accessory use so long as such maintenance is for hobby or family use, and is
not a full time commercial operation. Animals other than those designated shall
require planning commission approval. The following limitations shall apply:
(Ord. 2015-08, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
      1.   No accessory building used as a stable for any animals shall be
located less than thirty five feet (35') from any dwelling or less than twenty
feet (20') from any lot line, or less than sixty feet (60') from any front lot
line, any school grounds or any public park or open space. (Ord. 02-2007, 10-4-
2007, eff. 11-19-2007)
      2.   No paddock, shed, corral, or barn set off for use by domestic or
other animals, shall occupy any part of a required front yard.
      3.   The keeping and breeding of swine shall only be permitted for FFA,
4-H and similar children's development groups as projects related to the
development program. At no time shall there be more than two (2) breeding sows,
the most recent litter for each sow, and one boar on a parcel. Breeding
projects may be from farrow to finish. (Ord. 2015-08, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
4-2-6: AR-CRD-2, AGRICULTURAL-RESIDENTIAL CONSERVATION RESERVE DISTRICT:
The agricultural-residential conservation reserve district 2 is intended to
provide areas primarily for rural or estate type living, but allowing certain
"hobby and/or recreation" agricultural pursuits to be maintained on land
parcels of at least five (5) acres. The AR-CRD-2 district is intended to
identify outlying lands that may be developed, but where the character of the
land is suitable for moderate to low density development.
   (A)   Permitted Uses: (Same as agriculture-residential.)
      1.   Single-family dwellings not to exceed one unit on each parcel of
land.
      2.   Orchards.
      3.   Vegetable crops.
      4.   Gardens.
      5.   Rodeo and roping arenas.
      6.   Public parks and campgrounds.
      7.   Nurseries and greenhouses.
      8.   Private stables.
      9.   Home occupations.
      10.   Agricultural uses that are not in full compliance with the
definition of agriculture because the income derived from the operation is
supplemental rather than a full time commercial operation, as follows:
         (a)   Gardens.
         (b)   Pasture.
         (c)   Field and truck crops.
         (d)   Hay and forage crops.
         (e)   Vegetable or flower farms.
         (f)   Aviary.
         (g)   Apiary (beehives).
   (B)   Conditional Uses: (Same as agriculture-residential.)
      1.   Schools.
      2.   Libraries.
      3.   Museums.
      4.   Churches.
      5.   Retreats.
      6.   Monasteries.
      7.   Convents.
      8.   Riding academies.
      9.   Resort hotels.
      10.   Noncommercial clubs.
      11.   Golf courses.
      12.   Country clubs.
      13.   Riding and polo fields.
      14.   Invalid or invalid caretaker secondary housing. A secondary
independent living unit on a lot or parcel already developed to the maximum
density allowed in the district, for the housing of an invalid family member or
caretaker of an invalid family member residing in the primary residence on the
parcel, subject to the following:
         (a)   The dwelling may be attached or detached from the primary
residence. A mobile home may not be attached to the primary residence.
         (b)   The floor area of the secondary dwelling may not exceed that of
the primary dwelling.
         (c)   The conditional use permit must be reviewed within two (2) years
and every two (2) years thereafter.
         (d)   The secondary dwelling must be removed if it is a mobile
structure when it is no longer used for invalid or invalid caretaker housing.
In the case of an attached or conventionally constructed dwelling where removal
is impractical, the unit may not be utilized as rental housing.
   (C)   Accessory Uses: In addition to the general regulations governing
accessory uses, the following specific limitations and special regulations
shall apply in an AR-CRD-2 district: (Same as R3.)
      1.   Not more than one room in a dwelling unit shall be rented to a
lodger, and no room shall be rented to more than two (2) persons.
      2.   Recreational vehicles/camper units/boats owned and licensed by the
property owner may be stored on any lot interior as to meet all setback limits.
Recreational vehicles/camper units/boats not owned and licensed by the property
owner shall not be stored on any portion of the lot.
      3.   Childcare as a home occupation is permitted for not more than three
(3) children other than members of the resident family.
      4.   A nonpermanent accessory building may occupy part of the rear half
of a required interior side yard or part of a required rear yard; provided that
an equal area of open space exclusive of required yard space is provided
elsewhere on the lot, and that no such nonpermanent building be distant less
than three feet (3') from any lot line.
   (D)   Minimum Parcel Size: The minimum land parcel size in an AR-CRD-
2 district shall have an area between five (5) and ten (10.0) acres, and a
minimum width of four hundred feet (400') (10 acres to 40 acres is considered
special lands zoning).
   (E)   Yards: The minimum requirements for yards in AR-CRD-2 districts shall
be as follows:
      1.   Depth of front yard: Fifty feet (50').
      2.   Depth of rear yard: Thirty feet (30').
      3.   Width of side yard: Twenty feet (20').
In no event shall any structure be located closer than fifty feet (50') from
the right of way of any state, county or federal highway.
   (F)   Height: No building shall have a height of more than forty feet (40').
   (G)   Signs: No sign shall have an area in excess of nine (9) square feet.
   (H)   Parking: All vehicles must be parked off the street. (Ord. 02-2007,
10-4-2007, eff. 11-19-2007)
   (I)   Maintenance Of Animals: The permanent maintenance of not more than a
reasonable number of "domestic animals" as defined in chapter 1 of this title
not to include swine on a lot occupied by a dwelling shall be a permitted
accessory use so long as such maintenance is for hobby or family use, and is
not a full time commercial operation. Animals other than those designated shall
require planning commission approval. The following limitations shall apply:
(Ord. 2015-08, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
      1.   No accessory building used as a stable for any animals shall be
located less than thirty five feet (35') from any dwelling or less than twenty
feet (20') from any lot line, or less than sixty feet (60') from any front lot
line, any school grounds or any public park or open space. (Ord. 02-2007, 10-4-
2007, eff. 11-19-2007)
      2.   No paddock, shed, corral, or barn set off for use by domestic or
other animals, shall occupy any part of a required front yard.
      3.   The keeping and breeding of swine shall only be permitted for FFA,
4-H and similar children's development groups as projects related to the
development program. At no time shall there be more than two (2) breeding sows,
the most recent litter for each sow, and one boar on a parcel. Breeding
projects may be from farrow to finish. (Ord. 2015-08, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Residence Districts
4-3-2: R1 One- and Two-Family Residence Districts
4-3-3: R2 Multi-Family Residential Districts
4-3-4: R3 Conservation Reserve District
4-3-1: RESIDENCE DISTRICTS:
Certain districts, designated herein by the primary symbol "R", are established
to provide a means of regulating the distribution and density of population.
The specific regulations for each of them are subject to all the general
provisions of Chapter 6 of this Title. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-75, eff. 4-1-75)
4-3-2: R1 ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICTS:
The one- and two-family residence districts, designated herein by the primary
symbol R1, dwellings, and to provide space in suitable locations for additional
development of this kind, with appropriate community facilities.
The R1 Districts may be divided into several density categories and the suffix
number shall indicate the minimum lot area in each density class according to
the following system:
   R1-6,000    = 6,000 square feet lot area minimum
   R1-8,000    = 8,000 square feet lot area minimum
   R1-10,000    = 10,000 square feet lot area minimum
   R1-15,000    = 15,000 square feet lot area minimum
   R1-0.5    = One half acre lot area minimum
   R1-1.0    = One acre lot area minimum
   (A)   Permitted Uses, R1 Districts: The following principal uses are
permitted in an R1 District:
      1.   One one-family dwelling on a lot or one two-family dwelling on a lot
      2.   Garden, orchard, field crop; where no building is involved.
   (B)   Conditional Uses, R1 Districts: The Following are conditional uses in
an R1 District; permitted only when authorized by the Planning Commission:
      1.    Multiple Family Dwellings.
      2.   A Church.
      3.   School, attendance at which satisfies the requirements of the
compulsory education laws of the State.
      4.   Utility or public service facility, when operating requirements
necessitate its location within the District, but not including a storage
garage, machine shop or corporation yard.
      5.   Recreation facility owned and maintained by an agency of any city,
the County, the State or Federal agencies.
      6.   Community clubhouse.
      7.   Parking lot, when established to fulfill the parking space
requirements of a use occupying abutting property.
      8.   Invalid or invalid caretaker secondary housing. A secondary
independent living unit on a lot or parcel already developed to the maximum
density allowed in the District, for the housing of an invalid family member or
a caretaker of an invalid family member residing in the primary residence on
the parcel, subject to the following:
         (a)   The dwelling may be attached or detached from the primary
residence. A mobile home may not be attached to the primary residence.
         (b)   The floor area of the secondary dwelling may not exceed that of
the primary dwelling.
         (c)   The conditional use permit must be reviewed within two (2) years
and every two (2) years thereafter.
         (d)   The secondary dwelling must be removed if it is a mobile
structure when it is no longer used for invalid or invalid caretaker housing.
In the case of an attached or conventionally constructed dwelling where removal
is impractical, the unit may not be utilized as rental housing.
   (C)   Accessory Uses, R1 Districts: In addition to the general regulations
governing accessory uses, the following specific limitations and special
regulations shall apply in an R1 district:
      1.   Not more than one room in a dwelling unit shall be rented to a
lodger, and no room shall be rented to more than two (2) persons.
      2.   Not more than one mobile home or sports camper shall be stored on
any lot, and no vehicle so stored shall be occupied or be stored in the open
except in an area where accessory buildings are permitted.
      3.   Childcare as a home occupation is permitted for not more than three
(3) children other than members of the resident family.
      4.   An accessory building may occupy part of the rear half of a required
interior side yard or part of a required rear yard; provided that an equal area
of open space exclusive of required yard space is provided elsewhere on the
lot, and that no such building be distant less than three feet (3') from any
lot line.
   (D)   Building Site Area, R1 Districts: Except as otherwise specified in the
case of density classes, every building site in an R1 district shall have an
area not less than six thousand (6,000) square feet and an average width not
less than sixty feet (60').
   (E)   Yards, R1 Districts: The minimum requirements for yards in R1
districts shall be as follows:
 
Depth of front yard, subject to the exceptions set forth by chapter 8 20 feet
of this title
Depth of rear yard                                                    20 feet
Width of side yard along the street lot line of a corner lot          10 feet
Width of side yard along interior side lot line                       5 feet
 
   (F)   Height Of Buildings, R1 Districts: No dwelling in an R1 district shall
have more than two and one-half (2 1/2) stories or a height in excess of thirty
five feet (35'). No accessory building shall have a height in excess of fifteen
feet (15').
   (G)   Signs, R1 Districts: No nameplate in an R1 district shall have an area
in excess of four inches by sixteen inches (4" x 16"). Not more than two (2)
sale or lease signs shall be placed on any lot, nor shall any such sign have an
area in excess of nine (9) square feet.
   (H)   Extension Of Dwelling, R1 Districts: In an R1 district, an existing
dwelling may be enlarged by an extension so as to occupy not more than thirty
percent (30%) of the area of a required rear yard; provided that the coverage
limitation is not exceeded, and that no such extension shall exceed one story
in height or be less than five feet (5') from any lot line. An existing garage
located in a side or rear yard may be connected to a main building by an
addition if it is located not less than three feet (3') from any lot line and
is used exclusively to provide automobile parking space.
   (I)   Parking Requirements, R1 Districts: Two (2) spaces are required for
each dwelling unit.
(Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975; amd. Ord. 1993-U, 1-6-1994, eff. 1-24-
1994; Ord. 2000-H, 12-7-2000, eff. 12-26-2000; Ord. 2024-03, 6-5-2024)
4-3-3: R2 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
The medium density multi-family residential district, designated herein by the
symbol R2, is intended to protect established neighborhoods of such dwellings
and to provide space suitable in appropriate locations for additional housing
developments of this kind such as garden apartments, townhouses, duplexes and
similar dwellings, including condominium developments.
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The following principal uses are permitted in an R2
district:
      1.   One-family dwelling, two-family dwelling.
      2.   Multiple dwelling.
      3.   Garden, orchard, field crop; where no building is involved. (Ord.
1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
   (B)   Conditional Uses; R2 Districts: The following are conditional uses in
an R2 district, permitted only when authorized by the planning commission:
      1.   Church, school, recreational, utility or service facility, all as
limited and regulated in R1 districts.
      2.   Community clubhouse.
      3.   Parking lot.
      4.   Boarding house.
      5.   Rest home.
      6.   Mobile home park.
      7.   Fraternal clubs.
      8.   Invalid or invalid caretaker secondary housing. A secondary
independent living unit on a lot or parcel already developed to the maximum
density allowed in the district, for the housing of an invalid family member or
a caretaker of an invalid family member residing in the primary residence on
the parcel, subject to the following:
         (a)   The dwelling may be attached or detached from the primary
residence. A mobile home may not be attached to the primary residence.
         (b)   The floor area of the secondary dwelling may not exceed that of
the primary dwelling.
         (c)   The conditional use permit must be reviewed within two (2) years
and every two (2) years thereafter.
         (d)   The secondary dwelling must be removed if it is a mobile
structure when it is no longer used for invalid or invalid caretaker housing.
In the case of an attached or conventionally constructed dwelling where removal
is impractical, the unit may not be utilized as rental housing. (Ord. 1975-A,
3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975; amd. Ord. 1993-U, 1-6-1994, eff. 1-24-1994)
   (C)   Accessory Uses: Same as R1.
   (D)   Building Site Area: Every building site in the R2 district shall have
an area of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet. The minimum width
of a lot shall be seventy five feet (75').
   (E)   Yards: The minimum requirements for yards in the R2 district shall be
as follows:
 
Depth of front yard 15 feet
Depth of rear yard  10 feet
Width of side yard  5 feet
 
   (F)   Height Of Building: No building in an R2 district shall have more than
four (4) stories or a height in excess of fifty feet (50').
   (G)   Signs: Same as R1.
   (H)   Parking: Off-street parking spaces shall be provided on a parking lot
or within a garage or carport at the ratio of one and one-half (1.5) spaces per
dwelling unit. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
4-3-4: R3 CONSERVATION RESERVE DISTRICT:
The one-family residence districts, designated herein by the symbol R3,
intended to identify outlying lands that may be developed, but where the
character of the land is unsuitable for intensive development.
   (A)   Permitted Uses:
      1.   One one-family dwelling on a lot.
      2.   Garden, orchard, field crop. (Ord. 1981-E, 7-9-1981, eff. 8-1-1981)
   (B)   Conditional Uses:
      1.   Church.
      2.   School, attendance at which satisfies the requirements of the
compulsory education laws of the state.
      3.   Recreation facility owned and maintained by an agency of any city,
the county, the state or federal agencies.
      4.   Invalid or invalid caretaker secondary housing. A secondary
independent living unit on a lot or parcel already developed to the maximum
density allowed in the district, for the housing of an invalid family member or
a caretaker of an invalid family member residing in the primary residence on
the parcel, subject to the following:
         (a)   The dwelling may be attached or detached from the primary
residence. A mobile home may not be attached to the primary residence.
         (b)   The floor area of the secondary dwelling may not exceed that of
the primary dwelling.
         (c)   The conditional use permit must be reviewed within two (2) years
and every two (2) years thereafter.
         (d)   The secondary dwelling must be removed if it is a mobile
structure when it is no longer used for invalid or invalid caretaker housing.
In the case of an attached or conventionally constructed dwelling where removal
is impractical, the unit may not be utilized as rental housing. (Ord. 1981-E,
7-9-1981, eff. 8-1-1981; amd. Ord. 1993-U, 1-6-1994, eff. 1-24-1994)
   (C)   Accessory Uses: Same as R1.
   (D)   Building Site Area: Every building site in an R3 district shall have
an area not less than two and one-half (21/2) acres, and a minimum width of two
hundred feet (200').
   (E)   Yards: The minimum requirements for yards in R3 districts shall be as
follows:
 
Depth of front yard 50 feet
Depth of rear yard  50 feet
Width of side yards 20 feet
 
In no event shall any structure be located closer than fifty feet (50') from
the right of way of any state, county or federal highway.
   (F)   Height: No building shall have a height of more than forty feet (40').
   (G)   Signs: No sign shall have an area in excess of nine (9) square feet.
   (H)   Parking: All vehicles must be parked off the street. (Ord. 1981-E, 7-
9-1981, eff. 8-1-1981)
CHAPTER 4
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Commercial Districts
4-4-2: C1 General Commercial-Retail Districts
4-4-3: C1 General Commercial-Retail Districts; Group I
4-4-4: C1 General Commercial-Retail Districts; Group II
4-4-5: C2 Highway Services and Tourist Commercial Districts
4-4-6: C3 High Rise General Commercial-Tourist Commercial Districts
4-4-1: COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
Certain classes of districts, designated herein by the primary symbol "C" and
collectively referred to as Commercial or "C" Districts, are established to
provide for the various types of shopping, service and business facilities. The
specific regulations set forth for each in the following Sections are subject
to all the general regulations of Chapter 8 of this Title.
4-4-2: C1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL-RETAIL DISTRICTS:
The primary purpose of and application of this District shall be to provide
suitable lands and locations of various retail, service and commercial
activities, including gaming (Group I) and for the location of offices for
professional services and for business activities which involve a relatively
low volume of direct consumer contact; and to regulate such development (Group
II).
4-4-3: C1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL-RETAIL DISTRICTS; GROUP I:
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The following principal uses are permitted in the C1
Group I category, when entirely conducted within an enclosed building:
      1.   Retail stores, including:
Bakery
Book or stationery store
Confectionery store
Drugstore, pharmacy
Dry goods or notions store
Florist or gift shop
Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores
Hardware or electrical appliance store
Jewelry store
Meat market or delicatessen store
Apparel and department stores
Amusement enterprises
Antique stores
Automobile and trailer sales provided that repair work be conducted wholly
within a building
Furniture stores
Secondhand stores, if conducted wholly within completely enclosed building
Bar, cocktail lounge and eating and drinking establishments
Gaming and gambling establishments
      2.   Services:
Bank
Barber shop and beauty parlor
Cafe or restaurant (including dancing or entertainment)
Church
Clothes cleaning agency and/or pressing establishment
Club or lodge (non-profit), fraternal or religious association
Community Center
Dressmaker or millinery shop
Clinic (human or animal)
Laundry
Photographer
Post Office
Shoe store and repair
Tailor
Motion picture theater
Blueprinting or photostating
Cleaning and pressing establishment
Carpenter shop, if conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building and
no more than five (5) persons are employed on the premises
Conservatory of music
Drive-in business
Fortune telling, clairvoyance or astrology
Interior decorating store
Locksmith shop
Massage
Medicine and dental laboratories
Mortuary
Newspaper plants
Public garage, including automobile repairing and incidental body work,
painting or upholstering, if all operations are conducted wholly within a
completely enclosed building. Provided, however, that where a public garage is
located on a lot which does not abut an alley and is within sixty five feet
(65') of a lot in any "R" District, the garage wall which parallels the nearest
line of such district shall have no opening other than stationary windows
Public services, including electric distributing substation, fire or police
station, telephone exchange and similar uses
Theater
Wedding Chapel
      3.   Other uses similar to above if approved by the Planning Commission
   (B)   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the Group I
category and shall be permitted only if approved by the Planning Commission:
Frozen food locker plants (excluding wholesale processing or cold storage)
Plumbing shop
Printing, lithographing, publishing or reproducing
Distributors of petroleum products if location is approved by Planning
Commission
Furniture warehouse, for storing personal household goods, provided the ground
floor front is devoted to stores.
Ice storage house if not more than five (5) ton capacity
Trade school, if location is approved by the Planning Commission
Stadium and commercial recreation enterprise (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-75, eff. 4-1-75)
Outdoor advertising signs (Ord. 1982-J, 9-8-82, eff. 10-1-82)
   (C)   Parking: One parking space shall be provided for each four hundred
(400) square feet of usable floor area for all permitted and conditional uses
in the Group I category.
   (D)   Yards: No requirements.
   (E)   Height Limitations: No building shall have a height in excess of fifty
feet (50') or four (4) stories, or in excess of twenty feet (20') when located
within fifty feet (50') of a Residential (R) District.
   (F)   Building Site Area: The minimum building site area or lot in this
Group shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet; the minimum width of a lot
shall be seventy five feet (75').
4-4-4: C1 GENERAL COMMERCIAL-RETAIL DISTRICTS; GROUP II:
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The following principal uses are permitted in a Group
II category:
      1.   Office or office building for the conduct of business, professional
or administrative services
      2.   Bank, loan agency
      3.   Church, library, exhibit hall, art gallery
      4.   Clinic, hospital
      5.   Clubhouse or rooms used by members of a lodge, union or society
      6.   Medical or dental laboratory
   (B)   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses and shall be
permitted only if approved by the Planning Commission:
      1.   Pharmacy, limited to the sale of drugs and medical supplies
      2.   Restaurant or store needed to serve the occupants or existing
buildings
      3.   Parking lot
      4.   Public utility substation or facility, not including any service
yard or repair shop
      5.   Mortuary establishment (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-75, eff. 4-1-75)
      6.   Outdoor advertising signs (Ord. 1982-J, 9-8-82, eff. 10-1-82)
   (C)   Accessory Uses: In a Group II category, a dwelling unit within a
business building may be qualified as an accessory use if it is for occupancy
by the owner or a lessee of business premises therein, or by a caretaker or
watchman.
   (D)   Yards: The minimum yard requirements shall be as follows:
 
Depth of front yard           15 feet
Depth of rear yard            10 feet
Width of side yard abutting any   
R District or on the street side  
of a corner lot               10 feet
otherwise                     5 feet
 
No required yard shall be used as a parking space.
All yards shall be landscaped or provided with growing ground cover, except for
access driveways and walks.
   (E)   Height Of Building: No building in a Group II category shall have a
height in excess of fifty feet (50') or four (4) stories.
   (F)   Signs: In a Group II category, the aggregate of identifying business
signs on any one building site, or alternatively for each ten thousand (10,000)
square feet of a building site containing two (2) or more separate main
buildings, shall not exceed six (6) in number or fifty (50) square feet in
area. No sign shall have any moving parts or extend more than four feet (4')
above the roof or cornice line of any main building on the site. No sale or
lease sign shall exceed nine (9) square feet in area.
   (G)   Building Site Area: The minimum building site area or lot in a Group
II category shall be seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet. The
minimum width of a lot shall be seventy five feet (75').
   (H)   Parking: One parking space shall be provided on site for each two
hundred (200) square feet of usable floor area. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-
1-1975)
4-4-5: C2 HIGHWAY SERVICES AND TOURIST COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
The C2 Highway Services and Tourist Commercial District is established to
provide space for highway and tourist related enterprises adjacent to major
routes of travel so regulated as to prevent the impairment of safe and
efficient movement of traffic and to encourage attractive development,
compatible with adjacent residential land uses.
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The following principal uses are permitted when
conducted entirely within a completely enclosed building:
      1.   Store for the sale at retail of books, confectionery, dairy
products, drugs, flowers, food, stationery, toys or variety household goods,
excluding secondhand stores.
      2.   Barber shop, beauty parlor.
      3.   Tailor dressmaking or shoe repair shop.
      4.   Office, bank, rental agency.
      5.   Laundry, or dry cleaning pick-up agency, self-service automatic
laundry.
      6.   Eating establishment, including liquor and gaming.
      7.   Commercial recreation facility.
      8.   Social, cultural, religious or philanthropic institution.
      9.   Liquor stores.
      10.   Motel, motor hotel, with gaming. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-
1975)
      11.   Outdoor advertising signs. (Ord. 1982-J, 9-8-1982, eff. 10-1-1982)
   (B)   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses and shall be
permitted only if approved by the Planning Commission:
      1.   Any of the uses permitted when combined with or involving any
outdoor display of goods or outdoor business activity.
      2.   Automobile service station, including facilities for general repair
or mechanical washing.
      3.   Plant nursery, greenhouse, garden supply store.
      4.   Sale at retail of new or used automotive vehicles, trailers or
boats.
      5.   Drive-in restaurant.
      6.   Establishment where liquor is sold for consumption on the premises.
      7.   Clinic, hospital (human or animal).
      8.   Recreational vehicle park. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
      9.   Mobile home park. (Ord. 1979-AA, 11-8-1979, eff. 12-1-1979)
      10.   Truck service station, including services for general repair or
mechanical washing. (Ord. 1980-I, 6-5-1980, eff. 6-25-1980)
      11.   Post offices. (Ord. 1997-B, 3-19-1997, eff. 4-3-1997)
   (C)   Accessory Uses: In a C2 District, a dwelling unit within a business
building may be qualified as an accessory use if it is for occupancy by the
owner or lessee of business premises therein, or by a caretaker or watchman.
   (D)   Yards: The minimum requirements for yards shall be as follows:
 
Depth of front yard 30 feet
Depth of rear yard  20 feet
Side yards          10 feet
 
   (E)   Height Limitations: No building shall have a height in excess of fifty
feet (50') or four (4) stories, or in excess of twenty feet (20') when located
within fifty feet (50') of an "R" District.
   (F)   Building Site Area: The minimum building site area or lot in the C2
District shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet; the minimum width of a lot
shall be seventy five feet (75').
   (G)   Parking: One parking space shall be provided for each three hundred
(300) square feet usable floor area for all permitted and conditional uses in
the C2 District. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-75; eff. 4-1-75)
4-4-6: C3 HIGH RISE GENERAL COMMERCIAL-TOURIST COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
The C-3 High Rise General Commercial and Tourist Commercial District is
established to provide space for office, general commercial, and tourist
related enterprises adjacent to major arteries of travel within an
unincorporated town so regulated to prevent the overtaxing of Municipal
facilities and encourage attractive development compatible with adjacent land
uses.
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The following principal uses when conducted within a
completely enclosed building:
      1.   Retail stores for the sale of books, confectionery, dairy products,
drugs, flowers, food, stationery, toys or variety household goods, excluding
secondhand stores.
      2.   Services:
Barber shops, beauty parlor
Tailor, dressmaker
Bank
Office
Real estate office
Laundry or drycleaning pick-up or agency
Eating establishment, including liquor and gaming
Gaming and gambling establishments
Medical facilities, including clinic or hospital
Establishment where liquor is sold for consumption on the premises
Wedding Chapel
      3.   Public Buildings:
Theatres, live or motion picture
Conservatory of music
Churches, library or art gallery
Club or lodge, fraternal or religious association
Automobile parking structures used only for parking and not for the sale or
repair of automobiles
      4.   Hotels, motels, motor hotels with gaming
      5.   Other uses similar to above if approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses and shall be
permitted only if approved by the Planning Commission:
      1.   Automobile service station, including facilities for general repair
or mechanical washing.
      2.   Animal Clinic
      3.   Parking Lot
      4.   Public utility substation or facility, not including any service
yard or repair shop
      5.   Printing, lithographing, publishing, or reproducing plant
      6.   Stadium and commercial recreation enterprise
      7.   Schools, if location is approved by the Planning Commission (Ord.
1980-0, 2-7-80, eff. 3-1-80)
      8.   Outdoor advertising signs. (Ord. 1982-J, 9-8-82, eff. 10-1-82)
   (C)   Accessory Uses: In a C3 District a dwelling unit within a business
building may be qualified as an accessory use if it is for occupancy by the
owner or lessee of the business premise therein, or by a caretaker or watchman.
   (D)   Yards: The minimum requirements for yards shall be as follows:
 
Depth of front yard 30 feet
Depth of rear yard  20 feet
Side yards          10 feet
 
   (E)   Height Limitations: No restrictions up to two hundred forty feet
(240') or twenty (20) stories. Buildings in excess of these limits must be
individually approved by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Building Site Area: The minimum building site area or lot in the C3
District shall be one acre; the minimum width of a lot shall be two hundred
feet (200').
   (G)   Parking: One parking space shall be provided for each three hundred
(300) square feet of useable floor and for all permitted and conditional uses
in the C3 District. Reduction of this requirement requires Planning Commission
approval. (Ord. 1980, D, 2-7-80, eff. 3-1-80)
CHAPTER 5
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Industrial And Extractive Districts
4-5-2: M1 General Industrial And Extractive Districts
4-5-3: LI, Light Industrial District
4-5-1: INDUSTRIAL AND EXTRACTIVE DISTRICTS:
Certain classes of districts designated herein by the primary symbol "M" and
collectively referred to as industrial or M districts, are established to
provide for the various types of manufacturing, warehousing, processing and
mineral extraction activities of Elko County. Note: Inasmuch as Elko County is
dotted with many old nonworking mine sites any future mineral extraction and/or
milling shall require appropriate zoning or a variance if more than         
years have elapsed since the mine and/or mill was last operative. Last
operative year shall be the last calendar year in which a net "proceeds of
mines" report was filed. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
4-5-2: M1 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL AND EXTRACTIVE DISTRICTS:
The M1 general industrial and extractive district is intended to provide space
in suitable locations in Elko County for all types of manufacturing,
warehousing, processing, mining, ore reduction and mineral development
activities.
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The following listed uses are permitted uses within
the M1 district:
      1.   Agricultural uses of any kind including animal and fowl raising in a
situation where the feeds for such living animal or fowl are not grown by the
animal or fowl raiser, but imported to the site from elsewhere.
      2.   Retail and wholesale establishment for the sale or distribution of
products manufactured or produced by the industry on the same site.
      3.   Commercial establishments provided as a service to employees of the
plant or industry on the same site.
      4.   Dwellings to be limited to lots or parcels on which permitted
factories manufacturing plants or industrial uses are located, such dwelling to
be used exclusively by the caretaker or superintendent of such enterprise and
his family.
      5.   Mining, including milling.
      6.   Oil well drilling.
      7.   Steam electric generating station.
      8.   Railroad yards.
      9.   Airports and landing fields.
      10.   Manufacturing uses, as listed:
         (a)   Food and kindred products:
            (1)   Sugar.
            (2)   Beverage industries.
            (3)   All other types of food and kindred products.
         (b)   Textile mill products:
            (1)   Scouring and combing plants.
            (2)   Carpets, rugs and other floor coverings.
            (3)   Miscellaneous textile goods:
               A. Felt goods.
               B. Processed waste.
               C. Linen goods.
               D. Jute goods.
               E. Cordage and twine.
         (c)   Lumber and wood products:
            (1)   Logging camps and logging contractors.
            (2)   Sawmills and planing mills.
            (3)   Millwork, plywood and prefabricated structural wood products.
            (4)   Miscellaneous wood products.
         (d)   Chemicals and allied products:
            (1)   Drugs and medicines.
         (e)   Products of petroleum and coal:
            (1)   Coke and byproducts.
            (2)   Paving and roofing materials.
            (3)   Miscellaneous petroleum and coal products.
         (f)   Rubber products: All types.
         (g)   Leather and leather products:
            (1)   Industrial leather belting and packing.
            (2)   Boot and shoe cut stock and findings.
         (h)   Stone, clay, and glass products: All types.
         (i)   Primary metal industries: All types.
         (j)   Fabricated metal products: All types.
         (k)   Machinery and electrical machinery: All types.
         (l)   Transportation equipment: All types.
         (m)   Miscellaneous manufacturing industries:
            (1)   Candles.
            (2)   Mortician's goods.
            (3)   Beauty and barber shop equipment.
            (4)   Furs, dressed and dyed. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-
1975)
   (B)   Conditional Uses: The following manufacturing and industrial uses
shall be permitted if the location and development plan is approved by the
planning commission:
      1.   Ammunition.
      2.   Meatpacking and slaughtering.
      3.   Dyeing and finishing textiles.
      4.   Canning and curing of sea foods.
      5.   Pulp goods and miscellaneous converted paper products.
      6.   Pulp, paper and paperboard mills.
      7.   Chemicals and allied products.
      8.   Petroleum refinings.
      9.   Leather - tanned, curried and finished.
      10.   Matches.
      11.   Fireworks and pyrotechnics.
      12.   Rendering or reduction plant.
      13.   Salvage yard.
      14.   Junkyard.
      15.   Open storage of used building, used building materials and used
fixtures.
      16.   Blast furnace or coke oven.
      17.   Rocket propellants manufacturing and testing.
      18.   Explosives.
      19.   Permanent asphalt plant.
      20.   Livestock feed and sales yard.
      21.   Stockyards.
      22.   Sandblasting plants.
      23.   Tank farm for petroleum products.
      24.   Cement, lime, gypsum, potash or plaster of paris manufacture.
      25.   Drop forge industries manufacturing forgings with power hammers.
      26.   Iron, steel, brass or copper foundry or fabrication plant,
including rolling mill and boiler works.
      27.   Ore reduction, including refining and smelting of metals.
      28.   Outdoor advertising signs.
      29.   Parking lot.
Auto wrecking, salvage yards, junkyards, and open storage of used buildings,
used building materials, and used fixtures, must be completely enclosed within
a neat, painted, solid six foot (6') fence which shall be constructed in
accordance with requirements of the county building official and maintained in
good repair and painted at all times. Any of the above uses legally existing at
the time this section became effective, shall be deemed to have been approved
by the planning commission and nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent the enlargement and expansion of existing buildings and facilities for
such uses if all other regulations of this chapter are complied with, including
the condition of any exception or variance heretofore granted authorizing such
use.
All existing yards and open storage noted in the above paragraph shall be
required to be fenced. Existing facilities shall have two (2) years from the
effective date of this title to meet this requirement. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975,
eff. 4-1-1975; amd. Ord. 1982-J, 9-8-1982, eff. 10-1-1982; Ord. 2012-12, 1-9-
2013, eff. 2-7-2013)
   (C)   Accessory Buildings: Any accessory building customarily incidental to
any of the above uses when located on the same lot.
   (D)   Similar Uses M1 District: Any use similar to those listed specifically
for the M1 district if the use, location and development plan is approved by
the planning commission.
   (E)   Abatement Of Fumes And Odors: Uses in the M1 district shall be
planned, developed, conducted and operated so that smoke, fumes, dust, odors,
liquids and other waste of any kind is confined and/or purified to control
pollution of air, soil or water to meet the standards and requirements of the
planning commission and in such manner as to provide no threat to public health
and welfare.
   (F)   Parking And Loading: One parking space for each full time employee
shall be provided, plus guest parking and loading space as deemed appropriate
by the planning commission for the particular use.
   (G)   Yards: The minimum requirements for yards in the M1 district shall be
as follows:
 
Front yard 25 feet
Rear yard  15 feet
Side yard  10 feet
 
   (H)   Height Limitations: None, except where the M1 district abuts an R or C
district, no building, structure, chimney, or other facility within five
hundred feet (500') of an R or C district boundary shall exceed thirty five
feet (35') and two and one-half (21/2) stories in height.
      1.   Area Of Building Site Requirements: Every lot or building site in an
M1 district shall have an area not less than twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet, and a width of not less than one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-
1975, eff. 4-1-1975; amd. Ord. 1982-J, 9-8-1982, eff. 10-1-1982)
4-5-3: LI, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
Certain areas of the county are or shall be zoned as light industrial to
provide suitable locations for various types of clean, light industrial,
construction or commercial use of property. These districts shall be designated
as LI districts.
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The following primary uses are permitted in a light
industrial (LI) district:
      1.   Ambulance service.
      2.   Animal boarding (enclosed).
      3.   Appliance repair.
      4.   Assembly of products and materials.
      5.   Automobile parking lot.
      6.   Bakery.
      7.   Bottling plant.
      8.   Business machine service.
      9.   Cemetery.
      10.   Community clubhouse, social clubs.
      11.   Contractor services.
      12.   Corporate offices.
      13.   Electrician shop.
      14.   Fabricating of products and materials, provided that such
fabrication does not result in fumes and/or debris being emitted into the air
or any odor-causing agents or toxicants being released into the public sewer
system, public water system or under the ground.
      15.   Fire station.
      16.   Freeport storage of goods and/or parts.
      17.   Funeral home and/or mortuary.
      18.   Government administration offices (including equipment and
storage).
      19.   Health and sports clubs.
      20.   Individual family residential uses, including mobile homes,
provided that such mobile homes qualify and constitute real property as
established by chapter 361 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
      21.   Laboratories (medical, dental, optical, veterinary, chemists).
      22.   Libraries.
      23.   Manufacturing of products and materials provided, however, that
such manufacturing does not result in noxious fumes and/or debris being emitted
into the air, or any odor-causing agents or toxicants being released into the
public sewer system, public water system or under the ground.
      24.   Medical office.
      25.   Medical or dental type clinic.
      26.   Municipal building.
      27.   Museum.
      28.   Parks and playing fields.
      29.   Plumbing shop.
      30.   Post office.
      31.   Professional offices.
      32.   Storage units.
      33.   Trade and industrial schools for skills associated with the uses
hereunder.
      34.   Utility companies and buildings, including necessarily related
structures, storage yards and related uses, but not power plants.
   (B)   Conditional Uses: The following uses may be allowed within a Light
Industrial District only if permitted, and only under the conditions specified
by the Planning Commission in a conditional use permit:
      1.   All other commercial and industrial uses which compliment and are of
no more objectionable character than the listed permitted Light Industrial uses
as determined by the Planning Commission and particularly, commercial services
such as banks, gasoline service stations and food and beverage services and
businesses designed to serve the district, or residential use as a mobile home
park.
   (C)   Accessory Permitted Uses: The accessory permitted uses in the Light
Industrial District are:
      1.   Automobile parking.
      2.   Uses incidental to utility companies.
      3.   Accessory Buildings Permitted: Any accessory building customarily
incidental to any of the above stated uses and located on the same parcel, and
meeting all set-back requirements and Building Code regulations.
   (D)   Screen Walls: When the Light Industrial District abuts a residential
district, or the light industrial use will occur within one hundred fifty feet
(150') of a residential district, or a lot used for residential purposes, a
screen wall not less than six feet (6'), nor more than eight feet (8'), in
height above the grade, will be required to be constructed by the
nonresidential user as approved by the Planning Commission provided, however,
such wall shall extend no closer to a public thoroughfare than the minimum set-
back requirement or as required for visibility on the public thoroughfare.
   (E)   Minimum Parcel Size: Ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
   (F)   Minimum Set-back Requirements: Required minimum yard set- backs in the
Light Industrial District shall be as follows:
 
1. Front Yard 10 feet
2. Rear Yard  20 feet
3. Side Yard  20 feet
 
   (G)   Maximum Building Height: Maximum allowable building height in Light
Industrial Districts shall not exceed allowable elevation indications in
applicable airport master plans or Federal aviation administration regulations;
and where the Light Industrial District abuts on a residential or commercial
district, no building or structure within five hundred feet (500') of the
residential or commercial district boundary shall exceed thirty five feet (35')
in height, nor two and one-half (21/2) stories in height.
   (H)   Property Owner Responsibility: It shall be the duty and responsibility
of the property owner to plan and develop his property in such a way that:
      1.   On-street space will not be used to satisfy parking or loading space
needs;
      2.   Points of access from the public street will be minimized; and
      3.   Driveway openings will be so located and dimensioned as to minimize
the disruption of passing traffic and the creation of traffic hazards.
   (I)   Regulations Pertaining to Traffic: Every use shall conform to the
following general standards in addition to the special standards for certain
specific uses as set forth in this Chapter.
      1.   Traffic Visibility: No obstructions to visibility at any street
intersection including, but not limited to, structures, parked vehicles or
vegetation, shall be allowed or permitted to remain in the District between the
heights of two and one-half feet (21/2') and eight feet (8') above the ground
and within fifteen feet (15') of the intersection of the street right-of-way
lines. In the case of an arterial street intersecting another arterial street
or a railroad at grade, the vision clearance space shall be increased to twenty
five feet (25').
      2.   Driveways: All driveways installed, altered, changed, replaced, or
extended after the effective date of this Chapter shall comply with the
following requirements:
         (a)   Driveway openings shall not be less than thirty feet (30') and
shall not exceed forty feet (40') in width measured at the curb line.
         (b)   Vehicular entrances and exits, public amusement uses, parks,
funeral homes, Municipal buildings or similar uses generating very heavy
periodic traffic, shall be located not closer than two hundred feet (200') to
any pedestrian entrance or exit to a school, college, university, church,
hospital, public emergency shelter or other place of public assembly.
      3.   Access:
         (a)   No direct private access shall be permitted to the existing or
proposed right-of-way of any freeway, interstate highway, expressway or
controlled access or arterial street without the express permission of the
agency having access control jurisdiction.
         (b)   No direct public or private access shall be permitted to the
existing or proposed rights-of-way of:
            (1)   Freeways or interstate highways, nor to their interchanges or
turning lanes, nor to their intersecting or interchanging streets, within one
thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the most remote end of the taper of the
turning lanes.
            (2)   Arterial streets intersecting another arterial street, within
forty feet (40') of the intersection of right-of-way lines.
            (3)   Local or collector streets intersecting an arterial street,
within twenty five feet (25') of the intersection of right-of-way lines.
         (c)   The driveway of every interior lot fronting on an arterial
street shall have a paved turning area allowing vehicles to turn around and
head into the arterial street. Under no circumstances shall any parking lot be
so arranged as to necessitate backing a vehicle onto an arterial street.
   (J)   Off-Street Parking Regulations: Off-street parking facilities shall be
provided in an amount not less than hereinafter specified, for the parking of
self-propelled motor vehicles used by occupants, employees, patrons, members
and clients of establishments or uses erected or established after the
effective date of this Chapter, and of existing establishments or uses which
are thereafter extended, enlarged or changed.
                                                                                 A minimum of
                                                                                 two (2) off-
1. Mobile Home Parks and Subdivisions.                                           street
                                                                                 parking
                                                                                 spaces per
                                                                                 mobile home.
2. Offices:                                                                       
                                                                                 1 per 300 sq.
   a. Offices, banks, savings and loan agencies.                              ft. of usable
                                                                                 floor area.
                                                                                 1 per 100 sq.
                                                                                 ft. of
                                                                                 waiting room
                                                                                 + 1 per
   b. Medical and dental offices and clinics.                                 examination
                                                                                 room or
                                                                                 dental chair,
                                                                                 + 1 per 2
                                                                                 employees.
3. Places of Public Assembly:                                                     
                                                                                 1 per 200 sq.
Social Clubs such as Elks, Moose, VFW, etc.                                      ft. of usable
                                                                                 floor area.
4. Commercial Recreation:                                                         
                                                                                 1 per 3
                                                                                 persons of
                                                                                 maximum
   a. Skating rinks, dance halls, dance studios                               capacity
                                                                                 permitted by
                                                                                 fire
                                                                                 regulations.
                                                                                 4 per bowling
   b. Bowling alleys.                                                         lane, + 1 per
                                                                                 2 employees.
                                                                                 1 per 400
                                                                                 sq.ft. of
   c. Gymnasiums, health clubs.                                               usable floor
                                                                                 area, + 1 per
                                                                                 2 employees.
                                                                                 1 per 2
   d. Private golf clubs swimming clubs, tennis clubs, and similar sport club memberships,
type uses.                                                                       (families or
                                                                                 individuals.)
                                                                                 1 per 100 sq.
                                                                                 ft. of usable
   e. Restaurants, bars, cocktail lounges.                                    floor area, +
                                                                                 1 per 2
                                                                                 employees.
                                                                                 1 per 150 sq.
                                                                                 ft. of usable
   f. Drive-in food or drink lounges.                                         floor area, +
                                                                                 1 per 2
                                                                                 employees.
                                                                                 1 per 3 fixed
                                                                                 chapel seats,
                                                                                 or 1 per 50
                                                                                 sq. ft. of
                                                                                 assembly room
                                                                                 area,
   g. Mortuaries, funeral homes.                                              whichever is
                                                                                 greater + 1
                                                                                 per employee,
                                                                                 + 1 per
                                                                                 commercial
                                                                                 funeral
                                                                                 vehicle.
                                                                                 1 per 2
                                                                                 gasoline
   h. Gas service stations.                                                   pumps, + 2
                                                                                 per service
                                                                                 bay.
                                                                                 1 per 500 sq.
                                                                                 ft. of gross
                                                                                 floor area or
   i. Manufacturing, fabricating and assembling.                              1 per
                                                                                 employee,
                                                                                 whichever is
                                                                                 greater.
                                                                                 1 per 1700
                                                                                 sq. ft. of
                                                                                 usable floor
                                                                                 area, or 1
   j. Freeport warehousing or storage uses                                    per employee,
                                                                                 whichever is
                                                                                 greater, + 1
                                                                                 per company-
                                                                                 owned motor
                                                                                 vehicle.
 
   (K)   Parking Lot Access:
      1.   Access From an Alley: An alley may not be used for principal access
to any parking lot, nor for direct access to parking spaces.
      2.   Access From a Street: No entrance or exit to a parking lot shall be
located closer than fifteen feet (15') to any abutting residential district.
      3.   Drainage: Every parking lot shall be:
         (a)   Properly graded to prevent impoundment of surface water.
         (b)   Required Screen Walls: Where the interior side lot line or rear
lot line of a parking lot abuts a residential district and is not separated
therefrom by an alley, or the parking lot will be within one hundred fifty feet
(150') of a lot used for residential purposes, a screen wall not less than six
feet (6'), nor more than eight feet (8'), in height above the grade, will be
required to be constructed and maintained by the nonresidential user as
approved by the Planning Commission prior to construction; provided, however,
that such wall shall extend no closer to the street line than the minimum
required setback for residential properties in the same block.
   (L)   Plans Required for Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces: Site plans
are required for off-street parking and loading and shall show how the required
parking and loading spaces are to be located and arranged on the site. In
addition, such plans shall show how drives and parking lots are to be graded
and drained as well as the location and design of all screen walls, landscaping
and lighting. Such plans must be reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission.
      1.   The owner or occupant of any building or use subject to off- street
parking requirements under this Chapter shall not discontinue or reduce any
existing required parking lot without first having established other parking
space in replacement thereof and having submitted satisfactory evidence to the
Planning Commission that such replacement space meets all requirements of this
Chapter.
      2.   Off-street parking space required under this Chapter shall not be
used for the storage of merchandise, nor for the sale, rent, repair,
dismantling, storage or servicing of vehicles or equipment.
      3.   Required off-street parking shall be located within three hundred
feet (300') of the building or use it is intended to serve, the distance being
measured along the sidewalk from the nearest point of the building or use to
the nearest point of the parking lot; provided, however, that parking
facilities for a stadium, auditorium, outdoor sports arena, or similar use, may
be located not further than one thousand three hundred feet (1,300') from the
nearest point of such building or use.
      4.   Whenever the use of a separate lot or parcel is proposed for
fulfillment of minimum parking requirements, the owner shall submit as a part
of his application, satisfactory assurance that the separate lot or parcel is
permanently committed to parking use by deed restriction or other enforceable
legal measure.
   (M)   Methods of Providing Required Off-Street Parking: Required off-street
parking may be provided by any one, or combination, of the following methods:
      1.   By providing the required parking space on the same lot as the
building or use being served.
      2.   By the collective provision of required parking for two (2) or more
buildings or uses, whereupon the total of such parking shall be not less than
the sum of the requirements for the several buildings or uses computed
separately; provided, however, that if two (2) or more such buildings or uses
have operating hours which do not overlap, the Planning Commission may grant a
reduction of the collective requirement based upon the special circumstances
involved. A written agreement for joint use of such facilities shall be
executed between the parties concerned and a copy shall be filed with the
Building Inspector. (Ord. 1987-G, 9-3-87, eff. 9-21-87)
CHAPTER 6
P, PUBLIC DISTRICTS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Public Districts
4-6-2: P, Public District
4-6-1: PUBLIC DISTRICTS:
Public Districts are created to apply to land that is owned by a governmental
agency and is in some form of public use, including open space, parks, schools
and other public buildings and facilities. The purpose of designating such land
as a "P" District on the Zoning Map is to relate the Zoning Map to major
elements of actual land use and the County-wide Master Plan.
4-6-2: P, PUBLIC DISTRICT:
The Public Use District is intended to provide zoning regulation for such land
and building as may be used for public purposes, but which may in the future be
released for private purposes or which may be developed for more intensive
public purposes.
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The following principal uses are permitted in the "P"
District:
      1.   Buildings and uses of governmental agencies not subject to
regulation by this Code.
      2.   Public building and uses of the County and other governmental
agencies that are subject to regulation by this Code, when in conformity with
the Master Plan and the provisions of other applicable laws.
   (B)   Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the "P"
District, permitted only when authorized by the Planning Commission:
      1.   Parochial or private elementary or secondary schools, either
nonprofit or operated for a profit, attendance at which satisfies the
requirement of the compulsory education laws of the State of Nevada.
      2.   Church (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-75; eff. 4-1-75)
CHAPTER 7
COMBINED DISTRICTS
SECTION:
4-7-1: AA Airport Approach District
4-7-2: AT Altitude-Topography District
4-7-3: FG Fish and Game Critical Areas
4-7-4: FP Flood Plain Districts
4-7-5: GW Groundwater Districts
4-7-6: LM Dry Land and Marshes Districts
4-7-7: ML Meadowlands Districts
4-7-8: SC Stream Corridor Districts
4-7-9: SH Scenic Highway Districts
4-7-10: SS Scenic and Skyline Districts
4-7-11: UP Urban Perimeter Districts
4-7-1: AA AIRPORT APPROACH DISTRICT:
   (A)   Intent: The AA Airport Approach Districts are established to prevent
the establishment of air space obstructions in landing field approaches through
height restrictions and other development controls.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: All uses permitted in other districts designated in
this Zoning Ordinance shall be permitted in the AA Districts except as the
following restriction shall apply:
      1.   The height of any structure or part of a structure, such as a
chimney, tower, antenna, etc., shall be limited according to requirements
established by the Planning Commission or by other municipal or government
authorities.
      2.   In approach zones to air fields, as designated by the Planning
Commission, no meeting place for public or private purposes which is designed
to accommodate more than twenty five (25) persons at one time, shall be
permitted.
4-7-2: AT ALTITUDE-TOPOGRAPHY DISTRICT:
   (A)   Intent: The AT Altitude-Topography Districts are established to
provide protection for designated steep mountain slopes and canyons to preserve
the scenic and natural attributes from unplanned development that would create
irreparable damage to existing natural resources, available water supply,
watershed, erosion and pose a threat to irreplaceable minerals, ground cover
and wildlife.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: All uses permitted in other districts designated in
this Zoning Ordinance shall be permitted in the AT Districts provided that the
developer may first be required to obtain a use permit from the Planning
Commission for the proposed use. The Elko County Building Inspector, Planning
Advisor and County Manager may request such a permit when in their judgment the
proposed use and/or improvements are sufficient to constitute a threat to the
natural land forms of the mountain slopes and canyon walls.
4-7-3: FG FISH AND GAME CRITICAL AREAS:
   (A)   Intent: The Fish and Game Critical Areas or FG Districts are
established to present recognition of designated areas of wildlife habitat that
provides notice to prospective developers and land owners that special planning
considerations are required in such areas. The established FG Districts are in
cooperation with the Department of Fish and Game.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: All uses permitted in other districts designated in
this Zoning Ordinance shall be permitted in the FG District provided that the
developer may first be required to obtain a use permit from the Planning
Commission for the proposed use. The Elko County Building Inspector, Planning
Advisor and County Manager may request such a use permit when, in their
judgment, the proposed use and/or improvements are sufficient to constitute a
threat to a critical area.
The permit application shall include Department of Fish and Game
recommendations regarding impact of the proposed land use plus any other
evidence determined relative to the proposed land use.
4-7-4: FP FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICTS:
   (A)   Intent: The FP Flood Plain Districts are established to present
recognition of a flood plain that provides notice to prospective developers and
land owners that flooding may be expected in a given area. These districts will
include existing stream flooding plains and prevalent cloudburst runoff plains
of influence. The Flood Plain District is hereby created before July 1, 1975,
to qualify Elko County for a National Flood Insurance Program by the County's
adoption and enforcement of effective land use and land management controls to
reduce or avoid future flood losses in connection with new construction in Elko
County, portions of which are designated as a flood hazard area, including the
governing body's review of land use or subdivision development in Flood Plain
Districts, and also at the discretion of the governing body permissive review
of said land use or subdivision development by the Urban Planning Division of
the Office of the State Planning Coordinator of the State of Nevada.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: All uses permitted in other districts designated in
this Zoning Ordinance shall be permitted in the FP Districts, provided that the
developer may first be required to obtain a use permit from the Planning
Commission for the proposed use. The Elko County Building Inspector, Planning
Advisor and County Manager may request such a use permit when in their judgment
the proposed use and/or improvements are sufficient to constitute a threat to
the health and welfare of the developer.
The use permit application shall include sufficient evidence to indicate that
the proposed development will not be impaired by potential flooding and/or free
flowing runoff. This evidence shall include a sketch map showing:
      1.   The location of the property with reference to channel stations.
      2.   The existing topography and proposed grading plan for the property
referenced to established channel elevations.
      3.   The location of existing and proposed uses and finished floor
elevation of existing and proposed structures.
      4.   The location of existing and proposed underground utilities.
      5.   The location of existing and proposed liking or revetments, if any.
4-7-5: GW GROUNDWATER DISTRICTS:
   (A)   Intent: The GW Groundwater Districts are established to present
recognition of a groundwater condition that provides notice to prospective
developers and land owners that a specific condition may be expected in a given
area. These Districts will include information regarding the absence of
groundwater by existing drilling logs and published surveys; designated
critical areas for groundwater use; and areas of known water sources that do
not meet U.S. Public Health Standards for domestic use.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: All uses permitted in other districts designated in
this Zoning Ordinance shall be permitted in the GW Districts, provided that the
developer may first be required to obtain a use permit from the Planning
Commission for the proposed use. The Elko County Building Inspector, Planning
Advisor and County Manager may request such a use permit when in their judgment
the proposed use and/or improvements are sufficient to constitute a threat to
the health and welfare of the developer.
The use permit application may include sufficient evidence in the form of
permits and/or recommendations from the State Engineer of the Water Resources
Division and Health Department.
4-7-6: LM DRY LAND AND MARSHES DISTRICTS:
   (A)   Intent: The LM Dry Lake and Marshes Districts are established to
present recognition. of a seasonal inundated dry lake bed land and the
perennial marsh land that provides notice to prospective developers and land
owners that such a condition exists.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: The Open Space exclusive district uses applicable to
LM District lands shall be the recognized uses for such lands. Any alternate or
conditional use of LM District lands shall require a permit and/or variance
from the Planning Commission.
4-7-7: ML MEADOWLANDS DISTRICTS:
   (A)   Intent: The ML Meadowlands Districts are established to present
recognition of a meadowland designation for specific agricultural lands. The
meadowlands of Elko County are recognized as the most viable lands of the
agricultural industry. Preservation of the meadowlands as such lands blends
with the recognition of Elko County being considered one of the main livestock
producing areas in the State of Nevada.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: The permitted uses in the ML Districts shall be the
uses that are in full compliance with the definition of agriculture as related
to Open Space District uses.
4-7-8: SC STREAM CORRIDOR DISTRICTS:
   (A)   Intent: The SC Stream Corridor Districts are established to present
recognition of the stream corridor zone that provides notice to prospective
developers and land owners that live and intermittent streams are corridor
zoned. The stream corridor shall be defined as the adjacent lands and natural
ground cover that lends to the scenic and natural resource appearance of the
stream.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: All uses permitted in other districts designated in
this Zoning Ordinance shall be permitted in the SC Districts provided that the
developer may first be required to obtain a use permit from the Planning
Commission for the proposed use. The Elko County Building Inspector, Planning
Advisor and County Manager may request such a use permit when in their judgment
the proposed use and/or improvements are sufficient to constitute a threat to
the natural setting of the corridor lands.
The permit shall include what alterations, if any, are proposed to the natural
channel and adjacent corridor lands; setback distances for all improvements;
lay out of underground utilities that would be affected by channel action and
be potential pollution sources to the stream and any other factors requested to
be included by the Planning Commission.
4-7-9: SH SCENIC HIGHWAY DISTRICTS:
   (A)   Intent: The SH Scenic Highway Districts are established to provide
protection for designated highways and roads and to preserve the scenic and
natural attributes on public and private land in Elko County. Included are all
Federal, State highways and all paved County roads.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: All uses permitted in other districts designated in
this Zoning Ordinance shall be permitted in the SH Districts, provided that the
developer may first be required to obtain a use permit from the Planning
Commission for the proposed use. The Elko County Building Inspector, Planning
Advisor and County Manager may request such use permit when in their judgment
the proposed use and/or improvements are sufficient to constitute a threat to
scenic quality of highways, roadsides and scenic vistas. The Planning
Commission will examine each proposal for its architectural character; the
elements of its site planning; the accessibility to freeways, frontage roads
and overpasses; the extent and design of street and curb cuts; signs;
landscaping and other features which bear on the scenic quality of highways,
roadsides and scenic vistas.
4-7-10: SS SCENIC AND SKYLINE DISTRICTS:
   (A)   Intent: The SS Scenic and Skyline Districts are established to present
recognition of scenic and skyline areas that provides notice to prospective
developers and land owners that such land areas have this zoning. The scenic
and skyline lands shall be lands that if not properly developed or used will
exhibit irreparable damage to natural resources and/or provide an unsightly
view by the development.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: All uses permitted in other districts designated in
this Zoning Ordinance shall be permitted in the SS Districts provided that the
developer may first be required to obtain a use permit from the Planning
Commission for the proposed use. The Elko County Building Inspector, Planning
Advisor and County Manager may request such a use permit when in their judgment
the proposed use and/or improvements are sufficient to constitute a threat to
the natural setting and provide an unsightly view.
The permit shall include what improvements and location(s) are proposed and
what impact these factors would have on SS District lands. The permit shall
include the consideration of all utility installations.
4-7-11: UP URBAN PERIMETER DISTRICTS:
   (A)   Intent: The UP Urban Perimeter Districts are established to present
recognition that a three (3) mile perimeter zone exists outside the boundary of
all incorporated city entities within the County. The UP Districts provide
notice to prospective developers and land owners that all proposed zoning
changes, variance requests and land use within these Districts must be approved
by both the County and City entity Planning Commissions.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: All uses permitted in other districts designated in
this Zoning Ordinance shall be permitted in the UP Districts provided the uses
are also in compliance with the applicable city zoning ordinance. (Ord. 1975-A,
3-5-75; eff. 4-1-75)
CHAPTER 8
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-8-1: General Regulations
4-8-2: Voting Places
4-8-3: Exceptions To Height Limitations
4-8-4: Prior Use Permits
4-8-5: Yards
4-8-6: Accessory Uses And Buildings
4-8-7: Mobile Homes
4-8-8: Fences, Walls And Hedges
4-8-9: Temporary Uses
4-8-10: Signs
4-8-11: Nonconforming Uses And Buildings
4-8-12: Open Space Use Assessment
4-8-13: Setback Requirements And Minimum Lot Size Waived
4-8-14: Family Cemeteries
4-8-15: Wind Machine Ordinance
4-8-16: Home Security Cameras
4-8-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this title shall be subject to the following general
regulations, special requirements and exceptions. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff.
4-1-1975)
4-8-2: VOTING PLACES:
Nothing in this title shall limit or interfere with the temporary use of any
property as a public voting place. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
4-8-3: EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
The height limitations of this title shall not apply to such features as
chimneys, church spires or flagpoles. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
4-8-4: PRIOR USE PERMITS:
A use lawfully established in conformance to the conditions of a use permit
issued prior to the effective date of this title may be continued in
conformance to said conditions, subject to any applicable provisions of this
title. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
4-8-5: YARDS:
In order to secure minimum basic provision for light, air, privacy and safety
from fire hazards, every building hereafter constructed shall be upon a lot
which provides for the yards specified for the district in which it is located,
and the following shall control:
   (A)   Rear And Side Yards: Every required rear yard shall extend across the
full width of the lot adjacent to the rear lot line. Every required side yard
shall extend along the side lot line from the front yard, or if there be no
front yard shall extend from the front lot line to the rear lot line. The depth
of the required rear yard and the width of the required side yard shall be
measured inward from and at right angles to the lot line.
   (B)   Front Yards: Every required front yard shall extend across the full
width of the lot adjacent to the front lot line. The depth of the required
front yard shall be measured inward from and at right angles to the front lot
line.
   (C)   Mapped Streets: Whenever a future width line, established in
accordance with the General Plan of the County to indicate the proposed opening
or widening of any thoroughfare traverses any property, the required depth of a
front yard or of an exterior side yard shall be measured inward from such
established future street line. Where a street or portion thereof has been
established but not dedicated, and the said street is generally held open for
public use, even though not shown upon the General Plan, the Planning
Commission shall establish the street lot lines, based on existing use of such
street, and the required yard shall be measured inward therefrom.
   (D)   Front Yard Exceptions: The depth of front yards may be reduced as
herein specified; provided, that the exceptions shall not be constructed to
permit any building to extend over an established future street line or an
established front lot line.
      1.   A building on a lot between two (2) lots in which existing buildings
extend into the required front yard, shall be provided with a front yard not
less in depth than the average of that provided on the said adjacent lots;
      2.   Where the nonconforming front yard exists on only one side of a lot,
the building thereon may project into the required front yard by one-half (1/2)
the distance of the extended portion of the building on the adjacent lot;
      3.   Where five (5) or more contiguous lots fronting on the same street
are developed under concurrent building permits issued to the same builder, the
required depth of front may be met by yards of varying depth whose average
depth is not less than the minimum specified for the district; provided, that
the maximum reduction so allowed shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the
requirements, and further that any increased front yard depth over and above
twenty percent (20%) of the requirement shall not be included in the
calculation of the average.
   (E)   Permitted Projection Into Yards: The following features of a building
may project into a required yard to the extent specified:
      1.   Cornices, eaves or other architectural features which do not
increase the volume enclosed by the building may project, but not to exceed two
feet (2');
      2.   An uncovered stair, landing or porch which does not extend above the
level of the ground floor, except for a protective railing, may project not
more than six feet (6') into a front or rear yard, and not more than three feet
(3') into a required side yard, but shall not be less than thirty inches (30")
from any side lot line. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-75, eff. 4-1-75)
4-8-6: ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Accessory Uses: An accessory use is permitted in any district, subject
to the limitations set forth in this Title, when located on the same lot as a
lawfully existing principal use to which it is incidental and subordinate. No
use shall be deemed to be an accessory use which increases the number of
dwelling units on any lot beyond that permitted in the district.
   (B)   Swimming Pools: A swimming pool is a permitted accessory use in any
district; provided, however, that no swimming pool shall be located in a
required front yard or be nearer than three feet (3') to any fence or building
wall. All swimming pools shall be enclosed in order to prevent a public
nuisance by a fence, hedge or wall, subject to the approval of the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   Accessory Buildings: No detached accessory building shall be located
within five feet (5') of any building or have a height in excess of fifteen
feet (15'). Except as otherwise specifically provided in the regulations for
"R" Districts, no accessory building shall occupy any part of a required yard.
No accessory building in an "R" district shall be within five feet (5') of the
side line of the front half of an abutting lot, or occupy the front half of a
lot or either front quarter of a through lot unless it is distant at least
seventy five feet (75') from any street lot line. On a corner lot which abuts a
key lot, no accessory building shall be nearer the street than a distance equal
to one-half (1/2) the depth of front yard required on the key lot. Where an
accessory garage is accessible to vehicles from an alley, it shall be located
not less than thirty feet (30') from the opposite side of the alley. (Ord.
1975-A, 3-5-75, eff. 4-1-75; amd. Ord. 1993-U, 1-6-94, eff. 1-24-94)
4-8-7: MOBILE HOMES:
Where mobile homes are allowed pursuant to the provisions of this Title, all
mobile homes shall be skirted with material of a similar nature and appearance,
and have the same fire resistance rating as the exterior of the home. (Ord.
1993-U, 1-6-94, eff. 1-24-94)
4-8-8: FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES:
   (A)   Fences, Walls and Hedges: Fences, walls and hedges as regulated herein
may occupy any yard area. Except as otherwise provided, no fence, wall or hedge
shall have a height in excess of six feet (6'). No fence, wall or hedge in a
required front yard, in the required street side yard of a corner lot or in
that part of the rear yard or a corner lot which abuts the required front yard
of a key lot shall have a height in excess of three and one-half feet (31/2').
The term "wall" as used in this Section shall not be deemed to apply to the
wall of a building or to the supporting portion of a retaining wall.
   (B)   Exceptions to Height Limitations: The limitations of subsection (B)
shall not apply where a greater height is required by any other ordinance or is
allowed by a variance or specified in connection with the authorization of a
conditional use. A protective fence enclosing any public property or an open
area for games or a swimming pool shall not be subject to said limitations, if
constructed of wire or steel mesh capable of transmitting at least ninety
percent (90%) light.
   (C)   Measurement of Height: The height of a fence, wall or hedge shall be
measured from the finished level of the ground beneath it on the premises
required to provide it. Where the fence or hedge rises directly above a
retaining wall along a lot line, or above, parallel with and within four feet
(4') of such a wall, the permitted height of a fence not required by this Title
shall be reduced by one-half (1/2) the height of the supporting portion of the
retaining wall, but in no case to less than three feet (3'). (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-
75, eff. 4-1-75)
4-8-9: TEMPORARY USES:
   A.   This Title shall not be construed to prohibit the following temporary
uses in any district:
      1.   A temporary building or use necessary and incidental to the
construction of a building or group of buildings, when located in the same or
abutting property and only during the period of construction.
      2.   A temporary sign placed upon the premises prior to an election by
the owner or occupant for the sole purpose of advocating the election of a
declared candidate for public office or relating to an election proposition on
the ballot.
      3.   The open air sale of Christmas trees during the Christmas season in
any C, A or M district.
   (B)   Temporary Uses, Conditional: The following temporary uses are
conditional uses in the specified districts, and shall be permitted only if
approved by the Planning Commission:
      1.   In any "R" district, a tract and sales office during the period of
construction and original sale of the lots or buildings in a new subdivision;
provided, that the office and accessory signs allowed by the conditions of the
approval shall be removed and all the district regulations applied within ten
(10) days after the expiration of a time limitation which shall be specified in
each instance;
      2.   In any district, a directional sign which shall consist solely of
the name and location of a new tract or subdivision and directions to reach
same; provided that every such sign shall be removed within ten (10) days after
the expiration of a time limitation of six (6) months from the date of the
approval. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-75, eff. 4-1-75)
4-8-10: SIGNS:
   (A)   Regulations: The following regulations shall apply to the various
types of signs as defined in this Title, subject to any special regulations as
to size, location or lighting specified for the district in which the sign is
located:
      1.   A nameplate, a sale or lease sign, a business sign or an identifying
sign is permitted in any district when properly qualified as accessory to a
principal use on the same premises;
      2.   Where the aggregate area of signs is limited, all faces of a sign
shall be included in the calculation.
   (B)   Exceptions: Nothing in this title shall prevent the display on any
premiss of any of the following:
      1.   Official public signs or notices, house numbers, mail box
identification, street names or signs warning of danger or trespass;
      2.   A bulletin board displaying announcement relative to meeting held on
the premises of a church or auditorium;
      3.   A directory or other exclusively informational listing of tenants'
names at the entrance of a building. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-75, eff. 4-1-75)
4-8-11: NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS:
Any use lawfully occupying a building or land at the time of adoption of this
Title or of any subsequent amendment thereto, which does not conform to the
regulations of the district in which it is located is a nonconforming use, and
may continue except as otherwise provided herein. Any building lawfully
existing at the time of adoption of this Title or of any subsequent amendment
thereto which is wholly or partially used for use contrary to the regulations
of the district in which it is located, or which is by reason of its height or
bulk, or with respect to the yards or parking spaces about it or in any other
manner deficient with respect to such regulations, is a nonconforming building
and may continue except as otherwise provided herein.
   (A)   Changes in Nonconforming Uses: Except as otherwise provided, no
nonconforming building shall be enlarged, extended or structurally altered
unless the entire building and the use thereof is so changed as to be
conforming in every respect. No nonconforming use of a building shall be
changed to a different nonconforming use, except upon application to and
approval by the Planning Commission as provided for a conditional use.
   (B)   Nonconforming Dwelling, Exception: A dwelling in any "R" district
which is nonconforming only with respect to a deficiency in yard dimensions or
in parking spaces, may be structurally altered or enlarged; provided that any
addition or enlargement shall itself be fully conforming and that the number of
dwelling units in the structure shall not be increased.
   (C)   Nonconforming Buildings, Maintenance: Ordinary maintenance and minor
repair of a nonconforming building is permitted; provided, that the aggregate
cost of the work done in any period of twelve (12) months on minor alterations
or replacement of interior walls, fixtures or plumbing shall not exceed twenty
five percent (25%) of the assessed value of the building for the fiscal year in
which the work was done.
   (D)   Nonconforming Buildings, Restoration: The restoration of a
nonconforming building that is damaged or partially destroyed by fire,
explosion, act of God, or of the public enemy to the extent of fifty percent
(50%) or less shall be permitted; provided, that such restoration is permitted
by the Building Code of the County and is started within one year and
diligently prosecuted to completion. A nonconforming building that is
completely destroyed, or partially destroyed to a greater extent than above
specified, shall not be restored except in full conformity with all the
regulations of this Title. The proportion of damage or partial destruction
shall be based upon the ratio of the estimated cost of duplicating the entire
structure as it existed prior thereto.
   (E)   Nonconforming Uses, Termination: Whenever a nonconforming use of a
building in any district is changed to a conforming use, or is abandoned, such
use shall not thereafter be reestablished. Where no enclosed building is
involved a nonconforming use shall not be reestablished after discontinuance
thereof for a period of six (6) months. Otherwise every nonconforming building
and every nonconforming use shall be terminated within twenty (20) years after
the effective date of this Title or, if the nonconforming use is an advertising
sign, within three (3) years after the date at which it become nonconforming.
(Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-75, eff. 4-1-75)
4-8-12: OPEN SPACE USE ASSESSMENT:
Pursuant to the provisions of S.B. 167, chapter 749, 1975 Statutes of Nevada,
the following procedures and criteria shall be used in evaluating applications
for open space use assessments:
   (A)   All applications pursuant to this Ordinance shall be received by the
Elko County Assessor from owners of real property and shall be in conformance
with State law.
   (B)   Before any application for open space use assessment shall be granted,
the following criteria must be met:
      1.   No application for open space use assessment shall be granted unless
the land for which the assessment is requested is zoned "OS" (Open Space) as
defined in the Elko County Zoning Ordinance.
      2.   No application for open space use assessment shall be granted if the
land for which the assessment is requested encompasses less than six hundred
(600) acres.
      3.   No application for open space use assessment shall be granted for
any land which is within five (5) miles of any incorporated city.
      4.   No application for open space use assessment shall be granted unless
the land for which the assessment is requested is open to the general public
and has minimum public access, said public access shall be designated on the
property.
      5.   No application for open space use assessment shall be granted unless
the land for which the assessment is requested allows general public access for
hiking and walking, but need not be open for camping, cooking, campfires,
whether artificial or natural, or overnight use unless the applicant consents
thereto.
      6.   No application for open space use assessment shall be granted for
any proposed historical site unless said site is open to the general public for
at least thirty (30) days out of a calendar year.
   (C)   The Board of County Commissioners shall have power to deny any
application for open space use assessment which has met all of the criteria set
forth above if the Board determines that the potential loss of revenues which
would result from approving the application outweighs the benefits to be
derived from preserving the current use of the property.
   (D)   No other sections of the Elko County ordinances are affected hereby.
(Ord. 1975-L, 12-4-1975)
4-8-13: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS AND MINIMUM LOT SIZE WAIVED:
The requirements on setbacks and minimum lot size shall not be applicable to
those platted lots in the townsites of Mountain City, Midas, Contact, Jarbidge,
Lamoille, Montello, Deeth and the Tuscarora townsite area. The minimum lot size
for these areas shall be governed by the existing platted lot size. The setback
requirements shall be those set forth in the adopted building code with respect
to the various types of construction. (Ord. 2002-J, 12-4-2002, eff. 2-7-2003)
4-8-14: FAMILY CEMETERIES:
Family cemeteries shall be permitted subject to the following:
   (A)   The owner of the land must obtain and provide documentation of state
of Nevada health department approval for use of the land as a family cemetery.
   (B)   The owner of proposed family cemetery must notify and obtain approval
of the Elko County planning and zoning division prior to any interment.
   (C)   The owner of proposed family cemetery site shall provide a metes and
bounds description and record of survey to the state health division and the
Elko County planning and zoning division. Upon approval by Elko County planning
and zoning, the record of survey shall be recorded in the Elko County
recorder's office.
   (D)   The owner of the land must comply with all requirements of Nevada
Revised Statutes 451, inclusive.
   (E)   Each family cemetery shall be not less than 0.25 acre and no more than
0.50 acre in size.
   (F)   Each individual interment plot shall be a minimum size of five feet by
ten feet (5' x 10'). There shall not be more than twenty five (25) interments
per 0.25 acre of family cemetery.
   (G)   Each family cemetery shall be enclosed with a fence meeting the
minimum requirements of Nevada Revised Statutes 569.431.
   (H)   No livestock grazing is allowed within a designated family cemetery.
   (I)   The deed to the property shall be amended to include the legal
description and the designation of the family cemetery.
   (J)   Continued interment in the family cemetery by the original owners
ceases with the sale of the property; unless the family cemetery is legally
subdivided with legal private or public access.
   (K)   Upon subdivision of the family cemetery from the main parcel, the
family cemetery may retain the original zoning designation with the use
restricted to only a family cemetery.
   (L)   The owners of the family cemetery shall not sell plots within the
cemetery.
   (M)   After interment, the family cemetery may not be converted to another
use without going through the appropriate legal procedures.
   (N)   Existing family cemeteries may continue to be used, subject to meeting
state health department and the mapping requirements. (Ord. 2002-H, 8-8-2002,
eff. 9-11-2002)
4-8-15: WIND MACHINE ORDINANCE:
The provisions of this section are intended to encourage the appropriate
development of wind resources by residents of Elko County in appropriate
locations within the county. It is designed to establish the public processes
needed to identify preferred locations for wind turbines and other devices that
convert wind energy to electricity, and create a clear regulatory path that
will address specifically, wind turbine deployment.
This section pertains to residential wind turbines and towers with a maximum
rated output of one hundred (100) kilowatts, commercial wind facilities, and
wind monitoring or meteorological towers both commercial and noncommercial.
Although Elko County has been the site of wind machines in its past, typically
those were used for water pumping for agriculture (livestock) uses. The types
of machines now being contemplated and proposed differ from those historic
devices in purpose, size, technology, cost and potential environmental impact.
As renewable energy technology develops, particularly wind power, we see a
rapidly changing field as more and more individuals give serious consideration
to wind turbines as a means of supplying some or all of their electricity
requirements.
It is therefore the intent of this section "Wind Machine Ordinance" to provide
the county of Elko with an ordinance to understand the land use issues
regarding wind power and to enable its residents to plan for the installation
of modern wind electrical generating equipment. It is the express purpose of
this section to provide for a permitting process to accommodate residential
wind energy and commercial wind conversion facilities in appropriate locations,
while minimizing any adverse visual, safety or environmental impacts of the
facilities.
This section enables the review and approval of proposals for wind energy
conversion facilities through the conditional use process within section
4-9-6 of this title. This section is intended to be used in conjunction with
the Nevada Revised Statutes, Elko County master plans and other regulations
adopted or enacted by Elko County, including, but not limited to, site plan
review, and other factors.
   (A)   Definitions:
    A-WEIGHTED SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL (dBA): The sound pressure level in decibels
as measured on a sound level meter using the A-weighted filter network. The A-
weighted filter de-emphasizes the very low and very high frequency components
of the sound in a manner similar to the frequency response of the human ear and
correlates well with subjective reactions to noise.
   AMBIENT NOISE: The composite of noise from all sources near and far; the
normal or existing level of environmental noise at a given location.
   ANEMOMETER: An instrument that measures the force and direction of the wind.
   CLEAR FALL ZONE: An area surrounding the wind turbine unit into which the
turbine and/or turbine components might fall due to inclement weather, poor
maintenance, faulty construction methods, or any other condition causing
turbine failure that shall remain unobstructed and confined within the property
lines of the primary parcel where the turbine is located at, the purpose being
that if the turbine should fall or otherwise become damaged, the falling
structure will be confined to the primary parcel and will not fall onto
dwellings, accessory buildings, and will not intrude onto a neighboring
property.
   COWLING: A streamlined removable metal that covers the turbines nacelle.
   DISCONNECT, MANUAL: A device by which the conductors of a circuit can be
disconnected from the source of supply.
   IDENTIFICATION MARKING: A sign that identifies the owner of a wind energy
conversion system tower that is inscribed with a twenty four (24) hour
emergency phone number and warning of "Danger High Voltage" or "Caution
Electrical Shock Hazard" which is posted at the wind energy facility.
   INTERFERENCE OR DEGRADATION: A significant and measurable reduction in the
ability to communicate or receive data which cannot be mitigated by other means
by the group interfered with by the wind machine.
   L50: The noise level exceeded fifty percent (50%) of the time during a given
period of time.
   LeqA: The equivalent or energy averaged noise level.
   Lmax: The highest root-mean-square (RMS) noise level measured over a given
period of time.
   METEOROLOGICAL TOWERS: Those towers which are erected primarily to measure
wind speed and directions plus other data relevant to siting wind machines, and
include the tower, guy cables and hardware, anemometers, wind direction vanes,
booms to hold equipment, data logger, instrument wiring, and telemetry devices
that are used to monitor or transmit wind speed and wind flow characteristics
over a period of time for either instantaneous wind information or to
characterize the wind resource at a given location. Meteorological towers under
this section do not include towers and equipment used by airports, Nevada
department of transportation (NDOT), or similar applications to monitor weather
conditions; such towers are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   MICRO WIND ENERGY CONVERSION MACHINE: A private wind machine that has a
maximum rated capacity of less than two (2) kilowatts and is considered an
accessory use. All micro wind machines shall be subject to the provisions of
this section. A micro wind machine consists of a wind turbine, tower, and
associated control or conversion electronics for the purpose of providing
electrical power to meet the future needs of a lawful principal use.
   NACELLE: A separate streamlined metal enclosure that covers the essential
mechanical components of the turbine.
   OVERALL HEIGHT: Shall be measured from finished grade to the uppermost
portion of the rotor blade at its highest point of travel.
   PLACARD, WIRING AND MAINTENANCE: A permanent placard posted near the
residence's main power control box mounted conspicuously notifying any person
beginning work on the electrical system that there is an auxiliary power device
connected to the system.
   PRIMARY STRUCTURE: For each property, the structure that one or more persons
occupy the majority of time on that property for either business or personal
reasons. Primary structures include structures such as residences, commercial
buildings, hospitals, and daycare facilities. Primary structures exclude
structures such as storage sheds, pool houses, unattached garages, and barns.
   PRIVATE WIND ENERGY CONVERSION MACHINE: A wind machine having a minimum
rated capacity of two (2) kilowatts and a maximum rated capacity of one hundred
(100) kilowatts and designed to offset energy costs of the existing principal
uses on parcels of land for the purposes of these regulations.
   PUBLIC ROADS: Roadways that are owned and/or maintained by the county, the
state, or a local general improvement district (GID).
   ROTOR: That part of a wind energy system comprised of an assembly of
rotating airfoils.
   SHADOW FLICKER: Alternating changes in light intensity caused by the moving
blade casting shadows on stationary objects, such as a residential dwelling
which exceeds ten (10) hours a year. The dissipation of shadow intensity over
the distance from a wind machine limits the classification of shadow flicker to
ten (10) rotor diameters or three thousand feet (3,000'), whichever is greater.
   SITE RESTORATION: "Site restoration" of a commercial wind energy facility
shall mean the removal of all wind machines and all ancillary structures and
equipment, excluding the wind machine foundations, and regrading and
revegetation of all disturbed areas.
   SITING: The location of the wind machine upon a parcel of land which takes
advantage of the available wind resource and which avoids obstructions and land
features to maximize wind energy production.
   TRAIL EASEMENTS: An Elko County recorded easement for pedestrian,
equestrian, bicycle or other similar public access uses.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, COMMERCIAL: "Commercial wind energy
conversion system" is defined as:
      1.   Intended to produce electricity to sell for consumption.
      2.   Having a total system height not to exceed six hundred feet (600').
      3.   May be grouped together into a wind energy facility consisting of
one or more wind machines and other structures and buildings, including
substations, electrical infrastructure, and other appurtenant structures and
facilities.
      4.   Subject to subsection (C)2 of this section.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM TEST SITE, COMMERCIAL: "Commercial wind energy
conversion system test site" is defined as electrical equipment, wind sensors,
communication devices, towers, guywires and anchors, and other associated
controls to measure, monitor and report wind speed, wind direction and other
wind related data for commercial systems.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM TEST SITE, NONCOMMERCIAL: "Noncommercial wind
energy conversion system test site" is defined as electrical equipment, wind
sensors, communication devices, towers, guywires and anchors, and other
associated controls to measure, monitor and report wind speed, wind direction
and other wind related data for micro wind energy conversion and private wind
energy conversion systems.
   (B)   Micro Wind Energy And Private Wind Energy Conversion Systems:
      1.   Requirements: All permit applications for micro wind energy and
private wind energy conversion systems provided for under this subsection shall
comply with the following standards and in addition shall comply with that
normally required by other sections in the development code:
         (a)   Minimum Parcel Size: The minimum parcel size for any micro wind
energy conversion system or private wind energy conversion system shall be two
and one-half (2.5) acres.
         (b)   Micro Wind Energy System; No Permit Required: A micro wind
energy system that does not exceed a maximum overall height of forty feet
(40'), or exceed a maximum rotor diameter of four feet (4'), or is not to be
connected to electric utility equipment of any utility grid, shall not require
a conditional use permit.
         (c)   Micro Wind Energy System; Permit Required: A micro wind energy
system that exceeds a maximum overall height of forty feet (40'), or a rotor
diameter exceeding four feet (4'), or is to be connected to electric utility
equipment of any utility grid shall require a conditional use permit.
         (d)   Private Wind Energy Conversion System; Permit Required: A
conditional use permit is required for all private wind energy conversion
systems.
         (e)   Number Allowed On Parcel Of Ten Acre Minimum: Not more than one
micro wind machine or private wind machine or a combination of micro wind
machines and private wind machines with a maximum rated capacity of one hundred
(100) kilowatts shall be allowed in any open space district, special lands
district, agricultural-residential district, agricultural- recreational
district, agricultural-residential conservation reserve district 1,
agricultural-residential conservation reserve district 2, general industrial
district or light industrial district with a minimum parcel size of ten (10)
acres or 1/64th of a section.
         (f)   Number Allowed On Parcel Of Two And One-Half Acres Minimum: Not
more than one private wind machine with a total rated capacity of one hundred
(100) kilowatts or one micro wind machine shall be allowed in any special lands
district, agricultural-residential district, agricultural-recreational
district, agricultural-residential conservation reserve district 1,
agricultural-residential conservation reserve district 2, general industrial
district or light industrial district or R1 district where the parcel size is a
minimum of two and one-half (2.5) acres and less than ten (10) acres or 1/64th
of a section.
         (g)   Number Allowed On Parcel Of Forty Acre Minimum: Not more than
one private wind machine or one micro wind machine, or a combination of wind
machines with a total rated capacity of one hundred (100) kilowatts shall be
allowed per forty (40) acres or 1/16th of a section.
         (h)   Accessory To Permitted Use: Micro wind energy conversion systems
and private wind energy conversion systems shall be an accessory to an existing
principal use and may be utilized for accessory structures or other permitted
uses where the principal use is established.
         (i)   Setbacks:
            (1)   The minimum setbacks from any property line, right of way,
trail, easement, overhead utility, railroad, area set aside for public parking,
public parks and playgrounds, schools or any other area that the public has
access to, any commercial structure designed for recreation, lodging, shopping
or other similar activity where the public gathers, structure designed for
habitation, residence or residential property whether owned or under other
ownership, are one and one-half (11/2) times the overall height.
            (2)   A setback exception may be made for property abutting federal
lands with proper documentation from the governing entity.
            (3)   Setbacks between wind machines upon the same parcel shall
follow the manufacturer's recommendations, but shall not be located closer than
one times the overall height of any wind machine measured to any portion of the
adjacent wind machine including the supporting structure or guywires.
            (4)   Micro wind machines and private wind machines shall be
allowed closer to a property line if the abutting property owner(s) grants
written approval of the proposed setback. The written consent shall be signed
and notarized by the owner of record of the adjoining property and shall detail
the setback distance and the size and height of the proposed private wind
machine. The written consent shall be recorded with the Elko County recorder, a
conformed copy of which shall be submitted with the conditional use application
to construct the wind machine.
            (5)   Guywire anchors may not extend closer than five feet (5')
from any property line and shall be properly marked and maintained from grade
to a height of six feet (6') to help clearly identify them and serve as a
safety system to prevent unwanted injuries. They shall be marked in accordance
with the current adopted electrical codes.
         (j)   Height: Maximum overall height shall not exceed allowable
elevation indications in applicable airport master plans or federal aviation
administration regulations.
         (k)   Rotor Diameter: Maximum wind turbine rotor diameter and wind
energy system height shall be regulated to meet the established and proposed
uses of the property while being flexible to allow for current model offerings.
         (l)   Resiting: Resiting of any approved micro wind energy conversion
system or private wind energy conversion system shall require a new conditional
use permit application.
         (m)   Corner Parcel: Micro wind energy conversion systems and private
wind energy conversion systems shall not be located within any side yard
setback, any rear yard setback, any front yard setback, or within any front or
side yard setback facing a street on a corner parcel of land.
         (n)   Established Easement: The tower, or any of its parts, shall not
be located in or on drainage, utility or other established easements.
         (o)   Approval; Compliance: Micro wind energy conversion systems and
private wind energy conversion systems shall be approved by a national wind
certification program, comply with Elko County adopted international building
code, NEC, UL 1741, IEEE 1547 and IEC section 61400 and other applicable codes.
         (p)   Utility Notification: No micro wind energy conversion system or
private wind energy conversion system that is to be connected to electric
utility equipment of any utility grid shall be operated until a net metering
agreement or interconnection agreement has been made with the affected electric
utility company(ies), and the utility company or companies have approved the
proposed method of interconnection. Off grid systems shall be exempt from this
requirement.
         (q)   Tower And Facility Access: All micro wind energy conversion
systems and private wind energy conversion systems shall comply with the
following provisions:
            (1)   The tower shall be designed and installed so that there shall
be no exterior steps, bolts, or a ladder on the tower readily accessible to the
public for a minimum height of twelve feet (12') above the ground.
            (2)   For lattice or guyed towers, sheets of metal or wood or other
barrier shall be fastened to the bottom tower section such that it cannot
readily be climbed.
            (3)   All ground mounted electrical and control equipment shall be
labeled and secured to prevent unauthorized access.
         (r)   Roof Mounted Systems: Roof mounted micro wind energy conversion
systems and private wind energy conversion systems:
            (1)   Shall not be allowed on residential structures;
            (2)   Shall not be allowed on any structure that the public has
access to;
            (3)   Attachment of a micro wind energy conversion system or
private wind energy conversion system wind machine to an ancillary structure
shall be in strict compliance with regulations of the Elko County department of
building and safety; and
            (4)   The minimum setbacks for roof mounted micro wind energy
conversion systems or private wind energy conversion systems from any property
line, right of way, trail, easement, overhead utility, railroad, area set aside
for public parking, public parks and playgrounds, schools or any other area
that the public has access to, any commercial structure designed for
recreation, lodging, shopping or other similar activity where the public
gathers, structure designed for habitation, residence or residential property
whether owned or under other ownership, are one and one-half (11/2) times the
overall height.
         (s)   Facility Signage And Posting:
            (1)   A sign no larger than three (3) square feet that identifies
the owner of the tower, a twenty four (24) hour emergency phone number, and
warning of "Danger High Voltage" or "Caution Electrical Shock Hazard" shall be
posted at the private wind energy facility.
            (2)   A permanent placard shall be posted near the residence's main
power control box mounted conspicuously notifying any person beginning work on
the electrical system that there is an auxiliary power device connected to the
system.
         (t)   Manual Shutoff Switch: Evidence of an external, manual shutoff
switch is required prior to certificate of occupancy.
         (u)   Rotor Safety:
            (1)   Micro wind energy conversion systems and private wind energy
conversion systems shall be equipped with both manual and automatic controls to
limit the rotational speed of the blade within the design limitations of the
system.
            (2)   All rotating blades shall be a minimum of fifteen feet (15')
above the adjacent finish grade as measured at the lowest point of the arc of
the blades.
         (v)   Repair And Removal:
            (1)   Any micro wind energy conversion systems or private wind
energy conversion system found to be unsafe by an official of the Elko County
department of building and safety shall be repaired by the owner to meet
federal, state, and local safety standards; or
            (2)   Micro wind energy conversion systems and private wind energy
conversion systems that are not operational due to electrical, mechanical or
other pending maintenance issues for a continuous period of twelve (12) months
and upon notification by the department of building and safety of the existence
of an unsafe condition shall be repaired or removed within one hundred eighty
(180) days by the owner of the wind machine. Removal does not include tower
foundations.
            (3)   A micro wind energy conversion system or private wind energy
conversion system that is not used for a period of time of one year or longer
to generate electricity but is in otherwise operable condition and maintained
in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations shall be deemed to be in
operational condition upon demonstration of worthiness by the owner of the wind
machine.
            (4)   A micro wind energy conversion system or private wind energy
conversion system shall be removed within one hundred eighty (180) days where
the building permit is expired.
            (5)   No micro wind energy conversion system or private wind energy
conversion system or combination of wind machines shall be operated so that
impulsive sound below twenty (20) hertz adversely affects the habitability or
use of any off site dwelling unit, hospital, school, library, or nursing home.
            (6)   A manufacturer's sound report shall be submitted with each
building permit.
         (w)   Certified Safe: Evidence shall be submitted with a building
permit application that the micro wind energy conversion system or private wind
energy conversion system has been constructed in accordance with Elko County
adopted international building code, NEC, UL 1741, IEEE 1547, IEC section
61400, other applicable codes, and certified safe.
         (x)   Advertisements: Advertisements are prohibited on all micro wind
energy conversion systems and private wind energy conversion systems. The only
advertising sign allowed on a wind machine shall be a logo on the generator
housing.
         (y)   Artificial Illumination: A micro wind energy conversion system
or private wind energy conversion system shall not be artificially illuminated.
         (z)   Feeder Power Lines: Feeder power lines from the turbine shall be
buried underground from the tower's base to whichever structure houses the
balance of system components.
         (aa)   Lighting:
            (1)   Wind machine towers shall not be artificially lighted unless
required, in writing, by the federal aviation administration (FAA) or other
applicable authority that regulates air safety.
            (2)   Where the FAA requires lighting, the lighting shall be the
lowest intensity allowable under FAA regulations; and
   A. The lighting fixtures shall be shielded and directed to the greatest
extent possible to minimize glare and visibility from the ground.
   B. No strobe lighting shall be permitted, unless expressly required by the
FAA.
            (3)   Lighting may be permitted when requested by an air ambulance
service.
         (bb)   Compliance With Regulations: Once micro wind energy conversion
systems or private wind energy conversion systems are permitted, the owners
have the option of compliance with the standards of this section or
discontinuation of operations. If the operation of the wind machine(s) does not
comply with the provisions of this section, the operator shall promptly take
all measures necessary to comply with these regulations, including, but not
limited to, discontinued operation of one or more micro wind energy conversion
systems or private wind energy conversion systems until compliance has been
achieved.
      2.   Permit Applications: All permit applications for micro wind energy
conversion systems and private wind energy conversion systems shall include the
information listed in this subsection in addition to that normally required by
other sections in the development code.
         (a)   Site Plan(s): A scaled site plan showing the following
information:
            (1)   Existing topography, trees and drainage channels.
            (2)   Direction of prevailing winds across the project site.
            (3)   Locations, dimensions and setbacks of all existing and
proposed structures located or proposed to be located upon the parcel.
            (4)   Location and height aboveground of all proposed private wind
machines and, existing and proposed aboveground utility lines.
            (5)   Dimensions of private wind machine structures and private
wind machine sites.
            (6)   Distances of private wind machine structures and private wind
machine sites to roads, access easements, and trails.
         (b)   Drawings And Photos: Standard drawings and photographs of the
wind turbine structure, including the tower, base, turbine and blades.
         (c)   Licensed Engineer Stamp: Plans shall be stamped by an engineer
licensed in the state of Nevada.
         (d)   Subject To Other Requirements: Subject to subsection (B)1 of
this section for private wind energy conversion systems.
         (e)   Maintenance Plan: Maintenance plan submitted with application.
         (f)   Decommissioning Plans: Decommissioning plans prepared in
conformance with requirements as specified in subsection (B)1(v) of this
section.
   (C)   Commercial Wind Energy Conversion Systems:
      1.   Requirements: All permit applications for commercial wind energy
conversion systems provided for under this subsection shall comply with the
following standards and in addition shall comply with that normally required by
other sections in the development code:
         (a)   Permit Required: A conditional use permit is required for all
commercial wind energy conversion systems.
         (b)   Location: Commercial wind energy conversion systems may be
permitted only within the open space zoning district.
         (c)   Height: The overall height of commercial wind machines,
including the uppermost extension of any blades, shall not exceed six hundred
feet (600').
         (d)   Rotor Assembly Diameter: The maximum diameter of rotor
assemblies shall be flexible to allow for current model offerings.
         (e)   Setbacks: The minimum setbacks are ten (10) times the blade
diameter for horizontal blade designed turbines or three (3) times the overall
height, whichever is the greater from any property line, right of way, trail,
easement or overhead utility; and
            (1)   One mile from any existing residential districts with parcels
of ten (10) acres or less whether owned or under other ownership.
            (2)   One mile from any off site dwelling(s) or other occupied
buildings within Elko County whether owned or under other ownership.
            (3)   Other structures related to the commercial wind energy system
shall not be located in or on drainage, utility or other established easements,
and are restricted to the setback requirements of the district.
            (4)   An exception may be made for property abutting federal lands
with proper documentation from the governing entity.
         (f)   Lighting:
            (1)   Commercial wind machine towers shall not be artificially
lighted unless required, in writing, by the federal aviation administration
(FAA) or other applicable authority that regulates air safety.
            (2)   Where the FAA requires lighting, the lighting shall be the
lowest intensity allowable under FAA regulations; and
               A. The lighting fixtures shall be shielded and directed to the
greatest extent possible to minimize glare and visibility from the ground.
               B. No strobe lighting shall be permitted, unless expressly
required by the FAA.
            (3)   Lighting may be permitted when requested by an air ambulance
service.
         (g)   Tower And Facility Access: All commercial wind machine towers
shall comply with the following provisions:
            (1)   The tower shall be designed and installed so that there shall
be no exterior step, bolts, or a ladder on the tower readily accessible to the
public for a minimum height of twelve feet (12') above the ground.
            (2)   For lattice or guyed towers, sheets of metal or wood or other
barrier shall be fastened to the bottom tower section such that it cannot
readily be climbed.
            (3)   Any guywires shall be made clearly visible to a minimum
height of six feet (6').
            (4)   All ground mounted electrical and control equipment shall be
labeled and secured to prevent unauthorized access.
         (h)   Electromagnetic Interference: To avoid interference, the owner
(s) of any radar facility, television, radio, licensed ham radio station,
cellular telephone or microwave reception facility within a radius of five (5)
miles from any commercial wind machine shall be notified in writing no less
than forty five (45) days prior to any public hearing, of a proposed project
and shall be provided an opportunity to assess and determine any detrimental
impact(s) on the operation of their facility.
If degradation of television, radio, cellular telephone, radar microwave or
licensed ham radio reception occurs as the result of the commercial wind
machine and confirmation that the commercial wind machine is the source of the
interference, the owner/developer of the wind machine shall pay all reasonable
costs to correct the television, radio, cellular telephone or microwave
reception within thirty (30) days of notification by Elko County that a problem
exists.
         (i)   Utility Notification: No commercial wind machine that is to be
connected to electric utility equipment of any utility grid shall be operated
until a net metering agreement or interconnection agreement has been made with
the affected electric utility company(ies), and the utility company or
companies have approved the proposed method of interconnection.
         (j)   Approval: Commercial wind turbines shall be approved by a wind
certification program which is recognized by the American Wind Energy
Association.
         (k)   Compliance: Commercial wind turbines shall comply with Elko
County adopted international building code, national electrical code, UL 1741,
IEC, and IEEE 1547.
         (l)   Noise Studies:
            (1)   As part of the application submittal for a commercial wind
machine, the applicant shall provide modeling and analysis that will confirm
that the facility will not exceed the maximum permitted noise levels.
            (2)   A postconstruction noise study shall be conducted within six
(6) months of the date when the project is fully operational. The
postconstruction measurements will be reported to the Elko County department of
community development using the same format as used for the preconstruction
sound studies. As with the preconstruction study, the postconstruction study
shall be conducted by an independent qualified acoustical consultant approved
by the Elko County department of community development, but paid for by the
applicant/owner/developer of the wind project. The postconstruction noise study
shall be performed according to the procedures in the most current version of
American National Standards Institute (ANSI) S12.18. All noise levels shall be
measured with a sound meter that meets or exceeds the most current version of
ANSI S1.4 specifications for a type I sound meter.
Any postconstruction noise levels that exceed any of the limits set forth,
referring to subsection (C)1(m) of this section will constitute proof that the
commercial wind machine(s) is noncompliant and shall be rectified or shut down
immediately.
            (3)   Noise studies shall not be required in the event that the
placement of a wind turbine is located more than two (2) miles from any
existing residence.
         (m)   Audible Noise Limit:
            (1)   No commercial wind machine shall be located so as to generate
postconstruction sound levels that exceed forty five (45) dBA at night or fifty
(50) dBA during the day as measured a minimum distance of fifty feet (50') from
any existing residence within one mile from a wind machine. The appropriate
value to use for the postconstruction sound level is LeqA.
         (n)   Noise Setbacks:
            (1)   Setbacks greater than those set forth in this section shall
be imposed if necessary to meet the noise level requirements of this
subsection.
         (o)   Material Colors: The colors of materials used in the
construction of the tower shall be muted, nonreflective, nonobtrusive, and
visually compatible with the surroundings. Acceptable colors shall be off
white, white, light silver, tan, gray, or sand. The painting or coating shall
be kept in good repair for the life of the machine.
         (p)   Maintenance: Commercial wind machines shall be kept in good
repair as recommended by the manufacturer's scheduled maintenance or industrial
standards and shall be free of rust.
         (q)   Waste Lubricants And Cooling Fluids: Waste lubricants and
cooling fluids shall not be permitted to accumulate, shall be removed in a
timely manner and properly disposed of.
         (r)   Removal For Nonuse: If a commercial wind system is not used for
one year to generate electricity or the permit has expired, the system shall be
removed and the property restored to its previous condition within one hundred
eighty (180) days.
         (s)   Advertisements: Advertisements are prohibited on all commercial
wind energy conversion systems. The only advertising sign allowed on a wind
machine shall be a logo on the generator housing.
         (t)   Repair And Removal:
            (1)   Unsafe Machine: Any commercial wind machine found to be
unsafe by an official of the Elko County department of building and safety
shall be repaired by the owner to meet federal, state, and local safety
standards, or, if not repaired, shall be removed in accordance with the
provisions of this section within one hundred eighty (180) days of being
notified by the department of building and safety of the existence of an unsafe
condition.
            (2)   Machine Not In Use: Commercial wind machines that are not
operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be removed by the
owner of the wind machine.
            (3)   Decommissioning: For commercial wind machines, the applicant/
developer shall submit a decommissioning plan at the time of application for a
conditional use permit. The plan shall include:
               A. The anticipated life of the project,
               B. The estimated decommissioning costs net of salvage value in
current dollars,
               C. The method of ensuring that funds will be available for
decommissioning and restoration, and
               D. The anticipated manner in which the project will be
decommissioned and the site restored.
            (4)   Removal Of All Associated Equipment: When a commercial wind
machine is removed from a site, all associated and ancillary equipment,
batteries, devices, structures or support(s) for that system shall also be
removed. For the purposes of this subsection, nonoperation shall be deemed to
include, but shall not be limited to, the blades of the wind machine remaining
stationary so that wind resources are not being converted into electric or
mechanical energy, or the wind machine is no longer connected to the public
utility electricity system.
            (5)   Failure To Remove: In the event a commercial wind machine
owner fails to remove the wind machine tower and all associated and ancillary
equipment, batteries, devices, structures or support(s) for that system, as
required in this subsection, Elko County shall have the authority to remove or
authorize the removal of the tower and all associated elements of the project.
         (u)   Compliance With Regulations: Once commercial wind machines are
permitted, the owners have the option of compliance with the standards of this
section or discontinuation of operations. If the operation of the wind machine
(s) does not comply with the provisions of this section, the operator shall
promptly take all measures necessary to comply with these regulations,
including, but not limited to, discontinued operation of one or more commercial
wind machines until compliance has been achieved.
      2.   Permit Applications: All permit applications for a commercial wind
energy conversion system shall include the information listed in this
subsection in addition to that normally required by other sections in the
development code. The applicant may appeal to the director of community
development for the consideration of waiving certain submittal requirements of
this subsection in cases where the wind machine(s) are not used for power sales
and are constructed to offset power demands on site.
         (a)   Site Plan(s): A scaled site plan showing the following
information:
            (1)   Existing topography, trees and drainage channels;
            (2)   Direction of prevailing winds across the project site;
            (3)   Location of all existing structures within one mile of the
proposed commercial wind machine sites;
            (4)   Location and height above ground of all proposed commercial
wind machines and, existing and proposed aboveground utility lines;
            (5)   Location, height and direction of all radar and microwave
stations that could be affected;
            (6)   Preliminary dimensions, grading and alignment for all
temporary and permanent roads, power transmission and distribution line
easements, structures, wind machine sites, substation(s), staging areas and
other site work;
            (7)   Distances to dwellings, churches, schools, nursing homes,
roads, access easements, trails, railroads, and parks;
            (8)   Standard drawings and photographs of the wind turbine
structure, including the tower, base, turbine and blades;
            (9)   A GIS map(s) and visual simulations, showing the impact of
the topography upon visibility of the project from other locations. The base
map used shall be a published topographic map showing nonnatural features, such
as roads, towers, and buildings;
            (10)   A preliminary drainage, sediment collection and erosion
control plan for all areas proposed to be disturbed on the parcel(s);
            (11)   Decommissioning plans prepared in conformance with
requirements as specified in subsection (C)1(t) of this section;
            (12)   Provide location of all public, private and military
airports and airstrips within ten (10) miles of the nearest proposed wind
turbine;
            (13)   A current determination letter resulting from a federal
aviation administration (FAA) form 7460-1, notice of proposed construction or
alteration, for each proposed wind machine or tower;
            (14)   A summary of the status of all FAA determinations with
details on how any unresolved problems with aircraft safety are being addressed
as well as a detailed description of any obstruction marking and lighting that
will be required by the FAA.
   (D)   Noncommercial Meteorological Towers: All meteorological towers
provided for under this subsection shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   All permit applications for noncommercial meteorological towers
provided for under this subsection shall comply with the following standards
and in addition shall comply with that normally required by other sections in
the development code:
         (a)   A conditional use permit is required for any noncommercial wind
energy conversion system test site.
         (b)   The minimum parcel size for any noncommercial meteorological
tower shall be two and one-half (2.5) acres.
         (c)   The minimum setbacks are one and one-half (11/2) times the
overall height from any property line, right of way, trail, easement, overhead
utility, structure designed for habitation, residence or residential property
whether owned or under other ownership.
         (d)   Maximum overall height shall not exceed allowable elevation
indications in applicable airport master plans or federal aviation
administration regulations.
         (e)   Maximum overall height is to be regulated to meet the
established and proposed uses of the property while being flexible to allow for
current model wind machine offerings.
         (f)   No rotor blade is permitted under a noncommercial wind energy
conversion system, noncommercial use test site conditional use permit.
         (g)   Guywire anchors shall not extend closer than five feet (5') from
any property line and shall be properly marked and maintained from grade to a
height of six feet (6') to help clearly identify them and serve as a safety
system to prevent unwanted injuries. They shall be marked in accordance with
the current adopted electrical codes.
         (h)   A conditional use permit for all temporary meteorological towers
shall be valid for a maximum of two (2) years. Towers shall be removed within
one month after the two (2) year period has ended. Failure to remove the tower
within the one month period may result in a lien being placed against the
property for the entire cost to Elko County to remove and dispose of it. An
extension of time of one year may be permitted by the director of the
department of community development upon submittal of a letter explaining the
need for the extension.
         (i)   Test site equipment shall not be located in or on drainage,
utility or other established easements.
         (j)   Conditional use permits for test sites shall expire twenty four
(24) months after construction at which time the test site equipment shall be
removed and the property restored to its previous condition prior to the
expiration of the temporary use permit.
         (k)   All meteorological towers shall comply with lighting, signage,
aesthetics, tower and facility access, and maintenance requirements as outlined
in subsection (B) of this section.
         (l)   Shall comply with the Elko County adopted international building
code, NEC, other applicable codes.
         (m)   The noise levels generated by a commercial test site system
shall not exceed fifty (50) dBA measured at any property line.
   (E)   Commercial Wind Energy Conversion System Test Sites: All
meteorological towers provided for under this subsection shall comply with the
following standards:
      1.   All permit applications for commercial meteorological towers
provided for under this subsection shall comply with the following standards
and in addition shall comply with that normally required by other sections in
the development code:
         (a)   Permit Required: A conditional use permit shall be required for
any commercial wind energy conversion system test site.
         (b)   Location: Test sites shall be located within the open space
zoning district.
         (c)   Height: Test towers shall not exceed two hundred feet (200') in
height.
         (d)   Setbacks: The minimum setbacks are one and one-half (11/2) times
the overall height from any property line, right of way, trail, easement,
overhead utility, structure designed for habitation, residence or residential
property whether owned or under other ownership.
         (e)   Rotor Blades Prohibited: No rotor blade is permitted under a
commercial wind energy conversion system commercial use test site conditional
use permit.
         (f)   Guywire Anchors: Guywire anchors shall not extend closer than
five feet (5') from any property line and shall be properly marked and
maintained from grade to a height of six feet (6') to help clearly identify
them and serve as a safety system to prevent unwanted injuries. They shall be
marked in accordance with the current adopted electrical codes.
         (g)   Established Easements: Test site equipment shall not be located
in or on drainage, utility or other established easements.
         (h)   Lighting:
            (1)   Commercial wind energy conversion system towers shall not be
artificially lighted unless required, in writing, by the federal aviation
administration (FAA) or other applicable authority that regulates air safety.
            (2)   Where the FAA requires lighting, the lighting shall be the
lowest intensity allowable under FAA regulations; and
               A. The lighting fixtures shall be shielded and directed to the
greatest extent possible to minimize glare and visibility from the ground.
               B. No strobe lighting shall be permitted, unless expressly
required by the FAA.
            (3)   Lighting may be permitted when requested by an air ambulance
service.
         (i)   Expiration Of Permit: Conditional use permits for test site
shall expire twenty four (24) months after construction at which time the test
site equipment shall be removed and the property restored to its previous
condition prior to the expiration of the temporary use permit.
         (j)   Compliance: Shall comply with the Elko County adopted
international building code, NEC, other applicable codes.
         (k)   Noise Levels: The noise levels generated by a commercial test
site system shall not exceed fifty (50) dBA measured at any property line.
         (l)   Tower And Facility Access: All commercial test site towers shall
comply with the following provisions:
            (1)   The tower shall be designed and installed so that there shall
be no exterior step, bolts, or a ladder on the tower readily accessible to the
public for a minimum height of twelve feet (12') above the ground.
            (2)   For lattice or guyed towers, sheets of metal or wood or other
barrier shall be fastened to the bottom tower section such that it cannot
readily be climbed.
            (3)   Any guywires shall be made clearly visible to a minimum
height of six feet (6').
            (4)   All ground mounted electrical and control equipment shall be
labeled and secured to prevent unauthorized access. (Ord. 2012-02, 4-4-2012,
eff. 6-13-2012)
4-8-16: HOME SECURITY CAMERAS:
   (A)   No person shall place or install a home security camera with the
intent to capture images or video record areas of another person's home and/or
real property wherein there is a reasonable expectation of privacy.
   (B)   "Home security camera" means any video recording device or any other
device that captures images used for security and/or surveillance on real
property. (Ord. 2021-03, 10-20-2022)
CHAPTER 9
PROCEDURES AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
4-9-1: Zoning Approval
4-9-2: Uses Not Listed
4-9-3: Administrative Orders; Appeal
4-9-4: Architectural Review Committee Approval
4-9-5: Variances
4-9-6: Conditional Uses
4-9-7: Zoning Change
4-9-8: Applications
4-9-9: Hearings
4-9-10: Appeals
4-9-11: Expansion Or Restriction Of Exterior Zoning Districts
4-9-12: Changes On Zoning Map
4-9-13: Violations
4-9-14: Remedies And Penalties
4-9-15: Minor Deviations Of Accessory Buildings
4-9-1: ZONING APPROVAL:
Before issuing a building permit, the building inspector may require that the
proposal be approved as to zoning by the Planning Commission. The term
"approved as to zoning" means an official notation by the Planning Commission
or authorized deputy upon a building permit or a license, certifying that the
proposed building or use is in conformance with the regulations of this title,
subject to the conditions, if any, included in the notation. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-
1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
4-9-2: USES NOT LISTED:
Whenever there is a doubt as to the district classification of a use not listed
in this title, the Planning Commission shall thereupon make such investigations
as are necessary to compare the characteristics of the use in question with
those of the listed uses in the various districts. If the use is found to be,
in all essentials, pertinent to the intent of this title, of the same character
as a permitted or as a conditional use in any district or districts, the
commission shall so determine. The determination shall be a public record.
(Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975)
4-9-3: ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS; APPEAL:
Any interested person alleging error in any order, requirement or determination
made by an employee of the County in the administration of this title may
appeal in writing to the Planning Commission within ten (10) days of the date
thereof. The decision of the Planning Commission in such matters shall be final
unless a notice of appeal to the County Board of Commissioners is filed within
ten (10) days after the date of such decision. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-
1-1975)
4-9-4: ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW COMMITTEE APPROVAL:
   (A)   Zoning Permits:
      1.   All applicants for a zoning change, zoning variance, conditional use
permit, or modification of a lot boundary line or the size of a lot, pertaining
to any lot or parcel of any subdivision in the County which has an active and
duly authorized Architectural Review Committee or the equivalent established
pursuant to recorded declarations, reservations, restrictions, covenants or
conditions, shall certify, on a form provided by the County, that the applicant
has submitted an application to the applicable Architectural Review Committee
or equivalent for approval for the, zoning change, zoning variance, conditional
use permit, or modification of a lot boundary line or the size of a lot.
      2.   Procedure On Application:
         (a)   All certifications shall be attached to the application
submitted to the County.
         (b)   After an application is received, the Building or Zoning
Department shall check the application and determine if the application is
located within an Architectural Review Committee or equivalent.
         (c)   If the application is within an area wherein an Architectural
Review Committee or equivalent and no certification is attached, the
application shall be rejected until such time that a certification is completed
and attached to the application. If the certification is attached to the
application, the Building or Zoning Departments shall immediately send a copy
of the certification to the applicable Architectural Review Committee or
equivalent.
         (d)   Prior to approval of an application, the County shall allow the
Architectural Review Committee or equivalent to submit comments on the
application. All comments by the Architectural Review Committee or equivalent
must be submitted within ten (10) days of receiving the certification.
      3.   As used in this section, an "active and duly authorized
Architectural Review Committee" shall mean:
         (a)   One or more persons charged with the enforcement of subdivision
covenants, conditions or restrictions, however the same may be denominated; and
         (b)   The covenants, conditions or restrictions are recorded in the
official records of the Office of the County Recorder; and
         (c)   The Committee has filed a written notice of its existence and
operation with the County Manager.
   B.   Building Permits:
      1.   All applicants for a building permit in any subdivision in the
County which has an active and duly authorized Architectural Review Committee
or the equivalent established pursuant to recorded declarations, reservations,
restrictions, covenants or conditions, shall certify, on a form provided by the
County, that the applicant has submitted an application to the applicable
Architectural Review Committee or equivalent for approval for the building
permit.
      2.   Procedure On Application:
         (a)   No application for a building permit in a subdivision which has
an active and duly authorized Architectural Review Committee shall be issued
until the provisions of this subsection have been complied with.
         (b)   All certifications shall be attached to the application
submitted to the County.
         (c)   After an application is received, the Building or Zoning
Department shall provide notice by mail and electronic mail to the
Architectural Review Committee requesting a report from the Committee as to the
application. If no report is received by the Committee within ten (10) days of
the notice, the application shall be deemed acceptable by the Committee.
         (d)   If the application is within an area wherein an Architectural
Review Committee or equivalent and no certification is attached, the
application shall be rejected until such time that a certification is completed
and attached to the application. If the certification is attached to the
application, the Building or Zoning Departments shall immediately send a copy
of the certification to the applicable Architectural Review Committee or
equivalent.
      3.   As used in this section, an "active and duly authorized
Architectural Review Committee" shall mean:
         (a)   One or more persons charged with the enforcement of subdivision
covenants, conditions or restrictions, however the same may be denominated; and
         (b)   The covenants, conditions or restrictions are recorded in the
official records of the Office of the County Recorder; and
         (c)   The Committee has filed a written notice of its existence and
operation with the County Manager.
      4.   Building Permit Defined: "Building Permit" for the purpose of this
section shall mean any building permit for a new structure/building and/or
building permit that increases the square footage of any existing structure/
building and/or will change the use or occupancy of the building on to any
existing structure/building. (Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996; amd. Ord.
2021-04, 11-17-2021)
4-9-5: VARIANCES:
Upon application in proper form, the terms of this title may be modified, and
such variances granted as will not be contrary to its general intent or the
public interest, where due to special conditions or exceptional characteristics
of the property or its location or surroundings, a literal enforcement would
result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships. Variances are
related to hardships pertaining to the property and not to a personal hardship
or desire of the applicant.
   (A)   Procedure: The planning commission shall receive, consider and take
action upon every application which is concurrent with an application for a
conditional use on the same property, and upon all other variances where a
public hearing is required. The commission shall also take action upon any
minor variance brought before it on appeal from a decision of the building
inspector.
   (B)   Findings Required: A variance shall be granted in whole or in part
only upon affirmative findings as hereinafter set forth, and otherwise it shall
be denied. The following findings are required:
      1.   That there are exceptional circumstances applicable to the property
involved, or to the intended use, which do not generally apply to other
property in the same district;
      2.   That the result would not be detrimental to the public welfare, or
injurious to property in the vicinity;
      3.   That the strict application of the regulation sought to be modified
would result in practical difficulties or hardships inconsistent with and not
necessary for the attainment of the general purpose of this title.
   (C)   Conditions Of Variance: In granting any variance, the character and
extent thereof shall be specified and the variance shall be made subject to
such written conditions as may be necessary to secure the intent of the grant.
A variance may be made valid only for a specified term. Once any portion of a
variance is utilized, all of its conditions and limitations shall be operative,
and the violation of any shall constitute a violation of this title.
   (D)   Effective Date Of Variance: The order granting or denying a variance
shall become effective ten (10) days after the date of the order unless a
written notice of appeal is filed within such period of ten (10) days. (Ord.
1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
   (E)   Submission Of Application: A completed application for a variance and
a filing fee, as set by resolution, must be submitted to the division of
planning and zoning. Upon application in proper form and a filing fee payment,
the terms of this title may be modified and such variances granted, as will not
be contrary to its general intent or the public interest, where due to special
conditions or exceptional characteristics of the property or its location or
surroundings, a literal enforcement would result in practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardships. Variances are related to hardships pertaining to the
property and not to a personal hardship or desire of the applicant. (Ord. 2013-
02, 8-7-2013, eff. 10-19-2013)
   (F)   Action By Planning Commission: A public hearing before the planning
commission shall be held upon every application for a variance. (Ord. 1994-T,
10-6-1994, eff. 10-20-1994; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
4-9-6: CONDITIONAL USES:
Certain uses, referred to in this title as conditional uses, are declared to
possess characteristics which require special appraisal by the planning
commission in each instance, to determine whether or not the use is necessary
or desirable and will be properly related to other uses and to transportation
and service facilities in the vicinity, and whether or not the use would, under
all circumstances of the particular case, affect adversely the health or safety
of persons living or working in the vicinity or be materially detrimental to
the public welfare.
   (A)   Procedure: Any use of property which is listed as or specified in this
title to be a conditional use shall be approved or disapproved as to zoning
only upon filing an application in proper form and in accordance with the
procedure hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975; amd.
Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
   (B)   Submission Of Application: Each property owner requesting a
conditional use must file a completed application upon forms supplied and
approved by Elko County for a conditional use permit and a filing fee payment
in full, as set by resolution approved by the Elko County board of
commissioners, with the division of planning and zoning at least thirty (30)
days prior to the planning commission meeting at which the applicant is
scheduled to be heard. (Ord. 2015-03, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
   (C)   Action By Commission: A public hearing before the planning commission
shall be held upon every application for a conditional use permit. (Ord. 1994-
T, 10-6-1994, eff. 10-20-1994; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
   (D)   Limited Approval Of Conditional Uses: The approval of a conditional
use may be made valid only for a specified term. The approval may be made
contingent upon the written acceptance and continued observance of specified
conditions, including, but not limited to, any one of the following:
      1.   Substantial conformity to approved plans and drawings;
      2.   Time period within which the use authorized shall be brought into
existence, failing which the approval shall lapse and be void;
      3.   Guarantees as to compliance with the terms of the approval;
      4.   Dedication of and improvement of streets and other public
facilities;
      5.   Special yards planting, fences or walls;
      6.   Limitations on signs;
      7.   Limitations as to the time of day during which specified activities
may be conducted.
Once a conditional use is established, all of the conditions specified in the
approval shall become operative, and the violation of any of them shall
constitute a violation of this title.
   (E)   Effective Date: The order authorizing a conditional use or
disapproving the same shall be effective ten (10) days after the date of such
order, unless a notice of appeal is filed within such a period of ten (10)
days.
   (F)   Lapse Of Approval: Unless a different period of time is specified
among the conditions of approval, the authorization of a conditional use shall
lapse and be void unless the use is established or construction necessary and
incident to its establishment is started within six (6) months of the date of
final action of approval.
   (G)   Changes In Conditions: The planning commission shall receive, hear and
decide applications to extend the term or to modify any condition imposed upon
a conditional use, or upon a use established under a use permit issued prior to
the effective date of this title. Every such application shall be subject to
the same procedure and regulations as set forth in this section for a
conditional use. (Ord. 1975-A, 3-5-1975, eff. 4-1-1975; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-
1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
   (H)   Hazardous Waste:
      1.   No conditional use application shall be granted for use of property
for hazardous waste disposal, incineration or treatment or for use in the
storage or management of hazardous wastes for treatment, incineration or
disposal for which use a permit to operate such a facility is required from the
state of Nevada or the United States.
         (a)   "Hazardous waste" is defined as it is defined in Nevada Revised
Statutes 444.712 and includes any hazardous waste or constituents of hazardous
waste which are subject to regulation under 40 CFR 261, as in effect on July 1,
1984.
      2.   This subsection shall remain in full force and effect until the
earlier of the state of Nevada issuing regulations for operation of hazardous
waste disposal and treatment and ending the moratorium on the issuance of state
permits to operate facilities for the disposal, treatment and incineration of
such hazardous wastes, or repeal of this subsection. (Ord. 1985-K, 12-5-1985,
eff. 12-23-1985; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
4-9-7: ZONING CHANGE:
Upon application in proper form, a property owner may seek to have the zoning
applicable to his property changed or modified. (Ord. 2013-02, 8-7-2013, eff.
10-19-2013)
   (A)   Procedure: Each property owner requesting a zone change must file a
completed application upon forms supplied and approved by Elko County for a
zone change and a filing fee payment in full as set by resolution approved by
the Elko County board of commissioners, with the division of planning and
zoning. (Ord. 2015-03, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
   (B)   Preliminary Hearing: Every application for a zoning change shall
include a minimum of two (2) appearances before the planning commission. The
first appearance shall be an informational meeting, and the following meeting
of the planning commission may include the public hearing. (Ord. 1994-T, 10-6-
1994, eff. 10-20-1994; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
      1.   At the conclusion of the preliminary hearing the applicant may
request an immediate vote of the planning commission on the application.
Otherwise, the preliminary hearing is informational only. If an immediate vote
is requested, the planning commission may indicate that there is no reasonable
possibility of the zone change being approved following a public hearing. A
denial of a zone change application by the planning commission at the
preliminary hearing may be appealed to the board of county commissioners as
provided in section
4-9-10 of this chapter. Following a denial vote at the preliminary hearing, the
applicant may modify his proposal and file a new application in lieu of appeal.
A vote of the planning commission to allow the application to proceed to public
hearing does not constitute conditional or preliminary approval of the
application or serve as any indication as to the probability or possibility of
approval of the zone change application following the public hearing as
required by subsection (C) of this section. (Ord. 1995-H, 6-8-1995, eff. 6-28-
1995; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
   (C)   Action By Commission: A public hearing before the planning commission
shall be held upon every application for a zone change. (Ord. 1994-T, 10-6-
1994, eff. 10-20-1994; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
   (D)   Restrictive Use: In the granting of a zoning change, the planning
commission may, upon good cause, restrict the change of zoning to the specific
type of business enterprise or specific use for which the change was first
sought, which restrictive use must be set forth upon the minutes of the
planning commission and shall be considered binding upon all successive
transferees or possessors of the land so to be classified or changed.
   (E)   Effective Date: The order authorizing a change of zoning or
disapproving the same shall be effective ten (10) days after the date of such
order, unless a notice of appeal is filed within ten (10) days after such order
was issued.
   (F)   Consideration: In making any decision to grant or deny a change of
zoning, the planning commission shall be guided by the following factors:
      1.   Whether the zoning sought is consistent with the comprehensive
zoning plan or is inconsistent with uses to which the rest of the district is
zoned;
      2.   Whether the change appears to be for the public good or for the sole
benefit of the private interest of the owner without regard to the community
welfare.
In the event that the commission finds that the zoning change sought appears to
be an unreasonable devotion of a small area to a use inconsistent with uses to
which the rest of the district is zoned and made for the sole benefit of the
private interests of the owner, it shall deny the request.
   (G)   Changes: All changes in zoning which involve a change within a zoning
district and a change of a portion of an exterior zoning boundary, shall follow
the procedure within this section. (Ord. 1980-H, 6-5-1980, eff. 6-25-1980; amd.
Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
4-9-8: APPLICATIONS:
The planning commission may, in its rules, prescribe the form and scope of all
applications required by this title and may specify the accompanying data to be
furnished to assure the proper consideration of the matter involved and for the
permanent record.
   (A)   Applications, Where Filed: Every application shall be addressed to the
Elko County division of planning and zoning.
   (B)   Verification Of Applications: Every such application shall include a
verification by at least one owner of the property affected to which the
application applies, or by the holder of an option to purchase the same or by a
duly authorized agent, attesting to the truth and correctness of all the facts
and drawings presented. The verification shall be attested before a notary
public. (Ord. 2013-02, 8-7-2013, eff. 10-19-2013)
   (C)   Fees: No application shall be accepted unless it is in full compliance
with all requirements of this title, and accompanied by the filing fee
specified. No part of any required fee shall be returnable, and every such fee
shall be deposited with the county treasurer. An additional fee shall not be
charged for an application for a conditional use which is made concurrently
with an application for a zone change on the same property. Except as otherwise
provided, the amount of the filing fee required shall be set forth by
resolution adopted by the county commission. (Ord. 2015-10, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-
17-2015)
   (D)   Exceptions To Fee Requirement: The requirements of a fee accompanying
an application or an appeal shall be waived in the following cases:
      1.   When the application or appeal is filed by a public agency of the
county, a city or of the state or the federal government;
      2.   When the application is for a variance to permit the relocation of a
building on the same lot, if such relocation is necessary solely because of the
condemnation for a public use or the sale to a public agency or a portion of
such lot. (Ord. 1980-H, 6-5-1980, eff. 6-25-1980; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996,
eff. 4-1-1996)
   (E)   Effect Of Denial: Following a denial of an application for a variance,
conditional use or change of zoning no new application affecting the same
property may be submitted within one year from the date of denial by the
planning commission, or within one year from the date of the denial by the
board of county commissioners on appeal, whichever the case may be. (Ord. 1995-
A, 4-6-1995, eff. 5-1-1995; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
   (F)   Address Lists Required: Every application upon which a public hearing
is required by this title shall be accompanied by a verified list of the names
and addresses of the owners of all property within three hundred feet (300') of
the exterior boundaries of the property affected, as shown on the last adopted
tax roll of the county; provided, however, that where the application is for a
variance, the list need not include property more than one hundred feet (100')
from said exterior boundaries. (Ord. 1980-H, 6-5-1980, eff. 6-25-1980; amd.
Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
4-9-9: HEARINGS:
Upon receipt in proper form of any application filed pursuant to this title
upon which a public hearing is required, the date for such hearing shall be set
by the planning commission in accordance with the rules of the commission.
Notice shall be given of the time and place of such public hearing by at least
one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least
ten (10) days before the day of hearing. The applicant, and the appellant, in
the case of an appeal, shall be notified in writing of the time and place of
the hearing.
   (A)   Mailed Notice: When the public hearing is held on an application for a
conditional use, variance, or for the proposed change in zoning, notice of the
time and place of the hearing shall be given not less than fifteen (15) days
prior to the date thereof, by mailing such notice to all the persons whose
names and addresses appear on the list of property owners submitted.
   (B)   Failure To Notify: Any failure to give notice as required by this
title or any irregularity in connection therewith or in any procedure required
by this title, shall not invalidate the proceedings if there shall have been
compliance with the minimum requirements of Nevada state law.
   (C)   Continuance: At any public hearing held pursuant to this title, the
officer presiding may order the hearing to be continued by publicly announcing
the time and place of continuance, and no further notice thereof shall be
required. (Ord. 1980-H, 6-5-1980, eff. 6-25-1980; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996,
eff. 4-1-1996)
4-9-10: APPEALS:
   (A)   Appeal; Review: An appeal may be taken to the board of county
commissioners within ten (10) calendar days after the date of the action of the
planning commission on any application filed pursuant to this chapter. The
appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved, or by any public officer, board or
agency affected, by filing with the division of planning and zoning a written
notice specifying the grounds for the appeal and filing fee as set by
resolution approved by the Elko County board of commissioners. Any member of
the board of county commissioners may, within the same period, call for a
review of any such action by notice to the division of planning and zoning and
such notice shall have the same effect as an appeal but shall require no fee.
Filing of an appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed. (Ord. 2015-03, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
   (B)   Transmittal Of Record: Upon notice by the county clerk that an appeal
has been filed, the planning commission shall make available to the board of
county commissioners all documents constituting the record upon which the act
on appeal was taken. The board of county commissioners may, if it appears
necessary to clear understanding of the issues, hear additional evidence not
presented at the hearing before the planning commission.
   (C)   Notice Of Hearing: The board of county commissioners shall give notice
of the time and place at which the hearing will be held on any appeal filed
pursuant to this title to the applicant, to the appellant, to the planning
commission and to any other person requesting such notice and depositing with
the county clerk a self-addressed, stamped envelope for that purpose.
   (D)   Procedure: At the appeal hearing, the appellant shall be heard first
and shall present his reasons for the appeal. The respondent may respond to
appellant's appeal after which the appellant may present any rebuttal argument.
(Ord. 1980-H, 6-5-1980, eff. 6-25-1980; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-
1996)
   (E)   Action Of The Board Of County Commissioners: The board of county
commissioners, at the conclusion of the hearing on any appeal filed pursuant to
this title, upon substantial evidence at the appeal hearing adduced, and/or
upon substantial evidence presented at the hearing before the planning
commission as reflected in the minutes thereof, may sustain, modify or overrule
the action of the planning commission in the matter, or may refer any such
matter back to the planning commission for further proceedings. The final order
of the board of county commissioners on any such appeal shall be effective
forthwith.
      1.   The evidence to be considered by the board of county commissioners
at the appeal hearing may include sworn or unsworn testimony, exhibits, minutes
of meetings or hearings of the planning commission or other meetings or
hearings of other entities, and documentary evidence, if the evidence is of a
type commonly relied upon by reasonable and prudent men in the conduct of their
affairs. The experience, technical competence, and knowledge, specialized or
otherwise, of the board of county commissioners, and staff memoranda, input, or
data, which memoranda, input, or data shall be evidence, may be utilized in the
weight given to, and evaluation of, the evidence.
      2.   Any party is entitled to be represented by counsel, and opportunity
must be afforded all persons to present testimony, evidence and argument on all
issues involved.
      3.   Petitions for judicial review of a decision of the board of county
commissioners must be instituted by filing a petition in the district court in
and for the county of Elko.
      4.   Petitions seeking judicial review of a final decision of the board
of county commissioners, may be filed only by a participant in the hearing
before the planning commission, or a participant in the hearing before the
board of county commissioners, as reflected in the evidence, submittals, or
minutes of the hearing, which participant is aggrieved by the final decision.
      5.   Petitions for judicial review must be filed with the district court
within thirty (30) days after the date of the decision or order of the board of
county commissioners complained of.
      6.   Judicial review of a final decision or order of the board of county
commissioners on appeal must be conducted by the district court without a jury,
and be confined to the record. The final decision of the board of county
commissioners shall be deemed reasonable and lawful until reversed or set aside
in whole or in part. The burden of proof is on the party attacking or resisting
the decision to show that the final decision is invalid pursuant to subsection
(E)8 of this section.
      7.   The district court shall not substitute its judgment for that of the
board of county commissioners as to the weight of evidence on a question of
fact.
      8.   The district court may remand or affirm the final decision or set it
aside in whole or in part if substantial rights of the petitioner have been
prejudiced because the final decision of the board of county commissioners is:
         (a)   In violation of constitutional or statutory provisions;
         (b)   In excess of the authority of the board of county commissioners;
         (c)   Made upon unlawful procedure;
         (d)   Clearly erroneous in view of the reliable, probative and
substantial evidence on the whole record; or
         (e)   Arbitrary or capricious or characterized by abuse of discretion.
      9.   In determining whether to grant a stay, should one be applied for,
the district court shall consider the same factors as are considered for a
preliminary injunction under rule 65 of the Nevada rules of civil procedure,
and in making a ruling, the district court shall give deference to the trier of
fact, and consider the risk to the public, if any, of staying the decision. The
petitioner must provide security before the court may issue a stay.
      10.   An aggrieved party may obtain a review of any final judgment of the
district court by appeal to the supreme court, which shall be taken as in other
civil cases.
      11.   The foregoing provisions of this subsection (E) are the exclusive
means of judicial review of, or judicial action concerning, a decision to which
said subsection applies. (Ord. 1991-D, 9-5-1991, eff. 9-19-1991; amd. Ord.
1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
4-9-11: EXPANSION OR RESTRICTION OF EXTERIOR ZONING DISTRICTS:
The exterior boundaries of any zoned area may be expanded or restricted by the
following procedure:
   (A)   Initiation: Expansion or restriction of boundaries may be initiated by
resolution of the board of county commissioners or the planning commission, or
by any property owner whose property would be excluded or included by any
restrictions or expansion.
   (B)   Notice Of Hearing: Upon passage of a resolution or upon receipt of an
application in proper form, the proposal shall be set for public hearing before
the planning commission. Notice of the time and place of the hearing, together
with the nature and extent of the proposed amendment shall be published in an
official newspaper or a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least
ten (10) days prior to any hearing.
   (C)   Action Of Planning Commission: After the conclusion of the hearing on
a proposed amendment, the planning commission shall make a report and
recommendation to the board of county commissioners with respect to the same,
and shall file with the county clerk an attested copy thereof.
   (D)   Action Of The Board Of County Commissioners: Upon receipt of the
report of the planning commission on a proposed amendment, the board of county
commissioners shall set the matter for public hearing after notice thereof is
given as set forth in subsection (B) of this section. After the conclusion of
the hearing, the board of county commissioners may adopt the amendment
proposed, or any part thereof, in such form as the board of county
commissioners may deem to be in the public interest.
   (E)   Exceptions: Subsection (D) of this section shall not be construed to
apply to a request for change of zoning within the interior boundaries of an
existing zoned area. Such a request shall be treated pursuant to application
before the planning commission as set forth in section
4-9-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 1980-H, 6-5-1980, eff. 6-25-1980; amd. Ord. 1996-
D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
4-9-12: CHANGES ON ZONING MAP:
All changes of zoning pursuant to sections
4-9-7 and
4-9-11 of this chapter, shall be duly noted on the zoning map of the county of
Elko within ten (10) days from the effective date of the change. (Ord. 1980-H,
6-5-1980, eff. 6-25-1980; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
4-9-13: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   Zoning Enforcement Officer: The code enforcement officer for the
division of planning and zoning shall have the duty and power to administer and
enforce all of the provisions of this chapter, and to assist in that function
he or his authorized representatives may be appointed by the sheriff as limited
purpose deputies. (Ord. 2015-03, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
   (B)   Investigation: Alleged zoning violations shall be investigated, and if
it appears that a zoning violation does exist, the owner and/or person in
possession or control of the property shall be notified of the alleged
violation and requested to correct the same.
      1.   Corrective actions could include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Removal of personal property, including vehicles, or abatement
of conditions which are in violation of the applicable zoning regulations.
         (b)   Discontinuance of the use of a secondary building as an
unauthorized dwelling, such as a mobile home, modular building, manufactured
home or camp trailer.
         (c)   Correction of a setback violation by moving or removing the
building or other structure.
         (d)   Application for and obtaining a variance, zone change, or
conditional use permit appropriate to the use on the property.
   (C)   Oral Or Written Warnings: An oral or written warning may be given to
any person suspected of violating the provisions of this title. The warning may
precede or be issued in lieu of a written citation. (Ord. 1994-D, 4-7-1994,
eff. 4-21-1994; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
   (D)   Written Citations: The Code Enforcement Officer for the Division of
Planning and Zoning or his authorized representatives may prepare, sign, and
serve written citations on persons alleged to have violated the provisions of
this title.
   (E)   Entry On Property: Persons charged with zoning enforcement pursuant to
subsection (A) of this section, are authorized to enter upon private property
for enforcement purposes. The authority granted by this subsection does not
authorize entry into any building on private property without the consent of
the owner or other person managing or controlling said building. Entry into any
building on private property may be obtained upon application to the Justice
Court and upon good cause shown. (Ord. 2015-03, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
4-9-14: REMEDIES AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Nuisance Declared: Any building, structure or any use of property
contrary to or in violation of the provisions of this title is unlawful, and is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The District Attorney may commence
proceedings for the abatement thereof in the manner provided by law.
   (B)   Penalties: In addition to any other remedies provided for by law, any
person, whether the owner of the property, tenant, lessee, licensee, or
trespasser, or whether acting as principal, agent, employee, or in any other
capacity, who violates any of the provisions of this title, or suffers a
violation to occur, is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a fine
of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment in jail
for not more than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      1.   A person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each day
during which any such violation is committed, permitted or is continued.
      2.   Conviction and punishment of a person shall not relieve such person
from the responsibility of correcting prohibited conditions or removing
prohibited buildings, structures or improvements, or prevent the correction or
removal thereof. (Ord. 1994-D, 4-7-1994, eff. 4-21-1994; amd. Ord. 1996-D, 3-6-
1996, eff. 4-1-1996)
   (C)   Remedies: The Assistant County Manager for the Division of Planning
and Zoning shall have the authority to commence legal action in the name of the
County to enforce the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2015-03, 4-1-2015, eff.
4-17-2015)
4-9-15: MINOR DEVIATIONS OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
The Senior Planner of the Planning and Zoning Department may, at his/her
discretion, approve a minor deviation of up to nine percent (9%) of the height
of an accessory building constructed pursuant to subsections
4-2-2(E) and
4-2-3(E) of this title, if the applicant obtains the written consent of all
owners of any real property affected by the minor deviations.
If the applicant is dissatisfied with the decision of the Senior Planner, the
decision or determination may be appealed to the Elko County Commissioners
pursuant to the appeals procedure in section
4-9-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 02-2019, 3-6-2019, eff. 4-19-2019)
CHAPTER 10
SUMMARY OF MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
(Rep. by Ord. 1994-W, 11-2-1994, eff. 11-21-1994)
CHAPTER 11
MOBILE HOME AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
4-11-1: Purpose; General Provisions
4-11-2: Codes Adopted Concurrently
4-11-3: Definitions
4-11-4: Permits
4-11-5: Development Plans
4-11-6: Mobile Home Park Standards
4-11-7: Recreational Vehicle Park Standards
4-11-8: Water Supply, Sewage Disposal and Electrical System (Rep. by Ord. 1976-
N, 8-5-76)
4-11-9: Accessory Buildings and Service Facilities
4-11-10: Refuse Disposal
4-11-11: Fuel Supply and Storage
4-11-12: Fire Protection Standards
4-11-13: General Regulations
4-11-14: Variance or Exception Provisions and Requirements
4-11-15: Violation and Penalties
4-11-1: PURPOSE; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Purpose: The purposes of this Chapter are to promote the health,
safety and general welfare of the citizens of the County by providing minimum
standards to prevent overcrowding of land, to avoid congestion, stabilize and
protect the residential character of mobile home parks and surrounding areas,
encourage development providing open spaces and planned site designs, insure
protection of the natural landscape and character of the area, to eliminate
incompatible uses to facilitate the adequate provision of water supply, sewage
disposal and sanitation for all mobile home and/or recreational vehicle parks.
   (B)   Conflicting Regulations: Wherever any provision of this Chapter
imposes more stringent regulations, requirements or limitations than are
required by the provisions of any other law or ordinance, the provisions of
this Chapter shall govern.
   (C)   Severability: If any Section, clause or provision of this Chapter be
declared by the courts to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions of this Chapter as a whole or any part thereof other than the part
so declared invalid, and to this extent the provisions of this Chapter are
declared to be severable.
   (D)   Private Agreements: It is not the intent of the provisions of this
Chapter to abrogate or annul any easement, deed restrictions or other agreement
between individuals; provided, however, that wherever the provisions of this
Chapter impose a greater restriction upon the use of land and buildings within
mobile home parks and/or recreational vehicle parks, the provisions of this
Chapter shall govern.
   (E)   Vested Rights: This Chapter and any of the provisions herein
established are not intended and shall not be construed to establish any vested
right in or on behalf of any person in respect to the continuation,
construction or expansion of any mobile home park and/or recreational vehicle
park or any activity occurring in connection therewith, which does not comply
with this Chapter.
   (F)   Jurisdiction: The jurisdiction of this Chapter shall include all lands
and waters within the limits of Elko County excluding incorporated towns,
cities or Indian Reservation lands. (Ord. 1972-B, 2-9-72)
   (G)   Enforcement: Responsibility for enforcement shall be the duty of the
Department of Engineering Services or their authorized representatives. (Ord.
1976-N, 8-5-76)
4-11-2: CODES ADOPTED CONCURRENTLY:
The following codes or portions thereof are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this Chapter:
Uniform Plumbing Code
Uniform Building Code, Dangerous Building and One and Two Family Dwelling Code
and Referenced Codes
Uniform Sign Code
National Electrical Code
being the editions currently in effect in Elko County. (Ord. 1976-D, 4-8-76)
4-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, words used in the present tense include the future
tense; words in the singular include the plural and vice versa. The word
"shall" is mandatory and the word "may" is permissive; the word "persons"
includes an agency, association, firm, partnership or corporation as well as an
individual, and terms not herein defined shall have the meanings customarily
assigned thereto.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: An official authorized by Elko County, Nevada, to enforce
the provisions of this Chapter.
BUILDINGS: Any structure having a roof and used or built for the shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind, including, but
not limited to carports, ramadas, awnings, but not including recreational
vehicles.
   (A)   Principal Building: A building including a mobile home or group of
buildings within which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which the
building is located.
   (B)   Accessory Buildings: A subordinate building on the same lot with a
principal building or use, the use of which is customarily incidental to the
main building or use. When attached to the principal building, the accessory
building shall be required to maintain the same yard setbacks as those of the
principal building.
   (C)   Central Accessory Building: A structure housing toilet, lavatory and
such other facilities as required or permitted by this Chapter.
CABANA: Any portable, demountable or permanent cabin, room, enclosure, or other
building erected, constructed or placed on any mobile home lot or on any
recreational vehicle space within six feet (6') of any recreational vehicle.
(Ord. 1972-B, 2-9-72)
CARPORT: An accessory building having two (2) or more open sides, used by
occupants of a mobile home park or recreational vehicle park. (Ord. 1976-N, 8-
5-76)
LOT: A parcel of land separated from other parcels by description for purposes
of lease, sale or separate use.
MOBILE HOME: A transportable, single-family dwelling unit suitable for year-
round occupancy and containing similar plumbing, waste disposal and electrical
conveniences as immobile housing.
   (A)   Dependent Mobile Home: A mobile home without toilet and/or bathing
facilities.
   (B)   Independent Mobile Home: A mobile home having toilet and bathing
facilities built in as a permanent part of the structure.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A portion of land within a mobile home park or mobile
subdivision used or intended to be used for parking of one mobile home,
including the land covered by the mobile home, required yards and parking area,
and attached or detached accessory buildings and structures and open space.
MOBILE HOME PARK: An area, parcel or tract of land having as its principal use
the rental, leasing or occupancy of space by two (2) or more mobile homes on a
permanent or semi-permanent basis, including any accessory buildings,
structures or uses customarily incidental thereto.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A portion of land within a mobile home park designed for the
parking of one mobile home including accessory buildings, parking areas, yards
and open space.
PARKING SPACE: A fully accessible space for the parking of permitted vehicles;
each space shall be a minimum of nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20') containing
an area of not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet exclusive of
driveways or aisles.
PLANNED SITE DESIGN: Method or design approach which shall be used in the
development of mobile home parks and recreational vehicle parks.
RAMADA: Any roof, or shade structure, installed, erected or used above a mobile
home, recreational vehicle, lot, space or portion thereof.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Includes but is not limited to any of the following:
   (A)   Camping Trailer: A folding structure usually made of canvas, mounted
on wheels and designed for travel, recreation and vacation use.
   (B)   Motor Home: A portable temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
   (C)   Pickup Coach: A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis
for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
   (D)   Travel Trailer: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation
uses.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: A parcel or tract of land having as its principal
use the transient rental of two (2) or more spaces for recreational vehicles
including accessory buildings, structures or uses.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKING SPACE: The area within a recreational vehicle park
utilized for vehicle parking, having a minimum width of ten feet (10') and a
minimum length of twenty feet (20'), containing square feet exclusive of
driveways or aisles.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE: A lot or parcel of land within a recreational
vehicle park containing a net minimum land area of one thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet for the transient parking of one recreational vehicle for
the exclusive use of its occupants for transient dwelling purposes, including
permitted accessory uses and structures.
SANITARY STATION: A facility used for removing and disposing of wastes from
recreational vehicle holding tanks.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a lot line and the nearest
point of a building, structure or use including the distance between buildings,
mobile homes, recreational vehicles and related uses.
SWIMMING POOL: Any constructed pool used for swimming, bathing or wading,
whether below ground or above, regardless of depth or surface area.
TEMPORARY PARKING OF MOBILE HOME: Any specified length of time less than three
(3) months.
TRANSIENT DWELLING PURPOSES: The continual rental or parking of a recreational
vehicle space or spaces for the same vehicle to persons for a period not to
exceed twenty eight (28) days. (Ord. 1972-B, 2-9-72)
UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION OR OCCUPANCY: Any mobile home, vehicle park,
structure or building and any facility which is dangerous or detrimental to
human life or health through either lack of maintenance or repair generally or
because of unsafe or improper construction, installation or inadequate sewerage
facilities or as defined in the Uniform Building Code IV (Dangerous Building)
latest addition. (Ord. 1976-N, 8-5-76)
4-11-4: PERMITS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any conversion, erection,
alteration, installation, addition, moving or construction within an existing
or new mobile home park and/or recreational vehicle park unless a mobile home
and/or recreational vehicle parks construction permit has been obtained in
addition to all other required construction permits.
   (B)   All required permits shall have been obtained prior to construction.
The County Building Official shall inspect all facilities and the installation
and/or construction thereon of any items required for the compliance with the
approved plans.
   (C)   If approved, permits shall be issued for a mobile home park and/or
recreational vehicle park by the Building Official, which shall be in writing
and shall be displayed by the permittee on the premises for which it is
applicable.
   (D)   The mobile home park and/or recreational vehicle permits shall be
issued for an indefinite period; provided, however, that work shall commence
within ninety (90) days of issuance of the permit and shall not be interrupted
for any period of time in excess of six (6) months. Violation of either of the
above shall render the permit null and void.
   (E)   No permit shall be issued for an existing or new mobile home park and/
or recreational vehicle park whereby four (4) or more mobile homes and/or
recreational vehicle spaces are to be constructed, unless the Planning
Commission shall find from the application and other facts and documents that
the applicant is able to conform to the regulations as set forth in this
Chapter. (Ord. 1972-B, 2-9-72)
   (F)   Applications for permits shall be made to the Building Official.
Permits for existing or new mobile home and/or recreational vehicle parks
whereby three (3) or less new mobile home and/or recreational vehicle spaces
are to be constructed may be approved by the Building Official provided,
however, that the new spaces comply with the mobile home and/or recreational
vehicle park standards of the State of Nevada. (Ord. 1976-N, 8-5-76)
   (G)   Each application and the required accompanying data and information
which provide for four (4) or more mobile home and/or recreational vehicle
spaces shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission which shall make such
findings as are consistent with this Chapter and the best interests of the
general welfare of the public. Applications for mobile home parks and/or
recreational vehicle parks shall be accompanied by development plans designed
in accordance with the purpose and intent of the following development plan.
(Ord. 1972-B, 2-9-72)
4-11-5: DEVELOPMENT PLANS:
   (A)   A site development plan of the proposed mobile home park or
recreational vehicle park shall be prepared which includes the minimum
following descriptive data:
      1.   Complete legal description: Name of the park, location by section,
township and range, reference to dimension and bearing to a section corner or
quarter-section corner.
      2.   Name, address and phone number of land planner, engineer, surveyor
or other persons preparing the plan and the owner and applicant.
      3.   Scale, north point and date of preparation.
      4.   A small scale location map showing the relationship of the mobile
home park or subdivision to the surrounding neighborhood including public
streets, railroads and community facilities.
      5.   Topography by contours of the site, adequate to show the character
and drainage of the land. (minimum five feet [5'] contours.)
      6.   Two (2) photographs in color taken of the proposed site in a north/
south direction and east/west direction.
      7.   The location, widths and names of all public streets within or
adjacent to the park or subdivisions.
      8.   Dimensions of all boundary lines of the subdivision or park; gross
and net acreage of the site and net acreage of all open spaces and recreational
areas.
      9.   Street system layout including locations and width.
      10.   Dimensions of all lots, parcels, spaces and total number of mobile
home lots or spaces. Each lot or space shall be designated as an independent or
dependent mobile home lot or space.
      11.   Sewage disposal method.
      12.   Water supply method.
      13.   Existing and proposed electrical distribution lines, including
outlets for spaces.
      14.   Locations, dimensions and designations of all accessory buildings
and structures including swimming pools and recreation facilities.
      15.   Sketch showing location and size of any proposed business
identification sign including all advertising copy proposed on the face of such
signs.
      16.   Existing conditions of the site, including buildings, structures,
wells, streams and such additional conditions as necessary or required.
      17.   A letter approving proposed method of water supply and sewage
disposal systems from the Health Department, State of Nevada.
      18.   Existing use or uses of adjoining lands.
      19.   Trash and garbage locations, method of screening and disposal
method.
   (B)   Requirements:
      1.   Two (2) sets of plans and specifications together with complete
mechanical, structural and improvement plans of work to be performed, drawn to
scale; such plans shall show all roadways, walks, lots, spaces, complete sewer,
water and electrical details, buildings, structures, including building
elevations and plans, trash disposal locations and details of enclosure or
screening method, landscape details, and fire hydrant locations and details.
      2.   All off-site improvements including streets shall be constructed in
accordance with the County of Elko Subdivision Ordinance and/or as required by
the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Fees shall be:
      1.   Site Plan Check Fee: Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per mobile home
park and/or recreational vehicle park wherein four (4) or more spaces are to be
constructed plus two dollars ($2.00) per each lot or space shown therein. Ten
dollars ($10.00) in those cases whereby three or less spaces are to be
constructed plus two dollars ($2.00) per each lot or space.
      2.   Fees for electrical, plumbing, building and sign permits as required
by Elko County.
4-11-6: MOBILE HOME PARK STANDARDS:
   (A)   Intent: The following standards are intended to encourage development
from a site plan design approach to protect the natural environment and
character of the County of Elko, to provide open spaces and densities
comparable to low-density, multi-family areas, utilizing the cluster type
designs, permitting certain accessory and complementary uses and structures
which assure protection of the environment.
   (B)   Uses Permitted:
      1.   One mobile home per lot or site as a principal use.
      2.   One carport, cabana, ramada or patio and one detached storage room
per mobile home.
      3.   Community recreation buildings and facilities, laundry, car wash, or
boat storage facilities serving the mobile home park or subdivision only.
      4.   Management offices and/or one single-family dwelling, or mobile home
used exclusively for living quarters by the operator or manager of the park.
   (C)   Development Standards:
      1.   Maximum building height: Two (2) stories or thirty feet (30').
      2.   Minimum net site or lot area per mobile home: Two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet.
      3.   Minimum net mobile home site width: Forty feet (40').
      4.   Minimum setback of any building or mobile home from a bordering
public street line: Five feet (5').
      5.   Minimum setback of any building or mobile home from a zoning
district boundary: Five feet (5').
      6.   Minimum setback line from the exterior boundary line of the mobile
home park or subdivision: Five feet (5').
      7.   All utilities shall be placed underground.
      8.   The mobile home and all accessory buildings shall occupy not more
than fifty percent (50%) of the total area of the lot or space.
   (D)   Placement of Mobile Home on the Space or Lot:
      1.   Minimum front setback from internal street: Five feet (5').
      2.   Minimum distance between mobile homes; two (2) opposing sides or
between a side and an opposing end or between a mobile home and a detached
accessory building: Fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Between two (2) opposing ends of a mobile home: Ten feet (10').
      4.   Minimum side yards on side of mobile home having no doors: Five feet
(5')
      5.   Expandable sections of a mobile home or attached accessory buildings
shall be considered a part of the mobile home proper for setback requirements.
   (E)   General Mobile Home Park Requirements:
      1.   All vehicle parking spaces and driveways shall be surfaced in an
approved manner.
      2.   Exposed ground surfaces in all other parts of a mobile home park
shall be covered with stone screening or other approved organic material or
protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion
and eliminating objectionable dust.
      3.   Density Requirements: Maximum density shall not exceed eight (8)
mobile homes, lots or spaces per gross acre of area.
      4.   All mobile home parks containing five (5) or more mobile home lots
shall have at least one recreation area or open space accessible from all lots
or spaces. The cumulative size of such recreation area or open space shall not
be less than ten percent (10%) of the gross mobile home park area and shall be
landscaped in an approved manner as per the approved plans.
      5.   Storage on a public right of way shall be prohibited for mobile
homes.
      6.   Pedestrian ways shall have a minimum width of eight feet (8') and
shall be surfaced with an approved material.
      7.   The individual address or numbering system for mobile homes shall be
subject to the approval of the Building Official.
   (F)   Mobile Home Park Street System:
      1.   All mobile home spaces shall be provided with safe and convenient
vehicular access from public or private streets. Alignment width and gradient
of all streets shall be properly adapted to topography and subject to the
approval of the Building Official.
      2.   Street Surfacing: All streets shall be surfaced in an approved
manner and shall be drained in an approved manner.
      3.   Access to mobile home parks shall be designed to minimize congestion
and traffic hazards and shall provide for safe movement of traffic at their
entrances or exits to adjoining streets.
      4.   All streets and driveways shall have approved surface material
section not less than twenty four feet (24') in width and a right of way of not
less than thirty feet (30').
      5.   All streets and driveways shall be lighted at night with at least
the equivalent of a fifty (50) watt lamp for each one hundred (100) lineal feet
of street.
      6.   Alleys except where justified and approved shall not be permitted.
   (G)   Vehicle Parking Requirements:
      1.   Each mobile home, lot or space shall have a designated minimum of
two (2) off-street parking spaces, not less than nine feet (9') wide by twenty
feet (20') in length, containing a net area of one hundred eighty (180) square
feet.
      2.   Each mobile home park shall provide sufficient parking and
maneuvering space so that the parking, loading or maneuvering of vehicles
incidental to parking shall not necessitate the use of any public street,
sidewalk or right of way or any private grounds not a part of the mobile home
park. (Ord. 1976-N, 8-5-76)
4-11-7: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK STANDARDS:
   (A)   Intent: The following standards are intended to encourage development
providing sufficient open space and complementary uses under conditions which
assure protection of the character of the district in which the parka are
located. The recreational vehicle parks shall not be exposed to adverse
influences and no portion subject to flooding, subsidence or erosion. A site
development plan design approach shall be the method encouraged in planning
recreational vehicle parks.
   (B)   Uses Permitted:
      1.   One recreational vehicle and/or two (2) vehicles per vehicle space
as the principal use.
      2.   Accessory uses, such as:
         a.   One detached carport, one detached cabana, ramada or patio and
one detached storage room per recreational vehicle space.
         b.   Community recreation buildings and facilities, laundry, car and
truck wash, boat or storage facilities serving the recreational park only.
         c.   Management offices and/or one single-family dwelling, or one
mobile home used exclusively for living quarters by the operator of the park.
   (C)   Development Standards:
      1.   Maximum building height: Two (2) stories or thirty feet (30'),
whichever is greater.
      2.   Minimum net site area per recreational vehicle space: One thousand
two hundred (1,200) square feet.
      3.   Minimum setback of any building or recreational vehicle from any
public street line: Twenty feet (20').
      4.   All utilities shall be placed underground.
   (D)   Placement of Recreational Vehicle on Individual Space:
      1.   Minimum setback from private access street: Ten feet (10').
      2.   Minimum distance between recreational vehicles: Between fronts with
two-way access street, forty feet (40'); between fronts with one-way access
street, thirty two feet (32').
      3.   Between two (2) opposing sides or between a side and an opposing
end, or between a recreational vehicle and a central accessory building, twenty
feet (20').
      4.   Between two (2) opposing ends of recreational vehicles: Ten feet
(10').
      5.   Expandable sections of recreational vehicles shall be considered
apart of the recreational vehicle proper. (Ord. 1972 B, 2-9-72)
   (E)   General Requirements:
      1.   Soil and ground cover requirements for vehicle parking space:
Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every recreational vehicle parking
space shall be paved or surfaced in an approved manner. Each vehicle parking
space shall have a minimum width of ten feet (10').
      2.   Exposed ground surfaces in all other parts of the recreational
vehicle park: Shall be covered with stone screenings, or other approved organic
material or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing
soil erosion and eliminating objectionable dust.
      3.   Density requirements: The density shall not exceed fifteen (15)
recreational vehicle spaces per gross acre of park site.
      4.   Recreational area or open space: In all recreational vehicle parks
containing five (5) or more recreational vehicle sites, there shall be required
one recreation area or open space accessible from all recreational vehicle
spaces. The size of such recreation area or open space shall not be less than
ten percent (10%) of the gross park area and shall be landscaped in an approved
manner.
      5.   Pedestrian accessways shall have a minimum width of eight feet (8')
and shall be surfaced with an approved material.
   (F)   Street System:
      1.   All vehicle spaces shall be provided with safe and convenient
vehicular access from public or private streets to each vehicle parking space.
Alignment width and gradient shall be properly adapted to topography and
subject to approval of the Planning Commission.
      2.   Surfacing: All streets and individual vehicle parking space shall be
spaces surfaced in an approved manner and shall be well drained.
      3.   Access: Access to recreational vehicle parks shall be designed to
minimize congestion and traffic hazards at their entrance or exit and allow
safe movement of traffic on adjacent streets. All traffic ingress or egress
from such parks shall be through controlled entrances and exits.
      4.   Internal Streets, Off-Street Parking and Maneuvering:
         a.   Twenty feet (20') minimum paved width for internal streets.
         b.   Noncontinuous streets in excess of four hundred feet (400') shall
be prohibited and all noncontinuous streets shall provide a sufficient
turnaround area to facilitate by forward motion a complete turnaround.
         c.   Off-street Parking and Maneuvering Area: each recreational
vehicle park shall provide sufficient parking and maneuvering space so that the
parking shall not necessitate the use of any public street, sidewalk or right
of way or any private grounds not part of the recreational vehicle park. (Ord.
1976-N, 8-5-76)
4-11-8: WATER SUPPLY SEWAGE DISPOSAL AND ELECTRICAL SYSTEM:
(Rep. by Ord. 1976 N, 8-5-76)
4-11-9: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND SERVICE FACILITIES:
   (A)   Central Accessory Building: A central accessory building containing
the necessary toilet and plumbing fixtures shall be provided in all
recreational vehicle parks and shall be provided in mobile home parks when
required by the Planning Commission. Such buildings or structures shall be
conveniently located.
   (B)   Central accessory buildings housing toilet facilities shall conform to
Elko County Building Codes.
4-11-10: REFUSE DISPOSAL:
   (A)   Refuse and Garbage Handling: Provisions shall be made so that the
storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the parks may be conducted so as
to create no health hazards or air pollution.
   (B)   Refuse collection areas shall be screened from view by fencing or
landscaping in an approved manner.
4-11-11: FUEL SUPPLY AND STORAGE:
   (A)   Installation of liquified petroleum gas or fuel oil containers on any
space or lot within a park shall be subject to the following:
      1.   Containers shall be securely, but not permanently, fastened to
prevent overturning.
      2.   Containers shall not contain a gross capacity of more than one
hundred fifty (150) U.S. gallons unless a greater capacity is approved by the
Building Official. (Ord. 1976-N, 8-5-76)
4-11-12: FIRE PROTECTION STANDARDS:
All recreational vehicle parks and mobile home parks shall be subject to rules
and regulations of the Nevada Fire Protection Authority and all applicable
laws. In every mobile home park and recreational vehicle park, or portion
thereof, shall be installed and maintained fire hydrants and fire extinguishers
of the number and type, size and location as may be required by the local fire
department having jurisdiction. Extinguishers may be installed in lieu of
faucets and hose upon approval of the local fire department. (Ord. 1972-B, 2-9-
72)
4-11-13: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Signs:
      1.   All accessory buildings for public use shall have each room and
building clearly signed as to its particular use.
      2.   Restrooms shall be clearly signed and illuminated.
      3.   Signs identifying buildings and rooms shall not exceed two (2)
square feet in area and name the use only.
      4.   One business identification sign advertising the recreational
vehicle park, mobile home park and located on the premises, subject to:
         a.   The total aggregate area shall not exceed one hundred (100)
square feet for both faces of such sign and shall be displayed not more than
twenty five feet (25') above ground.
         b.   An identification sign shall not be animated or flashing but may
be illuminated.
         c.   Sign construction permit shall be obtained from the Building
Official prior to construction of this sign.
   (B)   Occupancy and Use Certificates: No recreational vehicle park or mobile
home park shall be used for occupancy until a final inspection and written
approval is obtained from the Health Department and a certificate of use
occupancy has been obtained from the Building Official.
   (C)   Compliance and Non-Conforming Uses:
      1.   Any existing mobile home park and/or recreational vehicle park,
which is abandoned or discontinued for a period of six (6) months or more shall
comply with all requirements of applicable laws and this Ordinance if approval
is granted to re-establish the use.
      2.   All new mobile home parks and/or recreational vehicle parks shall
conform to all requirements herein.
   (D)   Swimming Pools: Outdoor swimming pools shall comply with the following
standards:
      1.   Setbacks: Swimming pools shall not be located in any required front
yard, in any utility easement, or less than five feet (5') to any lot line or
building except that public swimming pools shall not be located closer than
fifteen feet (15') to any lot line.
      2.   Mechanical Equipment: All heaters, pumps, filters, or other
mechanical equipment shall be located not less than five feet (5') to any lot
line.
      3.   Public Safety: Swimming pools shall be adequately protected to
discourage unauthorized access. (Ord. 1976-N, 8-5-76)
4-11-14: VARIANCE OR EXCEPTION PROVISIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   A variance or exception of any requirements of this Chapter may be
granted by the Planning Commission. Applications for an exception or variance
shall be filed with Elko County and accompanied by the following:
      1.   A filing fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each variance or
exception requested.
      2.   A detailed plot plan drawn to scale showing necessary information
and details for a determination by the Planning Commission.
      3.   Completed application form.
   (B)   A variance shall not be granted unless the Planning Commission shall
find sufficient evidence that:
      1.   There are special circumstances or conditions applying to the land
in question and not common to other lands in that area.
      2.   Granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or to the property in the general area.
      3.   Granting of the variance is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of substantial property rights.
      4.   Granting of the variance is necessary to facilitate a desirable
cluster design approach allowing flexibility in accordance with the intent of
this Chapter for the development of mobile home parks or subdivisions.
4-11-15: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Violations: Any structure upon which construction is started or any
structure which is altered, enlarged or repaired, or the use of land which is
begun and changed after enactment of this Chapter regulating recreational
vehicle parks and/or mobile home parks, and which is in violation of any of its
provisions is hereby declared a public nuisance. Any person who violates or
fails to comply with the provisions of this Chapter, the owner of any structure
or land or part thereof, and any contractor, builder or agent employed in
connection therewith who has assisted knowingly in the commission of any such
violation, shall be guilty of a separate offense and upon conviction thereof
shall be liable to the penalties provided herein.
   (B)   Penalties: Any violation of this Chapter shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the County
jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment, in the discretion of the court. Each day that a violation is
wilfully permitted to exist shall be constituted a separate offense. The
imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender from compliance with
the requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 1972-B, 2-9-72)
CHAPTER 12
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-12-1: Consent Required
4-12-2: Application and Procedure
4-12-3: Public Hearing
4-12-4: Hearing Dispensed With in Certain Cases
4-12-5: Action on Application
4-12-6: Appeals
4-12-7: Designation of Route and Time
4-12-8: Duties of Permittee
4-12-9: Bond
4-12-10: Foundation Required Before Movement
4-12-1: CONSENT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to move or cause to be moved any building
or structure of any kind or description to any lot, piece or parcel of land
within or into the unincorporated areas of Elko County, or over, along or
across any highway or street or alley in the unincorporated areas of Elko
County unless the consent of the Elko County Planning Commission for such
moving has been obtained prior to the move, except as hereinafter provided in
this Chapter.
4-12-2: APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE:
Except as provided in Section
4-12-4 hereof, any person, who owns, has any interest in, possesses or controls
any building or structure of any kind or description and who desires or intends
to move any such building or structure into or within the unincorporated areas
of Elko County or over, along or across any street within the unincorporated
areas of Elko County, shall first file a written application to the Elko County
Planning Commission requesting the consent of the Planning Commission to such
move end the issuance of o permit pursuant hereto. The application shall be
filed with the Building Inspector of the County of Elko and shall set forth the
following:
   (A)   A description of and the location of the building or structure
proposed to be moved, giving street number, if any, construction, material
dimensions, and condition of exterior, interior, plumbing and wiring;
   (B)   The proposed new location of such building or structure;
   (C)   The route over which it is proposed to move the building or structure
and the proposed date of and the estimated time necessary to complete the move;
   (D)   The purpose for which the building or structure is to be used in its
new location;
   (E)   A description of the alteration, repair, remodeling and other type of
work that is to be performed upon the building or structure with a
specification of the type of exterior finish that will be on the building or
structure upon completion. (Ord. 1978-M, 8-10-78; eff. 9-1-78)
   (F)   A description of the foundation upon which the building or structure
is to be permanently affixed. (Ord. 1979-Y, 11-8-79)
4-12-3: PUBLIC HEARING:
Said application shall be presented to the Elko County Planning Commission at
its next regular meeting after the filing of the application and the Planning
Commissioners shall set the matter for public hearing before the Board no later
than thirty five (35) days thereafter. The County Manager shall give notice of
the time, place and purpose of such hearing by mailing a notice thereof not
less than ten (10) days prior to the date of such hearing to each property
owner owning property within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior limits
of the parcel of property onto which the building or structure is to be moved.
For the purposes of this Chapter, "property owner" shall mean the taxpayer
shown upon the latest assessment rolls of Elko County as being taxable for the
property, the address on the assessment roll to be the address used for mailing
of notice.
In addition to the foregoing the County Manager shall cause to be published a
notice of public hearing; which notice shall be published once not less than
ten (10) days prior to the hearing in a newspaper qualified to publish legal
notices in the County of Elko. All cost of notification and notice as set forth
in this Section shall be assessed to and paid for by the applicant regardless
of the result of the hearing.
4-12-4: HEARING DISPENSED WITH IN CERTAIN CASES:
If the building or structure to be moved was constructed pursuant to a permit
issued by the Building Inspector's Office of the County and in conformity with
all current building codes of the County within a period of sixty (60) days
prior to the date specified for moving; or if said building or structure is a
new building constructed or prefabricated outside the County of Elko which has
never been occupied or used for the purpose for which it is designed and which
satisfies all applicable requirements of the current building or structure
codes of the County, then, in any of these events, the detailed application,
notices and the public hearing provided for in Section
4-12-2 and
4-12-3 above shall be dispensed with and an application for a moving permit
shall be made directly to the Building Inspector which shall set forth
sufficient information to establish that the applicant is entitled to a permit
without public hearing pursuant to this Section.
If in the opinion of the Building Inspector the applicant is entitled to a
permit without public hearing pursuant to this Section then, upon payment of
all fees and the filing of the bond required by this Ordinance, the Building
Inspector shall issue a moving permit to the applicant, subject to the terms
and provisions of this Chapter.
4-12-5: ACTION ON APPLICATION:
The Elko County Planning Commission shall, after the presentation of the
application, the public hearing and the consideration of all statements and
materials submitted to it either grant the application and consent to the move
and authorize the issuance of a removal permit, subject to payment of fees and
posting of bond, or shall deny such application and refuse to consent to the
moving and the issuance of a permit therefor.
4-12-6: APPEALS:
   (A)   An appeal may be taken to the County Board of Commissioners within
fifteen (15) days after the date of the action of the Commission on any
application filed pursuant to this Title. The appeal may be taken by any person
aggrieved, or by any public officer, board or agency affected, by filing with
the County Manager a written notice specifying the grounds for the appeal. Any
member of the County Commissioners may within the same period call for a review
of any such action by notice to the County Manager and such notice shall have
the same effect as an appeal but shall require no fee. Filing of an appeal
shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed.
   (B)   Transmittal of Record: Upon notice by the County Manager that an
appeal has been filed, the Planning Commission shall make available to the
Council all documents constituting the record upon which the act on appeal was
taken. The Commission shall be represented at the hearing on the appeal in
order to make known the reasons for its decision.
   (C)   Notice of Hearing: The County Board of Commissioners shall give notice
of the time and place at which the hearing will be held on any appeal filed
pursuant to this Title to the applicant, to the appellant, to the Planning
Commission and to any other person requesting such notice and depositing with
the County Manager a self-addressed, stamped envelope for that purpose.
   (D)   Action of the County Board of Commissioners: The Board of
Commissioners at the conclusion of the hearing on any appeal filed pursuant to
this Title, may sustain, modify or overrule the action of the Planning
Commission in the matter, or may refer any such matter back to the Planning
Commission. The final order of the Board of Commissioners on any such appeal
shall be effective forthwith.
4-12-7: DESIGNATION OF ROUTE AND TIME:
If a permit is issued, the Building Inspector shall designate the route over
which the building or structure may be moved as to minimize congestion and
traffic hazards on public streets and shall set the time within which the same
shall be moved.
4-12-8: DUTIES OF PERMITTEE:
Every permittee under this Section shall:
   (A)   Move the building or structure only over the mute designated by the
Building Inspector.
   (B)   Comply with all building and construction codes, and fire zoning and
zoning ordinances and all other applicable ordinances and laws upon relocating
the building or structure in the unincorporated areas of Elko County,
   (C)   Remove all rubbish and materials and fill all excavations to existing
grade at the original building site so that the premises are left in a safe and
sanitary condition, if the original site is within the unincorporated areas of
Elko County.
   (D)   Remove all building material, rubbish and scraps from the new site and
fill in the site to existing grade so that the new site is in a safe, sanitary
and orderly condition.
   (E)   Complete the moving of said building or structure, the repair,
remodeling and alteration of such building or structure as necessary to bring
it into compliance with all applicable codes and ordinances relating to
buildings and construction within the unincorporated areas of Elko County, and
perform all of the duties of the permittee under the terms of this Section
within six (6) months from the date of the issuance of the permit hereunder;
provided, however, the Elko County Planning Commission may, for good cause
shown, extend this completion date.
4-12-9: BOND:
Prior to the issuance of any removal permit pursuant to this Section, the
applicant shall file with the County Manager a bond, approved as to form by the
Elko County District Attorney, in the reasonable amount set by the Planning
Commission at the time of approval of the application in cases acted on by such
Planning Commission or by the Building Inspector in cases acted on by him
pursuant to this Section, which bond shall be conditioned:
   (A)   That the moving of the building or structure; the necessary repairs,
remodeling and alteration of such building or structure as necessary to bring
it into compliance with all applicable building and construction codes, tire
codes and zoning ordinances of the County, and the removal of all rubbish and
materials from both the old and the new building locations and the filling of
all holes, trenches, and excavations to grade at both the old and new locations
of the building and all other work required of the permittee under this Section
shall be completed within the time set by the Elko County Planning Commission.
   (B)   That the permittee shall pay for all damages that may accrue to the
highway, streets or alleys, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, fire hydrants and water
or sewer pipes in the unincorporated areas of Elko County or to any property of
or to the property of any person, in the moving of said building or structure;
and
   (C)   That said permittee shall pay for all damages and costs and expenses
necessary for the removal of, or the changing of, any telephone, telegraph,
electric power, television or any other wires used for public convenience or
utilities in the unincorporated areas of Elko County; and
   (D)   Said permittee shall pay all other damages, costs or expenses incurred
by the County of Elko or any person, who in any manner is damaged during the
process of moving such building or structure.
Said bond may be issued upon and collected upon by the County of Elko or any
person or legal entity in any manner damaged by the moving of such building or
structure. (Ord. 1978-M, 8-10-78, eff. 9-1-78)
4-12-10: FOUNDATION REQUIRED BEFORE MOVEMENT:
No permit for moving any building or structure shall be granted unless a
foundation for such building or structure has been completed. (Ord. 1979-Y, 11-
8-79)
CHAPTER 13
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
4-13-1: Adoption, Purpose Of Chapter
4-13-1-1: Objectives And Statutory Authorization
4-13-1-2: Findings Of Fact
4-13-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
4-13-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
4-13-2: Definitions
4-13-3: General Provisions
4-13-3-1: Lands To Which This Chapter Applies
4-13-3-2: Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
4-13-3-3: Compliance
4-13-3-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
4-13-3-5: Interpretation
4-13-3-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
4-13-4: Administration
4-13-4-1: Establishment Of Development Permit
4-13-4-2: Designation Of The Administrator
4-13-4-3: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Administrator
4-13-4-4: Submission Of New Technical Data To FEMA
4-13-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
4-13-5-1: Standards Of Construction
4-13-5-2: Standards For Storage Of Materials And Equipment
4-13-5-3: Standards For Utilities
4-13-5-4: Standards For Subdivisions
4-13-5-5: Standards For Manufactured Homes And Manufactured Home Parks And
Subdivisions
4-13-5-6: Standards For Recreational Vehicles
4-13-5-7: Floodways
4-13-6: Variance Procedure
4-13-6-1: Appeal Board
4-13-6-2: Conditions For Variances
4-13-7: Violations
4-13-8: Severability
4-13-1: ADOPTION, PURPOSE OF CHAPTER:
4-13-1-1: OBJECTIVES AND STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Nevada has in Nevada Revised Statutes, chapter
244, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the board of commissioners of the county of Elko,
state of Nevada, does ordain as follows in this chapter. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-
2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
The flood hazard areas of Elko County are subject to periodic inundation which
may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare. (Ord. 2004-C,
9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by regulation designed:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding conditions in populated or developed areas;
   (D)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the second use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future blight
areas;
   (E)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard; and
   (F)   To ensure that those who occupy the area of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-
2004)
4-13-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Controlling, filling, grading, dredging, and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application:
ALLUVIAL FAN: A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan shaped
deposit of boulders, gravel and fine sediments that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and then deposited on the valley
floors, and which is subject to flash flooding, high velocity flows, debris
flows, erosion, sediment movement and deposition and channel migration.
APEX: The point of highest elevation on an alluvial fan, which on undisturbed
fans is generally the point where the major stream that formed the fan emerges
from the mountain front.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the Elko County department of community
development interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a
variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or VO zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a
clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; and, velocity flow may be evident.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
This area is designated as zone a, AO, AH, A1-30 or AE on the FIRM.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The height of the base flood, usually in feet, in
relation to the mean sea level, national geodetic vertical datum of 1929, the
North American vertical datum of 1988, or other datum referenced in the flood
insurance study report, or average depth of the base flood, usually in feet,
above the ground surface.
BASEMENT: Any area of a building having its floor below ground level or
subgrade on all sides.
BREAKAWAY WALLS: Any type of walls, whether solid or lattice, and whether
constructed of concrete, masonry, wood, metal, plastic or any other suitable
building material which are not part of the structural support of the building
and which are so designed as to break away, under abnormally high tides or wave
action, without damage to the structural integrity of the building on which
they are used or any buildings to which they might be carried by floodwaters.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavating or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
ENGINEER, SURVEYOR, ARCHITECT: Any person having a current and valid license in
the state of Nevada issued by the respective proper state agency to
professionally provide and conduct the prescribed discipline.
FLOOD BOUNDARY FLOODWAY MAP: The official map on which the federal insurance
administration has delineated both the areas of flood hazard and the floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency that includes flood profiles, the FIRM, the flood boundary
floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   (A)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
   (B)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION: A condition that exists in conjunction with a flooding
event that alters the composition of the shoreline or bank of a watercourse.
One that increases the possibility of loss due to the erosion of the land area
adjacent to the shoreline or watercourse.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to nonresidential structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real estate or improved property.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
The floodway is delineated on the flood boundary floodway map.
HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN: A plan that incorporates a process whereby the
potential of future loss due to flooding can be minimized by planning and
implementing alternatives to floodplain development community wide.
HIGHEST GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to
construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   (A)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   (B)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   (C)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   (D)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.   By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.   Directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes the term
"manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
NGVD: National geodetic vertical datum, datum of 1927 or 1988.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle built on a single chassis, four hundred (400)
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection designed
to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
designated primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as a temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
SAND DUNES: Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: Darkly shaded area on a flood hazard boundary map or
a flood insurance rate map (FIRM) that identifies an area that has a one
percent (1%) chance of being flooded in any given year, also known as the 100-
year floodplain. Over a thirty (30) year period, the life of most mortgages,
there is at least a twenty six percent (26%) chance that this area will be
flooded.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
replacement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally aboveground, as
well as a manufactured home. "Structure" for insurance coverage purposes, means
a walled and roofed building, other than a gas or liquid storage tank, that is
principally aboveground and affixed to a permanent site, as well as a
manufactured home on a permanent foundation. For the latter purpose, the term
includes a building while in the course of construction, alteration or repair,
but does not include building materials or supplies intended for use in such
construction, alteration or repair, unless such materials or supplies are
within an enclosed building on the premises.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either: a) any project for improvement of a
structure to correct existing violations of state or local health, sanitary, or
safety code specifications which have been identified by the local code
enforcement official to assure safe living conditions, or b) any alteration of
a "historic structure"; provided, that the alteration will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a "historic structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development in a special
flood hazard area, without an elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-
2004, eff. 9-26-2004; amd. Ord. 2022-04, eff 11-27-2022)
4-13-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
4-13-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the county of Elko. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance
administration, through the federal emergency management agency in a scientific
and engineering report entitled "The Flood Insurance Study For The County Of
Elko", dated March 16, 1992, including any subsequent changes thereto, with an
accompanying flood insurance rate map is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter. The flood insurance study is on file
with the Elko County department of community development, 155 South Ninth
Street, Elko, NV 89801. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-3-3: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 2004-C,
9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-3-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-3-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on occasion. Flood heights may
be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such
areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of Elko County, any officer or employee thereof,
or the federal insurance administration, for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-4: ADMINISTRATION:
4-13-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development or building permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in
section
4-13-3-2 of this chapter. Application for a development or building permit
shall be made on forms furnished by the Elko County department of community
development and may include, but not be limited to: a duplicate set of plans in
proper scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, NGVD elevation or
topography of the area in question, base flood elevation of the area, existing
or proposed structures with proposed finish floor elevations, fill, storage of
materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
   (A)   Proposed elevation in relation to NGVD, of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all structures; in zone AO, elevation of existing grade and
proposed elevation of lowest floor of all structures; that drainage paths will
be constructed around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters;
   (B)   Proposed elevation in relation to NGVD to which any structure will be
floodproofed;
   (C)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that
the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in subsection
4-13-5-1(C)2 of this chapter;
   (D)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or
relocated as a result of proposed development; and
   (E)   The developer will show evidence of compliance with flood venting
requirements, elevation or floodproofing of attendant utilities (electrical,
HVAC, etc.) and use of flood resistant materials below the base flood
elevation. And all other requirements in the code of federal regulations, title
44, part 60.3. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-4-2: DESIGNATION OF THE ADMINISTRATOR:
The Elko County floodplain administrator as designated by the Elko County board
of commissioners is hereby appointed to administer and implement this chapter
by granting or denying development permit applications in accordance with its
provisions. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-4-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR:
The duties and responsibilities of the administrator shall include, but are not
limited to:
   (A)   Permit Review:
      1.   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
      2.   Review all permits to determine that the site is reasonably safe
from flooding.
      3.   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the area of
special flood hazard. For purposes of this chapter, "adversely affects" means
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development will increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point.
      4.   Review all proposals for the development of five (5) parcels or more
to assure that the flood discharge exiting the development after construction
is equal to or less than the flood discharge at the location prior to
development.
      5.   It is required that all other state/federal permits are obtained.
   (B)   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided for a particular site in accordance with section
4-13-3-2, "Basis For Establishing The Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter, the Elko County department of community development shall obtain,
review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE) data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer section
4-13-5 of this chapter.
   (C)   Information To Be Obtained And Maintained: Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed for flood insurance policies:
      1.   The certified elevation required in subsection
4-13-5-1(C)1 of this chapter;
      2.   The floodproofing certification required in subsection
4-13-5-1(C)2 of this chapter;
      3.   The certified elevation required in subsection
4-13-5-4(B) of this chapter; and
      4.   The anchoring certification for manufactured homes required in
subsection
4-13-5-5(A) of this chapter.
   (D)   Alteration Of Watercourses:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the Nevada division of water
resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the federal emergency management agency.
      2.   Require that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse is maintained.
   (E)   Interpretation Of FIRM Boundaries: Make interpretations where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of
the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in section
4-13-6 of this chapter.
   (F)   Maintenance Of Flood Protection Measures: The maintenance of any and
all flood protection measures (levees, dikes, dams or reservoirs), will be
required of the jurisdiction where such measures provide protection. If these
measures are privately owned, an operation or maintenance plan will be required
of the owner to be on file with the Elko County department of community
development.
   (G)   Hazard Mitigation Plan: The Elko County planning commission shall
weigh all requests for future floodplain development against the community's
general plan. Consideration of the following elements is required before
approval:
      1.   Determination if proposed development is in or affects a known
floodplain.
      2.   Inform the public of the proposed activity.
      3.   Determine if there is a practicable alternative or site for the
proposed activity.
      4.   Identify impact of the activity on the floodplain.
      5.   Ensure that a plan exists to mitigate the impact of the activity
with regard to the provisions of subsection (A)4 of this section. (Ord. 2004-C,
9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-4-4: SUBMISSION OF NEW TECHNICAL DATA TO FEMA:
When Elko County base flood elevations either increase or decrease resulting
from physical changes affecting flooding conditions, as soon as practicable,
but not later than six months after the date such information becomes
available, Elko County will submit the technical or scientific data to FEMA.
Such submissions are necessary so that upon confirmation of the physical
changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and flood plain
management requirements will be based upon current data. (Ord. 2022-04, eff.
11-27-2022)
4-13-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
4-13-5-1: STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required:
   (A)   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of
subsection
4-13-5-5(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be using
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   All elements that function as a part of the structure, such as
furnace, hot water heater, air conditioner, etc., shall be elevated to or above
the base flood elevation or depth number specified on the FIRM.
      4.   All electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Elevation And Floodproofing: The Elko County department of community
development shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation (BFE) and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other
source as criteria for requiring within areas of special flood hazard, the
following:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any structure shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to one foot (1') above the
base flood elevation together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities.
The base flood elevation for construction within a special floodplain is to be
established by a licensed professional registered engineer or surveyor at the
instance of the developer. Nonresidential structures may meet the standards in
subsection (C)2 of this section. Upon completion of all structures, the
elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, shall file an elevation
certificate prepared by a licensed professional registered engineer or surveyor
and verified by the local building inspector or floodplain administrator that
elevation requirements have been met. Such certification shall be filed with
the Elko County department of community development.
      2.   New construction and substantial improvement of any nonresidential
structure shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to
one foot (1') above the base flood elevation, together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification(s)
shall be filed with the Elko County department of community development.
      3.   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development shall be prohibited in any floodway unless
a technical evaluation demonstrates that the encroachments will not result in
any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      4.   Manufactured homes shall meet the standards set forth in section
4-13-5-5 of this chapter.
      5.   For all new construction and substantial improvements, fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect or must meet or exceed the following minimum criteria: a minimum of
two (2) openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided. The
bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1') above grade.
Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or devices;
provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (D)   Drainage Paths: All new construction and substantial improvements
within the AH or AO zones shall be constructed with adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-5-2: STANDARDS FOR STORAGE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal or plant
life is prohibited.
   (B)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not subject
to major damage by floods and firmly anchored to prevent flotation or if
readily removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
(Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-5-3: STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES:
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltrating of floodwaters into the
system and discharge from systems into floodwaters.
   (B)   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff.
9-26-2004)
4-13-5-4: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood.
   (B)   All final subdivision plans shall provide the elevation of the
proposed structure(s) and pads. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the final pad elevation shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or surveyor and filed with the Elko County department of
community development.
   (C)   Divisions of land into large parcels having more than fifty percent
(50%) of any proposed new parcel identified as being within a special
floodplain shall identify the special flood zone boundaries and the base flood
elevation of each of the proposed parcels effected by the special floodplain.
Consideration will be given the overall size of the proposed parcel and the
proposed location of development. Discretion is provided to the floodplain
administrator in the administration of this requirement. The divisions of land
into large parcels map will provide finish floor elevations for proposed
structure(s), pads, and utilities. If the site is filled above the base flood
elevation, the final pad elevation shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or surveyor and filed with the Elko County department of
community development.
   (D)   Parcel maps having more than twenty five percent (25%) of any proposed
new parcel identified as being within a special floodplain shall identify the
special flood zone boundaries and the base flood elevation of each of the
proposed parcels effected by the special floodplain. Consideration will be
given the overall size of the proposed parcel and the proposed location of
development. Discretion is provided to the floodplain administrator in the
administration of this requirement. The parcel map will provide finish floor
elevations for proposed structure(s), pads, and utilities. If the site is
filled above the base flood elevation, the final pad elevation shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and filed with the
Elko County department of community development.
   (E)   All subdivision, divisions of land into large parcel or parcel map
proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (F)   All subdivision, divisions of land into large parcel or parcel map
proposals shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (G)   All subdivision, divisions of land into large parcel or parcel map
proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
damage as set forth in subsection
4-13-4-3(A)4 of this chapter. Certification of compliance shall be required of
the developer.
   (H)   Comprehensive base flood elevation data is required for subdivision,
division of land into large parcels, and parcel maps proposals greater than
fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres. The developer will provide finish floor
elevations for all proposed road development, structure(s), pads, and utilities
prepared by a licensed professional registered engineer. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-
2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-5-5: STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS AND
SUBDIVISIONS:
   (A)   Anchoring: All manufactured homes and additions to manufactured homes
shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement by one of
the following methods:
      1.   By anchoring, tying down and installation as set forth in state
regulations promulgated pursuant to authority of Nevada Revised Statutes,
chapter 489, in the Nevada state administrative code 489, 400-430.
      2.   Certification that the standards of this section have been met is
required of the installer or state agency responsible for regulating the
placement, installation and anchoring of individual manufactured home units.
The certification shall be filed with the Elko County department of community
development.
   (B)   Manufactured Home Parks And Manufactured Home Subdivisions: The
following standards are required for: 1) manufactured homes not placed in
manufactured home parks or subdivisions, 2) new manufactured home parks or
subdivisions, 3) expansions to existing manufactured home parks or subdivisions
and 4) repair, reconstruction, or improvements to existing manufactured home
parks or subdivisions that equal or exceed fifty percent (50%) of the value of
the streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or
improvement commenced.
      1.   Adequate surface drainage and access for a hauler shall be provided.
      2.   All manufactured homes shall be placed on pads or lots elevated on
compacted fill or on pilings so that the lowest floor of the manufactured home
is at or above the base flood level. If elevated on pilings:
         (a)   The lots shall be large enough to permit steps;
         (b)   The pilings shall be placed in stable soil no more than ten feet
(10') apart; and
         (c)   Reinforcement shall be provided for pilings more than six feet
(6') above the ground level.
   (C)   Standards In Specific Zones: All manufactured homes to be placed or
substantially improved within zones A1-30, AH, and AE shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of subsection (A)
or (B) of this section.
   (D)   Certification Of Compliance: Certification of compliance is required
of the developer responsible for the plan or state agency responsible for
regulating manufactured home placement. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-5-6: STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
All recreational vehicles placed on sites within the floodplain on the
community's flood insurance rate map (FIRM) will either:
   (A)   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
   (B)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions; or
   (C)   Will meet the development permit requirements and the elevation and
anchoring requirements for manufactured homes. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-
26-2004)
4-13-5-7: FLOODWAYS:
Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of the
floodwaters, which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential,
the following provisions apply:
   (A)   If a floodway has not been designated within the special flood hazard
areas established in Sub-section
4-13-3-2 (Basis for Establishing Areas of Special Flood Hazard), no new
construction, substantial improvement, or other development (including fill)
shall be permitted, unless it has been demonstrated that the cumulative effect
of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
   (B)   In designated floodways located within the special flood hazard areas
established in Sub-section
4-13-3-2 (Basis for Establishing Areas of Special Flood Hazard) encroachment
shall be prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, storage of equipment or supplies, and any other development
within the adopted regulatory floodway; unless it has been demonstrated through
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not result in any
increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency has issued a
Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR).
   (C)   If Sub-sections A and B (Floodways) have been satisfied; all proposed
new development and substantial improvements will comply with all other
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of
4-13-5 (Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction). (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-
26-2004; amd. Ord. 2022-04; eff 11-27-2022)
4-13-6: VARIANCE PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Warning: The federal emergency management agency (FEMA) does not
recognize variances or waivers, therefore insurance rates will not be under the
control of the program and will be at the discretion of the individual
insurance company or broker. Any applicant to whom a variance or waiver is
granted shall be given written notice that the structure will be permitted to
be built with a lowest floor elevation below the base flood elevation and that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff.
9-26-2004)
4-13-6-1: APPEAL BOARD:
   (A)   The Elko County planning commission as established by the board of
Elko County commissioners shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Elko County planning commission shall hear and decide appeals when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Elko County department of community development relating to this
chapter.
   (C)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Elko County planning commission
or any taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the fourth judicial district court
in and for the county of Elko, state of Nevada.
   (D)   In passing upon such applications, the Elko County planning commission
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
   (E)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing items in subsection (D)1 through (D)11 of this
section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors of subsection (D) of this section
and the purposes of this chapter, the Elko County planning commission may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
   (G)   The Elko County department of community development shall maintain the
records of all appeal actions and report any variances to the federal emergency
management agency, upon request. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-6-2: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   (A)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one
half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of Sections
4-13-4 (Administration) and
4-13-5 (Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction) of the ordinance have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (B)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of “historic
structures,” as defined in Section
4-13-2 (Definitions), upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as an
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
   (C)   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the “minimum necessary” considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
“Minimum necessary” means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this ordinance. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the {'{'}governing body{'}'} need not grant
permission for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation
the applicant proposed, but only to that elevation which the {'{'}governing
body{'}'} believes will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the
local ordinance.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued if the following conditions apply:
      1.   Showing of good and sufficient cause, such as renovation,
rehabilitation or reconstruction. Request for variances for economic
considerations, aesthetics or because variances have been used in the past are
not good and sufficient cause;
      2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      3.    A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary
public expense, create a nuisance, as cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions A through E (Conditions for
Variances) are satisfied and that the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does
not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   (G)   Upon consideration of all the factors of 4-13-6-2 and the purposes of
this ordinance, the Elko County Planning Commission may attach such conditions
to the granting of, variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of
this ordinance. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004; amd. Ord. 2022-04; eff
11-27-2022)
4-13-7: VIOLATIONS:
Within thirty (30) days of discovery of a violation of this chapter, the
floodplain administrator shall send a letter to the owner of the property upon
which the violation exists. The letter shall inform the property owner that the
violation shall be corrected or that a plan of corrections shall be approved by
the administrator within forty five (45) days of receipt of the letter.
If the violation is not corrected or a plan of corrections is not approved
within forty five (45) days of notice of the violation, the administrator shall
submit to the administrator of the federal insurance administration a
declaration for denial of insurance, stating that the property is in violation
of a cited statute or local law, regulation or ordinance, pursuant to section
1316 of the national flood insurance act of 1968, as amended. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-
1-2004, eff. 9-26-2004)
4-13-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or amendments thereto, or the application
thereof to any person, thing or circumstance is held to be invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect the validity of provisions or applications of the
ordinance or amendments thereto which can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this chapter and
amendments thereto are declared to be severable. (Ord. 2004-C, 9-1-2004, eff.
9-26-2004)
CHAPTER 14
ADULT CANNABIS DISTRICT
SECTION:
4-14-1: Provisions for appropriate zoning
4-14-1: PROVISIONS FOR APPROPRIATE ZONING:
   (A)   The "AC" District is established to provide space for cannabis
establishments so regulated as to provide for the safety and welfare of the
communities wherein the cannabis establishments are located.
   (B)   Permitted Uses: The following principle uses are permitted when
conducted entirely within an enclosed building:
      1.   Adult-use cannabis cultivation facility;
      2.   Adult-use cannabis independent testing facility;
      3.   Adult-use cannabis production facility;
      4.   Adult-use cannabis retail store;
      5.   Adult-use cannabis distributor;
      6.   Medical cannabis independent testing facility;
      7.   Medical cannabis cultivation facility;
      8.   Medical cannabis production facility;
      9.   Medical cannabis dispensary.
   (C)   Automatic Reversion: If at any time the applicant for a zoning change
transfers, sells, or discontinues to operate a cannabis establishment on the
real property, the zoning designation will automatically revert to the previous
zoning designation.
   (D)   Yards: The minimum requirements for yards shall be as follows:
 
Depth of front yard: 30 Feet
Depth of rear yard : 20 feet
Side yard:           10 feet
 
   (E)   Height Limitation: No building shall have a height in excess of fifty
feet (50') or four (4) stories, or in excess of twenty feet (20') when located
within fifty feet (50') of an "R" District.
   (F)   Building Site Area: The minimum building site area of a lot in the
"AC" District shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet; the minimum width of
a lot shall be seventy-five feet (75').
   (G)   Parking: One parking space shall be provided for each three hundred
(300) square feet; minimum width of a lot shall be seventy-five feet (75') and
shall be paved.
   (H)   Landscaping: In the "AC" District, property surrounding the buildings
and facilities on any site must maintain landscaping. Desert landscape or
plants that use minimal water are required.
   (I)   Signs: In the "AC" District, the aggregate of identifying business
signs on any one building or buildings located on a site, shall not exceed two
(2) in number and shall not exceed fifteen (15) square feet in area for any
individual sign. No sign shall have any moving parts or extend more than four
feet (4') above the roof or cornice line of any main building on the site. No
sign shall use language or symbols that are offensive.
   (J)   Definitions: The terms in section "B" have the same meaning ascribed
in
6-15-1.
   (K)   Before approving a zone change, the Planning and Zoning Board may
place reasonable conditions on a cannabis establishment regarding the
following:
      1.   The manner of operation;
      2.   Environmental sustainability and mitigation plans;
      3.   Odor control systems and suitability of the building for the use
proposed;
      4.   Site plan as to parking;
      5.   Traffic movement; and
      6.   Aesthetics.
   (L)   The person applying for a zone change to an AC district may appeal the
conditions placed on the cannabis establishment under subsection "K" of this
section to the Board of County Commissioners in the same manner set forth in
4-9-10. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
CHAPTER 15
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-15-1: Definitions
4-15-2: Abatement Of Dangerous Structures Or Conditions
4-15-3: Abatement Of Chronic Nuisance
4-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
AUTHORIZED  A person other than the Sheriff authorized to issue a citation.
AGENT:
            A structure or condition that may cause injury to, or endanger the health, life,
            property or safety of, the general public or the occupants, if any, of the real
            property on which the structure or condition is located. The term includes, without
DANGEROUS   limitation, a structure or condition that:
STRUCTURE   (A)   Injures or endangers the life, safety, health, or property of the general
OR          public or the occupants of the property upon which the structure or condition is
CONDITION:  located, or in any way annoys or endangers the comfort or repose of a considerable
            number of persons; or
            (B)   Violates an ordinance, rule or regulation regulating health and safety
            enacted, adopted or passed by the county, the violation of which is designated as a
            nuisance in the ordinance, rule or regulation.
            An accumulation of solid materials on the owner's property that is visible to the
DEBRIS,     public and is offensive to the senses, or is dangerous to the health, safety or
RUBBISH AND welfare of the public, and which includes, without limitation, paper, cardboard,
REFUSE:     inoperable automobiles, tin cans, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
            materials.
            (A)   Criminal activity;
            (B)   The presence of debris, litter, garbage, rubble, abandoned or junk vehicles
            or junk appliances;
            (C)   Excessive noise and violations of curfew;
            (D)   Violations of building codes, housing codes or any other codes regulating the
            health or safety of occupants of real property;
NUISANCE    (E)   Any act or omission which injures or endangers the life, safety, health, or
ACTIVITY:   property of the general public or the occupants of the property upon which the
            structure or condition is located, or in any way annoys or endangers the comfort or
            repose of a considerable number of persons; or
            (F)   Any act or omission which violates an ordinance, rule or regulation
            regulating health and safety enacted, adopted or passed by the county, the
            violation of which is designated as a nuisance in the ordinance, rule or
            regulation.
            Any person, whether residing, located or domiciled within or outside the
OWNER:      unincorporated area of the County, or within or outside the state of Nevada, having
            title to the property. For the purposes of service of notice, "owner" shall also
            mean the owner's local designated agent or representative.
            (A)   The owner of the property;
            (B)   The manager or assistant manager of the property;
PERSON      (C)   The tenant of the property; or
ASSOCIATED  (D)   A person who, on the occasion of a nuisance activity, has:
WITH THE       1.   Entered, patronized or visited;
PROPERTY:      2.   Attempted to enter, patronize or visit; or
               3.   Waited to enter, patronize or visit, the property or a person present on
            the property.
PLANNING    The Elko County Planning Commission.
COMMISSION:
            (A)   Improved real estate that consists of no more than four residential units;
            (B)   Unimproved real estate for which no more than four residential units may be
            developed or constructed pursuant to any zoning regulations or any development plan
RESIDENTIAL applicable to the real estate; or
PROPERTY:   (C)   A single-family residential unit, including, without limitation, a
            condominium, townhouse or home within a subdivision, if the unit is sold, leased or
            otherwise conveyed unit by unit, regardless of whether the unit is part of a larger
            building or parcel that consists of more than four units.
WEEDS AND
NOXIOUS     Weeds or overgrown grass, brush or vegetation that is offensive to the senses or
PLANT       injurious to health. (Ord. 07-2020, 10-21-2020)
GROWTH:
 
4-15-2: ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS STRUCTURES OR CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Declaration of Nuisance:
      1.   In order to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the
residents of the County, the Planning Commission may order the owner of
property within the County to:
         (a)   Repair, safeguard or eliminate any dangerous structure or
condition;
         (b)   Clear debris, rubbish, refuse, litter, garbage, abandoned or
junk vehicles or junk appliances which are not subject to the provisions of NRS
Chapter 459;
         (c)   Clear weeds and noxious plant growth; or
         (d)   Repair, clear, correct, rectify, safeguard or eliminate any
other public nuisance as defined in this Chapter.
   (B)   Notice:
      1.   Upon the discovery of a dangerous structure or condition, debris,
rubbish, refuse, weeds or noxious plant growth on property within the County,
an authorized inspector shall send to the owner of the property, at the mailing
address provided by the owner in the real property records of the County,
written notice of the existence of such conditions. The notice shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall contain:
         (a)   The street address, parcel number and/or legal description
sufficient for identification of the property upon which the conditions are
located;
         (b)   A description of the condition or conditions to be abated;
         (c)   A statement of the action required to abate the conditions;
         (d)   The date by which the abatement must occur; except that the
owner must be afforded a minimum of thirty days to abate the nuisance;
         (e)   A statement informing the owner of an opportunity to request a
hearing before the designee of the board and an appeal of that decision to the
board; and
         (f)   A statement informing the owner that he will be subject to civil
penalties for each day that he does not abate the conditions after the date
specified in the notice.
   (C)   Voluntary Abatement By Owner Of The Property:
      1.   Upon service of a written Notice to Abate the conditions, the owner
of the property upon which the conditions exist shall have until the date set
forth in the notice by which the abatement must occur, unless the authorized
inspector, in his or her discretion based on the factual circumstances, grants
an extension of time in writing. At the expiration of the applicable time
limit, a second inspection of the subject property shall occur. If the
conditions have been abated, no further enforcement action shall be taken.
      2.   If voluntary abatement occurs after the date set forth in the notice
by which the abatement must occur, and the owner or occupant of the property
has not been in control of any property for which a notice under this Chapter
was provided within the preceding five years, then civil penalties shall be
waived.
   (D)   Abatement Hearing:
      1.   When the owner of the property disagrees with the Notice to Abate,
served pursuant Subsection "B" of this Section, the owner may request a hearing
before the Planning Commission. The hearing must be requested within ten
calendar days of service of the Notice to Abate.
      2.   An appeal may be taken to the Board of County Commissioners in the
manner set forth in Elko County Code
4-9-10.
      3.   The date specified in the notice by which the owner must abate the
conditions is tolled for the period during which the owner requests a hearing
and receives a decision from the Planning Commission, and for the period during
which the owner appeals that decision to the Board of County Commissioners.
   (E)   Recoupment of County Costs to Abate:
      1.   The County shall recover from the owner the amount expended to abate
the conditions if:
         (a)   The owner has not requested a hearing within ten business days
after service of the Notice to Abate, and has failed to abate the conditions on
his property within the time prescribed in the Notice to Abate;
         (b)   After a hearing in which the owner did not prevail, the owner
has not filed an appeal ten calendar days after the date of the action of the
Planning Commission and has failed to abate the conditions within the period
specified in the order of the designee of the board; or
         (c)   The Board of County Commissioners has denied the appeal of the
owner and the owner has failed to abate the conditions within the period
specified by the Board of Commissioners.
      2.   In addition to the option of recovering money expended by the County
to abate the condition by initiating a civil suit against the owner or any
other reasonable means, the expense shall be a special assessment against the
property upon which the condition is located. The special assessment shall be
collected pursuant to the provisions set forth in Subsection 4 of NRS 244.360.
(Ord. 07-2020, 10-21-2020)
4-15-3: ABATEMENT OF CHRONIC NUISANCE:
   (A)   Abatement of Chronic Nuisance:
      1.   Declaration of Nuisance. For the purposes of this Chapter, a chronic
nuisance exists when:
         (a)   Three or more instances of nuisance activities exist or have
occurred during any ninety-day period on the property;
         (b)   A person associated with the property has engaged in three or
more nuisance activities during any ninety-day period on the property or within
one hundred (100) feet of the property;
         (c)   The property has been the subject of a search warrant based on
probable cause of continuous or repeated violations of NRS Chapter 459;
         (d)   A building or place is used for the purpose of unlawfully
selling, serving, storing, keeping, manufacturing, using or giving away a
controlled substance, immediate precursor as defined in NRS 453.086 or
controlled substance analog as defined in NRS 453.043; or
         (e)   A building or place was used for the purpose of unlawfully
manufacturing a controlled substance, immediate precursor or controlled
substance analog and:
            (1)   The building or place has not been deemed safe for habitation
by a governmental entity; or
            (2)   All materials or substances involving the controlled
substance, immediate precursor or controlled substance analog have not been
removed from or remediated on the building or place by an entity certified or
licensed to do so within one hundred eighty days after the building or place is
no longer used for the purpose of unlawfully manufacturing a controlled
substance, immediate precursor, or controlled substance analog.
   (B)   Notice:
      1.   The written notice and declaration of chronic nuisance shall be sent
by certified mail, return receipt requested, by the authorized agent to the
owner of the property and posted on the property as notice to the occupant,
when applicable.
   (C)   Court Hearing:
      1.   When served with a Notice and Declaration of Chronic Nuisance, the
owner may request a hearing by filing in District Court a Complaint for
Declaratory or Injunctive Relief. Service of the Complaint shall be effectuated
in accordance with the Nevada Rules of Civil Procedure. The Complaint must be
filed and served prior to the abatement date specified in the notice. The date
specified in the notice is tolled for the period during which the owner
requests a hearing and receives a decision.
      2.   When served with a notice and the owner fails to abate the chronic
nuisance by the date specified in the notice, and fails to request a hearing in
District Court prior to the date specified in the notice, the Sheriff or
authorized agent may request the District Attorney to file a Complaint in
District Court.
      3.   If the Court finds that a chronic nuisance exists and action is
necessary to avoid serious threat to the public welfare or the safety or health
of the occupants of the property, the Court may order the County to secure and
close the property until the nuisance is abated.
      4.   In addition, if the Court finds that a chronic nuisance exists, the
Court may:
         (a)   Impose a civil penalty of not more than five hundred dollars per
day for each day that the chronic nuisance was not abated after the date
specified in the notice, by which the owner was required to abate the
condition;
         (b)   Order the owner to pay the County for the cost incurred by the
County in abating the condition; and
         (c)   Order any other appropriate relief.
   (D)   Recovery of Abatement Cost:
      1.   In addition to any other reasonable means authorized by the Court
for the recovery of money expended by the County to abate the chronic nuisance,
and, except as otherwise provided in Subsection (b), for the collection of
civil penalties imposed, pursuant to Subsection "C", the expense and civil
penalties shall be a special assessment against the property upon which the
chronic nuisance existed. The special assessment shall be collected pursuant to
the provisions set forth in Subsection 4 of NRS 244.360.
      2.   Any civil penalties that have not been collected from the owner of
the property may not be made a special assessment against the property,
pursuant to Subsection (a), unless:
         (a)   At least one hundred eighty (180) days have elapsed after the
date specified in the Order of the Court, by which the owner must abate the
chronic nuisance or, if the owner appeals that Order, the date specified in the
Order of the Appellate Court, by which the owner must abate the chronic
nuisance, whichever is later;
         (b)   The owner has been billed, served or otherwise notified that the
civil penalties are due; and
         (c)   The amount of the uncollected civil penalties is more than five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00). (Ord. 07-2020, 10-21-2020)
CHAPTER 16
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
4-16-1: Purpose
4-16-2: Applicability
4-16-3: Exceptions
4-16-4: Permitted Uses
4-16-5: Requirements For Approval
4-16-6: Permit
4-16-7: Special Use Permit
4-16-8: Collection Protocol
4-16-9: Application Process
4-16-1: PURPOSE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to ensure that wireless
communication facilities (WCF) are regulated in a manner which: a) minimizes
visual impacts; b) promotes the goal of universal service to all customers; c)
encourages co-location of facilities to minimize the number of new structures
required; d) provides review for structural safety; and e) creates a review
process where all service providers are fairly treated.
   (B)   Wireless Facility: “Wireless Facility” shall have the same meaning
ascribed in NRS 707.555, and facility shall have the same meaning as wireless
facility. (Ord. 2023-04, 3-15-2023)
4-16-2: APPLICABILITY:
The regulations contained in this chapter are applicable to all providers,
facilities, installations, equipment and services involved in the provision of
wireless telecommunications and broadcast communications services, including
cellular telephone, personal communications services (PCS), enhanced or
specialized mobile telephones, commercial paging services, and commercial radio
and television broadcasting, unless exempted by these regulations. All new,
modified, and/or reconstructed facilities subject to these regulations shall
comply with all permit requirements of this title, including where applicable,
development permits, building permits, and business licensing requirements.
(Ord. 2023-04, 3-15-2023)
4-16-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from these regulations:
   (A)   Replacement antennas or equipment, provided the replacement antennas
and/or equipment have a function similar to the replaced antenna and/or
equipment and do not exceed the overall size of the original antenna and/or
equipment.
   (B)   Amateur radio towers and antennas, citizen band transmitters and
antennas.
   (C)   Whip or other similar antennas no taller than six feet (6') with a
maximum diameter of two inches (2").
   (D)   Antennas (including direct-to-home satellite dishes, TV antennas, and
wireless cable antennas) used by viewers to receive video programming signals
from direct broadcast facilities, broadband radio service providers, and TV
broadcast stations regardless of zone category.
   (E)   Low-powered networked telecommunications facilities such as microcell
radio transceivers located on existing utility poles and light standards within
public right-of-way. Low-powered networked telecommunications facilities shall
comply with this chapter.
   (F)   All military, Federal, State, and local government communication
facilities.
   (G)   Cell on wheels (COW), cell on light truck (COLT), repeater and truck
(RAT) and similar temporary mobile equipment as determined by the Director
which are permitted as temporary uses in Nonresidential Zones for a period not
to exceed fourteen (14) days, or during a period of emergency as declared by a
government entity.
   (H)   Antennas and equipment and other apparatus completely located within
an existing structure whose purpose is to enhance or facilitate communication
function of other structures on the site.
   (I)   Antennas, microwave dishes, associated towers and equipment that is
located on Federal or State owned property and reviewed and regulated through
the State or Federal process, unless the facility is to be located within one
hundred feet (100') of privately held land. (Ord. 2023-04, 3-15-2023)
4-16-4: PERMITTED USES:
   (A)   Co-location Of Antenna(s) On Existing Towers Conforming to the
Requirements of Section 5 of this chapter: Installing an antenna(s) on an
existing communication tower of any height is permitted, so long as the
additional antenna(s) do not exceed the height of the structure or tower, no
more than three (3) providers are co-locating on the tower or structure, and
the color of the antenna(s) blends with the existing structure or surroundings.
   (B)   Co-location Of Antenna(s) On Existing Non-Tower Structures Conforming
To The Requirements of Section 5 of this chapter: Installing an antenna(s) on
an existing structure other than a tower, such as a building, water tank, sign,
light fixture or utility pole, is permitted so long as the additional antenna
(s) do not exceed the limits of the base zone, no more than three (3) providers
are co-locating on the structure, and the color of the antenna(s) blends with
the existing structure or surroundings.
   (C)   Installation Of Accessory Equipment Shelters: Any provider who is
authorized to co-locate on an existing tower or non-tower structure as provided
in subsections A and B of this section, shall be allowed to install any
necessary accessory equipment shelters and related equipment at or near the
base of the tower or structure, or within the structure, so long as:
      1.   The accessory equipment shelter and related equipment are either
located completely within the existing structure or are located within the
fenced area previously approved.
      2.   The equipment shelter and related equipment shall comply with the
development standards, such as setback, height limitations and lot coverage,
the base zone. (Ord. 2023-04, 3-15-2023)
4-16-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL:
   (A)   Setbacks:
      1.   Facilities not within 1000' of any State highway: All setbacks for
facilities must be equal to the overall structure or tower height.
      2.   Facilities within 1000' of any State highway: All setbacks for
facilities must be twice the overall structure or tower height.
   (B)   Design Requirements:
      1.   Surface And Color: No towers and attached equipment shall have and
maintain a non-reflective surface, be a neutral color that blends in with the
surrounding background or that is the same or similar color as the supporting
structure to make the tower, antennas and related equipment as visually
unobtrusive as possible (unless the tower and antennas are located within an
area adjacent to an airport regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) wherein FAA regulations require non-neutral colors).
      2.   Lighting: No lighting shall be permitted on facilities or associated
facilities (unless the tower and antennas are located within an area adjacent
to an airport regulated by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) or the
facility is at a height wherein FAA regulations require lighting.)
      3.   Fencing and Security: For Security purposes, towers and ancillary
facilities shall be enclosed by a minimum six foot (6') high fence. This
requirement may be waived for joint-use of facilities sharing a common site
surrounded by public lands with jurisdictional administration and review by the
Federal or State government.
      4.   Noise: Noise-generating equipment shall be sound-buffered by means
of baffling, barriers or other suitable means to reduce the sound level
measured at the property line to fifty (50) dBA (day)/forty (40) dBA (night)
when adjacent to residential and commercial land uses and seventy five (75) dBA
(day)/sixty (60) dBA (night) when adjacent to other uses. This requirement is
waived for joint-use telecommunication facilities sharing a common site
surrounded by public lands with jurisdictional administration and review by the
Federal or State government.
      5.   Tower Spacing: Towers shall be required to be spaced, at a minimum
the distance equivalent to the height of the tallest tower, plus the radial
distance from the center of the nearest tower to its furthest guywire.
   (C)   Other Requirements: At the time a provider request a Special Use
Permit, it must demonstrate and provide the appropriate documentation of the
following:
      1.   Compliance with all applicable State and Federal government
regulations, including, but not limited to, any FAA applicable regulations;
      2.    Licensing by the Federal Communications Commission to provide
wireless telecommunication services; and
      3.   A valid State business license. (Ord. 2023-04, 3-15-2023)
4-16-6: BUILDING PERMIT:
All facilities shall require a building permit before being constructed or
installed on an existing structure and shall be submitted to the Elko County
Building and Safety department in accordance to the provisions of Title 3 of
the Elko County code. (Ord. 2023-04, 3-15-2023)
4-16-7: SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
All facilities constructed or installed on an existing structure shall be
required to receive a special use permit for the facility from the Elko County
Planning and Zoning Department. (Ord. 2023-04, 3-15-2023)
4-16-8: COLLECTION PROTOCOL:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this requirement is to create a process that
will allow providers to equitably share publicly-available, non-proprietary
information among themselves, with interested persons and agencies, and with
the County, at the time the provider schedules a pre-application conference
with the approval authority. This co-location protocol is designed to increase
the likelihood that all reasonable opportunities for co-location have been
investigated and the appropriate information has been shared among providers.
   The County recognizes that co-location is preferable, where technologically
feasible and visually desirable, as a matter of public policy, but that co-
location of antennas by providers is not always feasible for technical or
business reasons. However, if all licensed providers are made aware of any
pending tower or antenna permit requests, such disclosure will allow providers
to have the maximum amount of time to consider possible co-location
opportunities, and will also assure the County that all reasonable
accommodations for co-location have been investigated. This chapter creates
strong incentives for co-location because proposals for co-location qualify for
a less rigorous approval process.
   (B)   Applicability: Requirements for the co-location protocol apply only to
new towers subject to site development review or conditional use.
   (C)   Pre-Application Requirement: A pre-application review is required for
all proposed freestanding towers.
   (D)   Co-location Request Letter Requirement: At the time a pre- application
review is scheduled, the applicant shall demonstrate that the following notice
was mailed to all other wireless communication providers operating wireless
communications facilities within the County’s boundaries:
      Pursuant to the requirements of Elko County Code
4-16-8, [name of wireless provider] is hereby providing you with notice of our
intent to meet with representatives of the Lyon County in a pre-application
conference to discuss the location a new free-standing wireless communication
facility that would be located at [location]. In general, we plan to construct
a [type of tower] of [number] feet in height for the purpose of providing
[cellular, PCS] service.
      Please inform us whether your company has any existing or pending
wireless facilities located within [distance] of the proposed facility, that
may be available for possible co-location opportunities. Please provide us with
this information within 10 business days after the date of this letter. Your
cooperation is appreciated.
      Sincerely [Name of pre-application applicant].
   (E)   Applicant’s Obligation To Analyze Feasibility Of Co-location: If a
response to a co-location request letter is received by an applicant indicating
an opportunity for co-location on an existing tower of another provider, the
applicant shall make a good faith effort to analyze the feasibility of co-
location. This analysis shall be submitted with an application for a
freestanding tower. A good faith effort to investigate the feasibility of co-
location on an existing facility shall be deemed to have occurred if the
applicant submits all of the following information:
      1.   A statement from a qualified engineer indicating whether the
necessary service can or cannot be provided by co-location at the potential co-
location site;
      2.   Evidence that lessor of the potential co-location site either agrees
or disagrees to co-location on his/her property;
      3.   Evidence that adequate site area exists or does not exist at the
potential co-location site to accommodate ancillary equipment for the second
provider and still meet all of the development standards required in the base
zone;
      4.   Evidence that adequate access does or does not exist at the possible
co-location site.
   (F)   Result Of Co-location Feasibility Analysis: If the applicant has
provided information addressing each of the criteria in subsection E of this
section, the co-location protocol shall be deemed complete. The applicant’s
tower shall then be permitted subject to the applicable standards and
restrictions contained in this chapter. (Ord. 2023-04, 3-15-2023)
4-16-9: APPLICATION PROCESS:
   (A)   Applicants shall submit their application as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall first submit an application to the Planning and
Zoning Department for approval of the Special Use Permit.
         (a)   The application shall be reviewed and approved or disapproved by
the Elko County Senior Planner.
            (1)   If the Senior Planner denies an application, the Senior
Planner shall provide an explanation that identifies each procedure and
standard that the applicant failed to meet.
         (b)   If the application is denied, the applicant may appeal the
decision of the Senior Planner to the Elko County Planning Commission by filing
the appeal with the Elko County Planning and Zoning department within ten (10)
calendar days of receiving notice of the denial. The appeal must be accompanied
by the filing fee and written notice of the specific grounds for the appeal.
         (c)   Once the appeal with the applicable fee is received, the Elko
Planning and Zoning Department shall place the appeal on the next agenda.
            (1)   If the Planning Commission denies the application, the
Planning Commission shall set forth with specificity each ground on which the
authority denied the approval of the application and describe the documents
relied on by the Planning Commission in making its decision.
            (2)   The Planning Commission’s decision shall be the final
decision on the matter. An aggrieved party may obtain a review of the final
decision by filing an action for review with the district court pursuant to NRS
278.0233.
      2.   If the application is approved by the department of Planning and
Zoning, the applicant may apply for a building permit. (Ord. 2023-04, 3-15-
2023)
 
CHAPTER 17
SPECIAL USE PERMIT FOR CONSTRUCTION OF A RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECT
SECTION:
4-17-1: Definitions
4-17-2: Renewable Energy Project Required To Apply For Special Use Permit
4-17-3: Preliminary Meeting
4-17-4: Application
4-17-5: Approval Criteria
4-17-6: Public Hearing
4-17-7: Appeal Of Decision
4-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
RENEWABLE ENERGY:         Has the same meaning ascribed in NRS 278.0173.
RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECT: Has the same meaning ascribed in NRS 278.01735. (Ord.
                          2023-11, 8-16-2023)
 
4-17-2: RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECT REQUIRED TO APPLY FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT: 
Any renewable energy project with a nameplate capacity of ten (10) megawatts or
more is required to submit an application to the Elko County Planning and
Zoning Division for a special use permit. (Ord. 2023-11, 8-16-2023)
4-17-3: PRELIMINARY MEETING: 
   (A)   Before an application may be submitted, the Applicant must meet with
the Senior Planner and Elko County Natural Resource director or equivalent to
discuss the anticipated effects the project may have on the health, safety, and
welfare of the surrounding community, as well as and anticipated effects on
wildlife in the area of the project. County Staff will consult with NDOW and
other agencies for input on proposed projects. If County Staff determines there
is a risk of degradation to wildlife habitat the Applicant shall provide a
report from an independent biologist either determining that there is no
likelihood of significant impact on wildlife or providing a plan to avoid or
mitigate the significant impact on wildlife. If it is determined that wildlife
will not be significantly impacted by the project, no further action on the
Applicant is necessary.
   (B)   If the Applicant disagrees with Elko County staff that the project
will have a significant impact on the health, safety, and welfare of the public
or wildlife in the area, the Applicant may appeal the issue to the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission determination shall be a final decision for
the purposes of judicial review. (Ord. 2023-11, 8-16-2023)
4-17-4: APPLICATION: 
   (A)   Each application must include the following information in the
application for a special use permit:
      1.   The name of the applicant.
      2.   The purposed location for the renewable energy project.
      3.   The purposed plans for the project, including the general layout for
the project.
      4.   A plan for reclamation of the land.
      5.   A plan to mitigate any environmental impacts of the project.
      6.   A plan to mitigate the significant impact to wildlife, if applicable
as determined by the preliminary meeting.
      7.   A plan for the disposal of old equipment.
      8.   A plan to assure public access to public lands around the project.
      9.   Information regarding any soil sterilant that may be used to abate
native and non-native plants.
      10.    A legal Description of the boundary of the project prepared by a
Professional Land Survey licensed in the State of Nevada in good standing.
      11.   All required permits or licenses to operate the facility, as
applicable. (Ord. 2023-11, 8-16-2023)
4-17-5: APPROVAL CRITERIA:
In deciding whether to approve or disapprove an application for a project, the
Planning Commission shall consider the following criteria:
   (A)   The environmental impact of the project and any plans to mitigate
those impacts.
   (B)   The impact of the project on wildlife and any plans to mitigate those
impacts.
   (C)   The impact of the project on the welfare, safety, and health of the
public.
   (D)   Whether the applicant complied with all the requirements of
application and processes.
   (E)   The impact the project may have on access to public lands.
   (F)    The proximity of the project to public roads and highways.
   (G)   The proximity of the project to existing transmission lines and/or the
need to develop further infrastructure to support the project. (Ord. 2023-11,
8-16-2023)
4-17-6: PUBLIC HEARING:
The Planning Commission shall review an application for a project within 65
days after receiving a competed application. (Ord. 2023-11, 8-16-2023)
4-17-7: APPEAL OF DECISION:
An appeal from the Planning Commission’s decision shall be made pursuant to the
provisions of NRS 278.26506. (Ord. 2023-11, 8-16-2023)
TITLE 5
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Title
5-1-2: Purpose
5-1-3: Enforcement
5-1-4: Penalty
5-1-5: General Features
5-1-6: Definitions
5-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known and may be cited in all proceedings as the "Elko
County Subdivision Ordinance".
5-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purposes of this Title are to safeguard the public health, safety and
general welfare by establishing certain minimum standards of design,
improvement, survey and construction of land developments hereafter platted in
all unincorporated areas of Elko County in order to provide and insure the
orderly and proper growth thereof and to aid in the prevention of pollution of
land or water resources.
Further, it is the purpose of this Title to encourage new concepts and
innovations in the arrangement of building sites. Deviations from traditional
mechanical approaches to the division of land are encouraged in order to
facilitate improvements of the land and its physical amenities in a manner that
will be commensurate with contemporary living patterns and technological
progress and to protect, enhance and preserve Elko County's vast and valuable
mutual amenity.
5-1-3: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the District Attorney and all department officials and
others vested with the duty or authority to issue permits, to enforce all of
the provisions of this Title.
5-1-4: PENALTY:
   (A)   Every person who offers to sell contracts to sell, sells or conveys by
deed any real property constituting a land development as defined or any
building site or parcel thereof, before a final map of said development has
been recorded or filed in the office of the County Recorder, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00),
or by imprisonment in the County jail for a term of not to exceed six (6)
months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Such person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a separate
offense for every day during any portion of which any violation of any
provisions of this Title, including any physical condition created in violation
hereof, is permitted, continued or committed by such person, and shall be
punishable therefore as provided in this Section.
   (C)   Any deed or conveyance, sale or contract to sell made contrary to the
provisions of this Title is voidable at the sole option of the grantee, buyer
or person contracting to purchase, his heirs, personal representatives or
trustee in solvency or bankruptcy within one year after date of execution of
the deed or conveyance, sale or contract to sell, but the deed or conveyance,
sale or contract to sell is binding upon any assignee or transferee of the
grantee, buyer or person contracting to purchase other than those above
enumerated and upon the grantor, vendor or person contracting to sell or his
assignee, heir or devisee.
   (D)   In addition to any other remedy for sanction provided by law, any
person creating a land development without complying with the provisions of
this Title or the appropriate State law, shall be required to submit a plat to
the Planning Commission and to comply with the requirements of this Title. Such
developer may be required to furnish all easements, improvements, utilities and
services under this Title to all lots created by the subdivision whether or not
such lots have been sold or leased.
5-1-5: GENERAL FEATURES:
   (A)   Agency: The Elko County Planning Commission is hereby designated the
agency with the duty of making investigations and reports on design and
improvements of all proposed subdivisions.
   (B)   Regulation: It shall be unlawful for any individual firm, association,
syndicate, copartnership, trust or any other legal entity, as a principal agent
or otherwise to offer to sell, to contract to sell or lease or transfer any
subdivision of land or any part thereof in the County unless and until all the
requirements hereinafter provided have been performed. This shall not be
construed to prohibit the sale of any lot or parcel which is of record as a lot
or parcel of land on the effective date of this Title.
   (C)   Appeal: If a developer is dissatisfied with any action or requirement
of the Planning Commission, he may appeal under 278.330(5).
   (D)   Exceptions: The County Commissioners reserve the right of review as
provided in N.R.S. 278.317. Such review, exceptions or waiver shall not be
granted until:
      1.   The developer has submitted a written application therefore with the
Planning Commission prior to report and recommendation on the map.
      2.   The Planning Commission has considered the application and reported
to the Board of County Commissioners.
      3.   The Planning Commission finds that each of the following conditions
exist:
         a.   There are special conditions or circumstances peculiar to the
property justifying the waiver;
         b.   Strict application of the requirements of this Title would cause
extraordinary and unnecessary hardship in the developing of the property;
         c.   Such waiver would not in effect nullify the objectives of this
Title or any other law or ordinance applicable to development;
         d.   Such waiver would not be injurious to adjacent properties or
detrimental to the health, safety, convenience and welfare of the public.
      4.   The order granting the waiver may contain conditions and failure to
conform to such conditions will be grounds for disapproval of the parcel or
final map of the land development. Such order shall be included in the approval
or conditional approval of the tentative map when such tentative map is a
requirement.
   (E)   Rejection of Maps: The Planning Commission and/or the Board of County
Commissioners may disapprove any parcel tentative or final map if the use to be
made of the property, as proposed, is a use prohibited by any ordinance,
Statute, law or other valid regulation; if the property is deemed to be
unhealthful, or unsuitable for occupancy; if the property is of such character
and location as to be contrary to the best interest of the County because of
complex slope, drainage, access, fire protection, incapability of sewage
disposition through existing or proposed facilities or other reasons relative
to ecological values; the property cannot be safely and reasonably developed
within present levels of knowledge. Such disapproval shall be supported by a
written finding by the Planning Commission and/or County Commissioner detailing
the reasons and causes for such rejection.
   (F)   All land developments, hereinafter platted and improved within Elko
County, should be characterized by a complete design approach. In all
developments, intensive considerations shall be given to the provision of
adequate open space, circulation, recreation, light and air, service needs,
orientation to the sun, wind, snow drifting and icing conditions, building
masses, setbacks and natural features and elements, under fully developed and
populated conditions and shall also provide such covenants, agreements and
other legal provisions as will assure conformity to the achievement of the Plan
as presented and/or approved. All tentative plats as approved shall be subject
to such conditions as may reasonably be required. Such a development may be
approved by the Planning Commission although the design thereof does not
strictly conform to standards and requirements as set forth herein, provided
all departures can be made without destroying the context and purposes of this
Title.
   (G)   Impact Study: The Planning Commission with ratification by the County
Commissioners or the County Commissioners acting on their own may require a
subdivision impact study. Said study shall be made at the sole expense of the
subdivides. Personnel conducting the study and the scope of said study shall be
subject to County Commissioners' approval.
Specific items that may be required include, but are not limited to any one or
more of the following:
      1.   Water resources
      2.   Soil analysis
      3.   Drainage
      4.   Energy requirements
      5.   Logistical needs
      6.   Population-growth projection
      7.   Wildlife and plant life
      8.   Aesthetic values
      9.   Compatibility with adjoining areas
      10.   Law enforcement and fire protection needs
      11.   Tax base to services costs analysis
   (H)   Additional Plans and/or Data: The County Planning Commission with
ratification by the County Commissioners or the County Commissioners acting on
their own may require additional plans and/or data from the subdivider.
Personnel preparing the plans and/or data shall be subject to the County
Commissioners' approval. Specifics that may be required include, but are not
limited to, any one or more of the following:
      1.   Minimum building size requirements.
      2.   Price range of lots.
      3.   Accessibility to schools, utilities, police and fire protection.
      4.   Landscaping requirements.
      5.   Sanitation (refuse sites, septic tank sludge disposal, etc.).
      6.   Sewer system.
      7.   Master plan (if project is not to be limited to one unit).
      8.   Disclosure statement.
   (I)   Developments: All "condominiums", "cooperatives", or "townhouses",
"commercial" and "industrial" type developments shall be subject to the full
requirements of this Title as pertinent. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
5-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Title, the following words and phrases shall have the
following meanings:
The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-
74)
AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES: Use of land which qualifies for an agricultural use
assessment in accordance with the provisions of chapter 361A of the Nevada
Revised Statutes, and the instructions for the assessment of land published by
the Nevada Tax Commission. Said term is further defined as land which was
assessed under chapter 361A at the time of subdivision and each parcel will
continue to qualify for assessment under chapter 361A at the time of
subdivision and each parcel will continue to qualify for assessment under
chapter 361A after subdivision. (Ord. 1981-D, 5-7-81, eff. 6-1-81)
BLOCK: Land on one side of a street lying between intercepting streets or
between such streets and any subdivided acreage or body of water.
BUILDING SITE: A portion of a parcel or lot of land intended to be occupied by
buildings or structures.
COMMON AREA: An area set aside within a land development for the use in common
by the residents thereof.
COUNTY SURVEYOR, COUNTY COMMISSIONERS, COUNTY MANAGER, COUNTY RECORDER,
ENGINEER, HEALTH DEPARTMENT, BUILDING INSPECTOR, PLANNING COMMISSIONER AND
COUNTY CLERK: Those of and/or empowered to act for the County of Elko, State of
Nevada.
DEVELOPER: A person, firm, individual or owner engaged in the act of
subdividing land.
DIVISION, DIVISION OF LAND OR DIVIDED: Any separation of land into two (2) or
more parts or parcels accomplished by deed, contract of sale or other means, to
create a new building site, lot or parcel.
DWELLING UNIT: A place or residence which may be located in either a single or
multiple dwelling unit building.
FINAL MAP: A map prepared in accordance with the provisions of the statute and
this Title which is designed to be placed on record in the office of the County
Recorder and is a requirement of a major subdivision.
FLOOD HAZARD: Possible occurrence of overflow storm water causing flooding of
lands or improvements; or having sufficient velocity to transport or deposit
debris, to scour the surface soil, to dislodge or damage buildings, or to cause
erosion of the banks or channels.
IMPROVEMENT: Only such street work and utilities to be installed on land for
streets and easements as are necessary for general use of property owners in
the subdivision and local neighborhood traffic and drainage needs.
IMPROVEMENT PLAN: An engineering plan submitted by a civil engineer registered
in Nevada, showing the location and construction details of all improvements.
(Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74)
LAND DEVELOPMENT, DEVELOPMENT OR SUBDIVISION: As defined in N.R.S. 278.320:
"278.320 SUBDIVISION FURTHER DEFINED
      1.   'Subdivision' means any land, vacant or improved, which is divided
or proposed to be divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots,
separate interests or interests in common, for the purpose of any transfer,
development or any proposed transfer or development; unless exempted under
subparagraphs (a) or (b). (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74)
         (a)   The term 'subdivision' does not apply to any division of land
which creates lots, parcels, sites, units or plots of land, each of which
comprise 640 or more acres of land, including roads and roadway easements.
(Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-79, eff. 11-1-79)
         (b)   Unless a method of disposition is adopted for the purpose of
evading this Chapter, the term 'subdivision' does not apply to any division of
land: (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74)
            (1)   Which creates lots, parcels, sites, units or plots of land
such that the land area of each of the lots, parcels, sites, units or plots,
when divided by the number of interest in every such lot, parcel, site, unit or
plot results in 636 or more acres, exclusive of roads and roadway easements,
per interest; (Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-79, eff. 11-1-79)
            (2)   Which is created by order of any court in this State or by
operation of law;
            (3)   Which is created by a lien, mortgage, deed of trust or any
other security instrument;
            (4)   Which is created by a security or unit of interest in any
investment trust regulated under the laws of this state or any other interest
in an investment entity;
            (5)   Which creates cemetery lots;
            (6)   Which creates an interest, or interests, in oil, gas,
minerals or building materials, which are now or hereafter severed from the
surface ownership of real property;
            (7)   Which is created by the acquisition of an interest in land in
the name of a husband and wife, or other persons who are related to each other
within the first or second degree of consanguinity, or pursuant to adoption in
accordance with law, which interest is established or created by a joint
tenancy, community property or as tenants in common. Any such interest shall be
deemed for purposes of this subsection, as only one interest. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-
7-74)
      2.   For subdivisions not containing more than four (4) lots, parcels,
sites, plots or interest, there shall be filed a parcel map or map of division
into large parcels pursuant to the provisions of N.R.S. 278.461 to N.R.S.
278.477, inclusive. (Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-79, eff. 11-1-79)
      3.   Nothing contained herein shall apply to the division of land for
agricultural purposes, in parcels of more than 10 acres, not involving any
street, road, or highway opening or widening or easements of any kind.
Any subsequent amendments to N.R.S. 278.320 to be incorporated herein as though
a part of this document.
LOT: An individual lot or parcel as shown on the tentative or final map
intended to be conveyed or taxed as a single unit. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74)
MAJOR SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision as defined herein containing five (5) or
more parcels regardless of size.
MAP OF DIVISION INTO LARGE PARCELS: A map proposed pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes and this Title which is filed in the office of the County Recorder and
is a requirement for a minor subdivision in which any parcel exceeds 40 acres.
(Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-79, eff. 11-1-79)
MINOR SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision as defined herein containing not more than
four (4) parcels.
OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, co- partnership or
corporation having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
developed, to commence and maintain proceedings to develop the same under this
Title. While used herein, the masculine gender and singular number, it shall be
deemed to mean the feminine and neuter gender and the plural number whenever
required.
PARCEL: An individual lot or parcel as shown on the tentative or final map
intended to be conveyed or taxed as a single unit. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74)
PARCEL MAP: A map proposed pursuant to the Nevada Revised Statutes and this
Title, which is filed in the office of the County Recorder and is a requirement
for a 'minor subdivision' in which all parcels are smaller than 40 acres. (Ord.
1979-V, 10-3-79, eff. 11-1-79)
PARK: Public or private open space reserved from dwelling unit development for
use by occupants of the development or the public.
PATH: A way designed for use primarily by pedestrians.
   (A)   Public Paths: Rights-of-way dedicated by a development map or deeded
to the governing body.
   (B)   Private Paths: Rights-of-way established for the benefit of the owners
of certain building sites which shall be specifically designated for that
purpose on a recorded plat.
PONDING OF LOCAL WATER: As distinguished from sheet overflow water originating
on or in the vicinity of the development which, due to the condition of the
ground surface, does not reach a drainage channel or conduit.
REPRINT: A blueprint, photostat, direct process print, or other copy which
reproduces exactly the original drawing from which made.
PRIVATE STREET: Any land or nonexclusive easement not owned by a public body
and not accepted for dedication to the public which is used, or intended to be
used, for vehicle access to a lot or parcel.
REQUIRED AREA: A lot or parcel of land containing not less than the prescribed
minimum area required by any development, zoning or other regulations.
SPECIFICATIONS: Requirements for construction as approved by the County
Commissioners and made a part of this Title by reference thereto.
STEEP SLOPES: Any land having an average cross-slope of twenty five percent
(25%) or more. A steep slope shall be determined by measurement of the average
slope perpendicular to the proposed street line between the proposed rear line
and the center of the street. Any block frontage shall be considered a steep
slope area if the slope of thirty percent (30%) or more of its length equals or
exceeds twenty five percent (25%).
STREET: Lands devoted primarily to vehicular traffic use, extending to the
boundaries of the right of way, whether designated as a highway, avenue,
boulevard, freeway, place, land, drive, etc.
SUBDIVISION, LAND DEVELOPMENT or DEVELOPMENT: As defined in NRS 278.320. (See
definition of Land Development herein.) (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74)
TENTATIVE MAP OF DIVISION INTO LARGE PARCELS: A preliminary map made to show
the design of the proposed development of five (5) or more acres where any
parcel exceeds forty (40) acres, prepared in accordance with NRS and this
Title. (Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-79, eff. 11-1-79)
TENTATIVE PLAT: A preliminary map made to show the design of a proposed
development and the existing conditions in and nearby, but not based on an
accurate or detailed survey.
TRAIL: A way designated for use by pedestrians, bicycles, trail bikes,
livestock, snowmobiles, unless otherwise specified. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74)
CHAPTER 2
PARCEL MAPS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Application Procedure And Review Requirements
5-2-2: Approval Process
5-2-3: Requirements
5-2-4: Contents; Parcel Map Information
5-2-5: Parcel Map Certificates And Statements
5-2-6: Compliance
5-2-7: Second Or Subsequent Parcel Maps
5-2-8: Improvements And Standards
5-2-9: Appeals
5-2-10: Taxes And Assessments
5-2-11: Vested Rights
5-2-12: Transmittal Of Map To County Recorder For Filing; When Land Division
Complete
5-2-13: Monuments
5-2-14: Effect Of Recordation Upon Property Titles; Dedications
5-2-15: Failure To Record Parcel Map With County Recorder Within One Year; New
Application Required
5-2-16: Penalties For Violations Of Parcel Map Provisions
5-2-17: Map Of Land Division Into Large Parcels
5-2-1: APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND REVIEW REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Application Contents: A parcel map application must be completed by
the developer prior to dividing land pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
278.461 et seq. The application shall: (Ord. 1994-X, 11-3-1994, eff. 11-21-
1994)
      1.   Be made upon forms supplied and approved by Elko County available at
the division of planning and zoning; and (Ord. 2015-02, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-
2015)
      2.   Be accompanied by a copy of the proposed parcel map. (Ord. 1994-X,
11-3-1994, eff. 11-21-1994)
   (B)   Preliminary Review: The developer shall deliver the parcel map
application to the division of planning and zoning for preliminary review. The
division of planning and zoning shall review the parcel map application for
compliance with sections
5-2-4 and
5-2-5 of this chapter. Applications will not be considered complete and the
parcel map will not be deemed received for approval purposes until the division
of planning and zoning certifies that all information required by section
5-2-4 of this chapter has been submitted, and all certificates and statements
required by section
5-2-5 of this chapter have been obtained.
   (C)   Fee: No parcel map or division of land into large parcels application
shall be accepted for filing unless it is in full compliance with all
requirements of this chapter, and is accompanied by a filing fee as set by
resolution approved by the Elko County board of commissioners. No part of any
required fee shall be returnable, and every such fee shall be deposited with
the county treasurer. (Ord. 2015-02, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
5-2-2: APPROVAL PROCESS:
   (A)   Within forty five (45) days after the parcel map application has been
certified as complete pursuant to subsection
5-2-1(B) of this chapter, the division of planning and zoning shall approve,
conditionally approve or deny the parcel map.
      1.   The division of planning and zoning may deny or place conditions
upon the approval of a parcel map application only if the action is based upon
the criteria set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   The division of planning and zoning, in reviewing any parcel map,
shall consider any evidence presented to it by the developer or any other
person or entity and may consider the following factors: (Ord. 2015-04, 4-1-
2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
      1.   Sewage and solid waste disposal.
      2.   The availability of water which is sufficient for the reasonably
foreseeable needs of the proposed parcels and adjoining parcels dependent upon
a common aquifer.
      3.   Availability and accessibility of utilities.
      4.   Availability and accessibility of public services such as schools,
police and fire protection.
      5.   Conformity with the zoning ordinances and master plan.
      6.   Access to the proposed parcels, the effect of the proposed parcels
on existing public streets, and the need for new streets or highways to serve
the proposed parcels.
      7.   Physical land characteristics such as floodplain, slope and soils.
      8.   Recommendations and comments of those entities which have reviewed
the proposed parcel map.
      9.   Any other factor related to the proposed parcels which is relevant
to the health, safety or general welfare of the community. (Ord. 1994-X, 11-3-
1994, eff. 11-21-1994)
   (C)   If the parcel map is conditionally approved by the division of
planning and zoning, the division shall attach to the parcel map a written list
of the conditions imposed.
   (D)   The division of planning and zoning or the county commission, as the
case may be, may request from the developer any additional information or
documentation that is deemed necessary or helpful in any proceedings pursuant
to this chapter, and the developer shall provide the same. (Ord. 2015-04, 4-1-
2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
5-2-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   As a condition to the approval of any parcel map, the division of
planning and zoning may require such development criteria, standards and
improvements as are reasonably necessary, including, but not limited to: (Ord.
2015-04, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
      1.   Lot design.
      2.   Street grading.
      3.   Drainage.
      4.   Off site improvements.
      5.   Alignment and width of easements.
      6.   Street alignment, surfacing and width.
      7.   Solid waste disposal.
      8.   Water quality.
      9.   Water supply.
      10.   Fire protection.
      11.   Sewerage.
      12.   Utilities. (Ord. 1994-X, 11-3-1994, eff. 11-21-1994)
   (B)   As a condition to the approval of a parcel map, the division of
planning and zoning shall require dedication of access and roadway easements
for public use. (Ord. 2015-04, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
   (C)   A parcel map creating new parcels shall be required to have adequate
water resources of a minimum of 2.0 acre-feet for each new parcel created.
Prior to the approval of the parcel map, the water right shall be relinquished
to the Nevada division of water resources. The applicant is responsible for
completing all Nevada division of water resources requirements and for paying
all fees to the Nevada division of water resources.
The relinquishment of 2.0 acre-feet of water right in good standing and
certificated for each new parcel shall be required in the following
hydrographic basins:
Basin 048 - Dixie Creek/Tenmile
Basin 049 - Elko Segment
Basin 153 - Diamond Valley (Ord. 01-2008, 5-21-2008, eff. 7-11-2008)
5-2-4: CONTENTS; PARCEL MAP INFORMATION:
   (A)   The parcel map shall be legibly drawn in black waterproof ink on
tracing cloth, or produced by the use of other materials of a permanent nature
generally used for such purpose in the engineering profession. The size and
border of the parcel map shall conform to the requirements for final maps of
major subdivisions. The parcel map shall also conform to all requirements for
such maps appearing in Nevada Revised Statutes.
   (B)   The parcel map shall contain:
      1.   North arrow;
      2.   Scale of map;
      3.   Boundaries of the land proposed to be divided;
      4.   Proposed lot lines and approximate dimensions of all lots;
      5.   Names, locations, and right of way widths of all streets abutting
the property;
      6.   The location of all monuments found, set, reset, replaced or
removed, describing their kind and size; and
      7.   The names of all adjacent property owners.
   (C)   The parcel map shall be accompanied by the following:
      1.   A copy of the most recently recorded deeds showing ownership of the
property;
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of:
         (a)   The owners of record;
         (b)   The developer; and
         (c)   The surveyor who prepared the map. (Ord. 1989-L, 7-19-1989, eff.
8-1-1989)
      3.   Partial reconveyance from the deed of trust trustee, if any, for
rights of way required; (Ord. 1989-U, 10-5-1989, eff. 10-18-1989)
      4.   A USGS or other topographic map showing contour lines over the
entire parcel map area, or in lieu thereof an aerial photograph; (Ord. 1989-L,
7-19-1989, eff. 8-1-1989)
      5.   The location of areas subject to inundation by a 100-year flood as
shown on the FEMA maps on file in the division of planning and zoning; (Ord.
2015-04, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
      6.   The proposed use of each parcel;
      7.   The means of access to the lots;
      8.   Vicinity map;
      9.   Source of water supply, including any available documentation of
water supply sufficient to serve the proposed parcels;
      10.   Proposed method of sewage disposal, including a will serve letter
from the sewer purveyor or approval from the Nevada state health division that
the parcel map area is acceptable for the septic system proposed;
      11.   Proposed method of solid waste disposal, including a will serve
letter from the solid waste purveyor;
      12.   Proposed source of utilities, including a will serve letter from
the proposed utility purveyor. (Ord. 1989-L, 7-18-1989, eff. 8-1-1989)
5-2-5: PARCEL MAP CERTIFICATES AND STATEMENTS:
   (A)   The following certificates and statements shall appear on all parcel
maps:
      1.   A certificate for execution by each reviewing person or entity
stating that the parcel map has been approved for subdivision purposes.
      2.   A certificate by the surveyor responsible for the parcel map giving
the date of the survey on which the map is based, stating that the survey was
made by him or under his direction, setting forth the name of the owner who
authorized him to make the survey, and that the parcel map is true and complete
as shown. This certificate shall also state that:
         (a)   The monuments are of the character and occupy the position
indicated or that they will be set in such positions and at such time as is
agreed upon under the provisions of chapter 278 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
         (b)   The monuments are or will be sufficient to enable the survey to
be retraced.
      3.   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all persons having any
record title in the property, evidencing their grant of permanent easements for
utility installations and access, as designated on the parcel map.
      4.   A statement approving easements signed by each public utility
company or agency in whose favor the easements are created or whose utility
services are to be required for the platted parcels. It is the responsibility
of the developer to obtain approval of the serving utility companies as to the
location of any utility easements which are to be shown on the parcel map.
(Ord. 1989-L, 7-19-1989, eff. 8-1-1989)
      5.   A certificate by the Nevada department of transportation in cases
where the property abuts a state highway, that it has reviewed the proposed
parcel map and approves of the same. (Ord. 1990-D, 4-4-1990, eff. 4-26-1990)
      6.   A certificate by the Elko County treasurer that there are no
delinquent taxes and/or assessments on the property.
      7.   A certificate by the Elko County assessor that there are no
delinquent taxes and/or assessments on the property. (Ord. 1994-I, 7-7-1994,
eff. 8-1-1994)
5-2-6: COMPLIANCE:
Neither Elko County nor any of its officers or employees shall recognize any
division or split of a lot, piece, or parcel of land until all the provisions
of this chapter have been met in connection therewith. (Ord. 1989-L, 7-19-1989,
eff. 8-1-1989)
5-2-7: SECOND OR SUBSEQUENT PARCEL MAPS:
   (A)   Second Or Subsequent Parcel Maps:
      1.   A parcel map shall be subject to the same, conditions, improvements,
and requirements of a subdivision, if the following apply:
         (a)   The parcel map is a second or subsequent parcel map affecting a
single parcel or a contiguous tract of land;
         (b)   The land is under the same ownership of an individual, business
entity, person of first degree of consanguinity of a previous owner, or an
owner reacquires land previously divided by the owner; and
         (c)   The second or subsequent parcel map creates five (5) or more
parcels out of a single parcel or contiguous tract of land.
      2.   A second or subsequent parcel map subject to the conditions,
improvements, and requirements of a subdivision shall be required to submit to
all the same procedures, applications, maps, fees and any other requirements of
a subdivision provided under Elko County code.
   (B)   Definitions:
      1.   A “contiguous tract of land” means any parcel which abuts, shares
any common property corner, or is separated by a dedicated public right-of-way
having a width of one hundred feet (100') or less from another parcel.
      2.   The term “ownership” means any interest in real property held in
common with another in any form of tenancy whatsoever, including a community
property or other marital interest.
   (C)   The purpose of this section is to prevent a developer from
circumventing the requirements of this title applicable to a subdivision by the
use of multiple parcel maps. (Ord. 1989-L, 7-18-1989, eff. 8-1-1989; amd. Ord.
07-2019, 11-6-2019)
5-2-8: IMPROVEMENTS AND STANDARDS:
   (A)   The developer shall provide all required improvements, including
private streets, according to county standards and specifications. All such
improvements shall be subject to inspection by the division of planning and
zoning prior to acceptance. The developer may, in lieu thereof, assure the
construction of the required improvements, including private streets, through
an agreement with the county to the effect that the developer shall provide all
improvements, and subject to delivery to the division of planning and zoning of
a one hundred percent (100%) performance bond, an irrevocable letter of credit,
a cash deposit, or a cash in lieu of bond agreement equal to the amount
estimated by the division of planning and zoning to be the total cost of
construction. The amount set by the division of planning and zoning shall be
valid for only sixty (60) days. If the security is not posted within sixty (60)
days after the developer is notified of the bond amount, the bond must be
recalculated. When calculating or recalculating bond amounts, improvements to
be bonded for are to be consistent with those in the area at the time the bond
amount is calculated or recalculated. (Ord. 2015-04, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
   (B)   Except land used for "agriculture" as defined in section
4-1-9 of this code, the following shall be required as minimum improvements
prior to acceptance and approval of the final parcel map:
      1.   The access road to the resulting parcels shall, at a minimum, be
graveled to county standards.
      2.   The parceling of land in an existing platted subdivision shall
require electric utility service to the resulting parcels.
   (C)   Final approval and recording of a parcel map pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter neither warrants nor implies the availability or
provision of county services greater than those provided uniformly to other
areas in the county that have geography or population densities that are
consistent with the area represented by the parcel map. (Ord. 1989-L, 7-18-
1989, eff. 8-1-1989)
5-2-9: APPEALS:
   (A)   A notice of the approval of a parcel map application pursuant to
section
5-2-2 of this chapter shall be posted in the office of the division of planning
and zoning and at least three (3) other separate, prominent places within the
county. The notice shall further be published once in a newspaper of general
circulation within the county. The notice shall identify the record owners of
the affected parcel, the general location of the parcel, and shall further give
notice of the appeal deadline set forth in subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   A developer or other person aggrieved by an action or decision of the
division of planning and zoning pursuant to section
5-2-2 of this chapter, may appeal the same to the board of Elko County
commissioners by filing a written notice and statement of appeal with the
division of planning and zoning. The notice and statement of appeal must be
filed within thirty (30) days of the date of the action or decision appealed.
In the case of the approval of a parcel map application the notice and
statement of appeal must be filed within seven (7) days after publication of
the notice described in subsection (A) of this section, or within thirty (30)
days after the date of the action or decision appealed, whichever time period
expires last. The notice and statement of appeal shall set forth with
particularity the actions of conditions appealed and the reasons for the appeal
and a filing fee as set by resolution must be paid in full prior to the
application being processed.
   (C)   A developer or other aggrieved person or entity may only appeal the
following actions of the division of planning and zoning to the board of county
commissioners:
      1.   Approval or disapproval of a parcel map application; or
      2.   Any condition required.
   (D)   Any county commissioner may, within fifteen (15) days of the date of
an action or decision of the division of planning and zoning, call for a review
of the action or decision by notice to the county clerk. Such notice shall have
the same effect as an appeal.
   (E)   The appeal hearing shall be held and a decision rendered within forty
five (45) days after the receipt of the notice and statement of appeal. The
county commissioners may, at the conclusion of the appeal hearing, sustain,
modify or overrule the action or decision appealed, or may refer the matter, or
any portion thereof, back to the division of planning and zoning for further
consideration. The final order of the county commissioners on an appeal shall
be effective forthwith. (Ord. 2015-04, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
5-2-10: TAXES AND ASSESSMENTS:
A parcel map shall not be approved or conditionally approved if the taxes or
assessments are delinquent on the land to be divided. (Ord. 1989-L, 7-18-1989,
eff. 8-1-1989)
5-2-11: VESTED RIGHTS:
No vested rights shall accrue to any person until the actual signing of the map
by all persons and entities required to sign the map. (Ord. 1989-L, 7-18-1989,
eff. 8-1-1989)
5-2-12: TRANSMITTAL OF MAP TO COUNTY RECORDER FOR FILING; WHEN LAND DIVISION
COMPLETE:
   (A)   Upon final approval of the parcel map, the parcel map together with
the required filing fee advanced by the owner shall be transmitted by the
division of planning and zoning to the county recorder for recording and
filing. (Ord. 2015-04, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
   (B)   The land division is complete when the parcel map and statement of
conditions, if any, have been filed for record in the office of the county
recorder. (Ord. 1989-L, 7-18-1989, eff. 8-1-1989)
5-2-13: MONUMENTS:
   (A)   Monuments set shall be sufficient in number, durability, and placement
so as not to be readily disturbed, and to assure, together with monuments
already existing, the perpetuation or facile reestablishment of any point or
line of the survey on which the parcel map is based.
   (B)   Any monument set by a registered land surveyor to mark or reference a
point on a property or land line shall be permanently and visibly marked or
tagged with the certificate number of the surveyor setting it, each number to
be preceded by the letter "R.L.S." or "R.E.", respectively, as the case may be;
or, if the monument is set by a public officer, it shall be marked with his
official title. (Ord. 1989-L, 7-19-1989, eff. 8-1-1989)
5-2-14: EFFECT OF RECORDATION UPON PROPERTY TITLES; DEDICATIONS:
Title to dedicated properties shall pass when the parcel map is recorded. If at
the time of approval any properties or improvements are rejected, the offer of
dedication shall be deemed to remain open and the governing body may by
resolution, at any later date and without further action by the developer,
rescind its action and accept the improvements for public use, which resolution
shall be filed for record in the office of the county recorder. All graveled or
paved rights of way accepted for dedication for public use will not be accepted
by the county for maintenance and repair unless there has been formal action by
the county commissioners to assume the obligation of maintenance and repair,
which action must appear in a resolution, a certificate appearing on the parcel
map, or in the minutes of a meeting of the county commissioners. The owners of
record of the divided parcel, their heirs, assigns and successors shall remain
liable and are required to maintain and repair such roads until maintenance and
repair is formally accepted by the county. (Ord. 1989-L, 7-19-1989, eff. 8-1-
1989)
5-2-15: FAILURE TO RECORD PARCEL MAP WITH COUNTY RECORDER WITHIN ONE YEAR; NEW
APPLICATION REQUIRED:
Failure of the developer to do all things necessary for the parcel map to be
recorded in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within one year of
the application date terminates all proceedings, and a new application and
proceedings thereon shall be required. (Ord. 1989-L, 7-19-1989, eff. 8-1-1989)
5-2-16: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF PARCEL MAP PROVISIONS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to offer to sell, to contract to sell,
to sell or transfer any minor subdivision or any part thereof until the parcel
map thereof, in full compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the
laws of the state of Nevada, has been duly filed for record in the office of
the county recorder.
   (B)   Any offer to sell, contract to sell, sale or transfer contrary to the
provisions of this chapter is a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a fine of
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment for not more
than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to bar the county or any other
aggrieved political subdivision, person, firm or corporation from filing any
legal, equitable or summary proceeding in the district court to restrain or
enjoin any attempted or proposed land division or sale in violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 1989-L, 7-19-1989, eff. 8-1-1989)
5-2-17: MAP OF LAND DIVISION INTO LARGE PARCELS:
   (A)   Nevada Revised Statutes 278.471 through 278.4725, inclusive, and as
the same are from time to time amended, apply to each proposed division of land
where each proposed lot is at least:
      1.   One-sixteenth (1/16) of a section as described by a government land
office survey; or
      2.   Forty (40) acres in area, including roads and easements. (Ord. 1990-
T, 8-2-1990, eff. 8-16-1990)
   (B)   The planning commission shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny
each tentative map of division into large parcels, unless such requirement of
the tentative map has been waived by the division of planning and zoning. (Ord.
2015-04, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
   (C)   As a condition to the approval of a map of land division into large
parcels, the planning commission shall require dedication of access and roadway
easements for public use. All graveled or paved rights of way accepted for
dedication for public use will not be accepted by the county for maintenance
and repair unless there has been formal action by the county commissioners to
assume the obligation of maintenance and repair, which action must appear in a
resolution, a certificate appearing on the map of land division into large
parcels, or in the minutes of a meeting of the county commissioners. (Ord.
1994-N, 7-7-1994, eff. 8-1-1994)
   (D)   A proposed division of land into lots or parcels, each of which
contains not less than one section or six hundred forty (640) acres, is not
subject to the requirements of this section. (Ord. 1990-T, 8-2-1990, eff. 8-16-
1990)
CHAPTER 3
TENTATIVE PLATS FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Preconference
5-3-2: Procedure
5-3-3: Fees
5-3-4: Contents Of Plat
5-3-5: Action On Plat
5-3-1: PRECONFERENCE:
Subdivision development containing five (5) or more parcels requires the
preparations of a tentative plat or tentative map. It is suggested however,
that prior to this, the developer make contact with the planning commission as
to the elements and features of the master plan proposals of the area, specific
engineering requirements, and other factors which may influence the design and
improvements of the area. (Ord. 2015-12, 7-8-2015, eff. 2-21-2016)
5-3-2: PROCEDURE:
Three (3) copies of the petition and eight (8) copies of the tentative plat
(and additional copies as necessary) for any land development must be filed
with the county clerk. A copy of the county clerk's receipt for the filing fee
and three (3) copies of the application form shall also be documented at the
time of filing.
The planning commission shall have not longer than sixty five (65) days to
report to the governing body and shall approve, conditionally approve, or
disapprove the map or maps of the subdivision.
Contemporaneously therewith, at the election of the governing body or of the
applicant, a filing of the same materials may be made with the governing body
and that body may at its next regular meeting consider the filings before it,
in order to be allowed sufficient time to make its statutorily mandated review
and findings as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes 278.330(6), and the
governing body shall have the right to meet jointly with the planning
commission to pass upon consideration of the tentative map. (Ord. 1974-
E amended, 9-5-1974)
If any part of the proposed development lies within three (3) miles of the
boundary of any incorporated city, two (2) additional copies of the tentative
map shall be submitted to the county clerk for delivery to the city clerk of
such city. If a state highway traverses or borders upon or is within one
hundred feet (100') of any part of the proposed subdivision, one additional
copy of the tentative map shall be submitted for delivery to the highway
department.
Tentative plats shall be submitted on durable paper drawn to scale of
sufficient size to show all details of the plan and required data clearly. Any
number of sheets may be used, provided each sheet specifies the total number of
sheets and the number of that particular sheet if the tract is a portion of a
larger area which may be divided later, the tentative map shall indicate the
ultimate plan for the whole. With each such tentative plat, the developer shall
also file a copy of preliminary deed restrictions, if any.
The county clerk shall distribute within three (3) days one copy of the
tentative map and petition to the chairman of the planning commission and one
copy of the tentative map to the county road supervisor, the county surveyor,
fire department, health officials, school district and others as may be
directed by ordinance or resolution, who may submit written findings and
recommendations prior to consideration of the tentative plat. If the proposal
is over forty (40) acres in size, compliance with the law given in Nevada
Revised Statutes 116.020 2 and 3 regarding a possible school site is required.
(Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
5-3-3: FEES:
A filing fee as set by resolution of the county commission per lot as shown on
the tentative map shall be due and payable to the Elko County treasurer to be a
prerequisite to the filing of a tentative subdivision plat to any official
consideration thereof. Any actual county investigative expenses exceeding the
original filing fee shall, upon presentation of those expenses by the Elko
County division of planning and zoning, be immediately reimbursed by the
applicant before any further action is taken on the tentative map by the
commissioners or the governing board, as the case may be. (Ord. 2015-12, 7-8-
2015, eff. 2-21-2016)
5-3-4: CONTENTS OF PLAT:
Every tentative plat (clearly and legibly drawn on 1 sheet, if possible), shall
be accompanied by the written petition of the subdivider. The submitted
documents shall show the following data and contain information hereinafter set
forth if applicable:
   (A)   Land development (subdivision) title and designation suitable to the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   Name and address of the developer and record owner.
   (C)   Name and address of the surveyor or engineer who prepared the map
together with a serial number issued by the State.
   (D)   A legal description of the development together with evidence of
ownership of property to be subdivided.
   (E)   Location, names and width of all adjacent streets, alleys and ways.
   (F)   The width of the right of way proposed name and approximate grade of
each right of way within the proposed development and approximate radii of all
curves.
   (G)   The width and approximate location of all existing or proposed
easements (public or private) for roads, drainage, sewers, irrigation or public
utility purposes, if any.
   (H)   If other developments adjoin, that portion thereof which so adjoins
showing the street, zoning, use and ownership with relation to the proposed
land development.
   (I)   The number of, size and proposed use of all lots, zoning of area and
the location, size and proposed use of public areas, if any
   (J)   Method of water supply, garbage disposal and sewage disposal.
   (K)   All blocks to be numbered and/or lettered consecutively. Lot and/or
parcel numbers shall be consecutive within each block. The approximate
dimensions of each lot or parcel shall be shown.
   (L)   A report by a Civil Engineer on the stability of areas in which slides
have occurred within or immediately adjoining the proposed land development or
in which there is a possible slide hazard.
   (M)   When part of a large single ownership area, a sketch showing proposed
development outside of the proposed land development.
   (N)   Date, north point, scale and number of sheets, and basis of bearing to
be used on the final map.
   (O)   The location and outline to scale of each existing building or
structure that is not proposed to be moved.
   (P)   All minimum building setback lines shall be shown or noted.
   (Q)   If any portion of the land within the boundaries as shown on a
tentative map is subject to flood hazard, inundation, avalanche, geological
hazard, excessive depth of slope of cuts or fills, groundwater or seepage
conditions, slides or similar hazards to public safety and the probable use of
the property will require structures thereon, said areas shall be clearly
shown. The Planning Commission may disapprove that portion so affected and/or
require protective improvements to be constructed as a condition precedent to
the approval of the remainder of the map. (Ord. 1974-E; 2-7-74)
   (R)   A topographic contour map showing accurately the existing terrain
within the land development, approximately finished grade line of all proposed
roads, existing drainage channels, roads, culverts, underground utility lines,
wells and springs, major structures, irrigation ditches, utility poles and
other improvements in their correct location which may affect the design of the
development. The map shall be drawn to an engineer's scale, large enough to
show all information clearly, but not smaller than two hundred feet to the inch
(1" = 200'). Contour interval shall not be greater than two feet (2') if the
ground slope is less than three percent (3%) nor larger than five feet (5') for
ground slopes greater than three percent (3%). When the lots in the subdivision
are larger than one acre in size, the contour interval shall not be greater
than five feet (5') for ground slopes less than three percent (3%) and ten feet
(10') when greater than three percent (3%). At the discretion of the Planning
Commission and the governing board, the use of U.S.G.S. Quad Maps or their
enlargement will be acceptable. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74; Amd. 9-5-74)
   (S)   The approximate edges of pavement of existing paved roads, driveways
and the edges of existing traveled ways, within or adjacent to public rights of
way and easement or within private common rights of way.
   (T)   Approximate existing property lines and approximate boundaries of
existing easements within the development, with the names of the owners of
record of easement exclusions, and the properties abutting.
   (U)   The proposed lot and street layout with scaled dimensions of the lots
and minimum and maximum lot area and a statement as to the average lot size.
   (V)   Location, approximate grade, direction of flow and type of facility of
existing drainage channels and storm drains.
   (W)   A vicinity map showing roads, adjoining developments, places, creeks
and other data sufficient to locate the proposed development and to show its
relation to community factors.
   (X)   The line of high and low water on all sites abutting any lake, river,
stream, reservoir, or other body of water.
   (Y)   Statements of intent regarding proposed deed restrictions, Home's
Associations, and other legal instruments relating to the reservation,
maintenance and liability of any common area, park or recreation areas.
   (Z)   Indication of proposed building masses, volumes, heights, styles,
color, texture and placement, where applicable.
   (AA)   Preliminary landscaping plans indicating extent and nature of tree
and ground cover removal and replacement, where applicable.
   (BB)   Site and ecological factors data, including solar orientation,
prevailing wind patterns, shadow influences, extent of sunlight, extent of
view, rook outcrops, sight distances, snow and icing conditions, areas of snow
storage, and other unique conditions affecting the area.
   (CC)   The developer shall indicate in the petition whether or not future
lot divisions will be permitted. (Ord. 1974-E; 2-7-74)
5-3-5: ACTION ON PLAT:
The Planning Commission shall consider all such evidence as presented by the
developer and shall make such findings relative to the tentative map as are not
inconsistent with the laws of the State and this Title. The Planning Commission
shall approve, disapprove, conditionally approve every tentative map if the map
does not disclose full compliance with the ordinances of the various
jurisdictions or the laws of the State. A letter shall be sent to the developer
indicating the Planning Commission determination relative to the tentative plat
pursuant to N.R.S. 278.330(4). All approvals of all tentative maps shall be
deemed approved subject to the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   That all of the improvements required by the terms of this Title and
to be maintained or offered to the County shall be inspected by the County as
the work progresses. Such improvements shall not be started until the
inspection fee, required as a prerequisite to the filing of the final map, has
been paid.
   (B)   Such other terms and conditions as may be specified at time of such
approval.
Approval and recommendation by the Planning Commission of a tentative plat
shall impose no obligation on the part of the County Commissioners to approve
the final map or to accept any public dedication shown thereof.
Time limits as set forth herein may be extended by mutual consent of all
parties concerned; however, if no action as specified is taken within the time
limits as set forth, the tentative plat as filed shall be deemed as approved.
(Ord. 1974-E; 2-7-74)
The governing body may, upon receiving the report of the Planning Commission on
the tentative map, make its findings as defined by N.R.S. 278.330(6) on the
tentative map and upon approval shall, after the applicant has submitted the
final map to the governing body:
   (A)   Approve the final map at the same meeting as approval of the tentative
map was had or,
   (B)   Approve the final map within ten (10) days after submission of the
final map, but in any event,
   (C)   No later than the next meeting of the governing body after the
applicant has submitted the final map and presented the same to the governing
body the governing body shall disapprove, conditionally approve or approve the
final map if the same conforms to all requirements of N.R.S. 278.010 to
278.630, inclusive, and of any local ordinance applicable at the time of
approval of the tentative or any ruling made thereunder.
Nothing in this Section shall prevent the governing body at the same meeting
from approving the tentative map, according to its findings under N.R.S.
278.330(6) and immediately thereafter when the final map has been submitted to
the governing body, approve the final map by the standards outlined in N.R.S.
278.380. (Ord. 1974-E Amended; 9-5-74)
CHAPTER 4
DEVELOPMENT CRITERIA
SECTION:
5-4-1: Intent; Establishment Of Streets, Highways And Development Standards
5-4-2: Street Names
5-4-3: Blocks
5-4-4: Building Sites
5-4-5: Easements
5-4-6: Grading
5-4-7: Miscellaneous Provisions
5-4-1: INTENT; ESTABLISHMENT OF STREETS, HIGHWAYS AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
The location, width and alignment of streets shall be arranged to produce the
most advantageous improvement of the area in which the development lies and to
preserve the natural features and enhance the overall design, layout,
character, extent, width, grade and location of all proposed streets. Streets
and highways shall be established with due regard for public convenience and
safety, topography and other land features, the proposed uses of the land to be
served by the streets and the projected traffic needs of the area. Due regard
will also be given to connections with, continuation and projection of streets
in the adjacent area, whether the streets are existing or proposed in another
development, an area plan, the general plan or in an official map approved by
the governing body. Standards for major subdivisions are hereby adopted to
promote consistent and uniform development, regulate the improvement of land,
further the public health, safety and general welfare in an era of growing
demand for housing of all types and design, encourage adequate public services
in connection with the development and provide standards for commercial and
industrial development to serve the needs of the citizens of the county.
   (A)   Definitions: As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be
deemed to have the meaning ascribed to them and to have the road construction
standards and include the elements and features set forth.
    POPULATED AREA: An incorporated city or unincorporated town within the
county. (Ord. 1994-Q, 9-7-1994, eff. 10-1-1994)
(Ord. 05-2010, 8-5-2010, eff. 9-10-2010)
   (B)   Improvements: Improvements in a major subdivision shall conform to the
following minimum standards and requirements, together with the standards,
terms and conditions contained in the most recent edition of the "Standard
Specifications For Public Works Construction" (commonly known and referred to
as the "Orange Book" which is incorporated herein by reference), if not
inconsistent with the standards set forth below.
      1.   Open space and special lands: (Ord. 1994-Q, 9-7-1994, eff. 10-1-
1994)
         (a)   Interior Roads: Minimum - 20' wide rural gravel standard.
         (b)   Access Roads:
            (1)   Minimum - 20' wide rural gravel standard. (Ord. 05-2010, 8-5-
2010, eff. 9-10-2010)
            (2)   If the estimated daily traffic count exceeds 200 vehicles -
32' wide gravel rural collector standard.
            (3)   If the estimated daily traffic count exceeds 300 vehicles per
day - 26' wide rural paved standard.
            (4)   If the access road lies within 1 mile of a populated area,
and the estimated daily traffic count exceeds 200 vehicles per day - 26' wide
rural paved standard.
            (5)   If the access road lies within 1 mile of a populated area,
and the estimated daily traffic count exceeds 300 vehicles per day - 34' wide
rural paved collector standard.
         (c)   Rights Of Way: Minimum - 60' rights of way. The right of way
shall be wide enough to accommodate cuts and fills.
         (d)   Access: All major subdivisions in excess of 16 lots shall have
at least 2 access routes and provide access to adjoining parcels.
         (e)   Utilities: Aboveground power and telephone to service all lots.
         (f)   Drainage: Standard roadside ditches and culverts for all
drainages under roadways.
         (g)   Solid Waste:
            (1)   Shall comply with the solid waste management plan adopted by
the county.
            (2)   The developer may be required to make improvements to
existing facilities or construct new facilities to adequately manage the solid
waste impact of the development.
         (h)   Fire Protection: Minimum - Nevada division of forestry
requirements (fire code rural standard).
      2.   Agricultural-residential (minimum parcel size - 2.50 acres): (Ord.
1994-Q, 9-7-1994, eff. 10-1-1994)
         (a)   Interior Roads: Minimum - 20' wide rural gravel standard.
         (b)   Access Roads:
            (1)   Minimum - 20' wide rural paved standard. (Ord. 05-2010, 8-5-
2010, eff. 9-10-2010)
            (2)   If any portion of the subdivision lies within 1 mile of a
populated area - 34' wide rural paved collector standard.
            (3)   If the estimated daily traffic count exceeds 200 vehicles per
day - 34' wide rural paved collector standard.
            (4)   If the estimated daily traffic count exceeds 500 vehicles per
day - 50' wide paved urban commercial standard.
         (c)   Rights Of Way: Minimum - 60' rights of way. The right of way
shall be wide enough to accommodate cuts and fills.
         (d)   Access: All major subdivisions in excess of 16 lots shall have
at least 2 access routes and provide access to adjoining parcels.
         (e)   Utilities: Aboveground power and telephone to service all lots.
         (f)   Drainage: Standard roadside ditches and culverts for all
drainages under roadways.
         (g)   Solid Waste:
            (1)   Shall comply with the solid waste management plan adopted by
the county.
            (2)   The developer may be required to make improvements to
existing facilities or construct new facilities to adequately manage the solid
waste impact of the development.
         (h)   Fire Protection: Minimum - Nevada Division of Forestry
requirements (Uniform Fire Code rural standard).
      3.   Agricultural-Residential (Minimum parcel size 1 acre and maximum
parcel size less than 2.5 acres):
         (a)   Interior Roads:
            (1)   Minimum - 32' wide gravel rural collector standard.
            (2)   If the estimated daily traffic count exceeds 200 vehicles per
day - 26' wide rural paved standard.
            (3)   If any portion of the subdivision lies within 1 mile of a
populated area - 26' wide rural paved standard.
         (b)   Access Roads:
            (1)   Minimum - 26' wide rural paved standard.
            (2)   If the estimated daily traffic count exceeds 200 vehicles per
day - 34' wide rural paved collector standard.
            (3)   If any portion of the subdivision lies within 1 mile of a
populated area - 34' wide rural paved collector standard.
            (4)   If the estimated daily traffic count exceeds 500 vehicles per
day - 50' wide paved urban commercial standard.
         (c)   Rights of Way: Minimum - 60' rights of way. The right of way
shall be wide enough to accommodate cuts and fills.
         (d)   Access: All subdivisions in excess of 16 lots shall have at
least 2 access routes and provide access to adjoining parcels.
         (e)   Utilities: Aboveground power and telephone to service all lots.
         (f)   Drainage:
            (1)   Minimum - standard roadside ditches, drainage easements and
culverts for all drainages under roadways.
            (2)   The developer, at developer expense, shall complete a
drainage study for the area to be developed and areas that will be affected by
the development, and may be required to mitigate the effects of the development
upon drainage patterns.
         (g)   Solid Waste:
            (1)   Shall comply with the Solid Waste Management Plan adopted by
the County.
            (2)   The developer may be required to make improvements to
existing facilities or construct new facilities to adequately manage the solid
waste impact of the development.
         (h)   Fire Protection:
            (1)   Minimum - Nevada Division of Forestry requirements.
            (2)   If any portion of the subdivision lies within 1 mile of a
populated area, the fire protection system shall have a minimum fire flow of
1,000 gallons per minute for 2 hours. The maximum distance between appliances
common to the area fire department shall be 1000'.
         (i)   Public Property: Assignment of a parcel or parcels of land to
the County for uses such as recreation, public buildings or other public
facilities may be required in the approval process.
      4.   Residential 1 and 2:
         (a)   Interior Roads:
            (1)   Minimum - 40' wide paved residential standard.
            (2)   If the daily estimated traffic count exceeds 200 vehicles per
day - 44' wide paved residential standard.
            (3)   If any portion of the subdivision lies within 1 mile of a
populated area, city or town standards apply if they are more stringent.
         (b)   Access Roads:
            (1)   Minimum - 44' wide paved residential standard.
   A. Access roads within 1 mile of an incorporated city shall meet the city
standard if more stringent.
   B. If the daily estimated traffic count exceeds 500 vehicles per day - 50'
wide paved urban commercial standard.
   C. Based upon traffic flow projections, the County may require a 56' wide
urban arterial standard or a 70' wide major arterial standard.
   D. Additional requirements including but not limited to controlled access,
intersection control devices, bike lanes, pedestrian facilities, turn lane, on-
street parking may be required based upon the results of the independent
traffic study or applicable master plan.
   E. A complete independent traffic analysis of existing and estimated traffic
flows and traffic impact shall be completed by the developer for all
residential subdivisions at developer expense.
         (c)   Rights of Way: Minimum - 60' rights of way. The right of way
shall be wide enough to accommodate cuts and fills. The right of way may be
reduced to 50' in the case of a cul-de-sac.
         (d)   Utilities: Underground utilities with service provided to all
lots.
         (e)   Drainage:
            (1)   Minimum - Concrete curb and gutter with a properly sized
underground storm drain system.
            (2)   The developer shall complete, at developer expense, a
drainage study for the area to be developed and areas that will be affected by
the development, and may be required to mitigate the effects of the development
upon drainage patterns.
            (3)   The development shall not increase peak flows into drainages.
         (f)   Water Supply: An approved public or community water system.
         (g)   Solid Waste:
            (1)   Shall comply with the Solid Waste Management Plan adopted by
the County.
            (2)   The developer may be required to make improvements to
existing facilities or construct new facilities to adequately manage the solid
waste impact of the development.
         (h)   Sewage Disposal:
            (1)   Public or community wastewater treatment system.
            (2)   Parcels or lots larger than 1/4 acre standard individual
sewage disposal systems.
            (3)   Individual sewage disposal systems may be allowed on parcels
or lots within 1 mile of an unincorporated town or incorporated city upon
approval by the city or town.
         (i)   Fire Protection: Standard residential fire protection, with a
1,000 gallon per minute flow requirement, and minimum fire water storage for 2
hours. The maximum distance between fire hydrants shall be 500'.
         (j)   Public Property: Assignment of a parcel or parcels of land to
the County for uses such as recreation, public buildings, or other public
facilities may be required in the approval process.
      5.   Commercial Districts (minimum parcel size between 6,000 sq. ft. and
10,000 sq. ft.):
         (a)   Interior Roads:
            (1)   Minimum - 50' wide paved urban commercial standard.
            (2)   If any portion of the subdivision lies within 1 mile of a
populated area, city or town standards apply if they are more stringent.
         (b)   Access Roads:
            (1)   Minimum - 50' wide paved urban commercial standard.
            (2)   If the estimated daily traffic count exceeds the capacity of
the standard section, or based upon other factors such as specific use,
location, proximity to cross streets, or traffic channeling and controls, the
County may require a wider road section such as a 56' paved urban arterial, 70'
paved major arterial or other standard.
            (3)   Additional requirements including but not limited to
controlled access, intersection control devices, bike lanes, pedestrian
facilities, turn lane, on-street parking may be required based upon the results
of the independent traffic study or applicable master plan.
         (d)   Rights of Way: Minimum - 60' rights of way. The right of way
shall be wide enough to accommodate cuts and fills.
         (d)   Utilities: Underground utilities with service provided to all
lots.
         (e)   Water Supply: A community or public water system approved by the
appropriate agency of the State.
         (f)   Drainage:
            (1)   Minimum - Concrete curb and gutter with a properly sized
underground storm drain system.
            (2)   The developer, at developer expense, shall complete a
drainage study for the area to be developed and areas that will be affected by
the development, and may be required to mitigate the effects of the development
upon drainage patterns.
         (g)   Solid Waste:
            (1)   Shall comply with the Solid Waste Management Plan adopted by
the County.
            (2)   The developer may be required to make improvements to
existing facilities or construct new facilities to adequately manage the solid
waste impact of the development.
         (h)   Sewage Disposal: Public, community or commercial wastewater
treatment system. Lots or parcels within 1 mile of a populated area shall meet
city or town requirements.
         (i)   Fire Protection: Standard commercial fire protection, with a
1,500 gallon per minute flow requirement, and minimum fire water storage for 2
hour fire fighting capability and fire hydrants spaced no more than 500' apart.
         (j)   Public Property: Assignment of a parcel or parcels of land to
the County for uses such as recreation, public buildings or other public
facilities may be required in the approval process.
      6.   Industrial and Light Industrial:
         (a)   Interior Roads:
            (1)   Minimum - 32' wide gravel rural collector standard if all
lots exceed 2 acres.
            (2)   Lots 1 acre or smaller - 34' wide rural paved collector
standard.
            (3)   If any portion of the subdivision lies within 1 mile of an
incorporated city - city standards apply if more stringent.
         (b)   Access Roads:
            (1)   Minimum - 32' wide gravel rural collector standard if all
lots exceed 2 acres.
            (2)   If interior roads are paved - 34' wide rural paved collector
standard.
            (3)   If any portion of the subdivision lies within 1 mile of an
incorporated city - city standards apply if more stringent.
            (4)   If the estimated daily traffic count exceeds the capacity of
the standard section, or based upon other factors such as specific use,
location, proximity to cross streets, or traffic channeling and controls, the
County may require a wider road section such as a 56' wide paved urban
arterial, 70' wide paved major arterial or other standard.
            (5)   Additional requirements including, but not limited to,
controlled access, intersection control devices, bike lanes, pedestrian
facilities, turn lane, on street parking may be required based upon the results
of the independent traffic study or applicable master plan.
            (6)   A complete independent traffic analysis of existing and
estimated traffic flows and traffic impact shall be completed by the developer
for all industrial subdivisions at developer expense.
         (c)   Rights Of Way: Minimum sixty foot (60') rights of way. The right
of way shall be wide enough to accommodate cuts and fills.
         (d)   Utilities:
            (1)   Underground utilities with facilities extended to all lots.
            (2)   Main power distribution may be above ground.
         (e)   Water Supply: Public or community water system.
         (f)   Drainage:
            (1)   Lots of one acre or less - concrete curb or valley gutter and
a properly sized underground storm drain system.
            (2)   Lots larger than one acre - standard roadway ditches and
drainage easements with culvert under the roadway.
            (3)   The developer, at developer expense, shall complete a
drainage study for the area to be developed and areas that will be affected by
the development, and may be required to mitigate the effects of the development
upon drainage patterns.
            (4)   The development shall not increase peak flows into existing
drainages.
         (g)   Solid Waste:
            (1)   Shall comply with the solid waste management plan adopted by
the county.
            (2)   The developer may be required to make improvements to
existing facilities or construct new facilities to adequately manage the solid
waste impact of the development.
         (h)   Fire Protection:
            (1)   Standard industrial fire protection, with one thousand five
hundred (1,500) gallon per minute flow and minimum fire water storage for two
(2) hour duration.
            (2)   On site and public access fire hydrants as required by the
uniform fire code, appendix III - B.
         (i)   Public Property: Assignment of a parcel or parcels of land to
the county for uses such as recreation, public buildings or other public
facilities may be required in the approval process.
   (C)   Developments: Major developments shall further conform to the
following specifications, requirements and procedures:
      1.   Street Grades: All streets and highways shall have a gradient of not
more than eight percent (8%). Street and roadway widths and design in steep
slope areas shall be considered individually and will be based upon the
topography of the land and the density of the proposed development to be served
thereby. (Ord. 1994-Q, 9-7-1994, eff. 10-1-1994)
      2.   Curves: Where a deflection angle is more than ten degrees (10°) in
the alignment of a street, a curve with a radius adequate to ensure adequate
sight distance must be made. The division of planning and zoning may grant
exceptions to this requirement upon good cause shown.
      3.   Street Extensions: The proposed street layout shall provide for the
continuation or projection of existing streets unless the division of planning
and zoning deems such extension undesirable for specific reasons of topography
or design. A proposed street may be required to extend to the boundary line of
the development to provide access to adjacent properties. When more than four
(4) lots derive access from such street or stub, an approved temporary
turnaround easement shall be provided. The street stub so created need not be
improved unless necessary for local access; otherwise, improvement shall be
required of the developer of the adjacent property. The division of planning
and zoning may require the developer to install a barrier at the end of the
street and provision made for legally restricting uses thereto. (Ord. 2015-05,
4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
      4.   Number Of Intersections: The number of street intersections shall be
kept to a minimum consistent with desirable block lengths and/or other design
factors.
      5.   Development Conditions: When a development abuts or includes an
existing or proposed arterial street or limited access highway, conditions may
be imposed by the planning commission for the protection of residential
properties, the separation of through and local traffic and the requirements of
future highway plans. These conditions may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Minimal access or service streets.
         (b)   Reverse frontage with screening by wall, fence and/or planting
in a nonaccess reservation along the rear property line.
         (c)   Parks or reservations of rights of way.
      6.   Conformity: Whenever a street or highway is proposed requiring a
separation of grades or any special form of intersection design, the
development shall be so designed to conform to the plan of intersection design
and all lots shall, when necessary, be provided with suitable access elsewhere.
      7.   Retaining Walls: Retaining walls may be required whenever
topographical conditions warrant, or where necessary to retain fill or cut
slopes within rights of way or slope easements.
      8.   Centerline Curve Radius: No centerline curve radius of less than one
hundred fifty feet (150') shall be provided on a collector street, or less than
seventy five feet (75') on a local residential street.
      9.   Alleys: The planning commission may require alleys based upon the
proposed use of the land.
      10.   Street Intersections: At all street intersections, the property
line at each block corner shall be rounded by a curve having a radius of not
less than fifteen feet (15') for right angle corners. Where streets intersect
at angles of less than right angles at major intersections or where other
peculiar conditions occur, the planning commission may require a different
radius.
      11.   Pedestrianways: Pedestrianways may be required depending upon the
individual circumstances. A separated pathway system, a mall or other
pedestrian system may require a specialized approach. Integral pedestrianways
and curbs may be permitted if warranted. Semi-improved trails, not less than
five feet (5') wide, may be provided in lieu of pedestrianways, if approved by
the planning commission.
      12.   Structural Sections: The structural sections for all roads, whether
paved or gravel, shall be determined by a comprehensive engineered soils report
based upon soil "R" value and traffic index as specified in "Asphalt Institute
Publication MS-23". (Ord. 1994-Q, 9-7-1994, eff. 10-1-1994)
      13.   Subdivision Improvements: No work on subdivision improvements shall
take place without the prior approval of the division of planning and zoning.
Engineered improvement plans for the work shall be submitted to and approved by
the division of planning and zoning prior to the recording of the final
subdivision map. The applicant/developer is responsible to allow adequate lead
time (a minimum of 3 weeks, or longer for major developments) for the review
and approval of plans. (Ord. 2015-05, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
      14.   Encroachment Permits: The applicant/developer must acquire all
encroachment permits for work affecting any county, state or federal route.
      15.   Right Of Way Construction Permit: The applicant/developer must
acquire a county right of way construction permit prior to commencement of an
improvement in, on or under a public right of way.
      16.   Street Signs: The improvement plans shall include provision for the
placement of street signs on all roadways in connection with the development.
(Ord. 1994-Q, 9-7-1994, eff. 10-1-1994)
   (D)   Alternate Compliance:
      1.   The division of planning and zoning may modify any provisions of
this section upon application in writing where there are practical difficulties
in the way of carrying out the strict requirements of this section, provided
that the following findings are made: a) that the proposed design, use or
operation satisfactorily complies with the intent of this code; and b) that the
material, method of work or operation is, for the purpose intended at least the
equivalent of that provided by this section in quality, strength,
effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety. The division of planning
and zoning may require tests prepared and certified by a professional engineer
licensed in the state as proof of compliance with the intent of this section,
such tests to be made the expense of the person requesting approval of the
alternate material or method of construction. The particulars of such
modification as granted or allowed and the decision shall be made in writing
and entered upon the records of the division of planning and zoning and a
signed copy shall be furnished to the applicant.
      2.   If an applicant is dissatisfied with the decision and determination
of the division of planning and zoning, the decision or determination may be
appealed to the county manager by a written notice of appeal delivered to the
office of the county manager within ten (10) days of the receipt or mailing,
whichever occurs first, of the notice of the adverse determination. The
decision of the county manager shall be final and binding. (Ord. 2015-05, 4-1-
2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
5-4-2: STREET NAMES:
Street names and suffixes shall be designated by the developer, subject to the
approval of the planning commission and in accordance with the following
general policy and shall:
   (A)   Be short (under 12 letters if possible) and preferably in one word.
   (B)   Have a simple spelling and easy pronunciation.
   (C)   Avoid prefixes such as north and south, east and west, upper and
lower, etc.
   (D)   Be related to the type and importance of the street. (The suffix
"boulevard" should not be attached to the name of a minor residential street.)
   (E)   Avoid the use of numbers or letters as street names.
   (F)   Not be incongruous, offensive or geographically misleading.
   (G)   Not be repetitive or similar in sound or character.
   (H)   Have a single name for a street having a continuous alignment.
   (I)   When to be connected in the future into a continuous alignment or
extended, bear the same name as the existing street. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
5-4-3: BLOCKS:
The dimensions, shape and orientation of blocks within developments shall be
determined with due regard to:
   (A)   Provisions of building sites suitable to the use and types of
buildings contemplated.
   (B)   Minimum site requirements particularly as to site, slope and
dimension.
   (C)   Control safety and convenience of pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Topography and other land features.
   (E)   Orientation and scenic enhancement.
   (F)   Lengths of blocks shall be not more than one thousand five hundred
feet (1,500') unless approved by the planning commission.
   (G)   A pedestrianway of ten feet (10') minimum width may be required
through the center of any block longer than one thousand two hundred feet
(1,200').
   (H)   Rural developments with lots of over one acre in size and future lot
splitting prohibited, may have a maximum block length of three thousand feet
(3,000') and must contain a suitable building site on each lot. (Ord. 1974-E,
2-7-1974)
5-4-4: BUILDING SITES:
The primary purpose of this title is to provide desirable, accessible and
advantageous building sites. To this end, the following shall apply:
   (A)   The size, shape and orientation of all building sites shall be
determined with regard to all natural terrain features, topography, road
access, design objectives, plottage advantages and other relevant features.
   (B)   All building sites shall relate usable and open areas suitable to the
character and type of buildings contemplated and to the various requirements of
zoning, with due regard to minimum disturbance of the natural grade.
   (C)   Land subject to known hazards such as slides, avalanche, periodic or
occasional inundation or otherwise unsuitable for the intended use shall be:
      1.   Set aside as a permanent non-use for structures; or
      2.   Improved with such corrective measures, approved by the County as
will be reasonably expected to limit the hazard or make the land suitable for
structures.
   (D)   Larger building site sizes may be required if necessary to meet the
requirements of the State laws or rules and regulations of the Health Officer.
Where a property is divided with one or more sites substantially larger than
the minimum size required in the zoning district in which a development is
located, streets and lots may be required to be laid out so as to permit
possible future redivision in accordance with the standards unless the
developer restricts such future redivision.
   (E)   Land having an average natural cross slope over forty percent (40%)
shall be preserved as open space or shall be added to a legal lot; on all steep
slope situations, all construction plans and specifications are to be approved
by the County, who may require such reports from specialists regarding
drainage, soil mechanics, or engineering geology as necessary. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-
7-74)
   (F)   Reverse frontage sites may be provided when necessary for protection
of residential properties from through traffic and adverse non-residential
uses, for separation of through and local traffic and to overcome difficulties
of topography and other special conditions. Adequate spacing, screen planting
or a fence or wall of a type approved by the Planning Commission may be
required along the rear property line within an area not less than ten feet
(10') wide within which existing native vegetation shall be preserved and
across which there shall be no right-of- way vehicular passage.
   (G)   When the rear or side lines of any lot border any highway, the
developer may be required to execute and deliver to the County an approved
instrument, prohibiting the right of ingress and egress to such lots across the
side or rear lines of any lot bordering any such highway, the developer may be
required to dedicate a planting strip adjacent to the traveled way.
   (H)   Reserve strips controlling access to streets or other land shall not
be approved except as otherwise provided, and if ownership control of the
strips is placed with the County.
   (I)   No lot shall be divided by city or County boundary lines.
   (J)   Wherever the development is contained within the boundaries of more
than one district for which separate taxes are levied, the boundaries of such
districts shall be located and shown on the final map.
   (K)   A lot site may have a strip of land not less than twenty feet (20') in
width connecting the lot with a street or may be situated within a common area
with frontage to a public street. The area of said strip shall be excluded in
computing the lot and the length of said strip shall not exceed three hundred
feet (300'). (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74; amd. Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-79, eff. 11-1-79;
Ord. 1994-Q, 9-7-94, eff. 10-1-94)
5-4-5: EASEMENTS:
   (A)   The developer shall grant easements not less than a total of ten feet
(10') in width for public utility, sanitary sewer and drainage, and other
public purposes on yard or open areas wherever necessary. Easements of lesser
widths may be allowed at the determination of the County when the purposes of
same may be accomplished by lesser widths and provided further that in such
determination the County shall prescribe the width of such easements.
   (B)   All natural drainage ways shall be preserved with appropriate
easements and/or pedestrian walkways where necessary.
   (C)   A conservation easement of a width to be determined by stream flow
requirements shall be provided along all live streams to contain the channel
during flood stages and to maintain encroachment. This easement shall be open
to public access, but no tree or bush removal, gravel excavating, filling or
sidecasting of materials shall be allowed within the area and no construction
of any kind shall be allowed except as required by an agency of the United
States Government, by the State of Nevada or by Elko County.
   (D)   Easements to accommodate snow storage will be provided in an amount
and in a location as necessary to the situation.
   (E)   In areas of possible fire hazards, unobstructed fire protection
equipment and access easements not less than twenty feet (20') shall be
dedicated from the public street to the land development boundary. Such
easements shall be located, designed and graded as determined by the Planning
Commission in cooperation with the local fire protection agencies. (Ord. 1974-
E, 2-7-74)
5-4-6: GRADING:
   (A)   If geologic problems are likely or apparent, a geologic survey report
may be required prior to tentative plat approval.
   (B)   All grading requirements shall be as set forth herein.
   (C)   All cleared slopes, all cuts and fills and all other areas vulnerable
to erosion shall be either stabilized with grass or other protective cover, or
properly mulched to assure establishment, riprapped for slope control, treated
with appropriate drainage benches as may be determined by the County. On steep
slopes it may be required to provide controls as necessary to the circumstance.
(Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74)
5-4-7: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Reservation of Land: Reservation and/or dedication of land for park,
recreation, school or other public purposes in amount and location consistent
with the Master Plan and proposed character and location and engineering need
of each development, may be required as a condition precedent to tentative and
final plat approval.
   (B)   Restrictions on Land Clearing: At the time of the tentative plat
approval, the Planning Commission may impose as a condition of such approval,
restrictions on the making of improvements consisting of the clearing of brush
and trees or of the moving of earth by mechanical equipment. Such restrictions
may include a provision that no such improvements may be made for a given
period of time. Including the time up to the filling of section, there shall be
a determination by the Planning Commission that such improvements would present
a real danger.
      1.   Of pollution, contamination or silting of lakes, rivers, streams or
domestic water supplies; or
      2.   Of erosion damage; or
      3.   Of alteration of natural drainage patterns in a manner likely to
cause damage to the property or persons from which or to which the normal
drainage is diverted.
   (C)   Drainage: The developer shall design the development so that it shall
be protected from inundation, flood hazard, sheet overflow, and ponding of
local storm water, springs and other surface waters. The design of improvements
shall be such that water occurring within the development will be carried off
without injury to any improvements, building sites or residences to be
installed on lots within the development or adjoining areas. Waters occurring
within the development shall be carried to a storm drainage facility or to a
natural watercourse by such improvements as may be required. Drainage design
within the development shall accommodate reasonable anticipated future
improvement within the drainage area. Any off-tract outlet drainage facility
required to carry storm water from the proposed development to a defined
channel or conduit shall be made adequate for the ultimate state of improvement
in the drainage area. All water shall be discharged into a controlled outlet
stabilized storm channel for erosion control. All such off-site drainage water
shall be materially free of silt or other polluting features.
   (D)   Top Soil and Native Elements: Health, trees, rock outcrops and other
native features shall be preserved whenever possible and must be protected
during periods of construction. Clearing of top soil, trees and shrubs and
other native cover prior to tentative map approval is prohibited by the Board
of County Commissioners.
   (E)   Dedication, Reservation of Other Areas: Where deemed desirable by the
Planning Commission, upon consideration of the particular type of improvement
proposed in the developments and especially in large-scale neighborhood unit
developments, may require dedication or reservation of common areas or sites
for community purposes of a character, extent and location suitable for the
needs created by such development.
   (F)   Additional Miscellaneous Requirements:
      1.   The Planning Commission may require other such measures as will
preserve and enhance scenic values and natural features of the area and for
conditions encouraging excellence of quality of development. Such requirement
must be approved by the Board of County Commissioners.
      2.   Existing vegetation shall be preserved within any public way when
such growths are suitably located and healthy. When required, street trees
shall be planted in accordance with the requirements of the Planning
Commission.
      3.   The developer may be required to provide to the County structures
such as bridges, concrete boxes, culverts, headwalls, cattleguards, appurtenant
fencing and other features as stipulated by the Planning Commission and the
County. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74)
CHAPTER 5
SURVEYS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Requirements
5-5-2: Guarantee Placement of Monuments
5-5-1: REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Before a final map of a land development can be recorded, an accurate
and complete survey of the boundaries must be made by a licensed surveyor
pursuant to N.R.S. 278.400 and 278.420(4).
   (B)   Monuments shall be set as defined below and shall be permanent and
visibly marked or tagged with the registration and license number of the
surveyor under whose supervision the survey was made and a description of each
monument to be set subsequent to recordation shall be shown on the final map.
Tags set in iron pipes shall be grouted with mortar. The maximum allowable
error of closure shall be 1/5,000. Closure for an exterior boundary traverse
shall be 1/1,000 and the engineer shall furnish to the County Surveyor at the
time of filing the final map, said traverse sheets showing mathematic closure
together with such other data as may be required for checking.
   (C)   The surveyor in charge of survey shall cause permanent monuments to be
set as follows:
      1.   A Class "A" monument shall be set:
         a.   On each corner of the land development boundary.
         b.   Along the boundary lines of the development at intervals of not
more than one-fourth (1/4) mile.
         c.   At street intersections or by reference thereto by setting block
corners.
         d.   At the beginning and ending of each centerline curve unless
special conditions require an alternate setting.
      2.   A Class "B" monument shall be set on each lot corner.
   (D)   Monuments required in this Title shall be as follows:
      1.   A class "A" monument shall consist of iron pipe having an inside
diameter of two inches (2") or more or a six inch by twelve inch (6" x 12")
concrete monument or a malleable metal capped steel shaft or its equivalent
thirty inches (30") long driven at least twenty four inches (24") in the
ground.
      2.   A class "B" monument shall consist of an iron pipe having an inside
diameter of three-fourths inch (3/4") or more at least eighteen inches (18")
long, driven at least twelve inches (12") in the ground, extending between four
inches (4") and six inches (6") above the surface and having a stamped
galvanized cap (or a reinforcing steel bar) with a minimum diameter of five-
eighths inch (5/8") and at least eighteen inches (18") long, driven in the
ground at least twelve inches (12") and extending above the surface of the
ground at least six inches (6") with the top painted red).
      3.   Where a monument is set in a paved street, it shall be set with the
top at least six inches (6") below finish grade and be covered with a cast iron
cover set flush with the finished street grade.
      4.   By order entered in the minutes, the governing body may authorize
placement of other specified kinds of monuments in a specific development.
5-5-2: GUARANTEE PLACEMENT OF MONUMENTS:
Where the certificate of the surveyor states that all monuments will be set on
or before a specified later date, the developer shall furnish to the County a
bond or an amount equal to the estimated cost of setting such monuments not
already set prior to recording of map, guaranteeing payment of the cost
thereof. Within five (5) days after the final setting of all monuments has been
completed by surveyor, written notice shall be given to the County Surveyor
that final monuments have been set. After setting final monuments, the
developer shall present to the County Surveyor evidence of the same together
with a request that his bond be released or that his cash deposit be returned.
The County shall immediately thereafter release said bond or return the cash
deposit to the depositor. (Ord. 1974-E; 2-7-74)
CHAPTER 6
FINAL MAPS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Time For Filing
5-6-2: Final Map Filing Fees
5-6-3: Form And Content
5-6-4: Approval By Units
5-6-5: Supplementary Materials
5-6-6: Certificates Required
5-6-7: Revocation And Reversion To Acreage
5-6-8: Surveyor's Check
5-6-9: Final Commission Action On Map
5-6-10: Recording
5-6-11: Improvement Plans
5-6-1: TIME FOR FILING:
The final map of a land development must be recorded within four (4) years
after approval or conditional approval of the tentative map of said
development, unless prior to the end of such year on application of the
developer an extension of time not exceeding two (2) years has been granted as
per Nevada Revised Statutes 278.360 inclusive. Failure to so record terminates
all proceedings requiring an entirely new tentative plat approval. The final
map shall meet all requirements of the zoning district in which it is located
and any necessary zoning amendment that shall have been adopted by the county
commissioners prior to recording of the final map. (Ord. 2015-12, 7-8-2015,
eff. 2-21-2016)
5-6-2: FINAL MAP FILING FEES:
At the time of filing a final subdivision map application, the developer shall
pay a filing fee as set by resolution of the county commission to the Elko
County division of planning and zoning and subsequently, a reasonable fee
including costs based on the work done by the county surveyor or his deputy or
other authorized and acting personnel of the county, including, but not limited
to, planning consultants, registered land surveyors or environmental impact
consultants in checking and approving such map, shall be paid to the county.
All fees hereunder shall be fully paid to the Elko County treasurer prior to
the time the final map is approved by the county commissioners. (Ord. 2015-12,
7-8-2015, eff. 2-21-2016)
5-6-3: FORM AND CONTENT:
The final map shall be clearly and legibly drawn in black waterproof india ink
upon or photographed on good tracing cloth or mylar, including affidavits
certificates and acknowledgments. Each sheet shall be twenty four inches by
thirty two inches (24" x 32") in size. A marginal line shall be drawn
completely around each showing an entirely blank margin of at least one-half
inch (1/2") and not greater than one inch (1") at the bottom, top and right
edge and two inches (2") on the left edge on the twenty four inch (24")
dimension. The scale of the map shall be one hundred feet to the inch (1" =
100') or an approved scale. The particular number of the sheet and the total
number of sheets comprising the map shall be so stated on each of the sheets
and the number in relation to each adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown. The
title sheet shall contain the location of the property being divided with
reference to maps which have been previously recorded or by reference to the
plat of the United States survey and:
   (A)   Affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments, endorsements, acceptances
of dedication and the notarial seals required by law and this title. These may
be placed thereon with colored ink or by photographic reproduction. If more
than three (3) sheets are used, a key diagram shall be included.
   (B)   The scale, on each sheet containing a map. The basis of bearing shall
be that approved by the county surveyor and shall be required on one sheet
only.
   (C)   All easements required to be dedicated for acceptance and their
particular use.
   (D)   Every final map shall closely conform to the approved tentative map
and shall also show all data required for the tentative map except contour
lines; position of buildings, relationship to streets and highways beyond the
area shown on the map and the proposed use of the building sites and shall
contain, in addition, the following data: sufficient linear, angular and radial
data to determine the bearings and lengths of the boundary lines of the land
development and the boundary lines of each and every lot site or parcel which
is a part thereof.
   (E)   Easements not disclosed by the records in the office of the recorder
and found by the surveyor or engineer to be existing in the development prior
to the date of filing for record of the final map, naming the party or parties
using said easement and describing the specific purpose for which the easement
is being used.
   (F)   Easements evidenced by the records in the office of the County
Recorder prior to the date of filing for record of the final map, by the volume
and page of the conveyance which established said easement and the name also of
the grantee in said conveyance, who or which reserved said easement.
   (G)   The sidelines of all such record easements by dashed lines of the
final map with the widths, lengths and bearings thereof (if figures are
available from the records).
   (H)   The exterior boundary of the land included within the land development
shall be indicated by a colored border. The map shall show the definite
location of the development and particularly its relation to surrounding
development and surveys and, in addition, shall make reference to the
Recorder's Book and Page number of each such development and survey.
   (I)   Each city boundary and government land survey line crossing or
adjoining the subdivision with adequate ties to monuments set or found within
the same.
   (J)   If a portion of the land within the boundaries of the final map is
subject to inundation, storm flow conditions, geologic hazard or other hazard,
the land so affected shall be clearly marked by a prominent note on each sheet.
   (K)   The monument line and boundary of each street, including the width of
the portion of any fractional street being dedicated, the width of existing
road rights of way when available from public records, and the widths on each
side of the monument line of streets and the widths and locations of adjacent
streets as determined from public records. Whenever the County Surveyor has
established either the centerline or monument line of the street and such
information is made a public record, this location and data shall be shown on
the final map.
   (L)   Lot or Parcels:
      1.   Numbers shall begin with the number "1" and continue consecutively
with no omissions or duplications, except that multiple unit developments
numbering of lot or parcel may begin where the numbering of a previous lot or
parcel stopped.
      2.   Each lot or parcel site must be shown in its entirety on one sheet
of the final map and may not be divided between sheets.
      3.   No ditto marks shall be used in the dimensions and data.
      4.   Lot or parcel area, if shown, shall be a net figure.
   (M)   Block numbers shall begin with the number "1" or letter "A" continuing
consecutively without omission or duplication throughout the tract. The numbers
or letters shall be solid and of sufficient size and thickness to stand out,
shall be so placed as not to obliterate any figure and shall not be enclosed in
any design. When the density is greater than one lot per acre, each block in
its entirety shall be shown on one sheet. Where adjoining blocks appear on
separate sheets, the street adjoining both blocks shall be shown on both sheets
complete with monument line and property line data.
   (N)   The final map shall particularly define, delineate and designate all
lots or parcels intended for private purposes all parcels offered for
dedication for any purpose, public or private, common area and private streets
with all dimensions, boundaries and courses clearly defined. Parcels offered
for dedication but not accepted shall be designated. Private streets shall be
designated "Not a Public Street".
   (O)   Maps filed for the purpose of showing as acreage lands previously
divided into numbered or lettered parcels, shall be conspicuously marked under
the title "The purpose of this map is to Revert to Acreage".
   (P)   Whenever the land development is contained within the boundaries of
more than one district for which separate taxes are levied, the boundaries of
such districts shall be located and shown accurately on the final map.
   (Q)   The map shall show the line of high water in case the development is
adjacent to a stream and/or areas subject to inundation by waters.
   (R)   The minimum lot size and/or provisions against future lot divisions,
if any, shall appear on each sheet.
5-6-4: APPROVAL BY UNITS:
A developer may elect to file a final map covering only a portion of the
approved tentative map if such intention is declared at the time the tentative
map is filed. Each such partial final map shall be given a separate number and
all of the requirements required for approval of a full final map shall apply
to an approval for a partial final map and the agreement required of the
developer may provide for the construction of such improvements as may be
necessary to constitute a logical and orderly development of the whole land
development by units.
5-6-5: SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIALS:
The final map shall be accompanied by the following documents as they apply,
all of which must have been approved before the final map is approved by the
Planning Commission: (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74)
   (A)   An agreement, approved by the District Attorney, guaranteeing that the
developer will complete the construction of all improvements within a time
period specified by the County Commissioners and will guarantee full payment
therefor by requiring a bond in the amount of the full cost of improvements.
(Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-79, eff. 11-1-79)
   (B)   An analysis of the estimated cost of construction of all improvements.
(See Section
5-7-3 of this Title.)
   (C)   An affidavit from the County Auditor showing all payable taxes paid
and a bond or cash deposit guaranteeing payment of taxes then a lien but not
yet payable.
   (D)   Cash payment or proof of payment for all checking and filing fees,
inspection of construction, cash deposit as required by the fire districts or
water company or other districts having jurisdiction and all other applicable
fees or deposits.
   (E)   Deeds for easements or rights of way required for road, drainage or
other purposes which have not been shown on the final map.
   (F)   Written evidence acceptable to the County in the form of rights of way
entry or permanent easements across private property outside of the development
permitting or granting access to perform necessary construction work,
permitting the maintenance of the facility and providing access to the land
development.
   (G)   Agreements acceptable to the County executed by the owners of existing
utility easements within proposed rights of way, consent to the dedication of
the road or consenting to the joint use of the right of way as may be required
by the County for the public use and convenience of the road.
   (H)   Evidence of formation of or annexation to legal entities when required
to operate and perform all required maintenance and services.
   (I)   Two (2) copies of any deed restrictions, reciprocal restrictions and
articles of incorporation of homes' association if same is a part thereof.
   (J)   Any document or instrument prohibiting traffic over the right-of-way
lines of a major highway, parkway, street or freeway, when the same is not
shown on the final map.
   (K)   The signed approval of the utility companies supplying and maintaining
improvements within the development.
   (L)   One reproducible copy of the final map.
5-6-6: CERTIFICATES REQUIRED:
The following certificates and acknowledgements shall appear on the final map
and may be combined when appropriate: (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74)
   (A)   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all record owners consenting
to the preparation and recordation of the map, pursuant to N.R.S. 278.274(1).
   (B)   A certificate signed and acknowledged as above, offering for
dedication for certain specified public uses those certain parcels of land
which the parties so desire to dedicate pursuant to N.R.S. 278.374(1)
   (C)   A certificate by the surveyor responsible for the survey and final
map, giving the date of the survey and stating that the survey was made by him
or under his direction, and that the survey is true and complete as shown and
bearing his registration number and seal, pursuant to N.R.S. 278.375.
   (D)   A certificate by the County Surveyor stating that he has examined the
final map, that all provisions of the law have been met and that he is
satisfied with the map as being technically correct, pursuant to N.R.S.
278.376. (Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-79, eff. 11-1-79)
   (E)   The certificate of the County Recorder that the map is acceptable by
him for recording in his office.
   (F)   The certificate of the County Auditor that there are no liens against
any of the land in the land development for unpaid State, County, City or local
taxes or special assessments, except those not yet payable. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-
74)
   (G)   A certificate for execution by the County Clerk stating that Elko
County has approved the map and accepted (or deferred) on behalf of the public
any parcels of land offered for dedication for public use in conformity with
the terms of the offer or dedication, pursuant to N.R.S. 278.378. (Ord. 1979-V,
10-3-79, eff. 11-1-79)
   (H)   A certificate of the Planning Commission that the map conforms to the
approved tentative map and all conditions imposed upon such approval have been
satisfied.
   (I)   Proper certificates of a Notary Public, authorized to do business in
the State, as required. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-74)
   (J)   Certificate of appropriate Health Official indicating a proper and
adequate sewage disposal system and domestic water supply system, pursuant to
N.R.S. 278.376. (Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-79, eff. 11-1-79)
   (K)   A certificate by the Nevada Department of Transportation in cases
where the property abuts a State highway, that it has reviewed the proposed
final map and approves of the same. (Ord. 1990-E, 4-4-90, eff. 4-26-90)
5-6-7: REVOCATION AND REVERSION TO ACREAGE:
Revocation of a final land development map shall be made in accordance with
State law provided that no lots or parcels have been sold within the
development and no improvements required by this title have been made within
two (2) years from the date of recordation. Requests for revision shall be made
to the planning commission who shall advise the county commission within ten
(10) days whether or not to hold a public hearing on the matter. Reversions to
acreage shall be subject to planning commission review and said commission may
advise the county commissioners in writing within ten (10) working days whether
or not such reversion should occur. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
5-6-8: SURVEYOR'S CHECK:
Not less than ten (10) days prior to the consideration of any final map by the
county commissioners, the developer shall submit the original proposed final
map and two (2) prints of the same to the Elko County division of planning and
zoning who shall check said map as to accuracy and dimensions, placing of
monuments, establishment of survey records, and conformance of the map with the
tentative map as approved. Data concerning closure calculations, construction
plans, estimates of quantities and the like may also be required by the Elko
County division of planning and zoning when the situation warrants. (Ord. 2015-
12, 7-8-2015, eff. 2-21-2016)
5-6-9: FINAL COMMISSION ACTION ON MAP:
Upon receipt of the properly reviewed and approved final plat from the Elko
County division of planning and zoning, the Elko County division of planning
and zoning shall submit the final map to the county commissioners at the next
regular meeting following, who shall approve said map if the same conforms to
all requirements of state law and this title. If the county commissioners
approve the final map or accept the offers of dedication or fail to reject the
map or any offers of dedication within ten (10) days after such final map was
submitted, the clerk shall execute the certificate stating that the county has
approved the map and accepted all offers of dedication made thereon not
specifically rejected by said county commission. The county commissioners may
refuse any final map approval plan if report of error is made or until the
county certifies that the design of the sewer and/or water supply and
distribution system conforms to the standards set forth and to sound
engineering practices; nor until such system has either been installed by the
developer or the developer has executed an agreement to install such system
secured by a bond or cash deposit; nor until the developer submits written
evidence that some utility or public agency is willing to maintain and operate
the sewage collection and disposal system on completion and shall continue to
refuse to approve until all deficiencies are resolved. (Ord. 2015-12, 7-8-2015,
eff. 2-21-2016)
5-6-10: RECORDING:
After the county clerk has executed the certificate of approval of the county
commissioners, the final map may be submitted for recording to the county
recorder. Within ten (10) days after a final map is submitted for recording,
the county recorder shall accept it for recordation by executing a certificate
to that effect on the map, provided: (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
   (A)   A thirty five dollar ($35.00) fee plus thirty five cents ($0.35) per
lot or unit mapped for recording shall be paid. In the case of a final map of
division of land into large parcels, the recording fee shall be thirty five
dollars ($35.00) per page. (Ord. 1993-N, 11-4-93, eff. 12-1-1993)
   (B)   The developer has furnished to the county recorder a guaranty of title
or letter from a competent title company certifying that the names of all
persons whose consent is necessary to pass clear title to the land being
divided and all acknowledgment thereto appears on the certificates consenting
to making of the map and making offers of dedication which are correctly shown
on the final map.
   (C)   The developer has furnished to him one print copy of the final map as
approved by the county commissioners in addition to the original tracing of the
final map.
   (D)   There has been compliance with all provisions of the state law and the
provisions of this title.
   (E)   Such acceptance for recordation is made within one year (plus any
extensions as granted) after the approval of the tentative map of said
development.
   (F)   Title to dedicated properties shall pass when the final plat is
recorded. If at that time any streets are rejected, offer of dedication shall
be deemed to remain open and the county commissioners may, by resolution, at
any later date and without further action by the developer, rescind its action
and accept and open streets for the public use, which same shall be recorded in
official county records. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
5-6-11: IMPROVEMENT PLANS:
   (A)   Following approval of the final map by the planning commission, the
developer shall prepare and submit to the county three (3) copies of the
improvement plans which plans must conform to the requirements set forth herein
and to conditions attached to the tentative map approval.
   (B)   After receipt of the improvement plans, the county shall approve or
disapprove all such plans. If disapproved, the county shall return them to the
developer with a written specification of changes required.
   (C)   Upon approval of the plans by the county, they shall be endorsed on
all copies and one set shall be returned to the developer. If, during actual
construction, minor revisions of such improvement plans appear necessary, the
developer shall submit a written request for revision with suitable drawings in
a reproducible form. If the county approves such revision, his approval shall
be endorsed on all copies and one copy thereof shall be returned to the
developer.
   (D)   Approval of improvement plans shall not be construed as approval of
utility plans if the utilities are not under governmental jurisdiction. (Ord.
1974-E, 2-7-1974)
CHAPTER 7
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
5-7-1: General Provisions
5-7-2: Agreement To Complete Improvements
5-7-3: Performance Bond Or Deposit
5-7-4: Requirements
5-7-5: Acceptance Of Work
5-7-6: Inspection And Control For Improvements Offered To The County
5-7-7: Inspection Fee For Improvements Offered To The County
5-7-8: Prosecution Of Work
5-7-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Developer Improvements: As a condition precedent to the acceptance of
any features offered for dedication to the public, and prior to the approval of
the final map, the developer shall agree to improve at his own expense and
within a stated time, all land so dedicated with such improvements required and
the final map of any such land development shall not be approved until either
such features have been improved as required, or the developer has executed an
agreement to so improve such features as secured by a bond or cash deposit as
set forth in section
5-7-3 of this section. Trunk sewer lines, other improvements not solely for the
benefit of the subject subdivision and full improvements of those routes shown
on the plans of streets and highways shall not be required unless included
within the developer's agreement; however, the developer shall be held to his
proportion of all these improvements. The amount of said fair participation
shall be decided by the county commissioners upon recommendation of the
planning commission.
Whenever the planning commission requires the installation of roads, sewers,
water systems or drainage facilities by the developer, and such improvements
are of benefit and value to the other land then located within the development,
the planning commission may recommend to the county commissioners that an
agreement with the developer to reimburse him in whole or part for the use of
such improvements by the other lands than those improved by the developer and
may recommend to the county commissioners the imposition and collection of a
charge for the use of such facilities.
   (B)   Formation Of Entities: The developer may be required to form
appropriate legal entities to construct, operate and perform some or all
required facility maintenance and services if they are not currently a regular
public service, including, but not limited to, maintenance of roads whether
public or private, and sewer and water systems, etc. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
5-7-2: AGREEMENT TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS:
If, at the time the final map of the land development is considered for
approval, any of the improvements required by this title have not been
completed, the developer shall submit an agreement to complete all of such
improvements prior to the data fixed by the county and specified in the
agreement. The agreement to complete such improvements shall provide for the
acceptance of the work as it progresses and for withdrawal of that portion of
any security posted as required equal to ninety percent (90%) of the estimated
cost of that portion of the work so accepted, as shown by the certificate of
the county under the rules established by resolution of the county
commissioners. The agreement shall also provide that the developer shall
repair, at his sole cost and expense, any hidden defect in workmanship or
materials which appear in the work within one year following acceptance of the
work by the county commissioners and for retention of ten percent (10%) of the
original amount of the security posted as required to secure developer's
obligation to repair such defects. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
5-7-3: PERFORMANCE BOND OR DEPOSIT:
The performance of any agreement to make improvements or a form of assessment
district in a land development shall be secured by a corporate surety bond
issued by a surety company authorized to do a general surety business in the
state, in a form approved by the district attorney, and in a penal sum equal to
the established cost of the completed required improvements computed by the
county. In lieu of such bond, the developer shall submit a cash deposit in like
amount as security for performance of such agreement. Where all or part of the
improvements required by this title are made by assessment district proceedings
providing for a contract to construct such improvements and the faithful
performance of such contract is secured by a surety bond approved by the
district attorney in the amount of the contract price, the amount of the bond
or cash deposit required herein may be reduced by the amount equal to seventy
five percent (75%) of such faithful performance bond with the county
commissioners. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
5-7-4: REQUIREMENTS:
The developer shall make all required improvements, installed to permanent line
and grade, to the satisfaction of the county and in accordance with the
requirements of this title. Such improvements shall include, but not be limited
to:
   (A)   Streets: All streets and/or roads offered to Elko County for
dedication as shown on a final map or otherwise shall meet the Elko County road
specifications as amended. The same is incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   Certain Subdivisions: In subdivisions where it is established that
each lot therein contains at least one acre and is restricted to perpetual
single-family uses without resubdivision possibility, or reduction in area or
separation of ownership, and where each lot has an adequate water supply
available, this provision shall not apply. (Ord. 2015-12, 7-8-2015, eff. 2-21-
2016)
   (C)   Drainage:
      1.   In the event that a proposed subdivision or any part thereof is
traversed by any major watercourse channel, stream or creek, gulch or other
natural drainage channel, the subdivider shall dedicate rights of way for storm
drainage purposes. Easements for drainage to natural drainage channels shall be
required.
      2.   No subdivision plat shall be considered for final approval until the
subdivider shall submit to the planning commission a report by a registered
engineer as to the ability of existing watercourse channels, drainage tiles,
storm sewers, culverts and other works pertaining to drainage or flood control
within the subdivision to handle the additional runoff which would be generated
by the development of the land within the subdivision.
      3.   Standards:
         (a)   Flow line of curb and gutter shall have a minimum grade of
three-tenths of one percent (0.30%).
         (b)   Curb returns shall have a minimum radius of ten feet (10').
         (c)   Curbs and gutters shall be three thousand (3,000) pound concrete
"L" type.
         (d)   Valley gutters shall be three thousand (3,000) pound concrete
six feet (6') in width at street intersections and two and one- half feet (21/
2') in width at alleys where required by the county surveyor, both to be six
inches (6") thick.
         (e)   Drainage channels shall be so designed as to maintain a minimum
velocity of eight feet (8') per second. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
         (f)   The subdivider shall submit to the Elko County division of
planning and zoning for checking by the county sufficient information in the
form of maps and profiles prepared by his surveyor or engineer to indicate the
proper drainage of the surface water to natural drainage courses or into city,
county or state drain systems. If same is across lands intended to be used as
private lots, rights of way and easements must be indicated on the proposed
lot. The location and width of easements must be indicated on the plat to be
recorded and marked "EASEMENT RESERVED FOR SURFACE DRAINAGE". If it is deemed
necessary by the county, ditching shall be provided. Further, if it is deemed
expedient, the drain shall be enclosed in pipe made to designed size and
specification, and laid to the grade and depth required by the governmental
authority. (Ord. 2015-12, 7-8-2015, eff. 2-21-2016)
         (g)   Circular culverts shall be reinforced concrete pipe with cement
joint, corrugated metal, metal arch pipe or other types approved by the county
engineer. (Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-1979, eff. 11-1-1979)
         (h)   No drainage structure shall be permitted with a diameter pipe of
less than fifteen inches (15") or approved end sections.
         (i)   Standard headwalls shall be placed on all circular culverts up
to seventy two inches (72") in diameter. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
         (j)   The design, size and material used shall, in all cases, comply
with specifications of the state of Nevada, department of highways. (Ord. 1979-
V, 10-3-1979, eff. 11-1-1979)
   (D)   Water: Water supply and distribution system when installed in
subdivisions shall be in accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Source: The water supplied for a subdivision shall be obtained from
a source free of pollution, or from a source adequately purified by natural
agencies, or by artificial treatment. The source shall be reasonably adequate
to provide a continuous supply that is wholesome, potable and in no way harmful
or dangerous to health.
      2.   Operating Pressure: The supply and distribution system shall be so
designed and constructed that it will maintain a normal operating pressure at
all service connections of not less than twenty five (25) pounds per square
inch above atmospheric pressures, except that during peak periods of hourly
maximum demand, the pressure that forms at the time of peak seasonal loads may
be not less than twenty (20) pounds per square inch above atmospheric pressure
and that during periods of hourly minimum demand the pressure may be not more
than one hundred fifty (150) pounds per square inch. Variations in pressure
under normal conditions of operation shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
the average operating pressure. Services for adequate storage and emergency
standby power shall be supplied in all cases.
      3.   Materials For Construction Of Component Parts: Metallic and
nonmetallic materials may be used separately and in combination to construct
component parts of a water system including, but not limited to, conduits,
pipes, couplings, caulking materials, protective linings and coatings,
services, valves, hydrant pumps, tanks and reservoirs, provided:
         (a)   The material shall have a reasonable useful service life.
         (b)   The materials shall be capable of withstanding with ample safety
factors the internal/external forces to which they are subject.
         (c)   The materials shall not cause the water to become impure,
unwholesome, unpotable and/or unhealthful.
         (d)   Material and equipment shall be so selected as to mitigate
corrosion, electrolysis and deterioration. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
      4.   Water Mains: All water mains must be placed in suitable rights of
way prior to freezing. All water mains shall be installed below the frost line
or otherwise be protected to prevent freezing. Insofar as it is practicable,
the distribution system shall be laid out in a properly segmented grid with
valves provided at reasonable intervals so that repairs may be effected with
interruption of service kept to a minimum number of customers with not more
than three (3) valve closures required to discontinue service. Dead ends in
mains shall be avoided insofar as possible and a means shall be provided to
flush any dead ends which may be installed in the mains. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-
1974; amd. Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-1979, eff. 11-1-1979)
      5.   Service Connections: A water service connection pipe at least three-
fourths inch (3/4") minimal size shall be placed to each lot from the water
main prior to the surfacing of the streets and alleys affected; service pipe
shall be laid to a depth sufficient to prevent freezing, and not less than
thirty six inches (36") except at its termination in connecting with a meter or
customer's piping. This shall not apply when the utility company requires
boring of service lines. (Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-1979, eff. 11-1-1979)
      6.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be placed so that no point in any
of the streets fronting on lots served by the water distribution system is
farther than three hundred feet (300') from the nearest hydrant. Each fire
hydrant shall be installed in a public street and shall have a gate valve
between the water main and the riser. Fire hydrants shall be of a type and size
approved by local fire agencies. The water supply and distribution system shall
be so designed and constructed so as to be in compliance with standards of
National Fire Prevention Association (NFPA). No water main serving any fire
hydrant shall have an inside diameter of less than six inches (6"). Fire
hydrants shall not be required in portions of developments having lots of over
one acre in size which are restricted to single- family use. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-
1974; amd. Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-1979, eff. 11-1-1979)
      7.   Additional Requirements: The county may make additional requirements
for water systems having unusual problems to solve; such problems may require
sound engineering practices as a prerequisite to his approval of such plans.
   (E)   Sewage Collection: Sewage collection and disposal system when
installed in subdivisions shall be in accordance with the following standard
provisions:
      1.   Disposal System: The means used to dispose of sewage shall have
sufficient capacity to dispose of all sewage and industrial waste which may be
reasonably anticipated from the other area. Such systems shall so treat all
sewage, including any industrial waste, that all liquid, solid or gaseous
residue after treatment will not contaminate any surface or underground waters
to a degree which creates an actual hazard to the public health through
poisoning or the spread of disease, nor pollute any surface or underground
waters to a degree which adversely affects such waters for domestic,
industrial, agricultural, navigational, recreational or other beneficial use,
nor shall such systems create a nuisance to any community by odors or
unsightliness resulting from unreasonable practices in the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
All sewerage systems must have the approval of the Nevada state division of
environmental protection. (Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-1979, eff. 11-1-1979)
      2.   Materials: Metallic and nonmetallic materials may be used separately
and in combination to construct the component parts of a sewer collection and
disposal system provided:
         (a)   The material shall have a reasonably useful service life.
         (b)   The material shall be capable of withstanding the ample safety
factors the internal and external forces with which it may be subjected in
service.
         (c)   Material and equipment shall be so selected as to mitigate
corrosion, electrolysis and deterioration.
         (d)   "Orangeburg" or other fiber pipe shall not be used for sewer
main or laterals. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
         (e)   Material shall be approved for use by the county engineer prior
to installation. (Ord. 1979-V, 10-3-1979, eff. 11-1-1979)
      3.   Sewer Mains: Sewage shall be collected in a network of sewer mains
laid within the rights of way of public streets leading to the sewage disposal
system. All sewer mains shall not be less than six inches (6") in diameter and
of sufficient size to carry all sewage and industrial waste which can
reasonably be anticipated from the full expected use of all lots and areas
served by the mains. Gravity sewer mains will be laid to such grade that they
will provide a minimum velocity of flow of two feet (2') per second at all
points in such mains.
      4.   Laterals: A service connection lateral of not less than four inches
(4") nominal size shall be placed to each lot from the lot line to the sewer
main. A cleanout shall be provided upon each lateral just within the boundary
line of the lot served.
      5.   Sewer Opening: Manholes shall be constructed in sewer mains at every
change of mode or direction, and along straight portions of mains, so that no
point in any main shall be farther from the nearest manhole than two hundred
fifty feet (250'). A lamphole or manhole must be provided at the end of all
sewer mains. Manholes and lampholes shall be installed in accordance with the
county specifications.
      6.   Stormwaters: No stormwater drains shall be connected to any sewer
main or lateral.
   (F)   Trenching: All water and sewer mains and laterals shall be placed and
the backfill compacted prior to the surfacing of streets affected. County road
excavation permits shall not be required for trenching required to place water
and sewer systems in subdivision streets prior to road surfacing when the
construction of such systems are secured by a subdivision bond or deposit. The
county shall be notified at least twenty four (24) hours prior to commencement
of any such work.
   (G)   Trees: Following construction, new trees suitable to the environment
shall be planted in a ratio of three (3) new trees for each three (3)
originally removed except those where dense stands of younger growth have been
thinned for better forest management.
   (H)   Signs: At least one street sign of a type and character as approved by
the county shall be placed at each street intersection.
   (I)   Underground Utilities: If required by the planning commission and the
board of county commissioners, all utilities for direct service to land
developments, building sites and structures shall be installed underground. The
owner or developer is responsible for complying with the requirements of this
section and shall make all the necessary arrangements for the installation of
such facilities.
For the purpose of this section, appurtenances and associated equipment such
as, but not limited to, surface mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal
boxes, and meter cabinets and concealed ducts in underground systems can be
placed above ground.
All underground utilities, sanitary sewers and storm drains installed in
streets, service roads, alleys, or highways shall be constructed before the
surfacing of such street, service road, alleys or highways. Service connection
for all underground utilities and sanitary sewers shall be laid to such length
as will alleviate the necessity for disturbing the street or alley improvements
when service connections therein are made; however, boring of such lines will
be permitted. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
5-7-5: ACCEPTANCE OF WORK:
   (A)   When all improvement work required by the improvement plans, or a
complete unit thereof, is complete to the satisfaction of the county inspector,
then he shall issue a certificate to the county commissioners stating that such
a portion of the work has been satisfactorily completed and recommends the
acceptance of the county commissioners of the completed portion of the work.
   (B)   Upon satisfactory completion of all work required to meet the
requirements of this title and its acceptance by the county commissioners, the
county commissioners shall file a notice of completion as to the required
improvements in the office of the county recorder.
   (C)   Any unexpended cash deposits not required for completion of the work
shall be refunded or bonds held released.
   (D)   In land developments in which the county commissioners require that
nongovernmental improvements be completed to governmental standards, upon
certification by the county that such nongovernmental improvements have been
completed to government standards, the governing body may release that portion
of the performance bonds covering the nongovernmental improvements. (Ord. 1974-
E, 2-7-1974)
5-7-6: INSPECTION AND CONTROL FOR IMPROVEMENTS OFFERED TO THE COUNTY:
   (A)   All work done in constructing improvements and all materials furnished
shall be subject to the inspection of the county.
   (B)   The county shall have access to work at all times during its
construction and shall be furnished with each and every reasonable facility for
ascertaining that the materials as used and the workmanship are in accordance
with the requirements of this division.
   (C)   If any of the work on improvements is done by the developer prior to
the approval of the improvement plans or prior to the inspection of the
improvements as required by the county, such work may be rejected and shall be
deemed to have been done at the risk and peril of the developer. (Ord. 1974-E,
2-7-1974)
5-7-7: INSPECTION FEE FOR IMPROVEMENTS OFFERED TO THE COUNTY:
   (A)   Prior to the commencement of construction, the developer shall pay to
the Elko County division of planning and zoning a sum equivalent to two percent
(2%) of the estimated construction cost as a prepayment of inspection fees.
Inspection fees will be charged at a reasonable rate (including costs) for the
service performed and the necessary adjustment made at the time of bond
release. (Ord. 2015-12, 7-8-2015, eff. 2-21-2016)
   (B)   The cost of improvements as such shall be based on the estimated
construction cost, or on a construction contract if awarded prior to the filing
of the final map with the county commissioners. If any portion of the work has
been done at the time of depositing the fee, the developer shall pay to the
county commissioners all necessary cost plus fifteen percent (15%) thereof for
the inspection and testing required to verify the actual quantity and quality
of the work done. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
5-7-8: PROSECUTION OF WORK:
The developer shall prosecute the work to completion without undue delay except
for inclement weather or other reasonable cause.
Delay in the completion of the work beyond the period stated in the agreement,
unless an extension thereof is approved by the county commissioners and the
surety company, may result in forfeiture of the cash deposit and/or security or
a portion thereof for the completion of the work. (Ord. 1974-E, 2-7-1974)
CHAPTER 8
EXEMPTIONS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Definitions
5-8-2: Petition Required
5-8-3: Determination Upon Petition
5-8-4: Violation; Penalty
5-8-5: Action For Relief
5-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMMISSION: The duly acting and authorized agency of the Elko County
Commissioners known more fully as the Elko County Planning Commission.
DEPARTMENT OR ELKO COUNTY DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT: For purposes of
this Chapter, the Elko County Director of Planning.
OFFERING: Any plot of land the area of which is six hundred forty (640) or more
acres and which is part and parcel of any number of plots offered for sale,
disposition, lease, hypothecation, wherein the petitioning party seeks to
dispose of plots of land for gain or otherwise by contract of sale, recorded or
otherwise to purchasers however constituted as individuals, corporations,
trusts, partnerships, unincorporated associations, associations or any other
legal entity however constituted as purchaser.
PETITION: Shall constitute a questionnaire filed with the Elko County
Department of Community Development by a petitioning party.
PETITIONING PARTY: Every party, firm, corporation, partnership, unincorporated
association, individual, association, developer, or any other legal entity
however constituted, submitting a petition as herein provided evidencing its
status as that coming in the provisions of The Elko County Subdivision
Ordinance.
QUESTIONNAIRE: The questionnaire adopted for usage pursuant to this Chapter and
shall include the following questions to be answered by the petitioning party.
Nothing in the limitations of the questions herein contained shall be construed
to prevent the Elko County Department of Community Development from
ascertaining other facts as are applicable, material and relevant to the
petition:
   I.   General Information
      1.   Name and/or unit number(s) included in this filing as shown on
recorded map(s) or on records of survey.
      2.   Will this project be developed or sold in unit increments? Yes or
No.
   II.   Developer Interests
      1.   List the name, address and type and extent of each holder of ten
percent (10%) or more ownership interest in the land included in this offering.
If other than an individual, name the type of legal entity and list the type
and interest of each principal.
      2.   If the developer does not own an interest in the land, list the name
and address of each individual or entity having an ownership interest in the
development. Also list the name, address and principal occupation of each
officer, director, associate owner or trustee officer of the developer. State
the financial or business relationship between the developer and owner of the
subdivision.
      3.   If the developer is a corporation, submit a copy of the articles of
incorporation with all amendments thereto and a current list of the officers of
the corporation, their addresses and principal occupations.
      If the developer is a trust, submit copies of the instruments creating
the trust.
      If the developer is a partnership, unincorporated association, joint
stock company or any other form of organization, submit copies of the articles
of partnership or association and all other documents relating to its
organization.
      4.   If the developer is a corporation and is organized under the laws of
another state, submit a certified copy of their certificate of qualification
for the transaction of business in Nevada issued by the Nevada Secretary of
State indicating the corporation's resident agent.
      5.   If the developer is a Nevada corporation, submit a certified copy of
the certificate of incorporation for the transaction of business in Nevada
issued by the Nevada Secretary of State indicating the corporation's resident
agent.
   III.   Location and Size of Lots Contained in this Filing
      1.   County and State where located.
      2.   List the name and populations of surrounding communities and list
distances over paved or unpaved road to the subdivision.
      Name of   Population   Distance over   Unpaved
      Community   (Approximate)   Paved Roads   Roads   Total
      3.   Name the streets or highways adjacent to subdivision.
      4.   Name of nearby cross streets.
      5.   Total number of lots or parcels in subdivision.
      6.   Total number of acres in subdivision.
      7.   Total number of lots or parcels in this filing.
      8.   Total number of acres in this filing.
      9.   Do you plan to offer the property described herein for sale? for
lease?          for option?         other?        .
      10.   How are lots staked or marked so that each lot may be located?
      11.   Will each lot be marked with permanent monuments prior to sale? Yes
or No.
   IV.   Title and Subdivision Map Information
      1.   Submit a map showing a master plan of the project.
      2.   Submit a copy of recorded plat for each unit included in this
filing. Said map to include title sheet, if any, or evidence that recorded plat
is not required by local authority. If a recorded map is not required, submit a
record of survey or some kind of map delineating the parcel to be sold.
      3.   Submit preliminary title report or equivalent document suitable to
the Department issued after final unit maps are recorded. The title report
shall not be dated earlier than twenty (20) business days prior to the filing
of this questionnaire.
      4.   Any easements mentioned in the preliminary title report or record of
survey map must be shown on recorded plat or parcel map.
      5.   On the map submitted in this Section, delineate the land owned under
option or similar agreement. Also delineate the land included in this offering.
   V.   Verification
The petitioning party shall append to the questionnaire as part of the same the
following verification:
I (we) hereby certify under penalty of perjury that the statements contained in
this form constitute an intention to dispose of lands in Elko County under
benefit of "The Elko County Subdivision Ordinance", and that the statements
together with any documents submitted herewith are full, true, complete and
correct; and that I (we) am (are) the owner(s) of the parcels herein described.
STATE OF NEVADA   )
         ) ss
      COUNTY OF ELKO   )
On the          day of         , 19     , appeared before me, a Notary Public
who acknowledges that he (they) executed the above instrument.
                                                 
   Signature, Notary Public
THE ELKO COUNTY SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE: That ordinance, adopted by the Elko
County Commissioners on May 25, 1971, and amended thereafter in manner as
provided by law by the Elko County Commissioners, being in particular Chapters
1 to 7, inclusive, of this Title 5. (Ord. 1997-A, 3-20-1997, eff. 3-20-1997)
5-8-2: PETITION REQUIRED:
Every petitioning party who claims benefit in any land sales promotion of the
provisions of The Elko County Subdivision Ordinance shall, before proceeding to
actively engage in the disposition, sale, advertising, promotion or before
engaging in any affirmative act in pursuit of the sale, disposition or
advertising for sale of the subject land sought to be disposed of without
classification as a subdivision and in reliance upon The Elko County
Subdivision Ordinance, shall first file with the Elko County Department of
Community Development a petition stating that it is in fact entitled to the
benefit of The Elko County Subdivision Ordinance. (Ord. 1997-A, 3-20-1997, eff.
3-20-1997)
5-8-3: DETERMINATION UPON PETITION:
If there is a determination by the Department of Community Development that the
petitioning party is not one which qualifies for treatment under the
Subdivision Ordinance of the County, the Department shall so notify the
District Attorney who shall seek appropriate judicial relief pursuant to law.
(Ord. 1997-A, 3-20-1997, eff. 3-20-1997)
5-8-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any party to wilfully violate the provisions of this
Chapter. Any violation of this Chapter shall be punishable by fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in the County jail for
a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment as
deemed appropriate in the discretion of the court. Each act, transaction, offer
for sale, advertisement and furtherance of sale or any other act that
reasonably constitutes an offering of land for sale by any party who commits
such act without first having complied with the provisions of this Chapter
shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense. The imposition of any
sentence shall not exempt the offender from the compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 1974-F, 3-14-1974)
5-8-5: ACTION FOR RELIEF:
Nothing herein shall preclude the Commission or the County Commissioners by and
through their authorized legal counsel from bringing any action at law or
sounding in equity or seeking injunctive restraining or temporary or permanent
relief from violations of this Chapter.
If at any time before or after the filing of a petition as herein provided it
appears at the discretion of the Commission, the County Commissioners, the
Department of Community Development or the District Attorney of the County that
a violation of this Chapter is occurring, the District Attorney, as legal
counsel to the Commission and the County Commissioners, shall seek appropriate
relief as hereinabove detailed to curtail such violations. Further, if it shall
appear that the petitioning party is conducting itself in a manner so as to
disqualify itself from treatment under the County Subdivision Ordinance, the
District Attorney shall seek relief as hereinabove detailed. (Ord. 1997-A, 3-
20-1997, eff. 3-20-1997)
TITLE 6
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS LICENSES, MOUNTAIN CITY
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: License Required
6-1-3: Separate Violations
6-1-4: Form and Record of License
6-1-5: Transfer of License
6-1-6: Exhibiting License
6-1-7: License Fee a Civil Obligation
6-1-8: License Fees
6-1-9: Exemptions
6-1-10: Duties of Police
6-1-11: Suits Brought for Delinquent Fees; Attachments
6-1-12: Establishing Rates
6-1-13: Classification of Businesses
6-1-14: Revocation
6-1-15: Refunds
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless it is apparent from the context that another meaning is intended, the
following words when used herein shall have the meaning attached to them when
used in this Chapter.
TOWN: Whenever the word "Town" shall appear, it shall be construed to mean the
unincorporated Town of Mountain City.
PERSON: Whenever the word "person" shall appear, it shall be construed to mean
and include a natural person, firm, co- partnership, corporation or other
association.
BUSINESS: Whenever the word "business" shall appear, it shall be construed to
mean any activity or enterprise for gain, benefit, advantage or livelihood and
shall include all and every kind of lawful business, trade, calling, profession
or occupation.
PEDDLER: The word "peddler" shall be construed to mean any hawker, vendor or
other person who goes from house to house, place to place, or in or along the
streets, selling and making immediate delivery or offering for sale and
immediate delivery, any goods, wares, merchandise or anything of value in
possession of the peddler, to persons other than manufacturers, wholesalers,
jobbers or retailers in such commodities; providing, however, that this does
not apply to those businesses licensed within the Town who normally conduct
peddling operations as a normal or seasonal part of their business.
SOLICITOR: The word "solicitor" shall be deemed to mean and include every
agent, canvasser, or other person who travels from place to place or house to
house and solicits or takes orders from or canvasses for, or makes
demonstrations of any goods, wares, merchandise or things or articles of value,
or advertising, or for services to be performed in the future, or for
subscriptions to periodicals or tickets of admission to entertainment or
memberships in any clubs, or travels from place to place or house to house and
solicits, requests or urges persons to ride or become guests of such canvasser
or his principal for the purpose of viewing any real estate subdivision or
other development, enterprise or project, for the purpose of interesting such
person in investment therein; provided, however, that this definition shall not
include persons engaging in any wholesale business who sell to, or solicit
orders for merchandise from, merchants who are engaged in a retail business
buying goods, wares, merchandise or other personal property for the purpose of
resale thereof.
FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS: The term "fixed place of business" for the purpose of
this Chapter is hereby defined to be the premises within the Town where a
business is continuously conducted from day to day and regularly kept open for
the purpose of the business. The term "regular place of business", for the
purpose of this division, is hereby defined as having the same meaning as
"fixed place of business". Every business not conducted at a "fixed place of
business" as the term is herein defined, is, for the purpose of this Chapter
termed a "transient business", whether the person conducting such transient
business is or is not a resident of the Town.
Every person engaging in any "transient business" in the Town, as herein
defined, and who has procured a license therefor, shall have the right to sell
the goods, wares or merchandise or engage in the business for which the
"transient license" was issued, at a fixed place of business without procuring
any additional license therefor. Every person engaging in business at a "fixed
place of business", as herein defined and who has procured a license therefor
shall have the right to deliver the goods, wares or merchandise for which such
license was issued at any place in the Town, without procuring any additional
license therefor.
No business shall be conducted at any fixed place of business where such
business is prohibited by the zoning laws of the Town, and no license shall be
issued for any place of business unless the zoning laws permit or allow such
business to be conducted at the location for which application is made.
No bedroom of any place of business licensed, used and occupied as a hotel,
motel, inn, rooming house, lodging house or boarding house shall, for the
purpose of this Chapter, ever be construed to be a "fixed place of business" or
a "regular place of business" for any business other than such hotel, motel,
inn, rooming house, lodging house or boarding house. All persons claiming any
such room of such hotel, motel, inn, rooming house, lodging house or boarding
house, licensed, used and occupied as such, shall, for the purposes of this
Chapter, be deemed to be conducting a transient business, and shall be required
to procure a proper transient license therefor.
WHOLESALE BUSINESS: The term "wholesale business" is defined to be every
business conducted solely for the purpose of selling goods, wares or
merchandise in wholesale lots to retail merchants for resale at retail.
RETAIL BUSINESS: The term "retail business" is defined to be every business
conducted for the purpose of selling, or offering for sale, any goods, wares or
merchandise other than as a part of a "wholesale business" as hereinbefore
defined.
GROSS SALES: The term "gross sales" as used herein shall mean the gross sales
received from business transacted within the Town and shall include the total
amount of sales price of all sales, the total amount charged or received for
the performance of any act, service or employment of whatever nature it may be,
whether such service, act or employment is done as a part of or in connection
with the sale of goods, wares or not, for which a charge is made or credit
allowed, including all receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind or
nature; provided, that cash discounts be included and this Chapter shall not be
construed to impose any tax upon any business or transaction which the Town is
not authorized to license or tax under the laws of the State of Nevada or of
the United States. Any tax required by lava to be included or added to the
purchase price and collected from a customer or purchaser is deductible. Such
part of the sales price of any property previously sold, returned by the
purchaser to the seller, which is refunded by the seller by way of cash or
credit allowances or any property given by the purchaser to the seller as a
part of the purchase price and so accepted for resale shall be deducted for the
purpose of determining the gross sales hereunder. Any business which maintains
an office or base of operations only in the Town and does no local business,
must obtain a license based upon the minimum fee. The terms "gross sales" and
"gross receipts" are the same.
LICENSE FEE: The term "license fee" as used herein shall be defined as the fee
paid for a business license.
TOWN BOARD: Whenever the term "Town Board" shall appear, it shall be construed
to mean the Board of County Commissioners of Elko County, acting pursuant to
authority granted in Chapter 269, Nevada Revised Statutes.
CLERK: Whenever the term "Clerk" shall appear, it shall be construed to mean
the County Clerk of the County of Elko.
SHERIFF: Whenever the term "Sheriff" shall appear, it shall be construed to
mean the Sheriff of Elko County.
CHIEF OF POLICE: Whenever the term "Chief of Police" shall appear, it shall be
construed to mean the Chief of Police of the unincorporated Town of Mountain
City. (Ord. 1967A, 10-6-67; amd. 1-8-68)
6-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether as principal or agent, clerk or
employee, either for himself or any other person, to commence or carry on any
kind of business, trade, calling, profession or occupation within the
unincorporated Town of Mountain City without first having procured a license to
do so, or without complying with any and all regulations of such business,
trade, calling, profession or occupation contained in this Chapter.
6-1-3: SEPARATE VIOLATIONS:
The carrying on of any business, trade, calling, profession or occupation
within the unincorporated Town without first having procured a license so to
do, or without complying with any and all regulations of such business, trade,
calling, profession or occupation contained in this Chapter, shall be deemed a
separate violation of this Chapter for each and every day that such business,
trade, calling, profession or occupation is carried on. (Ord. 1967A; 10-6-67)
6-1-4: FORM AND RECORD OF LICENSE:
All licenses provided by this Chapter to be procured shall be printed in
duplicate in appropriate form, and shall be so printed that on issuance, the
trade or profession licensed and the name or names of the party or parties to
whom the license is granted, and the time for which the same is granted shall
be indicated; and before issuance they shall be signed by the Chairman of the
Town Board and countersigned by the Clerk.
The Sheriff shall keep in his office a set of books, to be called the "Town
License Register" in which he shall enter the name or names of all parties to
whom he issued licenses, the business, trade or profession licensed, the time
for which license holds good, the date of its expiration and the amount
received therefor; and he shall exhibit such books to the Town Board whenever
required to do so. (Ord. 1967A, 10-6-67; amd. 1-8-68)
6-1-5: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No license shall be valid except for the location for which the original
application therefore was made and the license issued. In the event of the
transfer of such licensed business to another locale, the original license
shall be presented to the Clerk, together with a statement of such transfer,
setting forth the proposed location. The license, together with the statement
of transfer, shall be presented to the Town Board and upon their approval the
Clerk may transfer the license. No license shall be transferred nor shall it be
changed except when the business changes the name, but not the character nor
ownership of the business.
6-1-6: EXHIBITING LICENSE:
Every person having a license under the provisions of this Chapter for carrying
on a business at a fixed place of business, shall exhibit such license in some
conspicuous part of the place of business. Every person having such a license
and not having a fixed place of business shall carry such license with him at
all times while carrying on the business for which the same was granted. Every
person having such a license shall produce and exhibit same whenever requested
to do so by any police officer or by any officer authorized to issue, inspect
or collect licenses.
6-1-7: LICENSE FEE A CIVIL OBLIGATION:
   (A)   The amount of any license fee imposed by the provisions of this
Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the Town, and any person carrying on any
business without having a license so to do shall be subject to an action in the
name of the Town or in the name of the County in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the collection of the amount of license fee by this Chapter
imposed on such business. All costs of such action shall be assessed to and
borne by the person carrying on such business.
   (B)   The conviction and punishment of any person for transacting any
business without a license shall not excuse or exempt such persons from the
payment of such license tax due or unpaid at the time of such conviction and
nothing herein shall prevent a criminal prosecution for any violation of the
provisions of this Chapter.
6-1-8: LICENSE FEES:
   (A)   Annual Licenses. The license period shall be from July 1 of each year
through June 30 of the following year. All annual license fees shall be paid in
advance upon the original issuance and annually or semi-annually thereafter at
the office of the Clerk in legal currency of the United States, payment to be
made in amounts as follows:
      1.   If the application is made during the half year preceding January 1,
the license fee shall be one hundred percent (100%) of the annual license fee.
      2.   If the application is made during the half year commencing January
1, the license fee shall be fifty percent (50%) of the annual license fee.
All annual licenses shall be due and payable on the first day of July of each
year and shall be and become delinquent on July 31 next thereafter and shall
expire on June 30 of each year.
   (B)   Daily Licenses. The daily licenses in this Chapter provided shall be
due and payable to the Town each day in advance. The daily license shall cover
a period of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
of the day next thereafter.
   (C)   Penalty. If any license provided for by this Chapter shall remain
unpaid for more than thirty (30) days after the same is due, a penalty of
twenty five percent (25%) shall be added to the same and collected by the
officer or employee of the Town having charge of the collection of licenses. If
this license fee and the penalty remain unpaid for fifteen (15) days, the
license shall forthwith be cancelled.
6-1-9: EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   Charities, Etc. The provisions of this Chapter shall not be deemed or
construed to require the payment of a license to conduct, manage, or carry on
any business, occupation or activity or require the payment of any license from
any institution or organization which is conducted, managed or carried on
wholly for the benefit of charitable purposes from which profit is not derived
either directly or indirectly by any person; nor shall any license be required
for the conducting of any entertainment, dance, concert, exhibition or lecture
on scientific, historical, literary, religious or moral subjects whenever the
entire receipts from the same are to be appropriated to or the projects are
conducted under the auspices of any church, school or any religious, nonprofit
or benevolent organization; nor shall any license be required for the
conducting of any entertainment, dance, concert, exhibition or lecture whenever
the receipts from the same are to be appropriated for the purposes and objects
for which such association or organization was formed and from which profit is
not derived either directly or indirectly by any person; provided, however,
that nothing in this Section contained shall be deemed to exempt any such
institution or organization from complying with the provisions of this Chapter
requiring such institution or organization to obtain a permit to conduct,
manage or carry on any profession, trade, calling or occupation. In the
enforcement of this Section, pay which is earned by any person from a religious
or charitable organization shall not be termed profit.
   (B)   Commercial Travelers. No license shall be required or fee collected
from any person whose business is limited to the taking of orders for future
delivery of goods, wares, merchandise or supplies to businessmen in the Town
for their use or resale by them in the normal course of their business.
6-1-10: DUTIES OF POLICE:
The Sheriff, and/or the Chief of Police, or either of them shall have and
exercise power to:
   (A)   Make arrests for the violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter;
   (B)   Enter any place of business for which a license is required and
provided and demand the exhibition of such license for the current term from
any person engaged or employed in the transaction of such business. If such
person shall then and there fail to exhibit such license, such person shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be liable for the penalty or penalties
provided herein.
It is hereby made the duty of the Sheriff or Chief of Police to cause
complaints to be filed against all persons, firms or corporations violating any
of the provisions of this Chapter.
6-1-11: SUITS BROUGHT FOR DELINQUENT FEES; ATTACHMENTS:
   (A)   The Town Board may at any time direct the District Attorney to bring
suit in the name of the Town for the recovery of the required license tax
against any person who engages in, conducts or carries on any business or game
or exhibits any show or exhibition without first obtaining the required license
and paying the prescribed license tax. In such actions for collections of a
license tax hereby imposed, a penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be added
to the amount of any judgment recovered by the Town in addition to any other
penalty or penalties then due and owing and imposed by the provisions of this
Chapter.
   (B)   In all suits instituted by the Town and/or County, as herein provided
for the collection or the recovery of any license tax hereby imposed, the Clerk
or the District Attorney may make the necessary affidavit for a Writ of
Attachment against the property of the defendant therein, and such Writ shall
thereupon be issued without any undertaking or other security being given or on
behalf of the Town and/or County.
6-1-12: ESTABLISHING RATES:
The rates of license fees for the businesses hereinafter named, because of
their nature and method of operation shall be and the same are hereby fixed and
established and the same shall be paid by all persons engaged in such
businesses in the Town as follows:
(A) Brokers-Stock, Bond Securities, Pawn, Collection, Finance, Insurance Agencies:
Every surety agent and every life, fire and accident insurance agent conducting    $ 20.00/
business shall pay for and obtain an annual license to carry on such business or   year
combination of such businesses;
provided, however, if such agent shall operate a different type of business        $ 10.00/
coincidentally with his surety and insurance business for which he shall pay for   year
and obtain a Town license, he shall pay for the surety and insurance license
Every person engaged in business within the Town as a stock or bond broker, real
estate broker or agent and wool or livestock broker or buyer shall pay for and
obtain an annual license to carry on such business as per the schedule hereinafter
set forth:
   1. Those whose annual gross commissions are $10,000.00 or less               $ 25.00/
                                                                                   year
   2. Those whose annual gross commissions are $10,000.00 to $25,000.00         $ 35.00/
                                                                                   year
   3. Those whose annual gross commissions are $25,000.00 to $50,000.00         $ 45.00/
                                                                                   year
   4. Those whose annual gross commissions are $50,000.00 to $100,000.00        $ 90.00/
                                                                                   year
   5. Those whose annual gross commissions are over $100,000.00                 $150.00/
                                                                                   year
(B) Vending Machines, Service Machines, Amusement Machines, Music Machines:
   1. For every person engaged in the business of owning, maintaining or operating
any machine or machines at an established place of business for the vending of     $ 10.00/
goods, wares or merchandise or for the rendering of any service or information,    year
into any of which machines money or tokens of value are deposited or paid for the
operation thereof
   Businesses otherwise licensed under the provisions of this Chapter who own
vending machines shall not be required to pay a further license fee under this
Section.
   2. For every person engaged in the business of maintaining or operating any
machine or machines for the purpose of amusement or demonstration of skill, or any $ 10.00/
combination amusement and vending machine into any of which machines money or any  year
token of value must be deposited to operate the machine or machines, the license
fee shall be
      a. The term "amusement machine" shall mean any machine which, upon the
insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate, or disc, may be operated by the public
generally for use as a game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not
registering a score. It shall include, among others, such devices as marble
machines, pinball machines, skill ball, mechanical grab machines and all games,
operations or transactions similar thereto under whatever name they may be
indicated.
      b. Nothing in this Chapter shall in any way be construed to authorize,
license or permit any gambling devices whatsoever, or any machine, or mechanism
that has been judicially determined to be a gambling device by the laws of the
State of Nevada or by the Nevada Gaming Commission or the Nevada State Gaming
Control Board or such other board, commission, agency or department of the State
of Nevada. No such amusement machine shall be used or operated as a gambling
device. Any licensee who shall use or operate any such amusement machine as a
gambling device, or who shall permit any such amusement machine to be used or
operated as a gambling device shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      c. Every license issued under this Chapter for an amusement machine is
subject to the right which is hereby expressly reserved, to revoke such license
should the licensee directly or indirectly permit, cause or allow the operation of
any amusement machine as a gambling device or in any other way contrary to the
provisions of this Chapter. Said license may be revoked by the Town Board after
written notice to the licensee, which notice shall specify the violation with
which the licensee is charged, if after a hearing the licensee is found to be
guilty of such violation. Ten (10) days' notice of the hearing shall be given the
licensee. At such hearing the licensee and his attorney may present and submit
evidence and witnesses in his defense. If the Sheriff or Chief of Police shall
have reason to believe that any amusement machine is used as a gambling device,
such machine may be seized by the police and impounded and if upon hearing as
herein provided the licensee is found guilty of using such amusement machine as a
gambling device, or permitting the use of such amusement machine as a gambling
device, such machine shall be destroyed by the police.
   3. For every person engaged in the business of maintaining or operating any
machine or device for the producing of music into which machine or device money or $ 10.00/
tokens of value are deposited or paid for the operation thereof, the license fee   year
shall be
   4. No person shall be required to pay a license fee on any machine used for the
vending of matches or United States Postage Stamps, or the placing of telephone
calls or where the value of the merchandise vended or service rendered shall be
less than five cents ($.05).
(C) Every business of general contractor or subcontractor shall obtain annually a
license to conduct such business; provided, however, that no license shall be
issued unless such contractor is the holder of a valid and subsisting State
licensed issued.
   1. Those whose annual city gross receipts are $25,000.00 or less             $ 25.00/
                                                                                   year
   2. Those whose annual city gross receipts are $25,000.00 to $75,000.00       $ 40.00/
                                                                                   year
   3. Those whose annual city gross receipts are $75,000.00 to $150,000.00      $ 75.00/
                                                                                   year
   4. Those whose annual city gross receipts are over $150,000.00               $120.00/
                                                                                   year
   The fee for non-resident contractors having no fixed place of business in the
Town shall be based upon the bid price of a contract or contracts (per above)
commenced during the calendar year the license is issued or it shall be based upon
the gross receipts of business in the Town of the previous year, whichever is
greater.
(D) Games, Amusements, Carnivals, Sideshows, Circus. For every person conducting,
managing or carrying on the business of exhibiting, showing or letting the use of
any microscope, phonograph, kinetiscope, biograph, projectoscope, or other         $ 10.00/
instrument or machine of like character; lung tester, muscle tester, galvanic      day
battery, weight machine; ball knife or ring toss or throwing, and all other
devices of similar character not otherwise herein named, the license fee shall be
   1. For every person conducting, managing or carrying on the business of
operation of a merry-go-round, circular swing, roller coaster, ferris wheel, pony  $ 10.00/
ride, scooter ride or other similar amusement device or ride not otherwise herein  day
named, the license fee shall be
   except where such business is operated in the limits of the Town as an annual$ 50.00/
business at a known fixed location in which case the license fee shall be          year
   2. For every person conducting, managing or carrying on or exhibiting a circu$ 10.00/
or trained animal show, or any sideshow or similar entertainment or exhibition,    day
the license fee shall be
(E) Peddlers. Each peddler, before entering upon the business of vending and
peddling, shall obtain from the Clerk and pay for a license to carry on such
business of vending and peddling. Such license shall be paid for as follows:
   1. For any period of time less than one month for each individual            $ 5.00/
                                                                                   month
   2. For a yearly license to carry on such business, which shall date from the $ 25.00/
first of the year in which the business is transacted, for each individual         year
(F) Solicitors. An applicant for a license under this Section must file with the
Sheriff or Chief of Police a sworn application in writing on a form to be
furnished by the Clerk, which shall give the following information:
   1. Name and description of the applicant;
   2. Permanent home address and full local address of the applicant;
   3. A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be sold;
   4. If employed the name and address of the employer, together with credentials
establishing the exact relationship;
   5. The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   6. The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold or orders taken
for the sale thereof are manufactured or produced, where such goods or products      
are located at the time the application is filed, and the proposed method of
delivery;
   7. Two (2) photographs of the applicant, taken within sixty (60) days
immediately prior to the date of the filing of the application, which pictures
shall be 2" x 2" showing full front view of the head and shoulders of the
applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner;
   8. The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of at least two (2) reliable
property owners of the County, who will certify as to the applicant's good
character and business respectability or in lieu of the names of references, such
other available evidences as to the good character and business respectability of
the applicant as will enable an investigator to properly evaluate such character
and business responsibility;
   9. A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any
crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal law, the nature of the offense
and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
   At the time of filing the application, a fee shall be paid by the applicant to
the Clerk to cover the cost of investigation of the facts stated therein, in the   $ 25.00
sum of
   1. Upon receipt of such application, the Sheriff or Chief of Police shall cause
such investigation of the applicant's business and moral character to be made as
he deems necessary for the protection of the public goods; including the complete
fingerprinting of the applicant.
   If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant's character or business
responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Sheriff or Chief of Police shall
endorse on such application his disapproval and his reasons for the same, and
shall notify the applicant that his application is disapproved and that no license
will be issued.
   If, as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Sheriff or Chief
of Police shall endorse on the application his approval and the Clerk shall issue
the license addressed to the applicant for the carrying on of the business applied
for and deliver the license to the applicant.
   2. The Sheriff or Chief of Police shall issue to each licensee at the time of
delivery of his license a badge which shall contain the words "Solicitor's
License" and the number of the license. Such badge shall, during the time such
licensee is engaged in soliciting be worn constantly by the licensee on the front
of his outer garment in such a way as to be conspicuous. The badge must be placed
in the hands of the Chief of Police or Sheriff at the conclusion of the visit to
the Town.
   3. Licenses issued under the provisions of this Section may be revoked by the
Town Board after notice and hearing for any of the following causes:
      a. Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the application
for license;
      b. Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his business as solicitor or as canvasser;
      c. Any violation of this Chapter;
      d. Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
      e. Conducting the business of soliciting or canvassing in an unlawful manner
or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a
menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   Notice of the hearing for the revocation of a license shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the licensee at
his last known address at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing.
   4. Any person aggrieved by the action of the Sheriff or Chief of Police in the
denial of a license as provided in this Chapter shall have the right of appeal to
the Town Board. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Board, within
fourteen (14) days after notice of the action complained of, a written statement
setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal. The Board shall set a time and
place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to
the appellant in the same manner as provided in writing, notice to be mailed,
postage prepaid, to appellant at his last known address at least five (5) days
prior to the date set for hearing. The decision and order of the Town Board on
such appeal shall be final and conclusive.
   5. All solicitors` licenses shall expire on June 30 of the fiscal year when
issued.
(G) Petroleum Products, Delivery. For every person engaged in the business of
operating a tank truck or any other vehicle for hauling, peddling and/or wholesale $ 30.00/
delivery of crude oil, petroleum, distillate, kerosene, gasoline, refined oil or   year
any other petroleum products, either in drums or in bulk, the license fee shall be
(H) Trailer Courts. For every person conducting, managing or carrying on the
business of operating a trailer court, the license fee shall be:
   1. 1 to 12 trailer spaces                                                    $ 15.00/
                                                                                   year
   2. Each space over 12, the additional sum of                                 $ 1.00/
                                                                                   year
   3. In the enforcement of this Section, the number of spaces shall be the number
of spaces available for rent, whether occupied or not.
(I) Telephone Companies. Every telephone company having an office, station or
agency within the limits of this Town, engaged in the business or occupation of
maintaining a public telephone service from points within the Town to points and
places in this State to points within this Town, or between points within this
Town, except the maintenance of telephone service for or on behalf of any
department agent or agency of the United States, and except such service as is or
may be interstate commerce, shall pay for and obtain an annual license to carry on
such business or occupation and shall pay for such license per the schedule
hereinafter recited:
   1. Those whose annual gross receipts from the telephone rentals within the To$ 75.00/
are under $60,000.00 per year shall pay for such license                           year
   2. Those whose annual gross receipts from telephone rentals within the Town a$500.00/
in excess of $60,000.00 per year shall pay for such license                        year
(J) Electric, Water, Natural or Manufactured Gas Companies. Every person engaged
in the business of furnishing electric light or electric power, or furnishing
water, natural or manufactured gas to the inhabitants of the Town shall pay for
and obtain an annual license to carry on each of such businesses as per the
schedule hereinafter recited:
   1. Those whose annual gross receipts are under $60,000.00 shall pay for such $ 75.00/
license                                                                            year
   2. Those whose annual gross receipts are in excess of $60,000.00 shall pay fo$500.00/
such license                                                                       year
(K) Eating Establishments. Every person engaged in keeping a hotel dining room,
restaurant, boarding house, chop house, eating house or eating stand shall pay for
and obtain an annual license to carry on such business as per the schedule
hereinafter recited:
   1. Those whose annual gross receipts are less than $20,000.00 shall pay for  $ 25.00/
such license                                                                       year
   2. Those whose annual gross receipts are in excess of $20,000.00 shall pay fo$ 50.00/
such license                                                                       year
(L) Hotels, Motels, Apartments, Boarding Houses and/or Lodging Houses. Every
person engaged in the business of keeping a hotel, lodging house, apartment house,
motel or rooming house shall pay for and obtain an annual license to carry on such
business as per the schedule hereinafter recited in this Section: (In the
interpretation of this Section, an owner who makes use of an apartment in his
apartment house as a place of personal residence shall not count that unit in
arriving at his license fee.)
   1. Those with at least 3 and not more than 5 units or rooms shall pay for suc$ 15.00/
license                                                                            year
   2. Those with 6 to 15 units or rooms shall pay for such license              $ 25.00/
                                                                                   year
   3. Those with 16 units or rooms or more shall pay for such license           $ 35.00/
                                                                                   year
(M) Professions. Every mortician, osteopath, chiropractor, chiropodist, civil and
mining engineer, architect, accountant, attorney, doctor, physician, surgeon,
dentist or veterinary surgeon, practicing or following his or her profession shall
pay for and obtain an annual license to carry on such business as per the schedule
hereinafter recited; partnerships or group operations shall pay for such license a
fee based on the gross receipts of the partnership or group:
   1. Those whose annual gross receipts are $10,000.00 or less shall pay for suc$ 25.00/
license                                                                            year
   2. Those whose annual gross receipts are $10,000.00 to $25,000.00 shall pay f$ 40.00/
such license                                                                       year
   3. Those whose annual gross receipts are $25,000.00 to $50,000.00 shall pay f$ 50.00/
such license                                                                       year
   4. Those whose annual gross receipts are $50,000.00 or more shall pay for suc$100.00/
license                                                                            year
(N) Junk Dealers; Waste Products; Transient. For every person conducting, managing
or carrying on the business of collecting, purchasing, selling or dealing in junk,
rubbish or any waste products, whether as owner, manager or agent, and not having
a regularly established place of business in the Town, the license fee shall be:
   Per day                                                                      $ 2.00/
                                                                                   day
   Per month                                                                    $ 25.00/
                                                                                   month
   the monthly license to date from the first day of the month in which the
business is conducted.
(O) Gross Business Licenses. Every person engaged in the business of selling at
retail or at wholesale tangible personal property of any kind whatsoever and/or
furnishing any service or services not otherwise specifically licensed by other
provisions of this Chapter, shall between June 30 and July 31 next following, file
with the Clerk a statement showing, with deductions as permitted hereinbefore, the
gross sales bracket as hereinafter set forth, within which the gross sales of each
of such businesses during the last preceding twelve (12) months prior to the date
last above mentioned shall fall.
If the business be owned, conducted or carried on by a firm or a copartnership,
such statement must be signed and filed by its president, vice-president,
secretary, assistant-secretary, treasurer, assistant-treasurer, chief accounting
officer or managing agent. The Clerk or any deputy Clerk may, in all cases,
examine the books and accounts of any person required to file such statement for
the purpose of verifying the same or for the purpose of determining the amount of
gross receipts of such person. All statements filed pursuant to the provisions of
this Section shall be confidential and shall not be subject to public inspection.
It shall be the duty of the Clerk to so preserve and keep the statements that the
contents thereof may not become known except to the person charged by law with the
administration of this Chapter. Any person who wilfully files a false statement of
gross receipts shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable as hereinafter in
this Chapter provided. In the case of businesses making sales and rendering
services the gross revenue from both sales and services shall be considered gross
sales, and licensed as per the following schedule. Thereupon the Clerk shall issue
and deliver to the person a business license as provided elsewhere in this Chapter
and collect the following fees:
   1. If gross sales for the preceding 12 months was $25,000.00 or less         $ 15.00/
                                                                                   year
   2. If the annual gross sales are in excess of $25,000.00                     $ 40.00/
                                                                                   year
   if at the time of filing the application no sales have been made, such person
shall pay for a semi-annual license to be good for the remainder of the half year
in which issued; the remainder of that fiscal year to be computed on a gross sales $ 15.00
to be estimated from the experience of the period of the original license, such
fee to be
   Provided further, that if at the time of filing the application for a license,
the application is for transfer of ownership of an established business, the fee
for the initial year or remainder of year shall be based upon the gross sales of
the original business.
(P) Every person conducting or operating a convalescent home, child nursery or     $ 15.00/
other related operation, the license fee shall be                                  year
(Q) Barber Shops, Beauty Parlors. Every person engaged in the business of
operating a barber shop or beauty parlor shall pay and obtain an annual license to
carry on such business as per the following schedule:
   1. Those operating a barber shop or a beauty parlor with one chair or one    $ 15.00/
operator                                                                           year
   2. Those operating a barber shop or a beauty parlor with more than one chair
   for the first chair or operator                                              $ 15.00/
                                                                                   year
   for each additional chair or operator                                        $ 5.00/
                                                                                   year
(R) Transient Business License, Fees. For every person conducting a transient
business as hereinbefore defined, the fee shall be based upon the proper section
of this Chapter relating to those businesses with a fixed place of business. (Ord.
1967A, 10-6-67)
(S) Every person selling liquor at retail or by the package shall pay a business
license, the fee for which shall be: 1
   1. For retail                                                                $70.00/
                                                                                   qtr.
   2. By package                                                                $25.00/
                                                                                   qtr.
   The business license fee for a retail or package liquor sales establishment
shall be payable in advance for at least one quarter of a year. Fractional parts
of a quarter year shall require payment of the entire quarterly fee. (Ord. 1977-F,
12-8-77, eff. 1-4-78)
 
The enforcement of this Section shall include all businesses not otherwise
covered in this Chapter and shall include those businesses making wholesale or
retail deliveries within the town from a place of business located outside the
town.
 
Notes
1 1. See Sec.
  6-4-8 for further Liquor License Fees
6-1-13: CLASSIFICATION OF BUSINESSES:
In all cases not specifically named in this Chapter, the Clerk shall place the
business to be licensed in the category which he considers to be proper for the
business in question.
6-1-14: REVOCATION:
Whenever it shall appear to the Town Board that any trade, business,
occupation, calling or pursuit, for which a license has been granted, is being
conducted in such a manner as to be detrimental to the public peace, health or
morals, the Town Board at any regular or at any special meeting convened and
held for that purpose may, by majority vote, revoke, suspend or cancel the
license and declare the same to be of no further force and effect, and
thereafter it shall be unlawful for the licensee to maintain or conduct such
business under the license, or at all.
Upon such revocation, suspension or cancellation, no refund of any portion of
the license fee shall be made to the licensee and he shall immediately cease
all business at all places under such license.
6-1-15: REFUNDS:
All licenses shall be issued for the period of time set forth in this Chapter
and no licensee shall be entitled to the refund of any portion of the fee paid
by reason of the term of such licensed activity prior to the expiration of the
time for which such license shall have been issued. (Ord. 1967A, 10-6-67)
CHAPTER 2
AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT AND RECREATION LICENSE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Gaming License Required
6-2-3: Temporary Permit
6-2-4: Form Of Application For License
6-2-5: Investigations
6-2-6: Requirements For Issuance Of License
6-2-7: Licensing Fees
6-2-8: Contents Of License
6-2-9: Revocation Of License
6-2-10: Revocation Procedure
6-2-11: Immediate Suspension Or Limitation
6-2-12: Penalty Provision
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in these regulations, the following words shall have the meanings
described in the section:
 
                        The licensing board which consists of the Board of
BOARD:                  County Commissioners and the Sheriff together with the
                        Clerk of the board.
GAME AND GAMBLING GAME: Shall have the same meaning ascribed in NRS 463.0152.
GAMING DEVICE:          Shall have the same meaning ascribed in NRS 463.0155.
                        A license issued by Elko County which authorizes a
GAMING LICENSE:         person named therein to engage in gaming or pari-mutual
                        wagering.
PERSON:                 Any person, firm, association of person, partnership or
                        corporation.
RACE BOOK:              Shall have the same meaning ascribed in NRS 463.01855.
                        Shall the same meaning ascribed in NRS 463.0193.
SPORTS POOL:            (Ord. 1979-E, 3-8-1979, eff. 7-1-1979; amd. Ord. 2001-
                        B, 7-5-2001, eff. 8-1-2001; Ord. 2023-06, 8-16-2023)
 
6-2-2: GAMING LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   Any person wishing to engage in the business of conducting a race
book, sports pool, gambling game or gaming device permitted by law, within Elko
County, including inside or outside of an incorporated city or town, shall have
a gaming license issued by the County. A person applying for a gaming license
shall by written application petition the board by filing the application with
the required license fee to the Sheriff who shall present the application to
the board at its next regular meeting.
   (B)   A separate gaming license shall be required for each location a person
operates within Elko County. (Ord. 2001-B, 7-5-2001, eff. 8-1-2001; Ord. 2023-
06, 8-16-2023)
6-2-3: TEMPORARY PERMIT:
The Sheriff, in his sole discretion, may grant a temporary permit to an
applicant for a gaming license. The temporary permit shall not be for more than
6 months and shall be ratified by the board at the next regular meeting. (Ord.
2001-B, 7-5-2001, eff. 8-1-2001; Ord. 2023-06, 8-16-2023)
6-2-4: FORM OF APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The applicant shall make application on forms provided by the Sheriff. Each
application shall:
   (A)   Include the name and address of the applicant, including the names and
addresses of all persons having an interest in the business to be licensed. If
the applicant is a corporation, association or other similar organization, the
application shall include the names and addresses of all officers, directors,
and stockholders having more than twenty five percent (25%) of the issued
stock, the name of the resident agent, and the principal place of business of
the corporation. If, however, it is a corporation whose stock is sold to the
general public, then the stockholders need not be listed.
   (B)   Include the location or address for which gaming license is sought.
   (C)   Be accompanied by the quarterly license fee. The fee shall be returned
by the Sheriff to the applicant in the event the application is denied.
   (D)   Be signed by the applicant. In the case of corporations, clubs or
organizations, the application shall be verified by its president.
   (E)   Designate whether the premises are leased or are being purchased if
the applicant is not the record owner of the premises for which the license is
sought. (Ord. 1979-E, 3-8-1979, eff. 7-1-1979; Ord. 2023-06, 8-16-2023)
6-2-5: INVESTIGATIONS:
   (A)   Initial Investigation: The Sheriff shall, on each in initial
application and whenever there is any change in the ownership of a Licensee,
conduct an investigation on the applicant. After the Sheriff completes the
investigation, the Sheriff shall present each application to the Board at its
next regular meeting.
   (B)   Subsequent Investigation: The Board or the Sheriff, at any time, may
investigate a Licensee regarding their moral character and business
responsibility, together with an investigation of the location of the proposed
place of business, its conditions, and such other matters as may be necessary
to protect the public good, welfare, safety, health and morals. (Ord. 1979-E,
3-8-1979, eff. 7-1-1979; Ord. 2023-06, 8-16-2023)
6-2-6: REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Initial License: No initial license shall be issued to any person,
unless the following requirements are satisfied:
      1.   A majority of the members of the licensing board vote in favor of
granting the license.
      2.   The applicant is at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Applicant must comply with the written application requirements.
      4.   All applicants shall submit a financial statement on forms provided
by the Sheriff.
      5.   The applicant, or all officers and managers of the applicant if not
a natural person, must not have been convicted within the last ten (10) years
of a crime which is or would be a felony under the laws of the state of Nevada.
      6.   It must affirmatively appear to the Board that the granting of the
license will not:
         a.   Create or tend to create or constitute a public nuisance.
         b.   Seriously or substantially diminish the valuation of properties
within the immediate vicinity of the place for which the license is granted.
      7.   The Board may additionally require at the expense of the licensee,
either at the time of the issuance of the license or at a subsequent time, upon
one month’s notice, some form of security measures to assist county law
enforcement in maintaining an orderly operation and preventing breaches of the
peace in or about the establishment for which the license is sought.
   (B)   Renewal of License: For every renewal of the gaming license, the
Sheriff’s Office may conduct a review of the Licensee and approve and sign the
renewal without further review of the Board. (Ord. 1979-E, 3-8-1979, eff. 7-1-
1979; amd. Ord. 2001-B, 7-5-2001, eff. 8-1-2001; Ord. 2023-06, 8-16-2023)
6-2-7: LICENSES:
   (A)   The fees required to for gaming license shall be set by resolution of
the Board and shall include the following:
      1.   A fee for each slot machine or mechanical device or machine for
money.
      2.   A fee for each gaming table or each nonmechanical gambling game.
      3.   A fee for each race book or sports pool.
   (B)   All licensing fees shall be payable quarterly in advance of operation.
   (C)   The license fees shall be placed in the general fund of the county to
be used for all lawful governmental purposes including the need to fund any
additional law enforcement which may arise out of the operation of gaming
establishments.
   (D)   Late Fee: A business that fails to pay the any licensing fee under
this chapter within ten (10) days of the due date shall be assessed a late fee
of twenty five percent (25%) of said quarterly payment and the license shall be
suspended until the quarterly payment and the late penalty fees are paid. The
failure to pay a late fee or the quarterly fee within thirty (30) days form the
date the late fee was assessed shall be grounds for revocation of the license
pursuant to subsection
6-2-9(A). (Ord. 1979-E, 3-8-1979, eff. 7-1-1979; amd. Ord. 1987-H, 9-3-1987,
eff. 9-21-1987; Ord. 2001-B, 7-5-2001, eff. 8-1-2001; Ord. 2023-06, 8-16-2023)
6-2-8: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Every license issued hereunder shall specify:
      1.   The name of the person or persons to whom it is issued.
      2.   The specific place of business in which the license may be
exercised.
      3.   Any conditions or limitations involving the exercise of said
license.
   (B)   No license may be transferred or assigned, and it shall not be
exercised in any place of business other than as designated on the license.
   (C)   Any sale, assignment, or transfer in any manner of the gaming
establishment by the licensee shall cause an automatic revocation of the
license, and the purchaser, assignee, or transferee shall not operate the place
of amusement until he has obtained a new license or permit under the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 1979-E, 3-8-1979, eff. 7-1-1979; amd. Ord. 2023-06, 8-
16-2023)
6-2-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any of the following conditions or occurrences are grounds for revocation of a
license:
   (A)   Failure of the licensee to pay the license fee when required.
   (B)   Any act or failure to act by the licensee or its agents or employees
in connection with the operation of the establishment which would be in
violation of a state or federal criminal statute or a county criminal
ordinance.
   (C)   A violation of the terms or conditions upon which the license was
issued.
   (D)   Any material misrepresentation made in the application for the
amusement license.
   (E)   Any act or failure to act by the licensee or its agents or employees
in connection with the operation of the establishment which creates or tends to
create a public nuisance. (Ord. 1979-E, 3-8-1979, eff. 7-1-1979)
6-2-10: REVOCATION PROCEDURE:
   (A)   The board may, on its own motion or upon the sworn complaint in
writing of any person investigate the conduct of any licensee under these
regulations to determine whether grounds for revocation of a license exist. The
board may request the assistance of the licensee in such an investigation.
   (B)   After an investigation, if it appears that grounds for revocation
exist, the board shall issue and cause to be served on the licensee an order to
show cause why his license should not be revoked. Said order shall contain:
      1.   A statement directing the licensee or licensee's representative to
appear before the board at a time and place set out therein which shall be not
less than ten (10) days from the date of service of said order to show cause on
the licensee.
      2.   A brief statement of the grounds for revocation.
      3.   A statement that the licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard,
present witnesses and confront any witnesses against him.
   (C)   Service on the licensee shall be made by personally delivering a copy
of the order to show cause to one of the persons whose name is on the license
or by mailing a copy of the order by registered mail with return receipt to the
place of business of the licensee, which is specified in the license. Service
by mail shall be deemed complete on the day of the mailing.
   (D)   At the hearing on the order to show cause, the licensee and the
complainant, if there is one, may be represented by attorneys, present
testimony, and cross-examine witnesses. A majority of the board members must be
present to conduct a hearing, and if the hearing is pursuant to a complaint,
the complainant must also be present.
   (E)   Within ten (10) days after the hearing, the board may render its
decision as to revocation and give notice thereof to the licensee. A majority
of those members present at the hearing must be agreed in order to direct a
revocation.
   (F)   Any person who has had his license revoked may reapply for a license
after six (6) months after the revocation order, but a new license may only be
issued by a unanimous decision of all members of the board.
   (G)   If after an investigation as set forth herein, it appears to the board
that no grounds for revocation exist, it shall within ten (10) days issue to
the licensee an investigative report which shall contain any suggestions or
recommendations which the board determines necessary or appropriate to protect
the public good, welfare, safety, health or morals. (Ord. 1979-E, 3-8-1979,
eff. 7-1-1979)
6-2-11: IMMEDIATE SUSPENSION OR LIMITATION:
If, upon investigating grounds for revocation of a license, the board is
unanimously agreed that public health, safety or morals will be endangered by
the continued existence of the license, it may without notice suspend the
license at once and direct the sheriff to close the licensee's establishment.
However, an order to show cause, as set out in section
6-2-10 of this chapter, supra, shall also be served on the licensee at once,
and the procedure thereafter shall be in accordance with the provisions of
section
6-2-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 1979-E, 3-8-1979, eff. 7-1-1979)
6-2-12: PENALTY PROVISION:
Any person who shall engage in any of the businesses herein mentioned without
first having obtained the license and complying with the terms or conditions
accompanying said license shall be punished by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than six (6) months,
or by both fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 1979-E, 3-8-1979, eff. 7-1-1979)
CHAPTER 3
TENT AND STREET SHOWS, CARNIVALS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Sheriff Collector of Licenses
6-3-2: License Required, Fee
6-3-3: Revocation of Licenses
6-3-4: Fees Paid to Treasurer
6-3-5: Exceptions
6-3-6: Violation
6-3-1: SHERIFF COLLECTOR OF LICENSES:
The Sheriff of Elko County shall be ex-officio Collector of Licenses as
provided in this Chapter.
6-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED, FEE: 1
Every person desirous of carrying on, maintaining or conducting any tent show
or group of amusements or exhibits under one management, commonly called a
street show or carnival outside of an incorporated city or town within the
County, shall apply to the Sheriff for a license so to do and shall deposit
with such application the proper license fee.
The Sheriff shall collect a license fee from each applicant in the sum of fifty
dollars ($50.00) per day for each day said tent show, street show or carnival
shall exhibit or be conducted within the County and shall issue a license, if
he deems proper, as hereinafter provided, upon a form prepared by the County
Auditor, which said license shall be issued and accounted for as provided by
law for other County licenses.
 
Notes
1 1. See also Chapter 2 of this Title, Amusement, Entertainment and Recreation
  License Regulations
6-3-3: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
The Sheriff is hereby authorized, empowered and commissioned for the purpose of
this Chapter, to grant or refuse licenses hereunder and to revoke the same
whenever there is, in his judgment, sufficient reason for such revocation.
(Ord. dated 7-6-37)
6-3-4: FEES PAID TO TREASURER:
On or before the fifth day of each month, the Sheriff shall pay over to the
County Treasurer all moneys received by him for such licenses in like manner
and form as is provided by law for the payment of other County license moneys.
(Ord. 1976-I, 4-8-76)
6-3-5: EXCEPTIONS:
Upon the written application of any executive officer of any local post or unit
of any national organization of ex-servicemen, acting in his official capacity,
such license or licenses shall be issued without charge for not to exceed two
(2) weeks in any calendar year, where the local post or unit is to participate
in such show or in the proceeds thereof.
6-3-6: VIOLATION:
Any person who shall engage in any of the businesses herein mentioned without
first having obtained the license and paid the license fee therefor, as herein
provided, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. dated 7-6-37)
CHAPTER 4
ELKO COUNTY LIQUOR BOARD LIQUOR CODE
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: License Required
6-4-3: Classes Of Licenses
6-4-4: Application For License
6-4-5: Investigations
6-4-6: Requirements For Issuance Of License
6-4-7: Posting Of License
6-4-8: License Fees
6-4-9: Special Permits
6-4-10: Contents Of License, Limitations
6-4-11: Revocation Of License
6-4-12: Revocation Procedure
6-4-13: Exception To Revocation Procedure
6-4-14: Liquor Work Permits Required; Exceptions
6-4-15: Possession By Minor Prohibited
6-4-16: Consumption By Minor Prohibited
6-4-17: Miscellaneous Provisions
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this Chapter the following words shall have the meanings
described in this Section, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
BOARD: The Liquor Board of Elko County.
CATERER'S LICENSE: A license issued by the County Liquor Board which permits
the sale of beers, wines and liquors by the drink at entertainments, special
occasion parties and social gatherings catered by the licensee on the premises
of the caterer or at locations within the unincorporated areas of the County.
LIQUOR: Whiskey, wine, beer, malt liquor, gin, cordials, ethyl alcohol or rum,
and any other beverage or substance with an alcoholic content of one-half of
one percent (0.5%) or more by volume which is used for beverage purposes.
PACKAGED LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the County Liquor Board which
permits the sale of unopened liquor in its original container in a package by
the licensee at the premises specified in the license for consumption off of
the licensee's premises.
PERSON: Natural person, firm, association, copartnership or corporation, both
singular and plural.
QUARTER YEAR: Shall refer to one of the following three (3) month periods:
January 1 through March 31; April 1 through June 30; July 1 through September
30; October 1 through December 31.
RETAIL: The sale of liquor by the package, bottle or drink to consumers.
RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the County Liquor Board which
permits the sale of liquor by the drink by the licensee at the premises
specified in the license as well as the sale of unopened liquor in its original
container in packages by the licensee at the premises specified in the license
for consumption off of the licensee's premises. A retail liquor license permits
the sale of wine or beer in the original container for consumption on the
licensee's premises if the original container is opened at the time of the
sale.
WHOLESALE: The sale of liquor to persons with valid packaged or retail liquor
licenses. (Ord. 1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977, eff. 12-1-1977; amd. Ord. 1997-J, 11-6-
1997, eff. 12-1-1997)
6-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or to hold for sale or offer for
sale to any person any liquor within Elko County without first procuring and
paying for a license as provided for in this Chapter. The license requirements
herein provided for shall not apply to any railroad or airline operating over
or through the County to the extent that such railroads and airlines may sell
liquor in connection with their meal service. (Ord. 1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977, eff.
12-1-1977)
6-4-3: CLASSES OF LICENSES:
Under the provisions of this Code, the following classes of licenses may be
issued to qualified applicants therefor:
   (A)   Wholesale Liquor Licenses;
   (B)   Packaged Liquor Licenses;
   (C)   Retail Liquor Licenses; (Ord. 1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977, eff. 12-1-1977)
   (D)   Caterer's Licenses. (Ord. 1997-J, 11-6-1997, eff. 12-1-1997)
The liquor licenses required by this Code shall be in addition to any other
licenses required of any person by Elko County for conducting or carrying on
any other business in connection with or separate from the activities licensed
under this Code. (Ord. 1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977, eff. 12-1-1977)
6-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The application for this Code shall be made to the Board and filed with the
Sheriff. Each application shall:
   (A)   Be made on such form as the Board shall specify.
   (B)   Include the name and address of the applicant, including the names and
addresses of all persons having an interest in the business to be licensed. If
the applicant is a partnership, the application shall include the names and
addresses of all partners. If the applicant is a corporation, association, or
other organization, the application shall include the names and addresses of
all officers, directors, stockholders having more than twenty five percent
(25%) of the issued stock, resident agents, the principal place of business of
the corporation; and the name and address of the person or persons who shall
have the active management of its business for which or in connection with
which a license is desired. If, however, it is a corporation whose stock is
sold to the general public, then the stockholders need not be listed.
   (C)   Specify the class or classes of a license desired, the location, by
street and number, of the premises for which the license is sought, and the
name of the owner or owners of the premises where the business is to be
operated.
   (D)   Be accompanied by the quarterly license required for each class of
license for which application is made, which license deposit shall be returned
by the Sheriff to the applicant in the event the application is denied. (Ord.
1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977, eff. 12-1-1977)
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided herein, be signed by all persons who
shall conduct or have an interest in the business activities for which a liquor
license is required. In the case of a corporation, club or other such
organization, the application shall be verified by its president.
   (F)   If the applicant is not the record owner of the premises for which the
liquor license is being sought, the applicant must designate whether the
premises are leased or are being purchased and may be required to submit
documentation of the applicant's legal relationship to the premises for which
he seeks a license. (Ord. 1981-A-LB, 1-15-1981, eff. 2-5-1981)
6-4-5: INVESTIGATIONS:
The Sheriff shall present each application to the Board at its next regular
meeting after the filing of the application. The Board may, at that time, refer
the application to the Sheriff for an investigation into the moral character
and business responsibility of the person or persons applying for the license
and of all persons who are or will be interested in the business for which a
liquor license is required, together with an investigation of the location of
the proposed place of business, its condition and such other matters as may be
necessary to protect the public good, welfare, safety, health and morals. The
Board may require that any applicant personally appear before the Board prior
to acting upon any license. (Ord. 1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977, eff. 12-1-1977; amd.
Ord. 1981-A-LB, 1-15-1981, eff. 2-5-1981)
6-4-6: REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No license shall be issued any person unless the following requirements are
satisfied:
   (A)   A majority of the members of the Liquor Board must be present for the
Board to act on an application. A majority of the aforementioned quorum may
issue or deny a liquor license.
   (B)   If a natural person, the applicant must be at least twenty one (21)
years of age.
   (C)   The applicant must file a written application on forms provided by the
Sheriff of the County and signed by the applicant or its officer if the
applicant is not a natural person. (Ord. 1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977, eff. 12-1-1977)
   (D)   All applicants shall submit a financial statement on forms provided by
the Sheriff or upon forms or in a manner requested by the Board. (Ord. 1981-A-
LB, 1-15-1981, eff. 2-5-1981)
   (E)   All applicants shall submit not less than three (3) letters of
recommendation from residents living in the area of the proposed liquor
establishment, unless a majority of the membership of the Liquor Board shall
state for the record that they are sufficiently acquainted with the applicant
and that they feel such letters of recommendation would not aid in their
determination of the applicant's fitness for a liquor license.
   (F)   All license fees levied by the Liquor Board shall be paid.
   (G)   The applicant, or all officers and managers of the applicant if it is
not a natural person, must not have been convicted within the last ten (10)
years of a crime which is or would be a felony under the laws of the State.
   (H)   The applicant, or all of the officers and managers of the applicant if
it is not a natural person, must be of satisfactory business responsibility in
the opinion of a majority of the present and acting members of the Liquor
Board.
   (I)   The Sheriff shall fingerprint all applicants for licenses to sell
intoxicating liquors within the County.
   (J)   It must affirmatively appear to the Board that the granting of the
license will not:
      1.   Create or tend to create or constitute a public nuisance;
      2.   Foster the maintenance of a disorderly house or place;
      3.   Seriously and adversely affect the valuation of adjoining and
contiguous properties.
   (K)   No license shall be issued when, in the judgment of the Board, there
are ample and sufficient licensees and establishments in the area or place for
which the license is to be used to properly serve such area or place. (Ord.
1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977, eff. 12-1-1977)
   (L)   The Board may condition the granting of a license upon the applicant
first securing approval of the Nevada State Gaming Commission for a gaming
license in those cases where the liquor license is to be issued to an
establishment from which the primary source of intended income is through
gaming or in those cases where the applicant has applied to the Nevada State
Gaming Commission for a nonrestricted gaming license. (Ord. 1981-A-LB, 1-15-
1981, eff. 2-5-1981)
6-4-7: POSTING OF LICENSE:
Every license issued pursuant to this Code shall be posted in a conspicuous
place in the premises for which it was issued. (Ord. 1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977, eff.
12-1-1977)
6-4-8: LICENSE FEES:
The license fees required to be paid to obtain or retain a license to sell
liquor shall be as follows:
Retail liquor license,    
one bar                  $ 60.00 per quarter
Each additional bar,      
including service bar    60.00 per quarter
Packaged liquor license  60.00 per quarter
Packaged beer license    60.00 per quarter
Retail wine and/or beer   
(dining room)            60.00 per quarter
Caterer's license        60.00 per quarter
Wholesale liquor license
All liquor               100.00 per quarter
Beer and wine only       100.00 per quarter
 
The above license fee shall be payable in advance for at least one quarter per
year. Fractional parts of a quarter year shall require payment of the entire
quarterly license fee. Failure to pay the liquor license fee within ten (10)
days of the date due shall result in the mandatory assessment of a late fee of
twenty five percent (25%) of the quarterly payment otherwise due; and the
liquor license shall be suspended until the quarterly payment and late penalty
fee are paid. The failure to pay the quarterly fee within thirty (30) days of
the date due shall be grounds for revocation of the license pursuant to Section
6-4-11 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1996-F, 1-19-1997, eff. 4-1-1997; amd. Ord. 1997-
J, 11-6-1997, eff. 12-1-1997)
6-4-9: SPECIAL PERMITS:
   (A)   Special Event Permits: Any person in charge of a special event which
is scheduled and due to occur between the regular meetings of the County Liquor
Board, which is to be held in any unincorporated area of the County and at
which it is desired to sell alcoholic beverages, may apply to the Sheriff for a
special permit for such sale. The Sheriff shall investigate such application
and the circumstances of the proposed special event in order to ensure that
order will be preserved and that minors are protected. Further, the Sheriff
shall require that the provisions of this Section are complied with by such
applicants. Thereafter, if such application is satisfactory in all respects,
the Sheriff may issue a special permit for the sale of such liquor as he may
designate at such special event. A "special event" is a gathering at which it
is desired to sell alcoholic beverages. In case of any special event planned
before the date of the next regular meeting of the County Liquor Board to be
held thereafter, the application shall be made at such regular meeting. A
license fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) shall be charged for such special
permits. No such special permit shall be for a period of more than three (3)
days. Each permit shall designate with particularity the precise area or
location for which the special permit is being granted and the hours of each
day for which said permit is valid. No such license fee shall be charged if the
applicant is a charitable or nonprofit organization.
   (B)   License Required: A special permit is required for each and every
special event despite the fact that the host, promoter, or person in charge of
the event holds a liquor license, if that event is to be held in a location or
on premises different from those for which the liquor license was granted.
   (C)   Authority Of County Liquor Board: The County Liquor Board shall have
the authority after such investigation as it deems proper to issue a temporary
license pending the processing of application for a permanent license. (Ord.
1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977, eff. 12-1-1977)
   (D)   Temporary Licenses: In special or unusual circumstances, and in order
to prevent undue hardship to an applicant, the Elko County Sheriff may issue a
temporary license pending the processing of an application for a permanent
license; provided, however, that at the time any such temporary license is
issued by the Elko County Sheriff, a full and complete application for a liquor
license shall be on file with the Sheriff. (Ord. 1979-G, 4-13-1979, eff. 5-1-
1979)
   (E)   Off-Premises Special Events License For Active Liquor License Holders:
The Sheriff may issue an off-premises special events license to active liquor
license holders. The application must designate the date, location and nature
of the special event, and the applicant must comply with such conditions that
may be deemed necessary by the Sheriff to protect the public health and safety.
No additional fee shall be charged for the permit.
   (F)   Applications: Applications for special events under subsection (A) or
(E) of this Section are due to the Sheriff seven (7) days before the event.
(Ord. 1997-J, 11-6-1997, eff. 12-1-1997)
6-4-10: CONTENTS OF LICENSE, LIMITATIONS:
   (A)   Every license issued hereunder shall specify:
      1.   The name of the person or persons to whom it is issued.
      2.   The specific place of business in which the license may be
exercised.
      3.   Whether it is package, retail or wholesale. (Ord. 1977-A-LB, 11-4-
1977, eff. 12-1-1977)
      4.   Any conditions or limitations involving the exercise of said
license, such as, but not limited to, security, State health requirements, and
sanitation requirements. (Ord. 1997-J, 11-6-1997, eff. 12-1-1997)
      5.   The amount of fee paid.
   (B)   No license may be transferred or assigned, nor shall it be exercised
in any place of business other than as designated on the license. (Ord. 1977-A-
LB, 11-4-1977, eff. 12-1-1977)
   (C)   If the premises for which a license has been issued are sold, leased
or in any manner transferred to some person other than the licensee of the
premises, the license for such premises shall immediately become null and void
without further action of the Board. The new owner, licensee or transferee of
the premises must apply for and obtain a new liquor license prior to the sale
of any liquor on the premises. (Ord. 1978-R, 12-7-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
   (D)   Effective August 1, 1979, each liquor licensee in the County of Elko
shall have the following notice posted inside his place of business in such a
manner as to be clearly observable by customers of the licensee:
   NOTICE TO CUSTOMERS
The owner or salesperson of this premises has the right to refuse to sell or
serve alcoholic beverages to anyone who appears to be under the influence of
alcohol to such an extent that he is unable to exercise care for his own health
or safety or the health or safety of others.
   Elko County Liquor Board          
(Ord. 1979-J, 7-6-1979, eff. 8-1-1979)
6-4-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any of the following conditions or occurrences are grounds for revocation of a
license:
   (A)   Failure of the licensee to promptly pay the quarterly fee when due.
   (B)   Any act or failure to act by the licensee or its agents or employees
in connection with the operation of the liquor business which would be a
violation of a State or Federal criminal statute or a County criminal
ordinance.
   (C)   Furnishing or selling intoxicating liquor to a minor.
   (D)   Any violation of the terms or conditions of a license as established
by the Licensing Board.
   (E)   Any material misrepresentation made in an application for a liquor
license.
   (F)   Employment of any person under the age of twenty one (21) years in the
business of selling or otherwise disposing of liquor, except as specifically
authorized by this Code.
   (G)   Any act or failure to act by the licensee or its agents or employees
in connection with the operation of the liquor license which creates or tends
to create a public nuisance or which creates or tends to create or fosters the
maintenance of a disorderly house or place.
   (H)   Vacation or abandonment of the premises for which the license was
issued, except that this subsection shall not apply to cause a revocation of a
license for any premises which operates solely on a seasonal basis.
   (I)   Repeated sales of liquor to persons under the influence of alcohol to
such extent that they were unable to exercise care for their own health or
safety or health and safety of others. Substantiated reports of three (3) such
sales in any twelve (12) month period shall be prima facie evidence of grounds
for revocation.
   (J)   Allowing any person to serve alcoholic beverages without such person
having first obtained a liquor work card as set forth in this Chapter.
   (K)   Failure to comply with any condition or requirement of this Chapter.
Revocation of one liquor license of a licensee by the Liquor Board is an
automatic revocation of any other license issued to the licensee by the Liquor
Board unless the Board specifically decides otherwise. (Ord. 1980-C, 2-7-1980,
eff. 3-1-1980)
6-4-12: REVOCATION PROCEDURE:
   (A)   The Liquor Board may, on its own motion or upon the sworn complaint in
writing of any person, investigate the conduct of any licensee under this
Chapter to determine whether grounds for revocation of a license exist. The
Board may request the assistance of the licensee in such an investigation.
   (B)   After an investigation, if it appears that a ground for revocation
exists, the Liquor Board shall issue and cause to be served on the licensee an
order to show cause why his license should not be revoked. Said order shall
contain:
      1.   A statement directing the licensee or licensee's representative to
appear before the Liquor Board at a time and place set out therein which shall
be not less than ten (10) days from the date of service of said order to show
cause on the licensee.
      2.   A brief statement of the grounds for revocation.
      3.   A statement that the licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard,
present witnesses and confront any witnesses against him.
      4.   A statement that the licensees should be prepared to present
evidence to show cause why his license should not be revoked or suspended.
   (C)   Service on the licensee shall be made by personally delivering a copy
of the order to show cause to one of the persons whose name is on the license
or by mailing a copy of the order by registered mail with return receipt to the
place of business of the licensee, which is specified in the license. Service
by mail shall be deemed complete on the day of the mailing.
   (D)   The Liquor Board shall have the authority to issue subpoenas to compel
the attendance of witnesses for a revocation hearing and shall, upon request by
the licensee or his attorney, issue subpoenas to persons which the licensee
wishes to have testify. The expense of issuance and service of subpoenas for
the licensee's witnesses shall be borne by the licensee. The Board shall have
no obligation to ensure that service of any subpoenas requested by the licensee
has been effected.
   (E)   At the hearing on the order to show cause, the licensee and the
complainant, if there is one, may be represented by attorneys, present
testimony, and cross-examine witnesses. A majority of the Liquor Boardmembers
must be present to conduct a hearing, and if the hearing is pursuant to a
complaint, the complainant must also be present.
   (F)   Unless otherwise specified by the Liquor Board, the Nevada Rules of
Evidence will not be applied strictly and the Board may consider all relevant
evidence. The Board may, after presentation of evidence, upon request of the
licensee or upon its own motion, continue the hearing for a period of not more
than ten (10) days where it appears to the majority of the Board that further
evidence or investigation is required as a result of the testimony or evidence
produced at the hearing.
   (G)   Within ten (10) days after the final hearing, the Liquor Board shall
render its decision and give notice thereof to the licensee. The Board may
revoke or temporarily suspend a license. In absence of or in conjunction with
the suspension, the Board may place a licensee on probation with or without
conditions. A majority of those members present at the hearing must agree to
render a decision.
   (H)   Any person who has had his license revoked may reapply for a license
after six (6) months after the revocation order, but a new license may only be
issued by a unanimous decision of all members of the Board.
   (I)   If after an investigation as set forth in subsection (A) of this
Section, it appears to the Board that no grounds for revocation exist, it shall
within ten (10) days issue to the licensee an investigative report which shall
contain any suggestions or recommendations which the Board determines necessary
or appropriate to protect the public health, welfare or safety. (Ord. 1980-C,
2-7-1980, eff. 3-1-1980)
6-4-13: EXCEPTION TO REVOCATION PROCEDURE:
If, upon investigating grounds for revocation of a license, the Liquor Board is
unanimously agreed that public health, safety or morals will be endangered by
the continued existence of the license, it may without notice suspend the
license at once and direct the Sheriff to close the licensee's liquor business.
However, an order to show cause, as set out in Section
6-4-12 of this Chapter, shall also be served on the licensee at once, and the
procedure thereafter shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section
6-4-12 of this Chapter. (Ord. 1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977, eff. 12-1-1977)
6-4-14: LIQUOR WORK PERMITS REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord.
04-2020 , adopted 7-15-2020). The text of the amendment will be incorporated
below when the ordinance is codified.
   (A)   All persons serving alcoholic beverages under the terms of any Elko
County liquor license, before commencing to act or serve alcoholic beverages,
shall submit and have approved by the Sheriff a written application for a work
permit. The application shall set forth the following information: applicant's
name, age, sex, present address and address of all residences and descriptions
of all occupations and businesses for the past five (5) years prior to such
application, and two (2) intended employers, and shall submit to the taking of
his or her thumbprints and fingerprints for filing in said office. Work permits
issued shall be limited to two (2) employers and no person shall serve
alcoholic beverages except for those employers listed on his work permit.
Should a permittee wish to serve alcoholic beverages for an employer not listed
on his permit, he shall first surrender his old permit and secure a new one.
(Ord. 1997-J, 11-6-1997, eff. 12-1-1997)
   (B)   Any person holding a valid gaming work permit as required by Nevada
Revised Statutes is exempted from holding a liquor work permit; however, a
holder of a valid gaming work permit may only serve alcoholic beverages at the
places listed on his permit.
   (C)   The information received as aforesaid shall be treated as confidential
and shall only be made accessible to elective officers of this County, the
employer of such persons, if applicable, and to law enforcement officers. A
licensee is prohibited from allowing any person to serve alcoholic beverages
without first having required such person to comply with this Section. (Ord.
1980-C, 2-7-1980, eff. 3-1-1980)
   (D)   The Sheriff shall charge an application fee for a liquor work permit
and for each renewal. The fee for an application and renewal shall be set by
the Elko County Liquor Board. Liquor work permits will be valid for a term of
four (4) years and must be renewed on the anniversary of the date of issuance.
All proceeds of the liquor work permit application fees shall be deposited in
the County General Fund. (Ord. 1985-H, 6-19-1985, eff. 7-11-1985; amd. Ord. 06-
2019, 10-2-2019)
6-4-15: POSSESSION BY MINOR PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any minor to have in his or her custody or possession
within the County any alcoholic beverage or liquor of any type or kind, except
any sealed alcoholic beverage in the regular course of his or her legitimate
employment.
   (A)   For purposes of this Chapter, the term "minor" shall mean any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord. 1995-P, 3-20-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
6-4-16: CONSUMPTION BY MINOR PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to consume any kind of alcoholic
beverage or liquor in or about the premises of any licensed establishment of
the County or elsewhere within the County.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to be in possession of any kind of
alcoholic beverage or liquor through consumption anywhere in the County; except
that at the direction and in the company of a parent or guardian, a minor may
consume an alcoholic beverage in the residence of the parent or guardian;
except that a minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of
following the direction of a licensed medical practitioner; or except that a
minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of participation in
legitimate religious activities. Possession by consumption shall consist solely
of the assimilation of alcohol in the minor's body, and such crime shall not
require proof of possession or control prior to consumption or proof of the act
of swallowing an alcoholic beverage or liquor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any minor who has consumed any kind of
alcoholic beverage or liquor at the direction and in the company of a parent or
guardian in the home, to leave the home and go out into the County. Such a
minor shall be guilty of possession through consumption as provided for in
subsection (B) of this Section.
   (D)   For purposes of this Section, any peace officer may detain any minor
whom the officer encounters under circumstances which reasonably indicate that
the minor has committed or is committing one of the crimes enumerated in
subsection (A), (B) or (C) of this Section. At any time after this detention,
the minor so detained shall be arrested if probable cause for an arrest
appears. (Ord. 1995-P, 3-20-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
6-4-17: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   (A)   A violation of the terms of this Chapter is a misdemeanor, and any
person convicted thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment in the County jail for not more than
six (6) months, or by both fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   This Chapter shall not apply to any liquor dealers within any
incorporated town or city of the County to the extent that any person licensed
by an incorporated city or town for business therein shall not be licensed for
the same place of business by the Liquor Board. (Ord. 1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977,
eff. 12-1-1977; amd. Ord. 1995-P, 3-20-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
CHAPTER 5
(Rep. by Ord. 1977-A-LB, 11-4-1977, eff. 12-1-1977)
CHAPTER 6
CITY-COUNTY RELIEF TAX
SECTION:
6-6-1: Title
6-6-2: Definitions
6-6-3: Tax Imposed
6-6-4: Conditions Of Tax
6-6-5: Permits Required To Conduct Business
6-6-6: Conditions Of Permits
6-6-7: Certificate Of Purchase Required
6-6-8: Excise Tax Imposed
6-6-9: Collection Of Tax
6-6-10: Conditions Of Excise Tax
6-6-11: Retailers Registration Required
6-6-12: Delivery Of Property; Exceptions
6-6-13: Certificate; Burden Of Proof; Specifications
6-6-14: Presumptions On Sales
6-6-15: Exemption From Taxes
6-6-16: Tax Payments Made Quarterly
6-6-17: Tax Returns
6-6-18: Procedure For Payments
6-6-19: Rentals And Leases, Sales Tax
6-6-20: Revenue Stamps
6-6-21: Extension Of Time
6-6-22: Amount Of Tax Due
6-6-23: Nonsufficient Tax; Evasion
6-6-24: Notice Of Commission's Determination
6-6-25: Notice Of Deficiency Determination
6-6-26: Failure To Make Return; Discounted Business' Liability
6-6-27: Redetermination; Petition
6-6-28: Security Required
6-6-29: Delinquency In Payments
6-6-30: Action To Collect Tax
6-6-31: Failure To Pay Determination; Judgment Lien
6-6-32: Payments Satisfied
6-6-33: Release From Lien; Certificate
6-6-34: Warrant For Enforcement Of Liens
6-6-35: Seizure, Sale of Property
6-6-36: Sale of Business; Payment of Tax
6-6-37: Overpayment of Tax
6-6-38: Actions Prohibited
6-6-39: Claim for Recovery
6-6-40: Action for Recovery of Overpayment
6-6-41: Administration and Enforcement
6-6-42: Reports on Use Tax
6-6-43: Information Kept Confidential
6-6-44: False, Fraudulent Returns
6-6-45: General Provisions
6-6-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and referred to as the Elko County County-City
Relief Tax Ordinance.
6-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except where the context otherwise requires, the following definitions shall
govern the construction of this Chapter:
BUSINESS includes any activity engaged in by any person or caused to be engaged
in by him with the object of gain, benefit or advantage, either direct or
indirect.
GROSS RECEIPTS:
   (A)   "Gross receipts" means the total amount of the sale or lease or rental
price, as the case may be, of the retail sales of retailers, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, without any deduction on account of any
of the following:
      1.   The cost of the property sold. However, in accordance with such
rules and regulations as the Tax Commission may prescribe, a deduction may be
taken if the retailer has purchased property for some other purpose than
resale, has reimbursed his vendor for tax which the vendor is required to pay
to the County or has paid the use tax with respect to the property, and has
resold the property prior to making any use of the property other than
retention, demonstration or display while holding it for sale in the regular
course of business. If such a deduction is taken by the retailer, no refund or
credit will be allowed to his vendor with respect to the sale of the property.
      2.   The cost of the materials used, labor or service cost, interest
paid, losses or any other expense.
      3.   The cost of transportation of the property prior to its sale to the
purchaser.
   (B)   The total amount of the sale or lease or rental price includes all of
the following:
      1.   Any services that are a part of the sale.
      2.   All receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind.
      3.   Any amount for which credit is allowed by the seller to the
purchaser.
   (C)   "Gross receipts" does not include any of the following:
      1.   Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales.
      2.   Sale price of property returned by customers when the full sale
price is refunded either in cash or credit; but this exclusion shall not apply
in any instance when the customer, in order to obtain the refund, is required
to purchase other property at a price greater than the amount charged for the
property that is returned.
      3.   The price received for labor or services used in installing or
applying the property sold.
      4.   The amount of any tax (not including, however, any manufacturers' or
importers' excise tax) imposed by the United States upon or with respect to
retail sales, whether imposed upon the retailer or the customer.
   (D)   For purposes of the sales tax, if the retailers establish to the
satisfaction of the Tax Commission that the sales tax has been added to the
total amount of the sales price and has not been absorbed by them, the total
amount of the sales price shall be deemed to be the amount received exclusive
of the tax imposed.
IN ELKO COUNTY or IN THE COUNTY means within the exterior limits of Elko
County, and includes all territory within such limits owned by or ceded to the
United States of America.
OCCASIONAL SALES includes:
   (A)   A sale of property not held or used by a seller in the course of an
activity for which he is required to hold a seller's permit, provided such sale
is not one of a series of sales sufficient in number, scope and character to
constitute an activity requiring the holding of a seller's permit.
   (B)   Any transfer of all or substantially all the property held or used by
a person in the course of such an activity when after such transfer the real or
ultimate ownership of such property is substantially similar to that which
existed before such transfer.
For the purposes of this definition, stockholders, bondholders, partners or
other persons holding an interest in a corporation or other entity are regarded
as having the "real or ultimate ownership" of the property of such corporation
or other entity.
PERSON includes any individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust,
business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, cooperative, assignee or any
other group or combination acting as a unit, but shall not include the United
States, the State of Nevada or any agency thereof, or any city, county,
district or other political subdivision of the State of Nevada.
PURCHASE:
   (A)   "Purchase" means any transfer, exchange.or barter, conditional or
otherwise, in any manner or by any means whatsoever, of tangible personal
property for a consideration.
   (B)   A transaction whereby the possession of property is transferred but
the seller retains the title as security for the payment of the price is a
purchase.
   (C)   A transfer for a consideration of tangible personal property which has
been produced, fabricated or printed to the special order of the customer or of
any publication, is also a purchase.
RETAIL SALE or SALE AT RETAIL means a sale for any purpose other than resale in
the regular course of business of tangible personal property.
The delivery in this County of tangible personal property by an owner or former
owner thereof or by a factor, or agent of such owner, former owner or factor,
if the delivery is to a consumer or person for redelivery to a consumer,
pursuant to a retail sale made by a retailer not engaged in business in this
County, is a retail sale in this County by the person making the delivery. He
shall include the retail selling price of the property in his gross receipts.
RETAILER:
   (A)   "Retailer" includes:
      1.   Every seller who makes any retail sale or sales of tangible personal
property and every person engaged in the business of making retail sales at
auction of tangible personal property owned by the person or others.
      2.   Every person engaged in the business of making sales for storage,
use or other consumption or in the business of making sales at auction of
tangible personal property owned by the person or others for storage, use or
other consumption.
      3.   Every person making more than two (2) retail sales of tangible
personal property during any twelve (12) month period, including sales made in
the capacity of assignee for the benefit of creditors, or receiver or trustee
in bankruptcy.
   (B)   When the Tax Commission determines that it is necessary for the
efficient administration of this Chapter to regard any salesmen,
representatives, peddlers or canvassers as the agents of the dealers,
distributors, supervisors or employers under whom they operate or from whom
they obtain the tangible personal property sold by them irrespective of whether
they are making sales on their own behalf or on behalf of such dealers,
distributors, supervisors or employers, the Tax Commission may so regard them
and may regard the dealers, distributors, supervisors or employers as retailers
for purposes of this Chapter.
   (C)   A licensed optometrist or physician and surgeon is a consumer of, and
shall not be considered a retailer within the provisions of this Chapter with
respect to, the ophthalmic materials used or furnished by him in the
performance of his professional services in the diagnosis, treatment or
correction of conditions of the human eye, including the adaptation of lenses
or frames for the aid thereof.
SALE:
   (A)   "Sale" means and includes any transfer of title or possession,
exchange, barter, lease or rental, conditional or otherwise, in any manner or
by any means whatsoever, of tangible personal property for a consideration.
   (B)   "Transfer of possession", "lease", or "rental" includes only
transactions found by the Tax Commission to be in lieu of a transfer of title,
exchange or barter.
   (C)   "Sale" includes:
      1.   The producing, fabricating, processing, printing or imprinting of
tangible personal property for a consideration for consumers who furnish,
either directly or indirectly, the materials used in the producing,
fabricating, processing, printing or imprinting.
      2.   The furnishing and distributing of tangible personal property for a
consideration by social clubs and fraternal organizations to their members or
others.
      3.   The furnishing, preparing or serving for a consideration of food,
meals or drinks.
      4.   A transaction whereby the possession of property is transferred but
the seller retains the title as security for payment of the price.
      5.   A transfer for a consideration of the title or possession of
tangible personal property which has been produced, fabricated or printed to
the special order of the customer, or of any publication.
SALES PRICE:
   (A)   "Sales price" means the total amount for which tangible property is
sold, valued in money, whether paid in money or otherwise, without any
deduction on account of any of the following:
      1.   The cost of the property sold.
      2.   The cost of the materials used, labor or service cost, interest
charged, losses or any other expenses.
      3.   The cost of transportation of the property prior to its purchase.
   (B)   The total amount for which property is sold includes all of the
following:
      1.   Any services that are a part of the sale.
      2.   Any amount for which credit is given to the purchaser by the seller.
   (C)   "Sales price" does not include any of the following:
      1.   Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales.
      2.   The amount charged for property returned by customers when the
entire amount charged therefor is refunded either in cash or credit; but this
exclusion shall not apply in any instance when the customer, in order to obtain
the refund, is required to purchase other property at a price greater than the
amount charged for the property that is returned.
      3.   The amount charged for labor or services rendered in installing or
applying the property sold.
      4.   The amount of any tax (not including, however, any manufacturers' or
importers' excise tax) imposed by the United States upon or with respect to
retail sales, whether imposed upon the retailer or the consumer.
      5.   The amount of any tax imposed by the State of Nevada upon or with
respect to the storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer.
SELLER includes every person engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property of any kind, the gross receipts from the retail sale of which
are required to be included in the measure of the sales tax.
STORAGE includes any keeping or retention in this County for any purpose except
sale in the regular course of business or subsequent use solely outside the
County, of tangible, personal property purchased from a retailer.
STORAGE and USE do not include the keeping, retaining or exercising any right
or power over tangible personal property for the purpose of subsequently
transporting it outside the County for use thereafter solely outside the
County, or for the purpose of being processed, fabricated or manufactured into,
attached to, or incorporated into, other tangible personal property to be
transported outside the County and thereafter used solely outside the County.
TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY means personal property which may be seen, weighed,
measured, felt or touched, or which is in any other manner perceptible to the
senses.
TAX COMMISSION means the Nevada Tax Commission.
TAXPAYER means any person liable for tax under this Chapter.
USE includes the exercise of any right or power over tangible personal property
incident to the ownership of that property, except that it does not include the
sale of that property in the regular course of business. (Ord. 1971-E, 6-10-71;
eff. 7-1-71)
6-6-3: TAX IMPOSED:
For the privilege of selling tangible personal property at retail, a tax is
hereby imposed upon all retailers at the two and one fourth percent (2.25%) of
the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal
property sold at retail or stored, used or otherwise consumed in Elko County on
and after May 1, 1981. (Ord. 1981-H, 6-4-81; eff. 6-25-81)
The tax hereby imposed shall be collected by the retailer from the consumer
insofar as it can be done.
6-6-4: CONDITIONS OF TAX:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any retailer to advertise or hold out or state to
the public or to any customer, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part
thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the retailer or that it will not be
added to the selling price of the property sold or that if added it or any part
thereof will be refunded. Any person violating any provision of this subsection
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The Tax Commission may by regulation provide that the amount collected
by the retailer from the consumer in reimbursement of the tax be displayed
separately from the list price, the price advertised in the premises, the
marked price or other price on the sales check or other proof of sale.
6-6-5: PERMITS REQUIRED TO CONDUCT BUSINESS:
   (A)   Every person desiring to engage in or conduct business as a seller
within the County shall file with the Tax Commission an application for permit
for each place of business.
   (B)   Every application for permit shall:
      1.   Be made upon a form prescribed by the Tax Commission.
      2.   Set forth the name under which the applicant transacts or intends to
transact business and the location of his place or places of business.
      3.   Set forth such other information as the Tax Commission may require.
   (C)   The application shall be signed by the owner if he is a natural
person; in the case of an association or partnership, by a member or partner;
in the case of a corporation, by an executive officer or some person
specifically authorized by the corporation to sign the application, to which
shall be attached the written evidence of his authority.
6-6-6: CONDITIONS OF PERMITS:
   (A)   At the time of making an application, the applicant shall pay to the
Tax Commission a permit fee of one dollar ($1.00) for each permit.
   (B)   After compliance with Sections
6-6-5,
6-6-6(A) and
6-6-28 of this Chapter by the applicant, the Tax Commission shall grant and
issue to each applicant a separate permit for each place of business within the
County. A permit shall not be assignable and shall be valid only for the person
in whose name it is issued and for the transaction of business at the place
designated therein. It shall at all times be conspicuously displayed at the
place for which issued.
   (C)   A seller whose permit has been previously suspended or revoked shall
pay the Tax Commission a fee of one dollar ($1.00) for the renewal or issuance
of a permit.
   (D)   1. Whenever any person fails to comply with any provision of this
Chapter relating to the sales tax or any rule or regulation of the Tax
Commission relating to the sales tax prescribed and adopted under this Chapter,
the Tax Commission, upon hearing, after giving the person ten (10) days' notice
in writing specifying the time and place of hearing and requiring him to show
cause why his permit or permits should not be revoked, may revoke or suspend
any one or more of the permits held by the person.
      2.   The Tax Commission shall give to the person written notice of the
suspension or revocation of any of his permits.
      3.   The notices may be served personally or by mail in the manner
prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency determination.
      4.   The Tax Commission shall not issue a new permit after the revocation
of a permit unless it is satisfied that the former holder of the permit will
comply with the provisions of this Chapter relating to the sales tax and the
regulations of the Tax Commission.
      5.   If a permit is revoked, the Tax Commission may seal and padlock the
place of business for which the permit was issued.
   (E)   1. A person who engages in business as a seller in this County without
a permit or permits or after a permit has been suspended, and each officer of
any corporation which so engages in business, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   If, after notice to the seller served personally or by mail, the
seller continues to engage in business without a permit, or after a permit has
been suspended or revoked, the Tax Commission may seal and padlock any place of
business of the seller. If notice under this subsection is served by mail, it
shall be addressed to the seller at his address as it appears in the records of
the Tax Commission.
6-6-7: CERTIFICATE OF PURCHASE REQUIRED:
For the purpose of the proper administration of this Chapter and to prevent
evasion of the sales tax, it shall be presumed that all gross receipts are
subject to the tax until the contrary is established. The burden of proving
that a sale of tangible personal property is not a sale at retail is upon the
person who makes the sale unless he takes from the purchaser a certificate to
the effect that the property is purchased for resale.
The certificate relieves the seller from the burden of proof only if taken in
good faith from a person who is engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property and who holds the permit provided for in Sections
6-6-5 and
6-6-7(D) hereof, and who, at the time of purchasing the tangible personal
property intends to sell it in the regular course of business or is unable to
ascertain at the time of purchase whether the property will be sold or will be
used for some other purpose.
   (A)   Contents of Certificate:
      1.   The certificate shall:
         a.   Be signed by and bear the name and address of the purchaser;
         b.   Indicate the number of the permit issued to the purchaser;
         c.   Indicate the general character of the tangible personal property
sold by the purchaser in the regular course of business.
      2.   The certificate shall be substantially in such form as the Tax
Commission may prescribe.
   (B)   If a purchaser who gives a certificate makes any use of the property
other than retention, demonstration or display while holding it for sale in the
regular course of business, the use shall be taxable to the purchaser as of the
time the property is first used by him and the sales price of the property to
him shall be deemed the measure of the tax. Only when there is an u satisfied
use tax liability on this basis shall the seller be liable for sales tax with
respect to the sale of the property to the purchaser. If the sole use of the
property other than retention, demonstration or display in the regular course
of business is the rental of the property while holding it for sale, the
purchaser may elect to include in his gross receipts the amount of the rental
charged rather than the sale price of the property to him.
   (C)   Any person who gives a resale certificate for property which he knows
at the time of purchase is not to be resold by him in the regular course of
business for the purpose of evading payment to the seller of the amount of the
tax applicable to the transaction is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   If a purchaser gives a certificate with respect to the purchase of
fungible goods and thereafter commingles these goods with other fungible goods
not so purchased but of such similarity that the identity of the constituent
goods in the commingled mass cannot be determined, sales from the mass of
commingled goods shall be deemed to be sales of the goods so purchased until a
quantity of commingled goods equal to the quantity of purchased goods so
commingled has been sold.
6-6-8: EXCISE TAX IMPOSED:
An excise tax is hereby imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in
Elko County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer on or
after July 1, 1971, for storage, use or other consumption in the County at the
rate of one-half of one percent (.5%) of the sales price of the property.
Every person storing, using or otherwise consuming in the County tangible
personal property purchased from a retailer is liable for the tax. His
liability is not extinguished until the tax has been paid to the County, except
that a receipt from a retailer maintaining a place of business in the County or
from a retailer who is authorized by the Tax Commission under such rules and
regulations as it may prescribe, to collect the tax and who is for the purposes
of this Chapter relating to the use tax, regarded as a retailer maintaining a
place of business in the County, given to the purchaser pursuant to Section
6-6-10 hereof, is sufficient to relieve the purchaser from further liability
for the tax to which the receipt refers.
6-6-9: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Every retailer maintaining a place of business in this County and making sales
of tangible personal property for storage, use or other consumption in this
County, not exempted under Section
6-6-15 hereof, shall, at the time of making the sales or, if the storage, use
or other consumption of the tangible personal property is not then taxable
hereunder, at the time the storage, use or other consumption becomes taxable,
collect the tax from the purchaser and give to the purchaser a receipt therefor
in the manner and form prescribed by the Tax Commission.
The tax required to be collected by the retailer constitutes a debt owned by
the retailer to the County.
6-6-10: CONDITIONS OF EXCISE TAX:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any retailer to advertise or hold out or state to
the public or to any customer, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part
thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the retailer or that it will not be
added to the selling price of the property sold or that if added it or any part
thereof will be refunded.
   (B)   The tax required to be collected by the retailer from the purchaser
shall be displayed separately from the list price, the price advertised in the
premises, the marked price or other price on the sales check or other proof of
sales.
   (C)   Any person violating Section
6-6-9 or this Section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
6-6-11: RETAILERS REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every retailer selling tangible personal property for storage, use or other
consumption in the County, shall register with the Tax Commission and give:
   (A)   The name and address of all agents operating in the County.
   (B)   The location of all distribution or sales houses or offices or other
places of business in the County.
   (C)   Such other information as the Tax Commission may require.
6-6-12: DELIVERY OF PROPERTY; EXCEPTIONS:
For the purpose of the proper administration of this Chapter and to prevent
evasion of the use tax and the duty to collect the use tax, it shall be
presumed that tangible personal property sold by any person for delivery in
this County is sold for storage, use or other consumption in this County until
the contrary is established. The burden of proving the contrary is upon the
person who makes the sale unless he takes from the purchaser a certificate to
the effect that the property is purchased for resale.
6-6-13: CERTIFICATE; BURDEN OF PROOF; SPECIFICATIONS:
The certificate relieves the person selling the property from the burden of
proof only if taken in good faith from a person who is engaged in the business
of selling tangible personal property and who holds the permit provided by
Sections
6-6-5 to
6-6-7, inclusive hereof, and who, at the time of purchasing the tangible
personal property intends to sell it in the regular course of business or is
unable to ascertain at the time of purchase whether the property will be sold
or will be used for some other purpose.
The certificate shall:
   (A)   Be signed and bear the name and address of the purchaser.
   (B)   Indicate the number of the permit issued to the purchaser.
   (C)   Indicate the general character of the tangible personal property sold
by the purchaser in the regular course of business.
The certificate shall be substantially in such form as the Tax Commission may
prescribe.
6-6-14: PRESUMPTIONS ON SALES:
   (A)   If a purchaser who gives a certificate makes any storage or use of the
property other than retention, demonstration or display while holding it for
sale in the regular course of business, the storage or use is taxable as of the
time the property is first so stored or used. If the sole use of the property,
other than retention, demonstration or display in the regular course of
business, is the rental of the property while holding it for sale, the
purchaser may elect to pay the tax on the use measured by the amount of the
rental charged rather than the sales price of the property to him.
   (B)   If a purchaser gives a certificate with respect to the purchase of
fungible goods and thereafter commingles these goods with other fungible goods
not so purchased but of such similarity that the identity of the constituent
goods in the commingled mass cannot be determined, sales from the mass of
commingled goods shall be deemed to be sales of the goods so purchased until a
quantity of commingled goods equal to the quantity of purchased goods so
commingled has been sold.
   (C)   It shall be further presumed that tangible personal property shipped
or brought to this County by the purchaser after July 1, 1971, was purchased
from a retailer on or after July 1, 1971, for storage, use or other consumption
in this County.
   (D)   On and after July 1, 1971, it shall be further presumed that tangible
personal property delivered outside this County to a purchaser known by the
retailer to be a resident of this County was purchased from a retailer for
storage, use or other consumption in this County and stored, used or otherwise
consumed in this County.
This presumption may be controverted by:
      1.   A statement in writing, signed by the purchaser or his authorized
representative, and retained by the vendor, that the property was purchased for
use at a designated point or points outside this County.
      2.   Other evidence satisfactory to the Tax Commission that the property
was not purchased for storage, use or other consumption in this County.
6-6-15: EXEMPTION FROM TAXES:
"Exempted from the taxes imposed by this Chapter", as used in this Section
means exempted from the computation of the amount of taxes imposed, and the
following shall be considered exemptions from such taxes:
   (A)   The gross receipts from the sale of and the storage, use or other
consumption in this County of tangible personal property, the gross receipts
from the sale of which or the storage, use or other consumption of which this
County is prohibited from taxing under the Constitution or laws of the United
States or under the Constitution of this State.
   (B)   The gross receipts from the sale of and the storage, use or other
consumption in this County of the proceeds of mines which are subject to taxes
levied pursuant to Chapter 362 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
   (C)   The gross receipts from the sale and distribution of and the storage,
use or other consumption in this County of any combustible gas, liquid or
material of a kind used in an internal combustion or diesel engine for the
generation of power to propel a motor vehicle on the highways.
   (D)   The gross receipts from sales of and the storage, use or other
consumption of:
      1.   Any form of animal life of a kind the products of which ordinarily
constitute food for human consumption.
      2.   Feed for any form of animal life of a kind the products of which
ordinarily constitute food for human consumption or are to be sold in the
regular course of business.
      3.   Seeds and annual plants the products of which ordinarily constitute
food for human consumption or are to be sold in the regular course of business.
      4.   Fertilizer to be applied to land the products of which are to be
used as food for human consumption or sold in the regular course of business.
   (E)   The gross receipts from the sale of and the storage, use or other
consumption in the County of meals and food products for human consumption
served by public or private schools, school districts, student organizations
and parent-teacher associations to the students or teachers of a school.
   (F)   The gross receipts from sales of and the storage, use or other
consumption in this County of:
      1.   Nonreturnable containers when sold without the contents to persons
who place the contents in the container and sell the contents together with the
container.
      2.   Containers when sold with the contents if the sales price of the
contents is not required to be included in the measure of the taxes imposed by
this Chapter.
      3.   Returnable containers when sold with the contents in connection with
a retail sale of the contents or when resold for refilling.
As used in this subsection the term "returnable containers" means containers of
a kind customarily returned by the buyer of the contents for reuse. All other
containers are "nonreturnable containers".
   (G)   The gross receipts from the sales, furnishing or service of and the
storage, use or other consumption in this County of gas, electricity and water
when delivered to consumers through mains, lines or pipes.
   (H)   The gross receipts from the sale, furnishing or service of and the
storage, use or other consumption in this County of any matter used to produce
domestic heat by burning, including without limitation wood,coal, petroleum and
gas.
   (I)   The gross receipts from the sale of and the storage, use or other
consumption in this County of tangible personal property used for the
performance of a contract on public works executed prior to July 1, 1971.
   (J)   The gross receipts from the sale of and the storage, use or other
consumption in this County of tangible personal property used for the
performance of a written contract entered into prior to July 1, 1971.
   (K)   1. The gross receipts from sales and the storage, use or other
consumption of medicines:
         a.   Prescribed for the treatment of a human being by a person
authorized to prescribe medicines, and dispensed on a prescription filled by a
registered pharmacist in accordance with law; or
         b.   Furnished by a licensed physician, dentist or chiropodist to his
own patient for the treatment of the patient; or
         c.   Furnished by a hospital for treatment of any person pursuant to
the order of a licensed physician, dentist or chiropodist; or
         d.   Sold to licensed physicians, dentists, chiropodists or hospitals
for the treatment of a human being.
      2.   "Medicine" means any substance or preparation intended for use by
external or internal application to the human body in the diagnosis, cure,
mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease or affliction of the human body
and which is commonly recognized as a substance or preparation intended for
such use.
      3.   "Medicine" does not include:
         a.   Any auditory, prosthetic, ophthalmic or ocular device or
appliance.
         b.   Articles which are in the nature of splints, bandages, pads,
compresses, supports, dressings, instrument, crutches, canes, braces, devices
or other mechanical, electronic, optical or physical equipment.
         c.   Any alcoholic beverage, except where the alcohol merely provides
a solution in the ordinary preparation of a medicine as defined by subsection 2
hereof.
      4.   Insulin furnished by a registered pharmacist to a person for
treatment of diabetes as directed by a physician shall be deemed to be
dispensed on prescription within the meaning of this subsection.
   (L)   The gross receipts from occasional sales of tangible personal property
and the storage, use or other consumption in this County of tangible personal
property, the transfer of which to the purchaser is an occasional sale.
   (M)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax
the gross receipts from the sale of any tangible personal property to:
      1.   The United States, its unincorporated agencies and
instrumentalities.
      2.   Any incorporated agency or instrumentality of the United States
wholly owned by the United States or by a corporation wholly owned by the
United States.
      3.   The State of Nevada, its unincorporated agencies and
instrumentalities.
      4.   Any county, city, district or other political subdivision of the
State of Nevada.
      5.   Any organization created for religious, charitable or eleemosynary
purposes, provided that no part of the net earnings of any such organization
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
   (N)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax
the gross receipts from sales of tangible personal property to a common
carrier, shipped by the seller via the purchasing carrier under a bill of
lading, whether the freight is paid in advance or the shipment is made freight
charges collect, to a point outside this County and the property is actually
transported to the out-of-County destination for use by the carrier in the
conduct of its business as a common carrier.
   (O)   There are exempted from the computation of the amount of the sales tax
the gross receipts from any sale of tangible personal property which is shipped
to a point outside this County pursuant to the contract of sale by delivery by
the vendor to such point by means of:
      1.   Facilities operated by the vendor;
      2.   Delivery by the vendor to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point; or
      3.   Delivery by the vendor to a customs broker or forwarding agent for
shipment outside this County.
   (P)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the tax imposed under
this Chapter shall apply to the gross receipts from the sale of any tangible
personal property to contractors purchasing such property either as the agents
of the United States or for their own account and subsequent resale to the
United States for use in the performance of contracts with the United States
for the construction of improvements on or to real property, not including,
however, contractors qualified to issue and who do issue resale certificates to
vendors for tangible personal property for subsequent incorporation into real
property outside this County in the performance of a contract to improve the
out- of-County realty.
   (Q)   The storage, use or other consumption in this County of property, the
gross receipts from the sale of which are required to be included in the
measure of the sales tax is exempted from the use tax.
   (R)   If the purchaser certifies in writing to a seller that the property
purchased will be used in a manner or for a purpose entitling the seller to
regard the gross receipts from the sale as exempted by this Chapter from the
computation of the amount of the sales tax, and uses the property in some other
manner or for some other purpose, the purchaser shall be liable for payment of
sales tax as if he were a retailer making a retail sale of the property at the
time of such use, and the cost of the property to him shall be deemed the gross
receipts from such retail sale.
6-6-16: TAX PAYMENTS MADE QUARTERLY:
The taxes imposed by this Chapter are due and payable to the Tax Commission
quarterly on or before the last day of the month next succeeding each quarterly
period.
6-6-17: TAX RETURNS:
   (A)   1. On or before the last day of the month following each quarterly
period of three (3) months, a return for the preceding quarterly period shall
be filed with the Tax Commission in such form as the Tax Commission may
prescribe.
      2.   For purposes of the sales tax, a return shall be filed by every
seller. For purposes of the use tax, a return shall be filed by every retailer
maintaining a place of business in this County and by every person purchasing
tangible personal property, the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax, who has not paid the use tax due to a retailer required
to collect the tax.
      3.   Returns shall be signed by the person required to file the return or
by his duly authorized agent but need not be verified by oath.
   (B)   1. For the purposes of the sales tax, the return shall show the gross
receipts of the seller during the preceding reporting period. For purposes of
the use tax, in case of a return filed by a retailer, the return shall show the
total sales price of the property sold by him, the storage, use or consumption
of which property became subject to the use tax during the preceding reporting
period.
      2.   In case of a return filed by a purchaser, the return shall show the
total sales price of the property purchased by him, the storage, use or
consumption of which became subject to the use tax during the preceding
reporting period.
      3.   The return shall also show the amount of the taxes for the period
covered by the return and such other information as the Tax Commission deems
necessary for the proper administration of this Chapter.
6-6-18: PROCEDURE FOR PAYMENTS:
   (A)   The taxpayer shall deduct and withhold from the taxes otherwise due
from him, one-half of one percent (.5%) thereof to reimburse himself for the
cost of collecting the tax.
   (B)   The person required to file the return shall deliver the return
together with a remittance of the amount of the tax due to the office of the
Tax Commission.
   (C)   The Tax Commission, if it deems it necessary in order to insure
payment to or facilitate the collection by the County of the amount of taxes,
may require returns and payment of the amount of taxes for quarterly periods
other than calendar quarters, depending upon the principal place of business of
the seller, retailer or purchaser as the case may be, or for other than
quarterly periods.
6-6-19: RENTALS AND LEASES, SALES TAX:
For the purposes of the sales tax, gross receipts from rentals or leases of
tangible personal property shall be reported and the tax paid in accordance
with such rules and regulations as the Tax Commission may prescribe.
6-6-20: REVENUE STAMPS:
The Tax Commission if it deems it necessary to insure the collection of the
taxes, may provide by rules and regulation for the collection of the taxes by
the affixing and cancelling of revenue stamps and may prescribe the form and
method of the affixing and cancelling.
6-6-21: EXTENSION OF TIME:
   (A)   The Tax Commission for good cause may extend for not to exceed one
month the time for making any return or paying any amount required to be paid
under this Chapter.
   (B)   Any person to whom an extension is granted and who pays the tax within
the period for which the extension is granted shall pay, in addition to the
tax, interest at the rate of six percent (6%) per annum from the date on which
the tax would have been due without the extension until the date of payment.
6-6-22: AMOUNT OF TAX DUE:
   (A)   If the Tax Commission is not satisfied with the return or returns of
the tax or the amount of tax required to be paid to the County by any person,
it may compute and determine the amount required to be paid upon the basis of
the facts contained in the return or returns or upon the basis of any
information within its possession or that may come into its possession. One or
more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount due for one or for
more than one period.
   (B)   When a business is discontinued, a determination may be made at any
time thereafter within the periods specified in Section
6-6-25 of this Chapter as to liability arising out of that business,
irrespective of whether the determination is issued prior to the due date of
the liability as otherwise specified in this Chapter.
   (C)   The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear
interest at the rate of one-half of one percent (.5%) per month, or fraction
thereof from the last day of the month following the quarterly period for which
the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned until the date of
payment.
   (D)   In making a determination, the Tax Commission may offset overpayments
for a period or periods, together with interest on the overpayments, against
underpayments for another period or periods, against penalties and against the
interest on the underpayments. The interest on underpayments and overpayments
shall be computed in the manner set forth in Sections
6-6-27 and
6-6-37 of this Chapter.
6-6-23: NONSUFFICIENT TAX; EVASION:
If any part of the deficiency for which a deficiency determination is made is
due to negligence or intentional disregard of this Chapter or authorized rules
and regulations, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the
determination shall be added thereto.
If any part of the deficiency for which a deficiency determination is made is
due to fraud or an intent to evade this Chapter or authorized rules and
regulations, a penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of the amount of the
determination shall be added thereto.
6-6-24: NOTICE OF COMMISSION'S DETERMINATION:
   (A)   The Tax Commission shall give to the retailer or person storing, using
or consuming tangible personal property written notice of its determination.
   (B)   The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, the notice
shall be addressed to the retailer or person storing, using or consuming
tangible personal property at his address as it appears in the records of the
Tax Commission.
   (C)   In case of service by mail of any notice required by this Chapter, the
service is complete at the time of deposit in the United States post office.
6-6-25: NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY DETERMINATION:
   (A)   Except in the case of fraud, intent to evade this Chapter or
authorized rules and regulations issued thereunder, failure to make a return,
or claim for additional amount pursuant to Section
6-6-27(C) of this Chapter, every notice of a deficiency determination shall be
personally served or mailed within three (3) years after the last day of the
calendar month following the quarterly period for which the amount is proposed
to be determined or within three (3) years after the return is filed, whichever
period expires the later. In the case of failure to make a return, or claim for
additional amount pursuant to said Section
6-6-27(C) of this Chapter, every notice of determination shall be mailed or
personally served within eight (8) years after the last day of the calendar
month following the quarterly period for which the amount is proposed to be
determined.
   (B)   The limitation specified in this Section does not apply in case of a
sales tax proposed to be determined with respect to sales of property for the
storage, use or other consumption.of which notice of a deficiency determination
has been or is given pursuant to Sections
6-6-24 and
6-6-26 (E) and (G) of this Chapter, and to subsection (A) of this Section. The
limitation specified in this Section does not apply in case of an amount of use
tax proposed to be determined with respect to storage, use or other consumption
of property for the sale of which notice of a deficiency determination has been
or is given pursuant to said Sections
6-6-24 and
6-6-26 (E) and (G) hereof, and to subsection (A) of this Section.
   (C)   If, before the expiration of the time prescribed in this Section for
the mailing of a notice of deficiency determination, the taxpayer has consented
in writing to the mailing of the notice after such time, the notice may be
mailed at any time prior to the expiration of the period agreed upon. The
period so agreed upon may be extended by subsequent agreements in writing made
before the expiration of the period previously agreed upon.
6-6-26: FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN; DISCONTINUED BUSINESS' LIABILITY:
   (A)   If any person fails to make a return, the Tax Commission shall make an
estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of the person or, as the case may
be, of the amount of the total sales price of tangible personal property sold
or purchased by the person, the storage, use or other consumption of which in
this County is subject to the use tax. The estimate shall be made for the
period or periods in respect to which the person failed to make a return and
shall be based upon any information which is in the Tax Commission's possession
or may come into its possession. Upon the basis of this estimate, the Tax
Commission shall compute and determine the amount required to be paid to the
County, adding to the sum thus arrived at a penalty equal to ten percent (10%)
thereof. One or more determinations may be made for one or for more than one
period.
When a business is discontinued, a determination may be made at any time
thereafter within the periods specified in Section
6-6-25 hereof as to liability arising out of that business, irrespective of
whether the determination is issued prior to the due date of the liability as
otherwise specified in this Chapter.
   (B)   In making a determination, the Tax Commission may offset overpayments
for a period or periods, together with interest on the overpayments, against
underpayments for another period or periods, against penalties and against the
interest on the underpayments.
The interest on underpayments and overpayments shall be computed in the manner
set forth in Sections
6-6-27 and
6-6-37 of this Chapter.
   (C)   The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear
interest at the rate of one-half of one percent (.5%) per month, or fraction
thereof, from the last day of the month following the quarterly period for
which the amount or any portion thereof should have been returned until the
date of payment.
   (D)   If the failure of any person to file a return is due to fraud or
intent to evade this Chapter or rules and regulations hereof, a penalty of
twenty five percent (25%) of the amount required to be paid by the person,
exclusive of penalties, shall be added thereto in addition to the ten percent
(10%) penalty provided in Section
6-6-25 of this Chapter.
   (E)   Promptly after making its determination, the Tax Commission shall give
to the person written notice of the estimate, determination and penalty, the
notice to be served personally or by mail in the manner prescribed for service
of notice of a deficiency determination.
   (F)   If the Tax Commission believes that the collection of any tax or any
amount of tax required to be collected and paid to the County or of any
determination will be jeopardized by delay, it shall thereupon make a
determination of the tax or amount of tax required to be collected, noting that
fact upon the determination. The amount determined is due and payable
immediately.
   (G)   If the amount specified in the determination is not paid within ten
(10) days after service of notice thereof upon the person against whom the
determination is made, the amount becomes final at the expiration of the ten
(10) days, unless a petition for redetermination is filed within the ten (10)
days, and the delinquency penalty and the interest provided in Section
6-6-27(G) of this Chapter shall attach to the amount of the tax or the amount
of the tax required to be collected.
   (H)   The person against whom a jeopardy determination is made may petition
for the redetermination thereof pursuant to this Section. He shall, however,
file the petition for redetermination with the Tax Commission within ten (10)
days after the service upon him of notice of determination. The person shall
also within the ten (10) day period deposit with the Tax Commission such
security as it may deem necessary to insure compliance with this Chapter. The
security may be sold by the Tax Commission in the manner prescribed by Section
6-6-28 of this Chapter.
6-6-27: REDETERMINATIONS; PETITION:
   (A)   Any person against whom a determination is made, under Sections
6-6-22 to
6-6-26, inclusive, or any person directly interested may petition for a
redetermination within thirty (30) days after service upon the person of notice
thereof.
If a petition for redetermination is not filed within the thirty (30) day
period, the determination becomes final at the expiration of the period.
   (B)   If a petition for redetermination is filed within the thirty (30) day
period, the Tax Commission shall reconsider the determination and if the person
has so requested in his petition, shall grant the person an oral hearing and
shall give him ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of the hearing.
The Tax Commission may continue the hearing from time to time as may be
necessary.
   (C)   The Tax Commission may decrease or increase the amount of the
determination before it becomes final, but the amount may be increased only if
a claim for the increase is asserted by the Tax Commission at or before the
hearing.
   (D)   The order of decision of the Tax Commission upon a petition for
redetermination becomes final thirty (30) days after service upon the
petitioner of notice thereof.
   (E)   All determinations made by the Tax Commission under Sections
6-6-22 to
6-6-26 hereof, are due and payable at the time they become final. If they are
not paid when due and payable, a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of
the determination, exclusive of interest and penalties, shall be added thereto.
   (F)   Any notice required by this Section shall be served personally or by
mail in the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency
determination.
   (G)   Any person who fails to pay any tax to the County or any amount of tax
required to be collected and paid to the County, except amounts of
determinations made by the Tax Commission under Sections
6-6-22 to
6-6-26 inclusive, within the time required shall pay a penalty of ten percent
(10%) of the tax or amount of the tax, in addition to the tax or amount of tax,
plus interest at the rate of one-half of one percent (.5%) per month, or
fraction thereof, from the date on which the tax or the amount of tax required
to be collected becomes due and payable to the County, until the date of
payment.
6-6-28: SECURITY REQUIRED:
   (A)   The Tax Commission, whenever it deems it necessary to insure
compliance with this Chapter, may require any person subject thereto to place
with it such security as the Tax Commission may determine. The amount of the
security shall be fixed by said Commission but, except as noted below, shall
not be greater than twice the estimated average liability of persons filing
returns for quarterly periods or three (3) times the estimated average
liability of persons required to file return for monthly periods, determined in
such manner as the Tax Commission deems proper, or five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), whichever amount is the lesser.
   (B)   In case of persons habitually delinquent in their obligations under
this Chapter, the amount of the security shall not be greater than three (3)
times the average liability of persons filing returns for quarterly periods or
five (5) times the average liability of persons required to file returns for
monthly periods, or five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), whichever amount is the
lesser.
   (C)   The limitations herein provided apply regardless of the type of
security placed with the Tax Commission.
   (D)   The amount of the security may be increased or decreased by the Tax
Commission subject to the limitations herein provided.
   (E)   The Tax Commission may sell the security at public auction if it
becomes necessary so to do in order to recover any tax or any amount required
to be collected, interest or penalty due. Notice of the sale may be served upon
the person who placed the security personally or by mail; if by mail, service
shall be made in the manner prescribed for service of a notice of a deficiency
determination and shall be addressed to the person at his address as it appears
in the records of the Tax Commission. Security in the form of a bearer bond
issued by the United States, or the State of Nevada which has a prevailing
market price may, however, be sold by the Tax Commission at a private sale at a
price not lower than the prevailing market price thereof.
   (F)   Upon any sale any surplus above the amounts due shall be returned to
the person who placed the security.
6-6-29: DELINQUENCY IN PAYMENTS:
   (A)   If any person is delinquent in the payment of the amount required to
be paid by him or in the event a determination has been made against him which
remains unpaid, the Tax Commission may, not later than three (3) years after
the payment became delinquent, or within three (3) years after the last
recording of an abstract under Section
6-6-31(C) of this Chapter, or of a certificate under Section
6-6-32(B) hereof, give notice thereof personally or by registered mail to all
persons, including any officer or department of the State or any political
subdivision or agency of the State, having in their possession or under their
control any credits or other personal property belonging to the delinquent, or
owing any debts to the delinquent or person against whom a determination has
been made which remains unpaid, or owing any debts to the delinquent or such
person. In the case of any State officer, department or agency, the notice
shall be given to such officer, department or agency prior to the time it
presents the claim of the delinquent taxpayer to the State Controller.
   (B)   After receiving the notice, the persons so notified shall neither
transfer nor make any other disposition of the credits, other personal property
or debts in their possession or under their control at the time they received
the notice until the Tax Commission consents to a transfer or disposition, or
until sixty (60) days elapse after the receipt of the notice, whichever period
expires earlier.
   (C)   All persons so notified shall, within ten (10) days after receipt of
the notice, advise the Tax Commission of all such credits, other personal
property or debts in their possession, under their control or owing by them.
   (D)   If such notice seeks to prevent the transfer or other disposition of a
deposit in a bank or other credits or personal property in the possession or
under the control of a bank, the notice to be effective shall be delivered or
mailed to the branch or office of such bank at which such deposit is carried or
at which such credits or personal property is held.
   (E)   If, during the effective period of the notice to withhold, any person
so notified makes any transfer or disposition of the property or debts required
to be withheld hereunder, to the extent of the value of the property or the
amount of the debts thus transferred under this Chapter from the person with
respect to whose obligation the notice was given if solely by reason of such
transfer or disposition the County is unable to recover the indebtedness of the
person with respect to whose obligation the notice was given.
6-6-30: ACTION TO COLLECT TAX:
   (A)   At any time within three (3) years after any tax or any amount of tax
required to be collected becomes due and payable, and at any time within three
(3) years after the delinquency of any tax or any amount of tax required to be
collected, or within three (3) years after the last recording of an abstract,
under Section
6-6-31(C) of this Chapter, or of a certificate under Section
6-6-32(B) hereof, the Tax Commission may bring an action in the courts of this
State, or any other state, or of the United States, in the name of the County
to which the tax is due and payable to collect the amount delinquent together
with penalties and interest.
   (B)   The Attorney General, State of Nevada, shall prosecute the action on
behalf of the County and the provisions of N.R.S. and the Nevada Rules of Civil
Procedure relating to service of summons, pleadings, proofs, trials and appeals
are applicable to the proceedings.
   (C)   In the action, a writ of attachment may issue, and no bond or
affidavit previous to the issuing of the attachment is required.
   (D)   In the action a certificate by the Tax Commission showing the
delinquency shall be prima facie evidence of the determination of the tax or
the amount of the tax, of the delinquency of the amounts set forth, and of the
compliance by the Tax Commission with all the provisions of this Chapter in
relation to the computation and determination of the amount.
   (E)   In any action relating to the use tax brought under this Chapter,
process may be served according to the Nevada Rules of Civil Procedure or may
be served upon any agent or clerk in this State employed by any retailer in a
place of business maintained by the retailer in this State. In the latter case
a copy of the process shall forthwith be sent by registered mail to the
retailer at his principal or home office.
6-6-31: FAILURE TO PAY DETERMINATION; JUDGMENT LIEN:
   (A)   If any amount required to be paid to the County under this Chapter is
not paid when due, the Tax Commission may, within three (3) years after the
amount is due, file in the office of the County Clerk a certificate specifying
the amount required to be paid, interest and penalty due, the name and address
as it appears on the records of the Tax Commission of the person liable, the
compliance of the Tax Commission with this Chapter in relation to the
determination of the amount required to be paid, and a request that judgment be
entered against the person in the amount required to be paid, together with
interest and penalty as set forth in the certificate.
   (B)   The County Clerk, immediately upon the filing of the certificate,
shall enter a judgment for this County to which the tax is due and payable
against the person in the amount required to be paid, together with interest
and penalty as set forth in the certificate.
   (C)   1. An abstract of the judgment or a copy may be filed for record with
the County Recorder of any county.
      2.   From the time of the filing, the amount required to be paid,
together with interest and penalty set forth, constitutes a lien upon all the
real property in such county owned by the person liable or afterwards and
before the liens expire acquired by him. The lien has the force, effect and
priority of a judgment lien and shall continue for five (5) years from the date
of the judgment so entered by the County Clerk unless sooner released or
otherwise discharged.
      3.   The lien may, within five (5) years from the date of the judgment or
within five (5) years from the date of the last extension of the lien in the
manner herein provided, be extended by filing for record in the office of the
County Recorder of any county an abstract or copy of the judgment, and from the
time of such filing the line shall be extended to the real property in such
county for five (5) years, unless sooner released or otherwise discharged.
   (D)   Execution shall issue upon the judgment upon the request of the Tax
Commission in the same manner as execution may issue upon other judgments, and
sales shall be held under such execution as prescribed in N.R.S.
6-6-32: PAYMENTS SATISFIED:
   (A)   1. The amounts required to be paid by any person under this Chapter,
together with interest and penalties, shall be satisfied first in any of the
following cases:
         a.   Whenever the person is insolvent.
         b.   Whenever the person makes a voluntary assignment of his assets.
         c.   Whenever the estate of the person in the hands of executors,
administrators or heirs is insufficient to pay all of the debts due from the
deceased.
         d.   Whenever the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed or
absent person required to pay any amount under this Chapter are levied upon by
process of law.
      2.   This subsection does not give this County a preference over any
recorded lien which attached prior to the date when the amounts required to be
paid became a lien; or preference over costs of administration, funeral
expenses, expenses of last illness, family allowances, debts preferred by the
laws of the United States or wages as provided in N.R.S. 150.220.
   (B)   1. If any amount required to be paid to this County under this Chapter
is not paid when due, the Tax Commission may, within three (3) years after the
amount is due, file for record in the office of the County Recorder of this
County or of any other County, a certificate specifying the amount, interest
and penalty due, the name and address as it appears on the records of the Tax
Commission of the person liable for the same, and the fact that the Tax
Commission has complied with all provisions of this Chapter in the
determination of the amount required to be paid.
      2.   From the time of the filing for record, the amount required to be
paid, together with interest and penalty, constitutes a lien upon all real
property in the County where filed owned by the person or afterwards and before
the lien expires acquired by him. The lien has the force, effect and priority
of a judgment lien and shall continue for five (5) years from the time of the
filing of the certificate unless sooner released or otherwise discharged.
      3.   The lien may, within five (5) years from the date of the filing of
the certificate or within five (5) years from the date of the last extension of
the lien in the manner herein provided, be extended by filing for record a new
certificate in the office of the County Recorder of any such county, and from
the time of such filing the lien shall be extended to the real property in such
county for five (5) years, unless sooner released or otherwise discharged.
6-6-33: RELEASE FROM LIEN; CERTIFICATE:
The Tax Commission may at any time release all or any portion of the property
subject to any lien provided for in this Chapter from the lien or subordinate
the lien to other liens and encumbrances if it determines that the amount,
interest and penalties are secured sufficiently by a lien on other property or
that the release or subordination of the lien will not jeopardize the
collection of the amount, interest and penalties.
A certificate shall be issued by the Tax Commission to the effect that any
property has been released from the lien o r that conclusive evidence that the
property has been released, or that the lien has been subordinated as provided
in the certificate.
6-6-34: WARRANT FOR ENFORCEMENT OF LIENS:
   (A)   At any time within three (3) years after any person is delinquent in
the payment of any amount herein required to be paid, or within three (3) years
after the last recording of an abstract under Section
6-6-31 hereof, or of a certificate under Section
6-6-32 of this Chapter, the Tax Commission or its authorized representative may
issue a warrant for the enforcement of any liens and for the collection of any
amount required to be paid to the County under this Chapter.
   (B)   The warrant shall be directed to any sheriff or constable and shall
have the same effect as a writ of execution.
   (C)   The warrant shall be levied and sale made pursuant to it in the same
manner and with the same effect as a levy of and a sale pursuant to a writ of
execution.
   (D)   The Tax Commission may pay or advance to the sheriff or constable the
same fees, commissions and expenses for his services as are provided by law for
similar services pursuant to a writ of execution. The Tax Commission and not
the court shall approve the fees for publication in a newspaper.
   (E)   The fees, commissions and expenses are the obligation of the person
required to pay any amount under this Chapter and may be collected from him by
virtue of the warrant or in any other manner provided in this Chapter for the
collection of the tax.
6-6-35: SEIZURE, SALE OF PROPERTY:
   (A)   1. At any time within three (3) years after any person is delinquent
in the payment of any amount, the Tax Commission forthwith may collect the
amount in the following manner: The Tax Commission shall seize any property,
real or personal, of the person and sell the property, or a sufficient part of
it, at public auction to pay the amount due together with any interest or
penalties imposed for the delinquency and any costs incurred on account of the
seizure and sale.
      2.   Any seizure made to collect a sales tax due shall be only of the
property of the retailer not except from execution under the provisions of
N.R.S.
   (B)   1. Notice of the sale and the time and place thereof shall be given to
the delinquent person in writing at least ten (10) days before the date set for
the sale in the following manner: The notice shall be enclosed in an envelope
addressed to the person, in case of a sale for use taxes due, at his last known
address or place of business and, in case of a sale for sales taxes due at his
last known residence or place of business in this State. It shall be deposited
in the United States mail, postage prepaid. The notice shall also be published
for at least ten (10) days before the date set for the sale in a newspaper of
general circulation published in the County in which the property seized is to
be sold. If there is no newspaper of general circulation in the County, notice
shall be posted in three (3) public places in the County ten (10) days prior to
the date set for the sale.
      2.   The notice shall contain a description of the property to be sold, a
statement of the amount due, including interest, penalties and costs, the name
of the delinquent and the further statement that unless the amount due,
interest, penalties and costs are paid on or before the time fixed in the
notice for the sale, the property or so much of it as may be necessary will be
sold in accordance with law and the notice.
   (C)   1. At the sale the Tax Commission shall sell the property in
accordance with law and the notice and shall deliver to the purchaser a bill of
sale for the personal property and a deed for any real property sold. The bill
of sale or deed vests the interests or title of the person liable for the
amount in the purchaser.
      2.   The unsold portion of any property seized may be left at the place
of sale at the risk of the person liable for the amount.
   (D)   1. If, upon the sale, the moneys received exceed the total of all
amounts, including interest, penalties and costs due the County, the Tax
Commission shall return the excess to the person liable for the amounts and
obtain his receipt.
      2.   If any person having an interest in or lien upon the property files
with the Tax Commission, prior to the sale, notice of his interest or lien, the
Tax Commission shall withhold any excess, pending a determination of the rights
of the respective parties thereto by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      3.   If for any reason the receipt of the person liable for the amount is
not available, the Tax Commission shall deposit the excess moneys with the
County Treasurer, as trustee for the owner, subject to the order of the person
liable for the amount, his heirs, successors or assigns.
6-6-36: SALE OF BUSINESS; PAYMENT OF TAX:
If a retailer liable for any amount due under this Chapter sells out his
business or stock of goods, or quits the business, his successors or assigns
shall withhold sufficient of the purchase price to cover such amount until the
former owner produces a receipt from the Tax Commission showing that it has
been paid or a certificate stating that no amount is due.
   (A)   If the purchaser of a business or stock of goods fails to withhold the
purchase price as required, he becomes personally liable for the payment of the
amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price,
valued in money. Within sixty (60) days after receiving a written request from
the purchaser for a certificate, or within sixty (60) days from the date the
former owner's records are made available for audit, whichever period expires
the later, but in any event not later than ninety (90) days after receiving the
request, the Tax Commission shall either issue the certificate or mail notice
to the purchaser at his address as it appears on the records of the Tax
Commission, of the amount that must be paid as a condition of issuing the
certificate.
   (B)   Failure of the Tax Commission to mail the notice will release the
purchaser from any further obligation to withhold the purchase price as above
specified.
   (C)   The time within which the obligation of a successor may be enforced
shall start to run at the time the retailer sells out his business or stock of
goods or at the time that the determination against the retail becomes final,
whichever event occurs the later.
6-6-37: OVERPAYMENT OF TAX:
   (A)   1. If the Tax Commission determines that any amount, penalty or
interest has been paid more than once or has been erroneously or illegally
collected or computed, the Tax Commission shall set forth that fact in the
records of said Commission and shall certify to the Board of County
Commissioners the amount collected in excess of the amount legally due and the
person from whom it was collected or by whom paid. If approved by the Board of
County Commissioners, the excess amount collected or paid shall be credited on
any amounts then due and payable from the person under this Chapter and the
balance shall be refunded to the person, or his successors, administrators or
executors.
      2.   Any overpayment of the use tax by a purchaser to a retailer who is
required to collect the tax and who gives the purchaser a receipt therefor
pursuant to Sections
6-6-8 to
6-6-14, inclusive, of this Chapter, shall be credited or refunded by the
County.
   (B)   1. No refund shall be allowed unless a claim therefor is filed with
the Tax Commission within three (3) years from the last day of the month
following the close of the quarterly period for which the overpayment was made,
or with respect to determinations made under Sections
6-6-19 to
6-6-25, inclusive, of this Chapter within six (6) months after determinations
become final, or within six (6) months from the date of overpayment, whichever
period expires the later.
      2.   No credit shall be allowed after the expiration of the period
specified for filing claims for refund unless a claim for credit is filed with
the Tax Commission within such period, or unless the credit relates to a period
for which a waiver is given pursuant to Section
6-6-25 of this Chapter.
   (C)   No credit or refund of any amount paid pursuant to Sections
6-6-8 to
6-6-14, inclusive, of this Chapter shall be allowed on the ground that the
storage, use or other consumption of the property is exempted under Section
6-6-15(Q) of this Chapter, unless the person who paid the amount reimburses his
vendor for the amount of the sales tax imposed upon his vendor with respect to
the sale of the property and paid by the vendor to the County.
   (D)   Every claim shall be in writing and shall state the specific grounds
upon which the claim is founded.
   (E)   Failure to file a claim within the time prescribed in subsection (B)
of this Section constitutes a waiver of any demand against the County on
account of overpayment.
   (F)   Within thirty (30) days after disallowing any claim in whole or in
part, the Tax Commission shall serve notice of its action on the claimant in
the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency determination.
   (G)   1. Interest shall be paid upon any overpayment of any amount of tax at
the rate of one-half of one percent (.5%) per month from the last day of the
calendar month following the quarterly period for which the overpayment was
made; but no refund or credit shall be made of any interest imposed upon the
person making the overpayment with respect to the amount being refunded or
credited.
      2.   The interest shall be paid as follows:
         a.   In the case of a refund, to the last day of the calendar month
following the date upon which the person making the overpayment, if he has not
already filed a claim, is notified by the Tax Commission that a claim may be
filed or the date upon which the claim is certified to the Board of County
Commissioners, whichever date is the earlier.
         b.   In the case of a credit, to the same date as that to which
interest is computed on the tax or amount against which the credit is applied.
   (H)   If the Tax Commission determines that any overpayment has been made
intentionally or by reason of carelessness, it shall not allow any interest
thereon.
6-6-38: ACTIONS PROHIBITED:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the State, a
county, any officer thereof to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
Chapter of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected.
6-6-39: CLAIM FOR RECOVERY:
No suit or proceeding shall be maintained in any court for the recovery of any
amount alleged to have been erroneously or illegally determined or collected
unless a claim for refund or credit has been duly filed.
   (A)   Within ninety (90) days after the mailing of the notice of the Tax
Commission's action upon a claim filed pursuant to this Chapter, the claimant
may bring an action against the Tax Commission on the grounds set forth in the
claim in a court of competent jurisdiction in any County for the recovery of
the whole or any part of the amount with respect to which the claim has been
disallowed.
   (B)   Failure to bring action within the time specified constitutes a waiver
of any demand against the County on account of alleged overpayments.
6-6-40: ACTION FOR RECOVERY OF OVERPAYMENT:
   (A)   If the Tax Commission fails to mail notice of action on a claim within
six (6) months after the claim is filed, the claimant may, prior to the mailing
of notice by the Tax Commission of its action on the claim, consider the claim
disallowed and bring an action against the Tax Commission on the grounds set
forth in the claim for recovery of the whole or any part of the amount claimed
as an overpayment.
   (B)   If judgment is rendered for the plaintiff, the amount of the judgment
shall first be credited as follows:
      1.   If the judgment is for a refund of sales taxes, it shall be credited
on any sales or use tax or amount of use tax due the plaintiff.
      2.   If the judgment is for a refund of use taxes, it shall be credited
on any use tax or amount of use tax due from the plaintiff under Sections
6-6-8 to
6-6-14, inclusive, of this Chapter.
The balance of the judgment shall be refunded to the plaintiff.
   (C)   In any judgment, interest shall be allowed at the rate of seven
percent (7%) per annum upon the amount found to have been illegally collected
from the date of payment of the amount to the date of allowance of credit on
account of the judgment, or to a date preceding the date of the refund warrant
by not more than thirty (30) days, the date to be determined by the Tax
Commission.
   (D)   A judgment shall not be rendered in favor of the plaintiff in any
action brought against the Tax Commission to recover any amount paid when the
action is brought by or in the name of an assignee of the person paying the
amount or by any person other than the person who paid the amount.
   (E)   The Tax Commission may recover any refund or part thereof which is
erroneously made and any credit or part thereof which is erroneously allowed in
an action brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the County, in the
name of the County.
   (F)   The Nevada Attorney General, on behalf of the County, shall prosecute
the action and the provisions of N.R.S. and the Nevada Rules of Civil Procedure
relating to service of summons, pleadings, proofs, trials and appeals are
applicable to the proceedings.
   (G)   1. If any amount in excess of twenty five dollars ($25.00) has been
illegally determined, either by the person filing the return or by the Tax
Commission, the Tax Commission shall certify this fact to the Board of County
Commissioners and such Board shall authorize the cancellation of the amount
upon the records of the Tax Commission.
      2.   If an amount not exceeding twenty five dollars ($25.00) has been
illegally determined, either by the person filing a return or by the Tax
Commission, the Tax Commission, without certifying this fact to such Board,
shall authorize the cancellation of the amount upon the records of the Tax
Commission.
6-6-41: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   1. The Tax Commission shall enforce the provisions of this Chapter and
may prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations relating to the
administration and enforcement of this Chapter.
      2.   The Tax Commission may prescribe the extent to which any ruling or
regulation shall be applied without retroactive effect.
   (B)   The Tax Commission may employ accountants, auditors, investigators,
assistants and clerks, necessary for the efficient administration of this
Chapter, and may delegate authority to its representatives to conduct hearings,
prescribe regulations or perform any other duties imposed by this Chapter.
   (C)   1. Every seller, every retailer and every person storing, using or
otherwise consuming in this County tangible personal property purchased from a
retailer shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent papers
in such form as the Tax Commission may require.
      2.   Every such seller, retailer or person who files the returns required
under this Chapter shall keep such records for not less than four (4) years
from the making of such records unless the Tax Commission, in writing, sooner
authorizes their destruction.
      3.   Every such seller, retailer or person who fails to file the returns
required under this Chapter shall keep such record for not less than eight (8)
years from the making of such records unless the Tax Commission, in writing,
sooner authorizes their destruction.
   (D)   The Tax Commission, or any person authorized in writing by it, may
examine the books, papers, records and equipment of any person selling tangible
personal property and any person liable for the use tax and may investigate the
character of the business of the person in order to verify the accuracy of any
return made or, if no return is made by the person, to ascertain and determine
the amount required to be paid.
6-6-42: REPORTS ON USE TAX:
In administration of the use tax, the Tax Commission may require the filing of
reports by any person or class of persons having in his or their possession or
custody information relating to sales of tangible personal property the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the tax. The report
shall:
   (A)   Be filed when the Tax Commission requires;
   (B)   Set forth the names and addresses of purchasers of the tangible
personal property, the sales price of the property, the date of sale and such
other information as the Tax Commission may require.
6-6-43: INFORMATION KEPT CONFIDENTIAL:
   (A)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any member or official or employee of
the Tax Commission to make known in any manner whatever the business affairs,
operations or information obtained by an investigation obtained by an
investigation of records and equipment of any retailer or any other person
visited or examined in the discharge o f official duty, or the amount or source
of income, profits, losses, expenditures or any particular thereof, set forth
or disclosed in any return, or to permit any return or copy thereof, or any
book containing any abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by
any person not connected with the Tax Commission.
   (B)   The Governor may, however, by general or special order, authorize
examination of the records maintained by the Tax Commission under this Chapter
by other State officers, by tax officers of another state, by the Federal
Government, if a reciprocal arrangement exists, or by any other person. The
information so obtained pursuant to the order of the Governor shall not be made
public except to the extent and in the manner that the order may authorize that
it be made public.
   (C)   Successors, receivers, trustees, executors, administrators, assignees
and guarantors, if directly interested, may be given information as to the
items included in the measure and amounts of any unpaid tax or amounts of tax
required to be collected, interest and penalties.
6-6-44: FALSE, FRAUDULENT RETURNS:
Any retailer or other person who fails or refuses to furnish any return
required to be made, or who fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return
or other data required by the Tax Commission, or who renders a false or
fraudulent return, or any person who violates any provision of this Chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
Any person required to make, render, sign or verify any report who makes any
false or fraudulent return, with intent to defeat or evade the determination of
an amount due required by law to be made, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
subject to a fine of not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense.
6-6-45: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   In the determination of any case arising under this Chapter the rule
of res judicata is applicable only if the liability involved is for the same
quarterly period as was involved in another case previously determined.
   (B)   The remedies of the County provided for in this Chapter are
cumulative, and no action taken by the Tax Commission or the Attorney General
constitutes an election by the County to pursue any remedy to the exclusion of
any other remedy for which provision is made in this Chapter.
   (C)   Any person who shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor under the
provisions of this Chapter shall, unless otherwise specified in this Chapter,
upon conviction thereof, be fined in the sum of not more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment in the County jail for a term not to exceed
six (6) months or punished by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   All amendments to the Local School Support Tax Law, Chapter 374 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes, shall automatically become a part of this Chapter on
their respective effective dates.
   (E)   Prior to July 1, 1971, the Board of County Commissioners shall
contract with the Tax Commission to perform all functions incidental to the
administration and operation of this Chapter. (Ord. 1971-E, 6-10-71; eff. 7-1-
71)
CHAPTER 7
ROOM TAX
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Imposition of Tax; Tax Rate
6-7-3: License Required
6-7-4: Exemptions and Exceptions
6-7-5: Tax Collected from Lessee
6-7-6: Display of Notice
6-7-7: Authority to Collect Notice
6-7-8: Payment of Tax, Interest and Penalties
6-7-9: Period of License
6-7-10: Examination of Books and Records
6-7-11: Uses and Purposes of Tax Revenue
6-7-12: Refunds
6-7-13: Misdemeanor
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless it is apparent from the context that another meaning is intended, the
following words and phrases, when used herein, shall have the meaning as
hereinafter defined:
COUNTY The County of Elko, State of Nevada.
COUNTY BOARD The Board of County Commissioners, County of Elko, State of
Nevada. (Ord. 1968-A, 2-14-68, eff. 3-1-68)
ELKO CITY-COUNTY CIVIC AUDITORIUM AUTHORITY The Auditorium Authority created by
chapter 227, Statutes of Nevada, 1975, as amended from time to time. (Ord.
1979-B, 2-8-79, eff. 3-1-79)
ROOM TAX A tax imposed herein and by the authority of the laws of Nevada and
especially Section N.R.S. 244.335, and all amendments thereto.
PERSON Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, individual,
executor, administrator, trustee, receiver or other representative. (Ord. 1968-
A, 2-14-68, eff. 3-1-68)
LESSEE Any person renting rooms or accommodations from a licensee including on
a "package deal" basis.
LICENSEE Any person operating or conducting a rental business including on a
"package deal" basis.
RENTAL BUSINESS The operation of any hotel, motel, auto or motor court, lodge
or cottages, lodging house, apartment, apartment- houses, apartment-house hotel
or motel, rooming house, trailer court, trailer park, tourist camp, tourist
cabins, tourist cottages or other accommodations having four (4) or more rooms
for rent including on a "package deal" basis.
GROSS INCOME The gross revenue received for the rental of rooms, less the
license tax hereby required and less any other excise tax required by law to be
included in or added to the rental price of rooms and which are to be collected
from a customer or renter. In case of a packaged deal, the gross income shall
be the gross revenue received for the rental of rooms that the licensee would
have collected from the lessee had it not been a packaged deal. (Ord. dated 6-
5-74, eff. 6-17-74)
TAX ADMINISTRATOR The Treasurer of the County of Elko, State of Nevada. (Ord.
1968-A, 2-14-68, eff. 3-1-68)
PACKAGED DEAL An arrangement between a licensee and a lessee whereby lessee
receives prescribed amounts of gaming chips, food, drink, rooms or
accommodations and/or other benefits of the licensed rental business, all for a
fixed fee. (Ord. dated 6-5-74, eff. 6-17-74)
6-7-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX; TAX RATE:
   (A)   There is hereby fixed and imposed a license tax on every person
operating, conducting or engaging in a rental business within the County
(outside and beyond the limits of the incorporated towns and cities within the
County), on the gross receipts received or derived from such rental in as
follows:
      1.   In the unincorporated town of Jackpot, Nevada, the tax shall be
seven percent (7%) of the gross receipts.
      2.   In the unincorporated town of West Wendover, Nevada, the tax shall
be nine percent (9%) of the gross receipts.
      3.   Throughout the rest of the County of Elko, except within the Elko
City-County Civic Auditorium Authority boundaries, the tax shall be five
percent (5%) of the gross receipts.
      4.   Within the Elko City-County Civic Auditorium Authority boundaries,
the tax shall be four percent (4%) of the gross receipts. (Ord. 1989-W, 1-3-90,
eff. 2-1-90)
   (B)   In addition to the tax as set forth in subsection (A), there is hereby
fixed and imposed a Convention Center-Auditorium Fund Room Tax in the amount of
three percent (3%) of the gross income received by each licensee derived from
room rentals located within the boundaries of the Elko City-County Civic
Auditorium Authority in the extent that boundaries are outside the City of Elko
as set forth in chapter 227, Statutes of Nevada, 1975, as amended from time to
time. (Ord. 1979-B, 2-8-79, eff. 3-1-79)
   (C)   In addition to the tax imposed and set forth in subsections (A) and
(B) above, there is fixed and imposed, effective May 9, 1983, a tax on every
licensee operating, conducting or engaging in a rental of lodging business
within the County (outside and beyond the limits of any incorporated cities
within the County), at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross income
received or derived for lodging or room rentals from such endeavors, business,
or enterprise. Three-eighths (3/8) of the proceeds of said tax shall be paid to
the Department of Taxation, State of Nevada, for the fund for the promotion of
tourism established in chapter 231 of the Nevada Revised Statutes; the
remaining five- eighths (5/8) of all proceeds of the tax shall be deposited
with the County Recreation Board created pursuant to NRS 244A.597 and NRS
244A.598, to be used to advertise the resources of the County related to
tourism, including, but not limited to, available accommodations,
transportation, entertainment, natural resources, climate and to promote
special events. This tax shall be collected and administered pursuant to NRS
244.355. (Ord. 1983-I, 5-5-83, eff. 5-17-83)
6-7-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either for himself or for another, to
commence or to carry on any Rental Business within the County (outside and
beyond the limits of incorporated towns and cities within the County) without
having first procured a license from the Tax Administrator so to do, provided
that such license may be secured within ten (10) days of commencement of a
Rental Business, the license, however, to bear date as of the day of
commencement of Rental Business and to be retroactive thereto. Licenses shall
be obtained upon written application on a form required by the County. The
license issued shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the business
premises.
Any license issued by the County Fair and Recreation Board prior to the
effective date hereof shall be honored and accepted hereunder until it shall by
its terms expire or through June 30, 1968, whichever is sooner.
6-7-4: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
There shall be and hereby is exempted from the license tax, each rental of a
room or rooms whereby the lessee obtains said room or rooms for a period of
twenty eight (28) days or more and the price to be paid for the rental of the
room or rooms is negotiated on such period of time.
6-7-5: TAX COLLECTED FROM LESSEE:
Each licensee is and shall be required to add the requisite tax to the rental
price of the room and shall obtain from lessee of the room, in addition to the
rental price, the required tax. All registration cards or other documents or
records maintained by the licensee shall be so drawn or made so that the amount
of the tax shall be shown or computed separately from the rental price of the
room. (Ord. 1968-A, 2-14-68, eff. 3-1-68)
6-7-6: DISPLAY OF NOTICE:
   (A)   Each licensee shall prominently display in each room or suite of rooms
rented or leased or, at the option of licensee, in the lobby or in the
immediate vicinity of the registration desk, a sign with the appropriate tax
reading substantially as follows:
   NOTICE
This business is required by law to collect a tax in the amount of      
percent (   %) of the total rental charges on the rental of any room rented for
a period of less than twenty eight (28) days.
                                 
                        THE MANAGEMENT
   (B)   The amount of tax required to be displayed on the sign described in
subsection (A), above shall be as follows:
      1.   In West Wendover the tax shall be ten percent (10%).
      2.   In Jackpot the tax shall be eight percent (8%).
      3.   Within the boundaries of the Elko City-County Civic Auditorium
Authority the tax shall be eight percent (8%).
      4.   Throughout the remainder of the County of Elko the tax shall be six
percent (6%). (Ord. 1989-W, 1-3-90, eff. 2-1-90)
6-7-7: AUTHORITY TO COLLECT TAX:
The Tax Administrator is hereby authorized and empowered to collect the revenue
and proceeds of said room tax, interest and penalties, and is further empowered
to enforce the provisions of this Chapter by all appropriate and lawful means
and to bring suit for any money or revenue due hereunder. The Tax Administrator
is further empowered to enforce all criminal provisions of this Chapter.
6-7-8: PAYMENT OF TAX, INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
The licensee shall pay the required tax to the Tax Administrator on or before
the tenth day of the month following the month when such tax shall accrue (the
tax shall accrue as of the time the room is rented). The licensee shall have a
grace period of five (5) days within which to pay the tax to the Tax
Administrator, but in the event such tax is not paid on or before the fifteenth
of the month following the month in which it accrues, then the licensee shall
pay a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the unpaid, due and delinquent tax, plus
interest at the rate of one percent (1%) per month on such delinquent room tax
from the date of delinquency; that is, the fifteenth day of the month, to the
date of payment of such tax, but the interest shall in no event exceed thirty
percent (30%) of the tax. The licensee shall also pay the cost of collection of
the tax, penalty and interest including court costs and attorney fees.
The Tax Administrator, at his discretion, may permit the license to pay the tax
on a quarterly basis rather than a monthly basis, no such payment privilege to
be allowed, however, until the licensee has first obtained written consent
thereto from the Tax Administrator. Payments to be made on the quarterly basis
shall likewise be due on or before the tenth day of the month following the
quarterly period and shall become delinquent if not paid on or before the
fifteenth day of the month following the quarterly period.
6-7-9: PERIOD OF LICENSE:
The license required hereunder shall be issued on a fiscal year basis of July 1
through June 30. No license issued hereunder shall be transferable. There shall
be no charge made to the licensee for such license. As heretofore specified in
Section
6-7-3 above, all licenses issued by the Elko County Fair and Recreation Board
prior to March 1, 1968, shall be valid and remain in effect until the
expiration date specified on such license, and if no termination date is
specified thereon, then all such licenses shall terminate June 30, 1968.
6-7-10: EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
The Tax Administrator and his duly authorized and acting employees and agents
is empowered to examine all the books, papers and records of any licensee or
person operating a Rental Business and to make investigations in connection
therewith. (Ord. 1968-A, 2-14-68, eff. 3-1-68)
6-7-11: USES AND PURPOSES OF TAX REVENUE:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Board of Commissioners shall
use the revenue received from the provisions of this Chapter for any and all
lawful governmental purposes pursuant to the powers and authority given the
said Board of Commissioners by the Nevada Revised Statutes, and the said Board
of Commissioners are specifically authorized and empowered to use and expend
said revenue for recreational facilities and, to accomplish such end, may
assign, transfer and set over to the Elko County Fair and Recreation Board, all
or any portion of said revenue for the purposes stated in N.R.S. 244.640 et
seq., and as shall be amended, and in such manner as shall be commensurate with
such statutory provisions.
   (B)   All revenue derived from the Convention Center-Auditorium Fund Room
Tax shall be paid to the Elko City-County Civic Auditorium Authority to be used
by it to plan, construct, finance, maintain, operate, repair, equip, furnish,
improve and manage the Convention Center-Auditorium project and facilities, as
it shall determine and to carry out its powers under chapter 227 of 1975 Nevada
Statutes, as may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 1979-B, 2-8-79, eff. 3-1-
79)
   (C)   All revenue derived from the one percent (1%) tax on gross receipts of
the rental of lodging in Elko County imposed by emergency ordinance and set
forth in Elko County Code Section
6-7-2, effective May 9, 1983, for the promotion of tourism, shall be divided,
distributed and used as follows:
      1.   Three-eighths (3/8) of all proceeds shall be remitted to the State
Department of Taxation for deposit in the fund for promotion of tourism.
      2.   Five-eighths (5/8) of all proceeds shall be deposited with the
County Recreation Board to be used to advertise the County's tourist
attractions, events and facilities. (Ord. 1983-K, 7-6-83, eff. 8-1-83)
   (D)   Except for forty thousand dollars ($40,000.00) in each fiscal year
which is to be retained for operating and maintenance expenses of existing
facilities, all proceeds from the license tax collected on every person
operating, conducting, or engaging in a rental business within the
unincorporated Town of West Wendover, Nevada, in accordance with Elko County
Code
6-7-2(A), as amended from time to time, is hereby assigned to the Wendover
Recreation District, a general improvement district, for those purposes
authorized by N.R.S. 318.143. The West Wendover Recreation District may
irrevocably pledge the room tax proceeds assigned herein for: (a) The repayment
of any bonds or short term obligations issued pursuant to chapters 318, 350 or
354 of N.R.S. for any lawful purpose pertaining to the furnishing of
recreational facilities; or (b) The refinancing of any such bonds or
obligations. Before any such pledge may occur, the consent of the Board of
County Commissioners must be obtained by resolution. Further, if any proceeds
are pledged pursuant to this paragraph for the purposes described herein, the
Board of County Commissioners of Elko County, Nevada, may not revoke any such
assignment of proceeds until the bonds or short term obligations for which such
proceeds were pledged have been completely repaid. (Ord. 1985-I, 6-5-85, eff.
7-24-85)
6-7-12: REFUNDS:
The Tax Administrator shall have the authority to refund, without interest, to
the licensee, any tax improperly collected by the Tax Administrator.
6-7-13: MISDEMEANOR:
Every person in Elko County either for himself or as an agent of another,
commences, engages in, conducts or carries on any rental business for which a
license is herein required without first procuring such license or shall fail
or refuse to pay the room tax as herein provided, or who shall violate any of
the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding three hundred
dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in the jail for not exceeding ninety (90)
days or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 1968-A, 2-14-68, eff. 3-1-68)
CHAPTER 8
ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Assembly Defined
6-8-2: License Required
6-8-3: Application for License; Time; Contents
6-8-4: Hearing; Notice; Investigation; Grant, Denial or Conditioning of
License; Issuance of License
6-8-5: Conditions Which May be Imposed
6-8-6: Denial of License; Grounds; Notice
6-8-7: Revocation and Reinstatement of License; Notice
6-8-8: Unlawful Acts
6-8-1: ASSEMBLY DEFINED:
As used in Elko County Code Sections
6-8-1 through
6-8-8, inclusive, unless the context otherwise requires, "assembly" means a
company of persons gathered together for any purpose at any location, other
than in a permanent building or permanent installation, which has been
constructed for and will accommodate the number of persons gathered therein.
6-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Every person who permits, maintains, promotes, conducts, advertises, operates,
undertakes, organizes, manages, sells or gives away tickets to an actual or
reasonably anticipated assembly of one thousand (1,000) or more individuals
shall obtain a license from the Board of County Commissioners of Elko County,
in accordance with the provisions of Elko County Code Sections
6-8-1 through
6-8-8, inclusive.
6-8-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; TIME; CONTENTS:
Application for a license to conduct such an assembly shall be made in writing
to the County Clerk at least sixty (60) days prior to the time indicated for
the commencement of the planned activity and shall be accompanied by a
nonrefundable application fee in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
The application shall include:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant or applicants.
   (B)   The legal description of the place where the proposed assembly is to
be held.
   (C)   The date or dates of the assembly.
   (D)   The estimated attendance at the assembly.
   (E)   The nature or purpose of the assembly.
   (F)   Such other information as the Board determines is necessary.
6-8-4: HEARING; NOTICE; INVESTIGATION; GRANT, DENIAL OR CONDITIONING OF
LICENSE; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Upon receipt of a complete application and the application fee, the
Clerk shall:
      1.   Set the application for public hearing at a regular meeting of the
Board, not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than thirty (30) days
thereafter, and give not less than ten (10) days' written notice thereof to the
applicant.
      2.   Promptly give notice of such hearing and copies of the application
to the Sheriff, the County Health Officer and the County Engineer, who shall
investigate the application and report in writing to the Board not later than
the hearing with appropriate recommendations related to their official
functions, as to granting a license and conditions thereof.
   (B)   Based upon the testimony of the witnesses and evidence presented at
such hearing, including the reports of such officers, the Board shall grant the
license, deny the license or set conditions which must be met, or security
given that such conditions will be met, before a license is granted. If
conditions are imposed by the Board, the applicant shall furnish or cause to be
furnished to the Sheriff proof that all conditions have been met before the
license is issued by the Sheriff.
   (C)   When all conditions have been met, the Sheriff shall, upon
verification of the receipt of the license fee by the Clerk, issue a license
for the assembly.
6-8-5: CONDITIONS WHICH MAY BE IMPOSED:
The conditions which may be imposed by the Board, as provided in Elko County
Code Section
6-8-4, for the protection of the health, safety and property of local residents
and persons attending such assemblies may include the following:
   (A)   A minimum number of law enforcement officers employed at the
licensee's expense.
   (B)   Adequate drinking water.
   (C)   An adequate sewage system.
   (D)   Adequate food supplies.
   (E)   Adequate toilet facilities.
   (F)   Adequate medical facilities, including doctors and supplies.
   (G)   A minimum amount of parking space for vehicles.
   (H)   Adequate camping facilities.
   (I)   Indemnity or performance bonds.
   (J)   Adequate fire protection at the licensee's expense.
   (K)   Financial statements.
   (L)   A communication system.
   (M)   Other conditions determined by the Board to be necessary to protect
the health, welfare and property of local residents and persons attending the
assembly.
6-8-6: DENIAL OF LICENSE; GROUNDS; NOTICE:
   (A)   After holding the hearing required under Elko County Code Section
6-8-4, the Board may deny issuance of the license if it finds any of the
following:
      1.   That the applicant fails to meet the conditions imposed pursuant to
the provisions of Elko County Code Sections
6-8-1 through
6-8-8, inclusive.
      2.   That the proposed assembly will be held in a manner or location not
meeting the health, zoning, fire or building and safety standards established
by the ordinances of the County or the laws of the State of Nevada.
      3.   That the applicant has knowingly made a false, misleading or
fraudulent statement of material fact in the application for a license.
      4.   That the applicant, his employee, agent or any person connected or
associated with the applicant as partner, director, officer, stockholder,
associate or manager has previously conducted the type of assembly indicated in
the application, which resulted in the creation of a public or private
nuisance.
      5.   That the applicant, his employee, agent or any person associated
with the applicant as partner, director, officer, stockholder, associate or
manager has been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction, by final
judgment of:
         (a)   An offense involving the presentation, exhibition or performance
of an obscene production, motion picture or place, or of selling obscene
matter;
         (b)   An offense involving lewd conduct;
         (c)   An offense involving the use of force and violence upon the
person of another;
         (d)   An offense involving misconduct with children; or
         (e)   A felony.
   (B)   Where the application is denied, the County Clerk shall mail to the
applicant written notice of denial within fourteen (14) days of such action,
which notice shall include a statement of the reasons the application was
denied.
6-8-7: REVOCATION AND REINSTATEMENT OF LICENSE; NOTICE:
   (A)   The Board may revoke any license or may reinstate any license on such
suitable conditions as are determined by the Board.
   (B)   Notice of intent to revoke shall be given and the licensee is entitled
to a hearing.
6-8-8: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee or any employee, agent or associate of
a licensee to:
      1.   Hold an actual or reasonably anticipated assembly of one thousand
(1,000) or more persons without first procuring a license to do so.
      2.   Sell tickets to such an assembly without a license first having been
obtained.
      3.   Hold such an assembly in such a manner as to create a public or
private nuisance.
      4.   Exhibit, show or conduct within the place of such an assembly any
obscene, indecent, vulgar or lewd exhibition, show, play, entertainment or
exhibit, no matter by what name designated.
      5.   Allow any person on the premises of the licensed assembly to cause
or create a disturbance in, around or near any place of the assembly, by
offensive or disorderly conduct.
      6.   Knowingly allow any person to consume, sell or be in possession of
intoxicating liquor while in such assembly except where the consumption or
possession is expressly authorized by the Board and under the laws of the State
of Nevada.
      7.   Knowingly allow any person at the licensed assembly to use, sell or
be in possession of any controlled substance while in, around or near the place
of the assembly.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating any of the provisions of this Section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction of any such violation,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
or by imprisonment in the County jail for not more than six (6) months, or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   In addition to prosecuting any such penal action as described above,
the County shall have the right by any appropriate proceeding in any court of
competent jurisdiction to prevent or enjoin the violation of this Chapter.
(Ord. 1990-O, 6-20-90, eff. 7-3-90)
CHAPTER 9
LOCKSMITH PERMITS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Permit Required
6-9-2: Locksmith Defined
6-9-3: Safe Mechanic Defined
6-9-4: Investigation of Applicant
6-9-5: Fee and Permit Requirements
6-9-6: Denial Or Revocation Of Permit
6-9-7: Expiration; Renewal of Permit
6-9-8: Possession of Permit
6-9-9: Change of Address
6-9-10: Employees; Permit Required
6-9-11: Reserved
6-9-12: Penalty
6-9-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 655.070, any person who wishes to operate
as a locksmith or safe mechanic in Elko County and whose principal place of
business is located within Elko County must first obtain a permit to so operate
from the Elko County Sheriff.
6-9-2: LOCKSMITH DEFINED:
LOCKSMITH: A person whose occupation consists, in whole or in part, of:
      1.   Making, repairing or adjusting locks; or
      2.   Operating locks by mechanical means other than those intended by the
manufacturers of the locks.
6-9-3: SAFE MECHANIC DEFINED:
SAFE MECHANIC: A person whose occupation consists in whole or in part of
repairing, operating, adjusting or changing combinations on safes or vaults.
6-9-4: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Before the Sheriff can issue the permit required he shall investigate the
applicant to determine that the applicant meets qualifications set forth herein
below.
6-9-5: FEE AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
The applicant shall complete a permit application form provided by the Sheriff
of Elko County.
   (A)   Upon submission of the application, the applicant shall pay a filing
fee set by resolution of the Elko County Board of Commissioners, not to exceed
the cost to process the application. The application fee is nonrefundable.
   (B)   To aid in the investigation of the applicant the Sheriff shall
photograph and fingerprint the applicant.
   (C)   The fingerprints shall be run through the FBI and CII to ascertain any
prior criminal activity of the applicant which might warrant denial of the
permit.
   (D)   Sheriff shall run a background check on the applicant through the FBI
and CII to ascertain any prior criminal convictions which might warrant denial
of the permit.
   (E)   Applicant shall provide proof that he is bonded or insured against
loss to his customers in an amount of not less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00), against any negligent or criminal act of applicant or his
employees.
   (F)   The application together with results of the Sheriff’s investigation
shall be brought before the County Board of Commissioners at a regularly
scheduled meeting for approval. The Commissioners may require that the
applicant appear before them in person before the permit may be issued. The
permit shall be issued on a majority vote of the full Board of County
Commissioners.
   (G)   Applicant shall be required to submit a statement indicating whether
the applicant is subject to a child support order and whether the Applicant is
in compliance with the child support order or a plan approved by the district
attorney or other public agency enforcing the order for repayment.
(amd. Ord. 05-2019, 10-2-2019; Ord. 2024-01, 2-7-2024)
6-9-6: DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
A permit may be denied or revoked on the following basis:
   (A)   If the applicant has failed to disclose, misstated or otherwise misled
the Sheriff or the Board of County Commissioners in respect to any fact
contained within any application for a work permit or, subsequent to being
issued a work permit.
   (B)   If the applicant concealed or refused to disclose any material fact in
any investigation by the Sheriff or the Board.
   (C)   If the applicant has committed, attempted, or conspired to commit
larceny or embezzlement.
   (D)   If the applicant has been convicted in any jurisdiction of any offense
involving or relating to larceny or embezzlement.
   (E)   If the applicant has a felony record or is convicted of a felony after
a permit is issued.
   (F)   If the applicant accepted employment or began business as a locksmith
or safe mechanic without first having obtained a permit for which one is
required to be licensed under this Chapter after having been denied a license
for a reason involving personal unsuitability or after failing to apply for
licensing when required to do so by this Chapter.
   (G)   If the applicant has been refused the issuance of a permit hereunder
or had any such license, permit or approval revoked or suspended.
   (H)   IF the applicant refuses to provide a statement indicating that his/
her is or is not subject to a child support order, or he/she indicates that he/
she is subject to a child support order, but is not in compliance with the
order or a plan approved by the district attorney or other public agency
enforcing the order for repayment, or the Sheriff’s office receives notice that
the applicant or permit holder is no longer in compliance with the child
support order.
(Ord. 2024-01, 2-7-2024)
6-9-7: EXPIRATION; RENEWAL OF PERMIT:
The permit shall expire five (5) years from the date of its issue, but may be
renewed upon payment of the renewal fee set by resolution of the Elko County
Board of Commissioners, not to exceed the cost to process the renewal, unless
the applicant has since been convicted of a felony or some other criteria
listed under Section
6-9-6 has arisen.
(Ord. 05-2019, 10-2-2019; amd. Ord. 2024-01, 2-7-2024)
6-9-8: POSSESSION OF PERMIT:
The holder of a permit shall have the permit in his possession at all times.
6-9-9: CHANGE OF ADDRESS:
The holder of a permit shall, within ten (10) days, report any change of
address of his place of business to the Sheriff.
6-9-10: EMPLOYEES; PERMITS REQUIRED:
No person may be employed by a locksmith or safe mechanic doing business in the
Elko County pursuant to this Chapter, unless such employee is a locksmith or
safe mechanic holding a permit pursuant to this Chapter.
(Ord. 2024-01, 2-7-2024)
6-9-11: RESERVED:
6-9-12: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be punished
by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and may be further
punished by the revocation of his permit.
(Ord. 1984-H, 12-6-84, eff. 12-24-84)
CHAPTER 10
ELKO COUNTY REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION; COUNTY MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL TAX
SECTION:
6-10-1: Elko County Regional Transportation Commission
6-10-2: Imposition Of Tax
6-10-3: Place Of Sale Of Fuel
6-10-4: Incorporation Of Applicable Nevada Revised Statutes
6-10-5: Administration
6-10-6: Date Of Enactment
6-10-1: ELKO COUNTY REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION:
There is hereby created the Elko County regional transportation commission.
   (A)   Members:
      1.   Such commission shall be composed of representatives selected as
follows:
         (a)   Two (2) members appointed by the Elko County board of
commissioners.
         (b)   One member appointed by the governing body of the largest
incorporated city in Elko County.
      2.   The original members of the commission shall be appointed within
thirty (30) days after the passage of this chapter. Those members shall serve
until the next ensuing December 31, of an even numbered year. Their successors
shall serve for terms of two (2) years. Any vacancies on the commission created
by whatever reason, must be filled for the unexpired term. However, each member
serves at the pleasure of the board by whom he was appointed, and may be
dismissed or replaced by official action of the appointing board. (Ord. 1984-F,
6-21-1984, eff. 8-1-1984)
   (B)   Meetings: The commission shall meet on the first Wednesday of the
months of July, October, January and April in regular business session and at
any other time in special session as called by a majority of the members of the
commission or as directed by the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 1993-A,
3-4-1993, eff. 3-18-1993)
   (C)   Powers And Duties: The commission shall have such powers and duties as
are set out in Nevada Revised Statutes 373.113, 373.115, 373.140, 373.143 and
373.145, and such other powers and duties as lawfully granted or decreed by the
board of Elko County commissioners. (Ord. 1984-F, 6-21-1984, eff. 8-1-1984)
6-10-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
   (A)   Elko County enacts the motor vehicle fuel tax on motor vehicle fuel
sold in Elko County in the amount of nine cents ($0.09) per gallon.
   (B)   Elko County enacts an excise tax on diesel fuel in the amount of five
cents ($0.05) per gallon. (Ord. 2023-08, 8-2-2023)
6-10-3: PLACE OF SALE OF FUEL:
For the purpose of each tax imposed by this chapter, fuel is sold at the place
where it is delivered into a vehicle not belonging to the seller or into a
stationary tank on the premises of the buyer. (Ord. 2023-08, 8-2-2023)
6-10-4: INCORPORATION OF APPLICABLE NEVADA REVISED STATUTES:
   (A)   All those provisions contained in NRS Chapter 365, NRS Chapter 366 and
NRS Chapter 373 on the date of enactment of this chapter or enactment of
amendments to this chapter, insofar as are applicable to this chapter, are
incorporated hereby in full, except that Elko County shall be substituted for
the state as the taxing agency and that an additional dealer’s license is not
required.
   (B)   All amendments to NRS Chapter 365, NRS Chapter 366, or NRS 373 made
after enactment of this chapter which are not inconsistent with NRS Chapter
373, shall automatically become part of this chapter. (Ord. 2023-08, 8-2-2023)
6-10-5: ADMINISTRATION:
Elko County shall, prior to the effective date of this chapter or any
amendments, contract with or amend the current contract with the Nevada
Department of Motor Vehicles and Public Safety to perform all necessary
functions incident to the administration or operation of the motor vehicle tax
and excise tax on diesel fuel. (Ord. 2023-08, 8-2-2023)
6-10-6: DATE OF ENACTMENT:
The County taxes imposed under this chapter shall be imposed beginning on the
first day of the second calendar month following enactment of this chapter or
any applicable amendments. (Ord. 2023-08, 8-2-2023)
CHAPTER 11
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING
SECTION:
6-11-1: Title for Citation
6-11-2: Purpose of Provisions
6-11-3: Application of Provisions
6-11-4: Definitions
6-11-5: Location and Zoning Restrictions
6-11-6: Business License Required
6-11-7: Exemptions from License Requirements
6-11-8: Business Categories - Number of Licenses
6-11-9: Employee Licenses
6-11-10: License; Application for Business License
6-11-11: License; Issuance Conditions for Business License
6-11-12: License; Application for Employee License
6-11-13: Revocation of Work Permits
6-11-14: License Fees
6-11-15: License; Bond
6-11-16: License; Premises Location and Name
6-11-17: License; Term
6-11-18: License; Notice of Change of Information
6-11-19: License; Transfer Limitations
6-11-20: Licenses; Display
6-11-21: License; Statement in Advertisements
6-11-22: Regulations and Unlawful Activities
6-11-23: Outcall Services; Operation Requirements
6-11-24: Design of Premises
6-11-25: Nude Entertainment Business; Location Restriction
6-11-26: Nude Dancing Agencies
6-11-27: Performers; Prohibited Activities
6-11-28: Patrons; Prohibited Activities
6-11-29: Nudity; Defenses to Prosecution
6-11-30: Existing Businesses; Compliance Time Limits
6-11-31: Violation; Injunction
6-11-32: Revocation of Business License
6-11-33: Effect of License Revocation
6-11-34: Revocation Procedure for Business License or Employee License
6-11-35: Appeal Procedure
6-11-36: Violation; Penalty
6-11-37: Severability
6-11-1: TITLE FOR CITATION:
This Chapter shall be known as the "Sexually Oriented Businesses and Employee
Licensing Chapter".
6-11-2: PURPOSE OF PROVISIONS:
It is the purpose and object of this Chapter that the County establish
reasonable uniform regulations governing the time, place and manner of
operation of sexually oriented businesses and their employees in the County and
unincorporated towns. This Chapter shall be construed to protect the
governmental interests recognized by this Chapter in a manner consistent with
constitutional protections provided by the United States and Nevada
Constitutions.
6-11-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This Chapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on certain
business activities, which are characterized as sexually oriented businesses,
and certain employees of those businesses characterized as sexually oriented
business employees. As it applies to sexually oriented businesses only, this
Chapter supersedes Title 6, Chapter 2 of the Elko County Code entitled
"Amusement, Entertainment and Recreation License Regulations". Adult
bookstores, adult video stores and adult motion picture theaters shall continue
to be governed by the amusement license provisions of Title 6, Chapter 2 of the
Elko County Code.
6-11-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
ADULT THEATER A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which, as its principal business, features persons who appear in
live performances in a state of nudity or which are characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
BOARD The Board of County Commissioners or its designee.
COUNTY All areas of Elko County including unincorporated towns within the
County.
EMPLOY Hiring an individual to work for pecuniary or any other form of
compensation, whether such person is hired on the payroll on the employer, as
an independent contractor, as an agent, or in any other form of employment
relationship.
ESCORT Any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes, visits,
consorts with or accompanies or offers to date, consort, socialize, visit or
accompany another or others to or about social affairs, entertainment or places
of amusement, or within any place of public or private resort or any business
or commercial establishment or any private quarters. "Escort" shall not be
construed to include persons who provide business or personal services such as
licensed private nurses, aids for the elderly or handicapped, social
secretaries or similar service personnel whose relationship with their patron
is characterized by a bona fide contractual relationship having a duration of
more than twelve (12) hours and who provide a service not principally
characterized as dating or socializing. "Escort" shall also not be construed to
include persons providing services such as singing telegrams, birthday
greetings or similar activities characterized by appearances in a public place,
contracted for by a party other than the person for whom the service is being
performed and of a duration not longer than one hour.
ESCORT SERVICE An individual or entity who, for pecuniary compensation,
furnishes or offers to furnish escorts, or provides or offers to introduce
patrons to escorts.
ESCORT SERVICE RUNNER Any third person, not an escort, who, for pecuniary
compensation, acts in the capacity of an agent or broker for an escort service,
escort or patron by contacting or meeting with escort services, escorts or
patrons at any location within the County, whether or not such third person is
employed by such escort service, escort, patron or by another business or is an
independent contractor or self-employed.
NUDE DANCING AGENCY Any person, agency, firm, corporation, partnership, or any
other entity or individual which furnishes, books or otherwise engages the
service of a professional dancer licensed pursuant to this Chapter for
performance or appearance at a business licensed for nude entertainment or
adult theaters.
NUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS A business, including adult theater, where the
principal purposes of the employees are to perform or appear in the presence of
patrons of the business in a state of nudity. A business shall also be presumed
to be a nude entertainment business if the business holds itself out as such a
business.
NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY A state of dress in which the nipple and areola of
the female breast, or male or female genitals, pubic region or anus, or any
portion thereof, are not covered by opaque clothing.
OUTCALL SERVICES Services of a type performed by a sexually oriented business
employee outside of the premises of the licensed sexually oriented business,
including but not limited to escorts, models, dancers and other similar
employees.
PATRON Any person who contracts with or employs any escort services or escort
or the customer of any business licensed pursuant to this Chapter.
PECUNIARY COMPENSATION Any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire,
profit, reward, or any other form of consideration.
PERSON Any person, unincorporated association, corporation, partnership or
other legal entity.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS Nude entertainment business and sexually oriented
outcall services.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEES Those employees who work on the premises
of the sexually oriented business in activities related to the sexually
oriented portion of the business. This includes all managing employees,
dancers, escorts, models, and other similar employees whether or not hired as
employees, agents or as independent contractors. Employees shall not include
individuals whose work is unrelated to the sexually oriented portion of the
business, such as janitors, bookkeepers and similar employees. Sexually
oriented business employees shall not include cooks, serving persons,
bartenders and similar employees, except where they may be managers or
supervisors of the business. All persons making outcall meetings under this
Chapter, including escorts, models, guards, escort runners, drivers, chauffeurs
and other similar employees, shall be considered sexually oriented business
employees.
SHERIFF The Sheriff of Elko County.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS The human male or female pubic area or anus with
less than a full opaque covering, or the human female breast from the beginning
of the areola, papilla or nipple to the end thereof with less than full opaque
covering.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES
   (A)   Acts of:
      1. Masturbation,
      2. Human sexual intercourse,
      3. Sexual copulation between a person and a beast,
      4. Fellatio,
      5. Cunnilingus,
      6. Bestiality,
      7. Pederasty,
      8. Any anal copulation between a human male and another human male, human
female, or beast;
   (B)   Manipulating, caressing or fondling by any person of:
      1. The genitals of a human,
      2. The pubic area of a human,
      3. The uncovered female nipple and areola;
   (C)   Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad in undergarments, a
mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of the one so clothed.
6-11-5: LOCATION AND ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any nude entertainment business to do business at any
location within the County except in areas zoned for adult entertainment
businesses.
6-11-6: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business, as
specified below, without first obtaining a sexually oriented business license.
The business license shall specify the type of business for which it is
obtained.
6-11-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to any sex therapists or similar
individual licensed by the State to provide bona fide sexual therapy or
counseling, licensed medical practitioner, licensed nurse, psychiatrist,
psychologist, nor shall it apply to any educator licensed by the State for
activities in the classroom.
6-11-8: BUSINESS CATEGORIES - NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any business premises to operate or be licensed for
more than one category of sexually oriented business, except that a business
may have a license for both outcall services and nude dancing agency on the
same premises.
   (B)   The categories of sexually oriented businesses are:
      1.   Outcall services;
      2.   Nude entertainment businesses;
      3.   Nude dancing agency.
6-11-9: EMPLOYEE LICENSES:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to employ, or for any
individual to be employed by a sexually oriented business in the capacity of a
sexually oriented business employee, unless that employee first obtains a
sexually oriented business employee license.
6-11-10: LICENSE; APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE:
   (A)   Before any applicant can be licensed to operate a sexually oriented
business, the applicant shall submit, on a form to be supplied by the Sheriff,
the following:
      1.   The correct legal name of each applicant, corporation, partnership,
limited partnership or entity doing business under an assumed name, including
the principal place of business of the applicant;
      2.   If the applicant is a corporation, partnership or limited
partnership, or individual or entity doing business under an assumed name, the
information required below for individual applicants shall be submitted for
each partner and each principal of an applicant, and for each officer, director
and any shareholder (corporate or personal) of more than ten percent (10%) of
the stock of any applicant. Any holding company, or any entity holding more
than ten percent (10%) of an applicant, shall be considered an applicant for
purposes of disclosure under this Chapter;
      3.   If the applicant is an individual or partnership, the application
must also state:
         a.   Any other names or aliases used by the individual or members of
the partnership,
         b.   Present business address and telephone number,
         c.   Present residence and telephone number,
         d.   Drivers license or identification number, and
         e.   Social security number,
         f.   Acceptable written proof that any individual is at least eighteen
(18) years of age.
      4.   A statement of the business, occupation or employment history of the
applicant for three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application;
      5.   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the applicant
for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the date of the filing of
the application, including whether such applicant previously operating or
seeking to operate, in this or any other County, City, State or territory, has
ever had a license, permit or authorization to do business denied, revoked or
suspended, or has had any professional or vocational license or permit denied,
revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation or
suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying jurisdiction,
and state in full the reasons for the denial, revocation or suspension. A copy
of any order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to the
application;
      6.   All criminal convictions or pleas of nolo contendere, except those
which have been expunged, and the disposition of all such arrests for the
applicant, individual or other entity subject to disclosure under this Chapter,
for five (5) years prior to the date of the application. This disclosure shall
include identification of all ordinance violations, excepting minor traffic
offenses (any traffic offense designated as a felony shall not be construed as
a minor traffic offense), stating the date, place, nature of each conviction or
plea of nolo contendere and sentence of each conviction or other disposition;
identifying the convicting jurisdiction and sentencing court and provide the
court identifying case numbers or docket numbers. Application for a sexually
oriented business license shall constitute a waiver of disclosure of any
criminal conviction or plea or nolo contendere for the purposes of any
proceeding involving the business license;
      7.   In the event the applicant is not the owner of record of the real
property upon which the business or proposed business is or is to be located,
the application must be accompanied by a notarized statement from the legal or
equitable owner of the possessory interest in the property specifically
acknowledging the type of business for which the applicant seeks a license for
the property. In addition to furnishing such notarized statement, the applicant
shall furnish the name, address and phone number of the owner of record of the
property, as well as the copy of the lease or rental agreement pertaining to
the premises in which the service is or will be located;
      8.   A description of the services to be provided by the business, with
sufficient detail to allow reviewing authorities to determine what business
will be transacted on the premises, together with a schedule of usual fees for
services to be charged by the licensee, and any rules, regulations or
employment guidelines under or by which the business intends to operate. This
description shall also include:
         a.   The hours that the business or service will be open to the
public, and the methods of promoting the health and safety of the employees and
patrons and preventing them from engaging in illegal activity,
         b.   The methods of supervision preventing the employees from engaging
in acts of prostitution or other related criminal activities,
         c.   The methods of supervising employees and patrons to prevent
employees and patrons from charging or receiving fees for services or acts
prohibited by this Chapter or other statutes or ordinances,
         d.   The methods of screening employees and customers in order to
promote the health and safety of employees and customers and prevent the
transmission of disease, and prevent the commission of acts of prostitution or
other criminal activity.
   (B)   1. Upon receipt of an application all departments required to review
the application shall determine within seven (7) days whether or not the
application is complete. Incomplete applications shall immediately be returned
to the applicant with a specification of the items which are incomplete.
      2.   The time for processing applications specified in this Section shall
begin to run from the receipt of a complete application.
6-11-11: LICENSE; ISSUANCE CONDITIONS FOR BUSINESS LICENSE:
The Board shall approve the issuance of a license to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after receipt of a completed application from the Sheriff,
unless the Board finds one or more of the following:
   (A)   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age or any higher age,
if the license sought requires a higher age;
   (B)   The applicant is overdue in payment to the County of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against the applicant or imposed on the applicant
in relation to a sexually oriented business;
   (C)   The applicant has falsely answered a material question or request for
information as authorized by this Chapter;
   (D)   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of this
Chapter within two (2) years immediately preceding the application; however,
the fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the
denial;
   (E)   The premises to be used for the business have been disapproved by the
County Health Department, the County Fire Department, the County Building
Officials or the County Zoning Officials as not being in compliance with
applicable laws and ordinances of the County;
   (F)   The license fees required by this Chapter or by other ordinances have
not been paid;
   (G)   All applicable sales and use taxes have not been paid;
   (H)   An applicant for the proposed business is in violation of or not in
compliance with this Chapter;
   (I)   An applicant has been convicted or pled nolo contendere to a crime:
      1.   Involving prostitution; exploitation of prostitution; aggravated
promotion of prostitution; aggravated exploitation of prostitution;
solicitation of sex acts; sex acts for hire; compelling prostitution; aiding
prostitution; sale, distribution or display of material harmful to minors;
sexual performance by minors; possession of child pornography; public lewdness;
indecent exposure; any crime involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child;
sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault; rape; forcible sodomy; forcible
sexual abuse; incest; harboring a runaway child; criminal attempt, conspiracy
or solicitation to commit any of the foregoing offenses or offenses involving
similar elements from any jurisdiction regardless of the exact title of the
offense; for which:
         a.   Less than two (2) years have elapsed from the date of conviction,
if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense, or less than five (5) years, if
the convictions are of two (2) or more misdemeanors within the five (5) years,
or
         b.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed from the date of
conviction, if the offense is a felony.
      2.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification pursuant to this Section.
6-11-12: LICENSE; APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYEE LICENSE:
   (A)   Before a sexually oriented business employee may work, such person
must submit, on a form to be supplied by the Sheriff, the following:
      1.   Applicant's correct legal name;
      2.   Any other names or aliases used by the individual;
      3.   The age, date and place of birth;
      4.   Height;
      5.   Weight;
      6.   Color of hair;
      7.   Color of eyes;
      8.   Present business address and telephone number;
      9.   Present residence and telephone number;
      10.   Drivers license or identification number; and
      11.   Social security number;
      12.   Acceptable written proof that any individual is at least eighteen
(18) years of age;
      13.   Attached to the form as provided above, there must be two (2) color
photographs of the applicant clearly showing the individual's face and the
individual's fingerprints on cards of the type and manner which are provided by
law enforcement agencies. Fees for the photographs and fingerprints shall be
paid by the applicant directly to the issuing agency;
      14.   For any individual applicant required to obtain a sexually oriented
business employee license as an escort or as a nude entertainer, a certificate
from a licensed medical doctor, stating that the individual has, within thirty
(30) days immediately preceding the date of the application, been examined and
found to be free of any contagious or communicable diseases;
      15.   A statement of the business, occupation or employment history of
the applicant for three (3) years immediately preceding the date of the filing
of the application;
      16.   A statement detailing the license or permit history of the
applicant for the five (5) year period immediately preceding the date of the
filing of the application, including whether such applicant previously
operating or seeking to operate, in this or any other county, city, state or
territory, has ever had a license, permit or authorization to do business
denied, revoked or suspended, or has had any professional or vocational license
or permit denied, revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial,
revocation or suspension, state the date, the name of the issuing or denying
jurisdiction, and state in full the reasons for the denial, revocation or
suspension. A copy of any order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be
attached to the application;
      17.   All criminal convictions or pleas of nolo contendere, except those
which have been expunged, and the disposition of all such arrests for the
applicant, individual or other entity subject to disclosure under this Chapter,
for five (5) years prior to the date of the application. This disclosure shall
include identification of all ordinance violations, excepting minor traffic
offenses (any traffic offense designated as a felony shall not be construed as
a minor traffic offense), stating the date, place, nature of each conviction or
plea of nolo contendere and sentence of each conviction or other disposition;
identifying the convicting jurisdiction and sentencing court and provide the
court identifying case numbers or docket numbers. Application for a sexually
oriented business or employee license shall constitute a waiver of disclosure
of any criminal conviction or plea or nolo contendere for the purposes of any
proceeding involving the business or employee license.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff:
      1.   To receive and process applications for employee licenses provided
in this Chapter;
      2.   To investigate the qualifications of all applicants for employee
licenses and to grant or deny such applications within forty five (45) days
from the date such application is filed in a completed form;
      3.   To deny any application made by any applicant who does not meet the
requirements of this Chapter, or who has failed to disclose, misstated or
otherwise misled the Sheriff in respect to any facts or statement contained
within the application, or who has refused or neglected to comply with any of
the provisions of this Chapter;
      4.   To deny any application if an applicant has been convicted or pled
nolo contendere to a crime, described in subsection
6-11-11(I) of this Chapter.
6-11-13: REVOCATION OF WORK PERMITS:
The Sheriff may revoke any work permit issued under this Chapter when it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the Sheriff that:
   (A)   The holder of the employee license has, subsequent to the issuance of
the employee license, been convicted of any of the crimes or offenses specified
in subsection
6-11-11(I) of this Chapter;
   (B)   The holder of the employee license failed to disclose, misstated or
otherwise misled the Sheriff in respect to any fact or statement contained in
his or her application for a work permit;
   (C)   The holder of the employee license refuses or neglects to comply with
any applicable provisions of this Chapter.
6-11-14: LICENSE; FEES:
   (A)   Each applicant for a sexually oriented business or employee license
shall be required to pay regulatory license fees pursuant to the following
schedule:
      1.   Yearly business regulatory license fees:
         a.   Outcall business, one thousand dollars, ($1,000.00)
         b.   Nude dancing agencies and nude entertainment businesses, five
hundred dollars, ($500.00)
      2.   For each business applicant, an investigation fee of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) for each applicant required to submit a separate
disclosure application;
      3.   Yearly sexually oriented business employee license fees:
         a.   Any employee providing outcall business services away from the
premises of the outcall business, two hundred fifty dollars, ($250.00)
         b.   Outcall business employees requiring a license but not performing
any services outside the licensed premises, nude entertainment business
employees requiring a license but not individually providing nude entertainment
services to patrons, one hundred dollars, ($100.00)
         c.   Employees of nude entertainment businesses personally providing
nude entertainment to patrons, two hundred fifty dollars, ($250.00)
   (B)   These fees shall be in addition to the other licenses and fees
required to do business in the County.
6-11-15: LICENSE; BOND:
Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall post with the
business license authority a cash bond or irrevocable letter of credit from a
federally insured bank payable to the County in the amount of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00). Any fines assessed against the business, officers or
managers for violation of County ordinances shall be taken from this bond if
not paid in cash within ten (10) days after notice of the fine, unless an
appeal is filed as provided by this Chapter. In the event the funds are drawn
against the cash or surety bond to pay such fines the bond shall be replenished
to two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) within fifteen (15) days of
the date of notice of any draw against it.
6-11-16: LICENSE; PREMISES LOCATION AND NAME:
   (A)   It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued pursuant to
this Chapter at any location other than the licensed premises. Any location to
which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by such business shall
require a separate license.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business in
the County under any name other than the business name specified in the
application.
6-11-17: LICENSE; TERM:
Sexually oriented business and employee licenses issued pursuant to this
Chapter shall be valid from the date of issuance through January 1 of each
succeeding year. License fees required herein shall be prorated on a semi-
annual basis.
6-11-18: LICENSE; NOTICE OF CHANGE OF INFORMATION:
Any change in the information required to be submitted under this Chapter for
either a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business
employee license shall be given, in writing, to the Sheriff (employee licenses)
or to the Board (business licenses) within fourteen (14) days after such
change.
6-11-19: LICENSE; TRANSFER LIMITATIONS:
Sexually oriented business licenses granted under this Chapter shall not be
transferable. It is unlawful for a license held by an individual to be
transferred. It is unlawful for a license held by a corporation or partnership
to transfer any part in excess of ten percent (10%) thereof, without filing a
new application and obtaining prior County approval. If any transfer of an
interest in a business licensee occurs in violation of this Section, the
license is immediately null and void, and the business shall not operate until
a separate new license has been properly issued by the County as provided in
this Chapter.
6-11-20: LICENSES; DISPLAY:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business location within the
boundaries of the County to fail to display the license granted pursuant to
this Chapter in a prominent location within the business premises. It is
unlawful for any individual licensed pursuant to this Chapter to fail to, at
all times while engaging in licensed activities within the corporate boundaries
of the County, carry their employee license on their person. If the individual
is nude, such license shall be visibly displayed within the same room in which
the employee is performing. When requested by the Sheriff, or other enforcement
personnel or County health official, it is unlawful to fail to show the
appropriate licenses while engaged in licensed activities within the corporate
boundaries of the County.
6-11-21: LICENSE; STATEMENT IN ADVERTISEMENTS:
It is unlawful for any advertisement by the sexually oriented business or
employee to fail to state that the business or employee is licensed by the
County and shall include the County license number.
6-11-22: REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented employee
to:
   (A)   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years on the licensed
premises, except that in adult businesses, which exclude minors from less than
all of the business premises, minors shall not be permitted in excluded areas;
   (B)   Allow, offer or agree to conduct any outcall business with persons
under the age of eighteen (18) years or in the presence of any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years;
   (C)   To allow, offer or agree to allow any alcohol being stored, used or
consumed on or in the licensed premises;
   (D)   Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked while any customer
is in the premises;
   (E)   Allow, offer or agree to gambling on the licensed premises;
   (F)   Allow, offer or agree to allow a patron to touch any specified
anatomical areas or to touch any specified anatomical areas of a patron;
   (G)   Allow, offer or agree to illegal possession, use, sale or distribution
of controlled substances on the licensed premises;
   (H)   Allow sexually oriented business employees to possess, use, sell or
distribute controlled substances, while engaged in the activities of the
business;
   (I)   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or committing activities harmful to a
minor to occur on the licensed premises or, in the event of an outcall employee
or business, the outcall employee committing, offering or agreeing to commit
prostitution, attempting to commit prostitution, soliciting prostitution,
soliciting a minor, or committing activities harmful to a minor;
   (J)   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any sexual act in the presence of any
customer or patron;
   (K)   Allow, offer or agree to allow a patron or customer to masturbate in
the presence of the sexually oriented business employee or on the premises of a
sexually oriented business.
6-11-23: OUTCALL SERVICES; OPERATION REQUIREMENTS:
It is unlawful for any business or employee providing outcall services
contracted to be performed in Elko County, to fail to comply with the following
requirements:
   (A)   All businesses licensed to provide outcall services pursuant to this
Chapter shall provide to each patron a written contract in receipt of pecuniary
compensation for services. The contract shall clearly state the type of service
to be performed, the length of time such services shall be performed, the total
amount such services shall cost the patron, and any special terms or conditions
relating to the services to be performed. The contract need not include the
name of the patron. The business licenses shall keep a copy of each written
contract entered pursuant to this Section for a period not less than one year
from the date of provision of services thereunder. The contracts shall be
numbered and entered into a register listing the contract number, date, names
of all employees involved in the contract and pecuniary compensation paid.
   (B)   All outcall businesses licensed pursuant to this Chapter shall
maintain an open officer or telephone at which the licensee or licensee's
designated agent may be personally contacted during all hours outcall employees
are working. The address and phone number of the license location shall appear
and be included in all patron contracts and published advertisements. For
outcall businesses which premises are licensed within the county, private rooms
or booths where the patrons may meet with the outcall employee shall not be
provided at the open office or any other location by the service, nor shall
patrons meet outcall employees at the business premises.
   (C)   Outcall services shall not advertise in such a manner that would lead
a reasonably prudent person to conclude that specified sexual activities would
be performed by the outcall employee.
6-11-24: DESIGN OF PREMISES:
   (A)   In addition to the general requirements of disclosure for a sexually
oriented business, any applicant for a license as a sexually oriented business
shall also submit a diagram, drawn to scale, of the premises of the license.
The design and construction, prior to granting a license for opening for
business, shall conform to the following:
      1.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner so
as to allow an unobstructed view of every area of the premises to which any
patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms.
      2.   Restrooms may not contain any video reproduction equipment or any of
the business merchandise. Signs shall be posted requiring only one person being
allowed in the restroom per stall, and only one person in any stall at a time,
and requiring that patrons shall not be allowed access to manager's station
areas.
      3.   Except for the reception area, all windows, doors and other
apertures to the premises shall be darkened or otherwise constructed to prevent
anyone outside the premises from seeing the inside of the premises.
      4.   The diagram required shall not necessarily be a professional
engineer's or architect's blueprint; however, the diagram must show marked
internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures, and ratings for
illumination capacity.
   (B)   In addition to the other requirements herein, it is unlawful for
business premises licensed for nude entertainment to:
      1.   Permit a bed, sofa, mattress or similar item in any room on the
premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the
public or in any office to which patrons are not admitted;
      2.   Allow any door on any room used for the business, except for the
door to an office to which patrons shall not be admitted, outside doors and
restroom doors, to be lockable from the inside;
      3.   Provide any room in which the employee or employees and the patron
or patrons are alone together without a separation by a solid physical barrier
at least three feet (3') high. The patron or patrons shall remain on one side
of the barrier and the employee or employees shall remain on the other side of
the barrier.
6-11-25: NUDE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS; LOCATION RESTRICTION:
It is unlawful for any business licensed for nude entertainment to be located
within three hundred feet (300') of a business licensed for the sale or
consumption of alcohol.
6-11-26: NUDE DANCING AGENCIES:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book or
otherwise engage the service of a professional dancer, model or performer to
appear in a state of nudity for pecuniary compensation in, or for, any nude
entertainment business or adult theater pursuant to this Chapter unless such
agency is licensed pursuant to this Chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book or
otherwise engage or permit any person to perform as a professional dancer,
model or performer in a state of nudity, either gratuitously or for
compensation, in, or for, any business licensed pursuant to this Chapter,
unless such person is licensed pursuant to this Chapter.
6-11-27: PERFORMERS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any professional dancer, model or performer, while
performing in any business licensed pursuant to this Chapter:
   (A)   To touch in any manner any other person;
   (B)   To throw any object or clothing off the stage area;
   (C)   Except as otherwise set forth herein, to accept any money, drink or
any other object from any person; or
   (D)   To allow another person to touch such performer or to place any money
or object on the performer or within the costume or person of the performer;
The foregoing prohibitions shall not prohibit two (2) or more performers from
touching each other while performing provided such touching does not involve
the touching of specified anatomical areas whether clothed or unclothed.
6-11-28: PATRONS; PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for any person, or any patron of any business to touch in any
manner any performer; to place any money or object on or within the costume or
person of any performer; or to give or offer to give to any such performer
money or object while such performer is performing; except that money may be
placed on the stage which shall not be picked up by the performer except by
hand.
6-11-29: NUDITY; DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION:
It is a defense to prosecution or violation under this Chapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school licensed by the State, or a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   (B)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
6-11-30: EXISTING BUSINESSES; COMPLIANCE TIME LIMITS:
   (A)   The provisions of this Chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
businesses described herein, whether the herein described activities were
established before or after the effective date of the Ordinance codified in
this Chapter, and regardless of whether such persons and businesses are
currently licensed to do business in the County.
      1.   All such persons and businesses requiring outcall service licenses
shall have forty five (45) days from the effective date of the Ordinance
codified in this Chapter, or until their current license expires, whichever is
first in time, to comply with the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   All nude dancing agency licenses shall have seventy five (75) days
from the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Chapter, or until
their license must be renewed, whichever is first, to comply with the
provisions of this Chapter.
      3.   All nude entertainment businesses shall have ninety (90) days from
the effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Chapter, or until their
current license must be renewed, whichever is first, to comply with the
provisions of this Chapter.
6-11-31: VIOLATION; INJUNCTION:
An entity or individual who operated or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business, without a valid license, or who employs or is employed as an
employee of a sexually oriented business, or who operates such a business or
functions as such an employee in violation of the provisions of this Chapter,
is subject to a suit for injunction in addition to the civil and criminal
violations provided herein, and any other remedy available at law or in equity.
6-11-32: REVOCATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
   (A)   If a licensee has acted or omitted to act in the following manner, a
license may be revoked.
      1.   Except as otherwise set forth herein, has on two (2) or more
occasions committed an act prohibited by this Chapter;
      2.   Has refused to allow any inspection of the premises of the sexually
oriented business specifically authorized by this Chapter, or by any other
statute or ordinance;
      3.   Has failed to replenish the cost bond as provided in this Chapter;
      4.   A licensee gave materially false or misleading information in
obtaining the license;
      5.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the County for ad valorem
taxes, or sales taxes related to the sexually oriented business.
   (B)   Revocation shall take effect within ten (10) days of the issuance of
notice of revocation, unless an appeal is filed as provided by this Chapter.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
6-11-33: EFFECT OF LICENSE REVOCATION:
When a license issued pursuant to this Chapter is revoked, the revocation shall
continue for one year from its effective date, and the licensee shall not be
issued a sexually oriented business or employee license for one year from the
date of such revocation.
6-11-34: REVOCATION PROCEDURE FOR BUSINESS LICENSE OR EMPLOYEE LICENSE:
   (A)   The Board may, on its own motion or upon the sworn complaint in
writing of any person, investigate the conduct of any licensee under these
regulations to determine whether grounds for revocation of a license exist.
   (B)   After an investigation, if it appears that a ground for revocation
exists, the Board shall issue and cause to be served on the licensee an order
to show cause why his license should not be revoked. Said order shall contain:
      1.   A statement directing the licensee or licensee's representative to
appear before the Board at any time and place set out therein which shall be
not less than ten (10) days from the date of service of said order to show
cause on the licensee;
      2.   A brief statement of the grounds for revocation; and
      3.   A statement that the licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard,
present witnesses and confront any witnesses against him.
   (C)   Service on the licensee shall be made by personally delivering a copy
of the order to show cause to one of the persons whose name is on the license
or by mailing a copy of the order by certified mail to the place of business of
the license, which is specified in the license. Service by mail shall be deemed
complete on the day of the mailing.
   (D)   At the hearing on the order to show cause, the licensee and the
complainant, if there is one, may be represented by attorneys, present
testimony or other evidence, and cross-examine witnesses. A majority of the
Board members must be present to conduct a hearing, and if the hearing is
pursuant to a complaint, the complainant must also be present.
   (E)   Within ten (10) days after the hearing, the Board will render its
decision as to revocation and give notice thereof to the licensee. A majority
of those members present at the hearing must be agreed in order to direct a
revocation.
   (F)   If after an investigation as set forth herein, it appears to the Board
that no grounds for revocation exist, it shall within ten (10) days issue to
the licensee an investigative report which shall contain any suggestions or
recommendations which the Board determines necessary or appropriate to protect
the public good, welfare, safety, health or morals.
6-11-35: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   (A)   An applicant for a business license who has been denied an
application; or whose application has not been decided in accordance with the
conditions of this Chapter; or who has had a license revoked by the Board shall
have the right to judicial review of such decision in accordance with
applicable laws of the State of Nevada.
   (B)   Any applicant for an employee business license whose application has
been denied; or whose application has not been decided in accordance with the
conditions of this Chapter may appeal to the Board in writing within fifteen
(15) days after any such alleged act has occurred. Any appeal filed shall be
conducted in substantially the same manner as described in subsection
6-11-34(D) of this Chapter. In the event the Board upholds the decision of the
Sheriff, the applicant shall have the right to judicial review of such decision
in accordance with applicable laws of the State of Nevada.
6-11-36: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
In addition to the revocation or suspension of a license, as provided in this
Chapter, each violation of this Chapter shall, upon citation by the county
business license authority, require the licensee to pay a civil penalty in the
amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00). Such fines shall be deducted from the
cost bond posted pursuant to this Chapter, unless paid within ten (10) days of
notice of the fine or the final determination after any appeal. In addition to
the civil fines provided in this Chapter, the violation of any provision of
this Chapter shall be a misdemeanor. Each day of a violation shall be
considered a separate offense.
6-11-37: SEVERABILITY:
In the event that any provision of this Chapter is declared invalid for any
reason, the remaining provisions shall remain in effect.
The County Clerk shall cause this Ordinance to be published by title only
together with the names of the County Commissioners voting for or against its
passage in the Elko Daily Free Press, a newspaper of general circulation
printed and published in the County of Elko, and being a newspaper which is
most likely to give notice to persons interested herein, at least once a week
for a period of two (2) weeks before this Ordinance shall become effective.
Publication shall also contain a statement that typewritten copies of this
Ordinance are available for inspection at the office of the County Clerk. (Ord.
1990-F, 4-4-90, eff. 4-26-90)
CHAPTER 12
AVIATION FUEL TAX
SECTION:
6-12-1: Definitions
6-12-2: Imposition Of Tax; Rate
6-12-3: Adoption By Reference
6-12-4: Collection, Administration, Operation
6-12-5: Use Of Tax Revenues
6-12-6: Effective Date
6-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
AVIATION FUEL: Defined by Nevada Revised Statutes 365.015 and 590.073 and
applicable state regulations.
DEALER: Defined by Nevada Revised Statutes 365.020. (Ord. 1998-B, 5-7-1998,
eff. 6-4-1998)
6-12-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX; RATE:
There is hereby imposed an eight cent ($0.08) per gallon tax on aviation fuel
sold, distributed or used by any dealer in Elko County, pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes 365.203. (Ord. 1998-B, 5-7-1998, eff. 6-4-1998)
6-12-3: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
All provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 365, insofar as applicable to this
tax, are incorporated by reference. (Ord. 1998-B, 5-7-1998, eff. 6-4-1998)
6-12-4: COLLECTION, ADMINISTRATION, OPERATION:
Elko County shall, prior to the effective date of this chapter, contract with
the Nevada department of motor vehicles and public safety to perform all
necessary functions for the collection, administration or operation of this
aviation fuel tax chapter. (Ord. 2002-E, 5-1-2002, eff. 6-20-2002)
6-12-5: USE OF TAX REVENUES:
All revenues collected pursuant to this chapter shall be used for improvements
at publicly owned airports. The revenues shall be distributed to the airports
proportionally to the amount of tax collected at the airport. (Ord. 1998-B, 5-
7-1998, eff. 6-4-1998)
6-12-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The aviation fuel tax shall be imposed beginning on the first day of the second
calendar month following enactment of this chapter. (Ord. 1998-B, 5-7-1998,
eff. 6-4-1998)
CHAPTER 13
FICTITIOUS BUSINESS NAME CERTIFICATES
SECTION:
6-13-1: Fictitious Name Certificate
6-13-2: Renewal
6-13-3: Termination Notice
6-13-4: Filing Fee
6-13-5: Publication Of Notice To Renew
6-13-1: FICTITIOUS NAME CERTIFICATE:
Every natural person, general partnership, artificial person required to file
with the Nevada secretary of state's office, and trust conducting business
under an assumed or fictitious name is required to file a notarized certificate
with the county clerk's office. The certificate shall be filed on a form
provided by the county clerk's office with all of the information required by
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 602. (Ord. 2002-D, 5-1-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
6-13-2: RENEWAL:
Every business conducted under an assumed or fictitious business name shall
renew its certificate every five (5) years, unless terminated pursuant to
section
6-13-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2002-D, 5-1-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
6-13-3: TERMINATION NOTICE:
Every person or entity conducting a business under an assumed or fictitious
business name may terminate the certificate by filing a notarized termination
notice if the business has been terminated or its ownership interest in the
business has ended. (Ord. 2002-D, 5-1-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
6-13-4: FILING FEE:
Every initial filing or renewal of such certificate shall be accompanied by a
filing fee, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 19.013. (Ord. 2002-D, 5-1-2002,
eff. 1-1-2003)
6-13-5: PUBLICATION OF NOTICE TO RENEW:
The county clerk shall publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation
in the county that persons who have filed fictitious business name certificates
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 602.020 must renew the certificate within
five (5) years after it was filed or within one year of the effective date
hereof whichever is later. (Ord. 2002-D, 5-1-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
CHAPTER 14
INFRASTRUCTURE TAX
SECTION:
6-14-1: Title
6-14-2: Purpose
6-14-3: Tax Imposed
6-14-4: Plan
6-14-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ELKO COUNTY INFRASTRUCTURE TAX. (Ord. 2016-
01, 2-3-2016, eff. 2-20-2016)
6-14-2: PURPOSE:
   (A)   The Elko County fire protection district was created in 2015 to assume
fire protection duties in Elko County.
   (B)   The Elko County fire protection district relies upon a mixture of
older county owned equipment and apparatus on loan from NDF. The average age of
the apparatus in service in the Elko County fire protection district is twenty
seven (27) years old. The oldest piece of apparatus is forty seven (47) years
old.
   (C)   The Elko County fire protection district encompasses sixteen (16)
volunteer fire departments and four (4) city fire departments.
   (D)   There is no funding source to replace fire apparatus in Elko County's
general fund.
   (E)   The Elko County highway department is funded through gasoline taxes.
   (F)   The amount of gas taxes has declined, yet the number of vehicles using
Elko County roadways has increased, and the cost of maintenance has increased.
   (G)   The incorporated cities have the same difficulty in meeting the road
maintenance needs of the public. (Ord. 2016-01, 2-3-2016, eff. 2-20-2016)
6-14-3: TAX IMPOSED 1 :
   (A)   Elko County hereby imposes a one-fourth of one percent tax on the
gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all tangible personal property
sold at retail, or stored, used or otherwise consumed, in the county.
   (B)   Elko County shall contract with the Nevada department of taxation,
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 377B, for the collection and
redistribution of the infrastructure tax collected in Elko County.
   (C)   The tax proceeds shall be deposited with the Elko County treasurer in
the "infrastructure fund" created pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 377.150
(2).
   (D)   Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 377B.110, all provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 374 now in effect, or as may be amended, are applied
insofar as applicable.
   (E)   A purchaser is entitled to a refund of any infrastructure imposed
pursuant to the terms of Nevada Revised Statutes 377B.110(6).
   (F)   The Elko County commission, may, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
377B.190(2) issue bonds and other securities, as general or special
obligations, which are secured by the pledge of proceeds from the
infrastructure tax. Any bond or other security must describe the purpose for
which it was issued. (Ord. 2016-01, 2-3-2016, eff. 2-20-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. The infrastructure tax is imposed on July 1, 2016.
6-14-4: PLAN:
   (A)   The Elko County commission approved a plan for the use of the proceeds
of the infrastructure tax on December 2, 2015. The plan is available for review
at the Elko County administration office.
      1.   The Elko County Board of Commissioners shall allocate one half of
the proceeds of the infrastructure sales tax for the purchase and maintenance
of facilities, apparatus, and equipment used for fire suppression in Elko
County. The Elko County Board of Commissioners shall allocate two hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($250,000.00) from this subsection to be used for subsection
3.
      2.   The Elko County commission shall allocate one half of the proceeds
of the infrastructure sales tax for the road improvement projects as approved
by the Elko County highway board. The Elko County Board of Commissioners shall
allocate two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000.00) from this subsection
to be used for subsection 3.
      3.   The Elko County Board of Commissioners shall allocate the five
hundred thousand ($500,000.00) received collectively from subsection 1 and 2
for the use by the incorporated cities for approved road improvement projects.
The funds shall be distributed to the incorporated cities based on population.
The county shall use the most recent Nevada state demographer's population
figures.
      Each city shall notify the county in writing of any changes to any
approved road improvement project funded by the proceeds of the infrastructure
sales tax.
   (B)   The Elko County commission shall determine on or before June 30, 2031,
whether a necessity exists for the continued imposition of the tax. (Ord. 2016-
01, 2-3-2016, eff. 2-20-2016; amd. Ord. 04-2020, 7-15-2021)
CHAPTER 15
CANNABIS
SECTION:
6-15-1: Definitions
6-15-2: Cannabis Establishment
6-15-3: Business License For Cannabis Establishment Required
6-15-4: Application For Business License
6-15-5: Approval Of Application
6-15-6: Renewal Of Application
6-15-7: Persons Not Eligible For Licensing
6-15-8: Business License Application Fee
6-15-9: Cannabis Establishment License Tax
6-15-10: Subject To Investigation, Inspection And Audit
6-15-11: Public Display Required
6-15-12: Duties Of Licensee
6-15-13: Revocation Or Suspension, Notice Of Hearing
6-15-14: Prohibited Acts
6-15-15: Transferability
6-15-16: Cannabis Work Permit Required
6-15-17: Advertising
6-15-18: Penalty For Violation
6-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
The terms in this Chapter have the same meaning ascribed to those terms in NRS
Chapter 678A, unless otherwise defined in this section.
 
CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT: A.   “An adult-use cannabis establishment;” and
                        B.   “Medical cannabis establishment.”
BOARD:                  The Board of Elko County Commissioners.
LICENSEE:               The person approved for a business license for a
                        cannabis establishment.
                        The person, board, or group of persons that control,
OWNER:                  direct or otherwise manage the affairs of the cannabis
                        establishment, except a person owning less than 5% of
                        the stock of a corporation or business.
PERSON:                 Individual or any business entity.
SHERIFF:                The Elko County Sheriff's Office. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-
                        2020)
 
6-15-2: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT:
   (A)    Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, cannabis
establishments are not allowed in the unincorporated area of Elko County, and
shall be unlawful as a permitted use, conditional use or accessor use in any
zoning district within the unincorporated areas of Elko County, including the
unincorporated towns, except in the following:
      1.   The unincorporated town of Jackpot. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-3: BUSINESS LICENSE FOR CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT REQUIRED:
   (A)   License Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in any form of business
or commerce involving the cultivation, processing, manufacturing, storage,
sale, distribution, transportation, or consumption of cannabis other than those
forms of businesses and commerce that are expressly contemplated by Nevada
Revised Statutes and any administrative rules duly adopted by the State
regulating authority and without first making application and securing a
cannabis establishment business license from Elko County.
      2.   A license is required for each cannabis establishment to operate in
each location where that activity is to occur, as required under this Chapter.
(Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-4: APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE:
   (A)   Application for a business license provided by this Chapter shall be
made to the Sheriff.
   (B)   Each application shall include the following:
      1.   The business licensing application fee;
      2.   Name of cannabis establishment: The name of the proposed cannabis
establishment, as reflected in the articles of incorporation or other documents
filed with the Secretary of State;
      3.   Description of Products: A description of the nature of the products
and services to be produced or sold by the cannabis establishment;
      4.   Provide a copy of the owner(s)' Cannabis Agent Registration Card or
Executive Card;
      5.   Statement Holding County Harmless: A written statement that the
applicant will hold harmless, indemnify, and defend the County against all
claims and litigation arising from the issuance of a license, including any
claims and litigation arising from the establishment, operation, or ownership
of the cannabis establishment will be provided prior to issuance of any
license.
      6.   Specify which type of cannabis establishment is being licensed. A
license may be issued for the following cannabis establishments:
         (a)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation facility;
         (b)   Adult-use cannabis independent testing facility;
         (c)   Adult-use cannabis production facility;
         (d)   Adult-use cannabis retail store;
         (e)   Adult-use cannabis distributor;
         (f)   Medical cannabis independent testing facility;
         (g)   Medical cannabis cultivation facility;
         (h)   Medical cannabis production facility;
         (i)   Medical cannabis dispensary.
         (j)   Include documentation from the Elko County Planning and Zoning
department approving change of zoning to an AC District and any conditions
placed on the cannabis establishment as part of the approval;
         (k)   Include the name and address of the applicant, and all other
owner(s);
         (l)   Include the name and address and telephone number of all
individuals who will actively manage the business for which the license is
sought;
         (m)   Include the location of the premises for which the license is
sought, and the name of the owners, agents, lessee of the premises where the
business is to be operated;
         (n)   Include operational plan, organizational structure,
environmental sustainability and mitigation plans, interior floor plans of the
buildings, odor control systems and suitability of the building for the use
proposed, site plan as to parking, traffic movement and aesthetics;
         (o)   Include documentation of a state business license;
         (p)   Include information of any bankruptcy proceeding involving the
owner(s);
         (q)   Include documentation of all necessary licenses from the State
to operate a cannabis establishment;
         (r)   Be signed by the owner(s) of the business;
         (s)   The owner(s) shall submit to the taking of his or her
thumbprints and fingerprints for filing in the Sheriff's Office and for the
performance of a background check pursuant to Chapter 10, Title 7;
         (t)   Be sworn as to the truthfulness of the information contained
therein. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-5: APPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
   (A)   Approval of Application: After receiving an initial application, the
Sheriff's Office shall place the application on the next available meeting
agenda of the Board, unless impractical. The Board shall review the
application, and approve or deny the issuance of a cannabis establishment
business license to the applicant. The Board may deny a license for the
following:
      1.   If the Applicant failed to provide all the information required by
the application;
      2.   If there is anything that would disqualify the Applicant or any
owner(s) of the business from receiving a license under
6-15-7;
      3.    If the Applicant, the business, or any of the owner(s) of the
business are currently in or have been involved in a bankruptcy proceeding in
the last five years or if there is evidence that the Applicant, the business,
or any of the owner(s) have engaged in financial misconduct.
      4.   The Board may review and evaluate the impact of the business on the
surrounding neighborhood; the type and degree of security and facility, and any
other factors that the Board deems necessary to the safety, order and welfare
of the public and deny a license if the cannabis establishment will have an
adverse effect of the safety, security, or welfare, of the neighborhood or if
the business would be located in an area not suited for a cannabis
establishment.
   (B)   All conditions placed on a cannabis establishment under subsection "K"
of
4-14-1 shall be recorded and signed by the Licensee and the chair of the Board.
A copy of the document shall be provided to the Licensee. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-
2020)
6-15-6: RENEWAL OF APPLICATION:
   (A)   Renewal of Application: A business license may be renewed by
submitting an application for business license to the Sheriff. The application
shall be renewed annually.
   (B)   The Board may deny a Licensee a renewal for any of the reasons listed
in subsection "A" in
6-15-5 or for any of the following:
      1.   Licensee of the cannabis establishment is not in compliance with or
is in violation of any provision of this Chapter, or any provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes;
      2.   The cannabis establishment does not pay the application fee;
      3.   The cannabis establishment fails or refuses to comply with the
conditions placed on the cannabis establishment established in subsection "B"
of
6-15-4.
      4.   The failure or refusal of the cannabis establishment to cooperate
fully with an investigation, inspection or audit by any County Official or any
law enforcement agency.
   (C)   If the Board denies a renewal of a cannabis establishment business
license, the applicant shall be provided notice of the action.
      1.   The Notice shall contain the following:
         (a)   The reason for the denial;
         (b)   Notice that the license will expire at the end of the year,
unless the Licensee requests a hearing before the Board.
         (c)   The manner in which a hearing before the Board may be requested.
      2.   The Notice shall be deemed delivered when physically hand-delivered
to the applicant or an owner, officer, or board member of the cannabis
establishment, or on the date the notification was deposited with the U.S.
Postal Service and mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
address listed on the license.
   (D)   Before denying renewal of a business license, the Board may provide
the cannabis establishment the opportunity to correct any deficiencies. The
Board shall provide notice of the deficiency and allow the cannabis
establishment thirty days to correct the deficiencies. If the deficiencies are
not corrected within thirty days, the Board shall provide the notice set forth
in subsection "C" of this section.
   (E)   Hearing: If a business license is not renewed by the Board, the
Licensee may request a hearing before the Board.
      1.   A cannabis establishment may request a hearing by contacting the
Sheriff and requesting a hearing. The Sheriff, upon request, shall request that
the hearing be put on the next agenda of the Board.
   (F)   If an application for renewal is denied or the cannabis establishment
does not correct the deficiency to the satisfaction of the Board, the cannabis
establishment shall cease all operations and business activities on the
expiration of the license or the day after the hearing and decision of the
board regarding the renewal of the license, whichever date is later.
   (G)   The Board may temporarily extend the expiration of a license thirty
days past the end of any year to allow a cannabis establishment to correct a
deficiency. If the deficiency is not corrected, the Board may terminate the
cannabis establishment's business license.
   (H)   Renewal Application Due Date: All renewals of the business license are
due 60 days prior to the date of expiration. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-7: PERSONS NOT ELIGIBLE FOR LICENSING:
   (A)   In conformity with the polices of this Chapter, the following persons
are not qualified to hold a cannabis establishment license under the provisions
of this Chapter:
      1.   A person who does not possess, or who does not have reputation for
possessing, a good moral character;
      2.   A person under the age of twenty-one (21) years;
      3.   A person whose license issued under this Chapter has been revoked
for cause;
      4.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under this Chapter, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
      5.   Any business entity which has an owner or owner(s) that would not
individually qualify for a license.
      6.   Any person, corporation, or other business entity not possessing a
valid Nevada State Business License or otherwise qualified to conduct business
in the State of Nevada;
      7.   A person who, in the previous year, has failed to comply with any
applicable local ordinance, including, but not limited to, a town or city's
business license ordinance;
      8.   A person who has been convicted within the past ten (10) years of:
         (a)   A felony or gross misdemeanor crime involving the use of a
deadly or dangerous weapon;
         (b)   A felony crime involving the sale of, furnishing, or possession
of, with intent to sell or to furnish, any narcotic, hallucinogenic or
dangerous drug, or conspiracy to so sell, furnish or possess or other crime
that is prohibited by NRS Chapter 453;
         (c)   Any crime involving theft, embezzlement or misappropriation of
funds, or possession of stolen property;
         (d)   Any crime involving perjury, bribery or fraud;
         (e)   Any crime involving a felony domestic violence, sexual assault,
stalking or harassment, or other physical violence;
      9.   For any other good and sufficient reason.
      10.   If the Board finds, upon examination of the circumstances of the
crime listed in this Section and the applicant's criminal history, that the
applicant does not present, and is not likely to present in the future, a
threat to the safety of the County, morals, and welfare, and will likely
operate a lawful cannabis establishment in compliance with the letter and
intent of all County ordinances, the board may, in their discretion, permit a
person otherwise disqualified under this section to possess a license. (Ord.
06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-8: BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION FEE:
   (A)   Business License Application Fee: For every initial or renewal
application, a cannabis establishment shall pay a business application license
fee.
   (B)   Initial Business License Application Fee Amount: The initial
application business license fee shall be set by a resolution of the Board.
   (C)   Renewal Business License Application Fee Amount: The renewal
application business license fee shall be set by resolution of the Board.
   (D)   Application Fee Due: The business license application fee is due at
the time the application is made.
   (E)   Distribution of Business License Fee: All business application fees
collected shall be distributed to the unincorporated town of Jackpot, except
the Sheriff shall retain a portion of the fees set by the Board for
administrative costs.
   (F)   All application fees are not refundable and may not be prorated. (Ord.
06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-9: CANNABIS ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE TAX:
   (A)   Each cannabis establishment shall pay a quarterly licensing tax of
three percent (3%) of the gross revenue of cannabis establishment.
   (B)   The quarterly license taxes are due on the last day of the month after
each calendar quarter. If payment is not received within fifteen days after the
due date, ten percent of the total license tax due shall be assessed as a
penalty charge. In addition, if payment is not received within thirty days of
the due date, the cannabis establishment license shall be deemed expired and
may only be reinstated upon filing a new application and the payment of the
application fee. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-10: SUBJECT TO INVESTIGATION, INSPECTION AND AUDIT:
All licenses are subject to the condition that the license premises may,
without notice, be inspected for compliance with State and County laws and
regulations. Department of Business License investigators, air quality
investigators, agents or other County designees have the right to enter the
licensed premises for the purpose of investigation, inspection or audit of the
operations, books and records. Licensees shall not refuse such right to enter
the premises to inspect or investigate the premises, facilities, qualifications
of personnel, methods or operations, policies and purposes of any cannabis
establishment and of any person proposing to engage in the operation of a
cannabis establishment or to audit the books and records. An inspection of a
facility may include, without limitation, investigation of standards for public
safety and may be conducted jointly with State and other local government
agencies, as well as law enforcement agencies. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-11: PUBLIC DISPLAY REQUIRED:
During all of the period of time for which a license has been issued
authorizing the operation of a cannabis establishment, the license shall be
posted and at all times be displayed in a conspicuous place in the facility
where such business is carried on so that all persons visiting such place may
readily see and read the same. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-12: DUTIES OF LICENSEE:
   (A)   It is the affirmative duty of each holder of a cannabis establishment
license to strictly comply with all the applicable provisions of this Code and
State statutes and regulations regulating cannabis establishments and, each
holder of a cannabis establishment license must:
      1.   Maintain and conduct all activities upon the premises in a decent
and respectful manner and shall not knowingly permit, within or upon the
licensed premises, any use or consumption of any cannabis or cannabis products,
or permit any conditions that could cause disorder, disturbances, excessive
loitering, nuisances or other activities which endanger the health or safety of
the patrons or disrupt the peace or order of the neighborhood.
      2.   Operate and maintain the cannabis establishment in a professional,
orderly and dignified manner that is consistent with the positive image,
quality, perception and appearance of the community;
      3.   Maintain at all times the outside premises of the cannabis
establishment free from trash and other debris.
      4.   Maintain adequate security to ensure compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter and any applicable Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord.
06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-13: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION, NOTICE OF HEARING:
   (A)   Event Causing Revocation or Suspension: All cannabis establishment
business licenses may be revoked if one or more of the following events occur,
but not limited to:
      1.   A Licensee has violated, or permitted, allowed, or caused a
violation of any provision of this Chapter, any regulation issued pursuant to
this Chapter, any condition of approval imposed upon the issuance of the
license, or any State law or regulation relating to operation:
      2.    If the State License has been surrendered or revoked;
      3.   Based on ascertainable facts, the operation substantially aggravates
the crime problem in the County, makes law enforcement unduly difficult, or is
detrimental to the public health, safety, or welfare of the County.
      4.   A Licensee has made fraudulent statements as to a material fact on
an application form, as to any other information presented as part of the
application process, or in connection with any other information required to be
submitted to the Sheriff;
      5.   The Licensee has failed to maintain the premises in compliance with
the requirements of the building, fire, health, and environmental agencies;
      6.   A Licensee commits an offense listed in
6-15-7;
      7.   Dispensing, delivering or otherwise transferring cannabis to a
person other than a cannabis establishment agent, another medical cannabis
establishment, a patient who holds a valid registry identification card or the
designated primary caregiver of such a patient;
      8.   Any act or omission committed by any employee, agent, or independent
contractor that occurs in the course of his or her employment, agency, or
contract with the Licensee shall be imputed to the Licensee for the purpose of
suspension or revocation of the license.
      9.   A Licensee does not comply with any of the conditional terms placed
on the cannabis establishment under subsection "B" of
6-15-4.
   (B)   If the Board or the Sheriff revokes or suspends a cannabis
establishment business license, the applicant shall be provided notice of the
action.
      1.   The Notice shall contain the following:
         a.   The reason for the revocation;
         b.   Notice that the license will expire within ten days or receipt of
the Notice, unless a hearing is requested; and
         c.   The manner in which a hearing before the Board may be requested.
      2.   The Notice shall be deemed delivered when physically hand-delivered
to the applicant or an owner, officer, or board member of the cannabis
establishment, or on the date the notification was deposited with the U.S.
Postal Service and mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
address listed on the license.
   (C)   Before revoking or suspending a business license, the Board or the
Sheriff may provide the cannabis establishment the opportunity to correct any
deficiencies. The Board of Sheriff shall provide notice of the deficiency and
allow the cannabis establishment thirty days to correct the deficiencies. If
the deficiencies are not corrected within thirty days, the Board or the Sheriff
shall provide the notice set forth in subsection “B” of this section.
   (D)   A revocation or suspension of a business license shall become
effective ten working days after the notification to the cannabis establishment
has been provided, unless the cannabis establishment request a hearing.
   (E)   Hearing: If a business license is revoked or suspended by the Board or
the Sheriff, the Licensee may request a hearing before the Board.
      1.   If the Board, after hearing, upholds the suspicion or revocation,
the license will revoke or suspend ten (10) days after a decision of the Board
is entered.
      2.   A cannabis establishment may request a hearing by contacting the
Sheriff and requesting a hearing. The Sheriff, upon request shall request that
the hearing be put on the next agenda of the Board. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-14: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensed operation, Licensee or employee, agent
and/or contractor of any Licensee to:
      1.   Acquire, possess, deliver, transfer, transport, supply, sell, or
dispense any cannabis to any person, unless in compliance with all requirements
of this Chapter and State law.
      2.   Acquire, possess, deliver, transfer, transport, supply, sell, or
dispense any cannabis to or from any person or source outside the State of
Nevada.
      3.   Do any act that violates any licensing requirement established
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes.
      4.   Fail to comply with all requirements of the zoning and planning
codes.
      5.   Allow or otherwise permit, within or upon the licensed premises, any
use or consumption of any cannabis or cannabis products or any other illegal
substances.
      6.   Allow or otherwise permit a person without a cannabis work permit to
work in the cannabis establishment.
      7.   Work within a cannabis establishment without a work permit issued by
the Sheriff. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-15: TRANSFERABILITY:
Licenses shall not be in any manner transferable or assignable, nor shall any
person other than the licensee be authorized to conduct cannabis activities.
(Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-16: CANNABIS WORK PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   All persons working in a cannabis establishment shall submit, and have
approved by the Sheriff, a written application for a work permit. The
application shall set forth the following information: applicant's name, age,
sex, present address and address of all residences and descriptions of all
occupations and businesses for the past five years prior to such application,
and the information of the intended employer. The applicant shall also provide
a cannabis agent card or executive card with the application. Work permits
issued shall be limited to a specific cannabis establishment. If a permittee
wishes to work at another cannabis establishment, the permittee is required to
surrender his/her old permit and secure a new permit under these provisions.
   (B)   All person applying for a cannabis establishment work permit shall
submit to the taking of his or her thumbprints and fingerprints for filing in
the Sheriff's Office and for the performance of a background check pursuant to
Chapter 10, Title 7;
   (C)   No person having committed an offense listed in
6-15-7, shall be granted a work permit.
   (D)   The information in the application shall be treated as confidential
and shall only be accessible to elected officers of the County, the employer of
such persons, if applicable, and to law enforcement officers.
   (E)   A Licensee of a cannabis establishment is prohibited from allowing any
person to work in the cannabis establishment without first having required such
person to comply with this Section. If a Licensee discovers that an applicant
or employee has falsified or otherwise not complied with this Section, the
Licensee shall immediately report the employee to the Sheriff and shall
immediately discontinue the employment of the employee.
   (F)   If a person's Cannabis Agent Card is revoked, such revocation shall
also revoke the work permit under this section.
   (G)   The Sheriff will charge a fee for the application for a work permit
set forth by resolution of the Board.
   (H)   Work permits must be renewed annually and must be renewed on the
anniversary of the date of issuance. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-17: ADVERTISING:
   (A)   A cannabis establishment must comply with the requirements provided in
Elko County Code and any applicable Nevada Revised Statutes regarding signs and
advertising, and, in addition, shall not:
      1.   Use any advertising that is misleading, deceptive, false, or that,
evidenced either by the content of the advertising material or by the medium or
the manner in which the advertising is disseminated, is designed to appeal to
minors;
      2.   Place or maintain, or cause to be placed or maintained, an
advertisement for cannabis or cannabis products in any form or through any
medium whatsoever;
         (a)   Within one thousand feet of the perimeter of a community
facility or a public or private school that provides formal education
traditionally associated with preschool or kindergarten through grade twelve
(12). (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
6-15-18: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Persons found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter are
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by
imprisonment in the County Jail for no more than six (6) months, or by both
such fine and imprisonment. This provision or the provisions of this Chapter
shall be construed as limiting any prosecution for acts related to a violation
of the Uniform Controlled Substance Act as set forth in Chapter 453 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-2020)
CHAPTER 16
ELECTRICITY BUSINESSES
SECTION:
6-16-1: Business License Required
6-16-2: Application For License
6-16-3: Approval Of The Application
6-16-4: Renewal Of Business License
6-16-5: Business Application Fee
6-16-6: Business Tax
6-16-7: Reclamation Bond
6-16-8: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
6-16-9: Transfer Of License
6-16-1: BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   A license is required for all businesses within the unincorporated
area of Elko County engaged in the commercial production of electricity from
intermittent sources of electricity that produces ten (10) megawatts or more.
      1.   “Commercial Production” means the generation of electric power for
sale from intermitting source, including solar and wind facilities within the
unincorporated area of Elko County.
      2.   “Commercial production” does not include the use of transmission
lines or other facilities used for the sole purpose of transmitting electricity
or power generated by industries or individuals for their own use.
   (B)   Businesses in existence at the time this chapter is enacted shall
apply for a business license no later than July 1, 2024. (Ord. 2023-10, 8-2-
2023)
6-16-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   (A)   Application for a business license provided by this Chapter shall be
made to the Sheriff.
   (B)   Each application shall include the following:
      1.   The business licensing application fee;
      2.   Name of the business;
      3.   The approved special use permit required under Elko County
4-17-2, if applicable;
      4.   A Nevada State Business License;
      5.   The location of the proposed establishment;
      6.   Information regarding any bankruptcy proceeding involving the
business or business owners;
      7.   Any necessary licenses from the State to operate a facility that
generates electricity;
      8.   A copy of the lease for the property being leased where the facility
will be located if the business is leasing property for the facility.
      9.   A copy of the applicants Power Sales Agreement.
   (C)   All applications shall be signed by the owners of the business. (Ord.
2023-10, 8-2-2023)
6-16-3: APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION:
   (A)   Approval of Application: After receiving an initial application, the
Sheriff’s Office shall place the application on the next available meeting
agenda of the Board, unless impractical. The Board shall review the
application, and approve or deny the issuance of a business license for the
facility. The Board may deny a license for the following reasons:
      1.   If the application is incomplete or the applicant failed to
disclose, misstated or otherwise misled the Sheriff of the Board in respect to
any fact contained within the application.
      2.   Because applicant did not receive the special use permit required
under Elko County code
4-17-2.
      3.   The Board determines the business is not fiscally responsible.
      4.   The Board determines that the location of the facility will
interfere with the health, safety, or welfare of the public. (Ord. 2023-10, 8-
2-2023)
6-16-4: RENEWAL OF BUSINESS LICENSE:
The business license shall expire one year from the date of its issue, but may
be renewed each year upon payment of the renewal fee set by resolution of the
Elko County Board of Commissioners. A new application shall be submitted and
reviewed by the Board every 5 years. (Ord. 2023-10, 8-2-2023)
6-16-5: BUSINESS APPLICATION FEE:
For every initial and renewal of the business license, the licensee shall pay
an application fee in an amount set by the Board. The application fee shall be
due at the time the application is submitted. The application fee is not
refundable. (Ord. 2023-10, 8-2-2023)
6-16-6: BUSINESS TAX:
   (A)   Each business licensed under the provision of this chapter shall pay a
quarterly tax of three percent (3%) of the gross revenue from the electricity
produced in Elko County.
   (B)   The quarterly tax is due on the last day of the month after each
calendar quarter. If payment is not received within fifteen (15) days of the
due date, ten percent (10%) of the total tax due shall be assessed as a penalty
charge. In addition, if payment is not received within thirty (30) days of the
due date, the business license shall be deemed expired and may only be
reinstated upon filing a new application and the payment of the application
fee. (Ord. 2023-10, 8-2-2023)
6-16-7: RECLAMATION BOND:
   (A)   Each business engaged in the commercial production of electricity
located in the unincorporated area of Elko County shall provide a reclamation
bond. The reclamation bond amount is $10,000.00 per acre. “Acre” for the
purposes of calculating the bond amount shall include the total area of the
land leased or owned by the business used for the commercial production of
electricity.
   (B)   The bond amount shall be adjusted every 10 years using the change in
the IPD-GDP for the preceding 10-year period rounded to the nearest $100.00.
   (C)   Acceptable bond instruments include:
      1.   Cash.
      2.   Cashiers’ or certified check.
      3.   Surety bonds.
   (D)   The provisions of this section do not apply to any business
established prior to the enactment of this Chapter. (Ord. 2023-10, 8-2-2023)
6-16-8: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Events Causing Revocation or Suspension: All business licenses may be
revoked if one or more of the following occurs:
      1.   The Licensee fails to pay the tax required under the provision of
this chapter.
      2.   The Licensee fails to maintain a Nevada State business license.
      3.   It is discovered at any time that the Licensee made false or
misleading statements in the application or during the licensing hearing.
   (B)   A revocation or suspension of a business license shall take effect ten
working days after the Notice of Revocation or Suspension has been provided to
Licensee.
   (C)   Revocation procedure: If the board or the Sheriff revokes or suspends
the business license under these provisions, the Licensee shall be provided a
notice of the action:
      1.   The Notice of Revocation or Suspension shall contain the following:
         a.   The reason for the revocation or suspension
         b.   Notice that the license will expire within ten days of receipt of
the Notice, unless a hearing is requested; and
         c.   The manner in which a hearing before the Board may be requested.
      2.   The Notice shall be deemed delivered when physically hand-delivered
to the Licensee or an officer or board member of the Licensee, or on the date
the Notice was deposited with the U.S. Postal Service and mailed by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the address listed on the license.
   (D)   Hearing: If a Licensee request a hearing before the board, the License
shall not be suspended until ten days after the hearing is complete. A Licensee
may request a hearing under this provision by contacting the Sheriff. (Ord.
2023-10, 8-2-2023)
6-16-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A License granted under the provision of this Chapter are not transferable or
assignable.(Ord. 2023-10, 8-2-2023)
TITLE 7
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Camping Within Mountain City And Montello
7-1-2: [Reserved]
7-1-3: Firearms, Discharge Of In Or Near Lamoille
7-1-4: Discharge Of Firearms Prohibited
7-1-5: Fireworks; Discharge, Sale Of
7-1-6: Prostitution
7-1-7: Disturbing The Peace
7-1-8: Assault
7-1-9: Battery
7-1-10: Contributing To The Delinquency Of A Minor
7-1-11: Defrauding Proprietors Of Hotels, Inns, Restaurants, Motels, Trailer
Parks
7-1-12: Destruction Of Private Property
7-1-13: Disturbing The Peace
7-1-14: Issuance Of A Check, Draft Without Sufficient Funds Or Credit
7-1-15: Petit Larceny
7-1-16: Possession Of Stolen Property
7-1-17: Public Nuisance
7-1-18: Trespass On Land, In Building Of Another After Warning; Warning By
Posting, Fencing
7-1-19: Discharging A Firearm In Or Upon Public Streets, Places Of Public
Resort; Throwing Deadly Missiles
7-1-20: Discharging Firearm At Or Into Structure, Vehicle, Aircraft Or
Watercraft
7-1-21: Aiming Firearm At Human Beings; Discharging Weapon Where Person Might
Be Endangered
7-1-22: Use Of Firearms By Minor Under Fourteen Years
7-1-23: Sale Of Certain Firearms To Minors Unlawful
7-1-24: Drawing Deadly Weapon In Threatening Manner
7-1-25: Possession Of A Drug Which May Not Be Introduced Into Interstate
Commerce
7-1-26: Penalties
7-1-27: Administrative Fee For Intermittent Sentence
7-1-28: Public Urination And Defecation
7-1-1: CAMPING WITHIN MOUNTAIN CITY AND MONTELLO:
It shall be unlawful for any person to camp within the unincorporated town of
Mountain City or the unincorporated town of Montello, on private property or on
any street, alley or other public property whatever; provided, however, that
this section shall not apply to any vehicle or structure allowed by the
prevailing zoning ordinance and which is in compliance with the Elko County
building codes. Further, this section shall not apply to the camping of a land
occupier or a member of his family or up to six (6) of his guests on the land
occupier's land so long as such camping is reasonable in all respects. If such
camping continues for more than seven (7) days in succession, it shall not be
considered reasonable.
For the purpose of this section, "camping" shall mean sleeping for more than
four (4) hours at a time in a trailer, camper vehicle, other vehicle, tent or
similar item, or in the open. (Ord. 1990-S, 7-6-1990, eff. 7-19-1990)
7-1-2: [RESERVED]:
7-1-3: FIREARMS, DISCHARGE OF IN OR NEAR LAMOILLE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, except a shotgun,
in the county within one-half (1/2) mile from the limits of the community of
Lamoille, as said community's limits and boundaries appear on the official plat
recorded in the county recorder's office on September 5, 1924, file no. 37018;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to the following
circumstances:
   (A)   Any peace officer discharging a firearm in the performance of his
duties;
   (B)   Discharging a firearm in a shooting gallery or any designated pistol
or rifle range;
   (C)   The discharge of a firearm by any person in the necessary defense of
himself, his family or property. (Ord. 1971-F, 9-28-1971, eff. 10-1-1971)
7-1-4: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm in Elko
County within the following areas:
      1.   The Bullion Road area southwesterly of Elko, Nevada, more
particularly described as follows: The NE 1/4 and S 1/2 of Section 29, the SE
1/4 of Section 30, the NE 1/4 of Section 31, and Section 32, Township 34 North,
Range 55 East, MDB&M.
      2.   County Road No. 741 (North Fifth Street) including the area
generally described as being outside the Elko City limit between State Route
225 and County Road 741 extending northwesterly to the North boundary of
Township 34 North and the West boundary of Range 55 East, and more particularly
described as those portions of Sections 4, 5, 6, and 9 lying southerly of
County Road No. 741, and those portions of Sections 7, 8, 16 and 17 lying
northerly of State Route 225; together with the those portions of Sections 1
and 12, Township 34 North, Range 54 East, MDB&M, lying northerly of State Route
225.
      3.   The Community commonly known as Spring Creek lying within the
boundaries of Township 32 North, Range 57 East, MDB&M, Sections 2, 3, 4 and 12;
Township 33 North, Range 57 East, Sections 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
27, 28, 29, E 1/2 of Section 30, NE 1/4 of Section 31, 32, 33, 34; Township 33
North, Range 56 East, Sections 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 22,
North 1/2 of Section 23, 24, 25; and Township 34 North, Range 56 East, Section
21, W 1/2 of Section 22, W 1/2 of Section 27, 28, 33, and the NW 1/4 of Section
34.
      4.   The Community of Jarbidge, as the limits and boundaries thereof
appear on the Official Map of Jarbidge Townsite, recorded in the Office of the
Elko County Recorder on November 5, 1921.
      5.   The unincorporated Town of Montello, which shall include the portion
of Section 17, Township 39 North, Range 69 East, MDB&M, which lies
northwesterly of a line parallel with and 200' distant from, in a northwesterly
direction measured at right angles, the original centerline of the Southern
Pacific Transportation Company's mainline track between Sacramento, California,
and Ogden, Utah; which area includes the Townsite of Montello as described in
the Map of the Town of Montello, filed in the Office of the Elko County
Recorder on September 15, 1977, as file number 107470. (Ord. 1994-C, 3-3-1994,
eff. 3-17-1994)
   (B)   Subsection (A) of this section shall not apply to the following
circumstances:
      1.   Any peace officer discharging a firearm in the performance of his
duties;
      2.   Discharging a firearm in a shooting gallery or any designated pistol
or rifle range;
      3.   The discharge of a firearm by any person in the necessary defense of
himself, his family or property. (Ord. 1978-Q, 11-9-1978, eff. 12-1-1978)
   (C)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to discharge any bow and
arrow, slingshot, pellet gun, BB gun, or any other device capable of launching
a projectile in the community of Jarbidge as defined by subsection (A)4 of this
section. (Ord. 1994-G, 7-7-1994, eff. 8-1-1994)
7-1-5: FIREWORKS; DISCHARGE, SALE OF:
   (A)   Discharge Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to wilfully handle or
discharge, explode or cause to be discharged or exploded any firecrackers,
roman candles, skyrockets or other fireworks, excepting specifically herefrom
the use of sparklers and fusees at any place within the boundaries of the
county.
      2.   Public displays by organized groups and associations, having
firefighting equipment available at the time of the display, are hereby
excepted from the provisions of this section.
      3.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subsection shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished
with a fine of not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment
not to exceed three (3) months, in the county jail or by such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 1965-D, 6-8-1965)
   (B)   Sale Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale,
exchange or barter, or give away any fireworks, firecrackers, Roman candles,
sky rockets or any and all pyrotechnical displays of any name or nature, except
fusees and sparklers.
      2.   Any person or persons violating the provisions of this subsection
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished accordingly. (Ord. 1965-C, 6-17-
1965)
7-1-6: PROSTITUTION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, maintain or operate
a house of ill fame or repute or any other business employing any female for
the purpose of prostitution within the unincorporated area of the county.
   (B)   Any person violating the terms and provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to punishment of imprisonment in the county
jail for a period not exceeding six (6) months or a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00), or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Whenever a person has been charged with a misdemeanor as hereinabove
set forth, the county manager shall forthwith issue a written order to the
owner, occupant, manager or person in charge of such aforesaid business or
premises, requiring such person to appear before the board of county
commissioners within not less than five (5) days from date of service of such
written notice upon said person to then and there show cause why the said
establishment or premises should not be closed as being a house of ill fame or
repute or any other business employing a female for the purpose of
prostitution.
   (D)   Service shall be made in person upon the owner, occupant, manager or
person in charge of the establishment or premises by the sheriff or a duly
authorized deputy of his office.
   (E)   If, after the aforesaid hearing on the matter at which the person so
cited, together with legal counsel if desired, may be present, the said board
of county commissioners shall determine from the evidence adduced that a house
of ill fame or repute or any other business employing a female for the purpose
of prostitution does in fact exist, such activity shall be immediately enjoined
and abated and, by order of said board, the establishment or premises shall be
closed by the sheriff.
   (F)   The words "unincorporated area", in the context of this section, shall
not include those areas of Elko County that are incorporated pursuant to the
laws of the state: the cities of Elko, Carlin and Wells. All other areas of the
county, including unincorporated cities and towns shall be deemed a part of the
unincorporated area of Elko County, Nevada. (Ord. 1971-G, 10-22-1971; amd. Ord.
1978-F, 5-4-1978, eff. 5-20-1978)
7-1-7: DISTURBING THE PEACE 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously and wilfully disturb the
peace or quiet of any neighborhood or person or family by disorderly conduct,
including, but not limited to, loud or unusual noises, or tumultuous and
offensive conduct such as quarreling, threatening, challenging to fight or
fighting. (Ord. 1978-H, 5-4-1978, eff. 5-18-1978)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 7-1-13 of this chapter.
7-1-8: ASSAULT:
Any person, who intentionally places another person in reasonable apprehension
of immediate bodily harm; or unlawfully attempts to use physical force against
another person commits an assault and is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2015-
01, 4-1-2015, eff. 4-17-2015)
7-1-9: BATTERY:
Any person who wilfully and unlawfully using force or violence upon the person
of another, without the use of a deadly weapon, which results in no substantial
bodily harm to the victim, commits battery and is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 05-2007, 1-2-2008, eff. 1-30-2008)
7-1-10: CONTRIBUTING TO THE DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR:
Any person who commits any act or omits the performance of any duty which
causes or tends to cause or encourage any person under the age of eighteen (18)
to become a "neglected child", "child in need of supervision" or "delinquent
child" as those terms are defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 201.090, or which
act or omission contributes thereto, or any person who by any act or omission,
or by threats, command or possession induces or endeavors to induce any person
under the age of eighteen (18) to perform any act or to follow any course of
conduct as would cause or tend to cause such person to become or remain a
person who is a "neglected child", "child in need of supervision" or
"delinquent child", as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 201.090, shall be
guilty of contributing to the neglect or delinquency of a minor, a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983)
7-1-11: DEFRAUDING PROPRIETORS OF HOTELS, INNS, RESTAURANTS, MOTELS, TRAILER
PARKS:
   (A)   Any person who:
      1.   Obtains food, foodstuffs, lodging, merchandise or other
accommodations at any hotel, inn, trailer park, motor court, boarding house,
rooming house, lodging house, furnished apartment house, eating house,
restaurant, grocery store, market or dairy, without paying therefor, with
intent to defraud the proprietor or manager thereof; or
      2.   Obtains credit at a hotel, inn, trailer park, motor court, boarding
house, rooming house, lodging house, furnished apartment house, eating house,
restaurant, grocery store, market or dairy by the use of any false pretense; or
      3.   After obtaining credit, food, lodging, merchandise or other
accommodations at a hotel, inn, trailer park, motor court, boarding house,
rooming house, lodging house, furnished apartment house, eating house,
restaurant, grocery store, market or dairy, to abscond or surreptitiously, or
by force, menace or threats, to remove any part of his baggage therefrom,
without paying for his food or accommodations; and
      4.   Where the total value of the credit, food, foodstuffs, lodging,
merchandise or other accommodations received from any one such establishment is
in an amount less than one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00), that
person is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Proof that lodging, food, foodstuffs, merchandise or other
accommodations were obtained by false pretenses or by false or fictitious show
or pretense of any baggage or other property, or that the person refused or
wilfully neglected to pay for such food, foodstuffs, lodging, merchandise or
other accommodations or that he gave in payment for such food, foodstuffs,
lodging, merchandise or other accommodations, negotiable paper on which payment
was refused, or that he absconded without paying or offering to pay for such
food, foodstuffs, lodging, merchandise or other accommodations, or that he
surreptitiously removed or attempted to remove his baggage, shall be prima
facie evidence of the fraudulent intent mentioned in this section.
(Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983; amd. Ord. 2024-04, 8-7-2024)
7-1-12: DESTRUCTION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY:
Any person who shall willfully or maliciously destroy or injure any real or
personal property of another shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 1983-N, 9-
8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983; amd. Ord. 09-2019, 11-6-2019)
7-1-13: DISTURBING THE PEACE 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously and wilfully disturb the
peace or quiet of any neighborhood or person or family by disorderly conduct,
including, but not limited to, loud or unusual noises or tumultuous and
offensive conduct such as quarreling, threatening, challenging to fight or
fighting. (Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 7-1-7 of this chapter.
7-1-14: ISSUANCE OF A CHECK, DRAFT WITHOUT SUFFICIENT FUNDS OR CREDIT:
   (A)   Any person who willfully, with the intent to defraud, draws or passes
a check or draft to obtain money or delivery of other valuable property of a
value less than one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00), drawn upon any
real or fictitious person, bank, firm, partnership, corporation, depository,
when the person so drawing or passing has insufficient money, property, or
credit with the drawee of the instrument to pay it in full upon presentation is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   For purposes of this section “credit” means an arrangement or
understanding with a person, firm, corporation, bank or depository for the
payment of a check or other instrument.
   (C)   In a criminal action for issuing a check or draft without sufficient
funds with an intent to defraud, that intent and the knowledge that the drawer
has insufficient money, property or credit with drawee is presumed to exist if:
      1.   The instrument is drawn on a purported account which does not exist.
      2.   Payment of the instrument is refused by the drawee when it is
presented in the usual course of business, unless within ten (10) days after
receiving notice of this fact from the drawee or the holder, the drawer pays
the holder of the instrument the full amount of the instrument or the amount
due plus any handling charges incurred.
      3.   Notice of refusal of payment, sent to the drawer by registered or
certified mail at an address printed or written on the instrument is returned
because of nondelivery.
(Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983; amd. Ord. 2012-07, 6-6-2012, eff. 7-14-
2012; Ord. 2024-04, 8-7-2024)
7-1-15: PETIT LARCENY:
Any person who steals, takes, carries, leads or drives away personal goods or
property of another, less than the value of one thousand two hundred dollars
($1,200.00), commits petit larceny and is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2011-09, 1-4-2012, eff. 1-31-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-04, 8-7-2024)
7-1-16: POSSESSION OF STOLEN PROPERTY:
Any person who, for his own gain, or to prevent the owner from again possessing
his property, buys, receives, possesses or holds stolen goods or anything, the
stealing of which is declared to be a larceny, or property obtained by robbery,
burglary or embezzlement, as defined in chapter 484 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes, of a value less than one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00),
knowing that the goods or property were so obtained, or under circumstances
that should have caused a reasonable man to know that such goods or property
were so obtained is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2012-04, 6-6-2012, eff. 7-14-2012; amd. Ord. 2024-04, 8-7-2024)
7-1-17: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any person who:
   (A)   Shall commit or maintain a public nuisance, for which no special
punishment is prescribed elsewhere in this Code; or
   (B)   Shall wilfully omit or refuse to perform any legal duty relating to
the removal of such nuisance; or
   (C)   Shall let, or permit to be used, any building, boat or real property
or portion thereof for committing or maintaining any such nuisance, knowing
that it is intended for such use or being used for such use, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983)
7-1-18: TRESPASS ON LAND, IN BUILDING OF ANOTHER AFTER WARNING; WARNING BY
POSTING, FENCING:
   (A)   Every person who goes upon the land or into any building of another
with intent to vex or annoy, the owner or occupant thereof, or to commit any
unlawful act, or wilfully goes or remains upon any land or in any building
after having been warned by the owner or occupant thereof not to trespass, is
guilty of a misdemeanor. The meaning of this subsection is not limited by
subsections (B) and (D) of this section.
   (B)   Every owner or other occupant of any land is deemed to have given a
sufficient warning against trespassing within the meaning of this section, who:
      1.   Posts in a conspicuous manner on each side thereof, upon or near the
boundary, at intervals of not more than seven hundred feet (700'), signs,
legibly printed or painted in the English language, warning persons not to
trespass; or
      2.   Fences the area.
   (C)   It is prima facie evidence of trespass for any person to be found on
private or public property which is posted or fenced as provided in subsection
(B) of this section without lawful business with the owner or occupant of the
property.
   (D)   An entryman on land under the laws of the United States is an owner
within the meaning of this section.
   (E)   As used in this section, "fence" means a barrier sufficient to
indicate an intent to restrict the area to human ingress, including, but not
limited to, a wall, hedge or chainlink or wire mesh fence. (Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-
1983, eff. 10-1-1983)
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person with the intent to sell or solicit
goods and/or services, also known as door-to- door sales, to call in person at
any dwelling or business or at any other place within the boundaries of the
Spring Creek Association.
      1.   Door to door sales is defined as any sale, purchase, lease or rental
of any consumer goods or services with a purchase price of twenty five dollars
($25.00) or more which is the result of any door-to-door solicitation or
personal solicitation by the seller, or his or her representative, not at the
specific invitation of the buyer, and which is made at a place other than the
place of business of the seller. Peddling and/or sales by a "traveling
merchant" are included within the definition of door-to-door sales.
      2.   Solicitation also includes a request for a contribution to a
charitable organization or nonprofit corporation which is not at the specific
invitation of the person being solicited that is made by a face-to-face
meeting. However, political, religious and charitable organizations are
exempted from the criminal penalties of this subsection.
      3.   The boundary of the Spring Creek Association is the area within
T.32N., R.57E., Sections 2, 3, 4 and 12; T.33N., R.57E., Sections 7, 8, 9, 10,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 27, 28, 29, the E1/2 of Sec. 30, the NE1/4 of Sec. 31,
and Sections 32, 33, and 34; T.33N., R.56E., Sections 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 22, the N1/2 of Section 23, and Sections 24 & 25; and
T.34N., R56E., Sec. 21, the W1/2 of Sec. 22, the W1/2 of Sec. 27, Sec. 28, 33
and the NW1/4 of Sec. 34.
      4.   Any person who intentionally violates this subsection (F) is guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 2017-05, 1-17-2018, eff. 2-11-2018)
7-1-19: DISCHARGING A FIREARM IN OR UPON PUBLIC STREETS, PLACES OF PUBLIC
RESORT; THROWING DEADLY MISSILES:
Any person, whether under the influence of liquor or otherwise, who shall
maliciously, wantonly or negligently discharge or cause to be discharged any
pistol, gun or any kind of firearm, in or upon any public street or
thoroughfare, or in any theater, hall, store, hotel, saloon or any other place
of public resort, or throw any deadly missile in a public place, or in any
place where any person might be endangered thereby, although no injury result,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983)
7-1-20: DISCHARGING FIREARM AT OR INTO STRUCTURE, VEHICLE, AIRCRAFT OR
WATERCRAFT:
Any person who wilfully and maliciously discharges a firearm at or into any
abandoned house, room, apartment, tenement, shop, warehouse, store, mill, barn,
stable, outhouse or other building, tent, vessel, aircraft, vehicle trailer,
semitrailer or house trailer, railroad locomotive, car or tender, is guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983)
7-1-21: AIMING FIREARM AT HUMAN BEINGS; DISCHARGING WEAPON WHERE PERSON MIGHT
BE ENDANGERED:
Every person who shall aim any gun, pistol, revolver or other firearm, whether
loaded or not, at or toward any human being or who shall wilfully discharge any
firearm, air gun or other weapon or throw any deadly missile in a public place,
or in any place where any person might be endangered thereby, although no
injury result, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff.
10-1-1983)
7-1-22: USE OF FIREARMS BY MINOR UNDER FOURTEEN YEARS:
   (A)   No minor under the age of fourteen (14) years shall handle or have in
his possession or under his control, except while accompanied by or under the
immediate charge of an adult person, any firearm of any kind for hunting or
target practice or for other purposes.
   (B)   Every person violating any of the provisions of subsection (A) of this
section, or aiding or knowingly permitting any such minor to violate the same,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983)
7-1-23: SALE OF CERTAIN FIREARMS TO MINORS UNLAWFUL:
   (A)   Any person in this State who sells or barters to another under the age
of eighteen (18) years either a pistol, revolver or firearm capable of being
concealed upon the person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The term "firearm capable of being concealed upon the person" as used
in this section applies to and includes all firearms having a barrel less than
twelve inches (12") in length. (Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983)
7-1-24: DRAWING DEADLY WEAPON IN THREATENING MANNER:
   (A)   Any person having, carrying or procuring from another person any dirk,
dirk knife, sword, sword cane, pistol, gun or other deadly weapon, who shall,
in the presence of two (2) of more persons, draw or exhibit any of such deadly
weapons in a rude, angry or threatening manner not in necessary self- defense,
or who shall in any manner unlawfully use the same in any fight or quarrel,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   No Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff, Marshal, Constable or other peace officer
shall be held to answer, under the provisions of subsection (A) of this
section, for drawing or exhibiting any of the weapons mentioned therein while
in the lawful discharge of his duties. (Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983)
7-1-25: POSSESSION OF A DRUG WHICH MAY NOT BE INTRODUCED INTO INTERSTATE
COMMERCE:
   (A)   Any person within Elko County who knowingly possesses, procures or
obtains, processes, produces, derives, manufactures, sells, offers for sale,
gives away or otherwise furnishes any drug which may not be lawfully introduced
into interstate commerce under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, 21
United States Code section 301 et seq., is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The provisions of subsection (A) of this section do not apply:
      1.   To physicians licensed to practice in Nevada who have been
authorized by the Food and Drug Administration to possess experimental drugs
for research purposes.
      2.   To any substance which has been licensed by the Nevada Commissioner
of Food and Drugs, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 585, for
manufacture in this State but has not been approved as a drug by the Federal
Food and Drug Administration. The exemption granted in this subsection (B)2
does not grant authority to transport such a substance out of State. (Ord.
2001-A, 6-7-2001, eff. 7-1-2001)
7-1-26: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person convicted of a misdemeanor as described in the sections of
this chapter, shall be subject to punishment of imprisonment in the County Jail
for a period not to exceed six (6) months or a fine not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   In lieu of all or part of the punishment which may be imposed pursuant
to subsection (A) of this section, if the convicted person agrees, he may be
sentenced to perform a fixed period of work for the benefit of the community
under the conditions prescribed in Nevada Revised Statutes 176.087, and not to
exceed one hundred twenty (120) hours of such work for conviction of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983; amd. Ord. 2001-A, 6-7-
2001, eff. 7-1-2001)
7-1-27: ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR INTERMITTENT SENTENCE:
An administrative fee is hereby established pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
211.350 in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each day served when
a prisoner is sentenced to confinement in the County Jail, including a prisoner
sentenced as a condition of probation, whose sentence is served intermittently
on days other than his regular days of employment. Fees received pursuant to
this section shall be deposited by the Treasurer into the County General Fund.
(Ord. 1992-E, 5-7-1992, eff. 5-21-1992; amd. Ord. 2001-A, 6-7-2001, eff. 7-1-
2001)
7-1-28: PUBLIC URINATION AND DEFECATION:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally urinate or defecate in
a public place, other than a washroom or toilet room, under circumstances where
such act could be observed by any member of the public.
   (B)   As used in this section, “public place” means an area generally
visible to public view and includes streets, sidewalks, bridges, alleys,
plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, and buildings open to the general
public, or private property in the view of any person on public property. (Ord.
2023-05, 6-7-2023)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
7-2-1: Definitions
7-2-2: Jurisdiction
7-2-3: Animal Control Officer
7-2-4: License - Fees
7-2-5: Dog License And Dog Or Cat Inoculation Required
7-2-6: Running at Large
7-2-7: Dogs Trespassing
7-2-8: Impounding and Fees
7-2-9: Notice to Owners and Redemption
7-2-10: Disposition of Unclaimed Dogs
7-2-11: Adoption Policy
7-2-12: Dangerous Dogs
7-2-13: Barking Dogs
7-2-14: Barking Dogs; Revocation of License
7-2-15: Responsibility of Parent and Head of Household
7-2-16: Guard Dogs
7-2-17: Unlawful Uses of License Tags
7-2-18: Abandonment, Mistreatment and Killing of Animals Other Than by a Legal
Method of Take; Impoundment of Animals
7-2-19: Impounding Animals Other Than Dogs
7-2-20: Adoption and Disposition of Impounded Animals Other Than Dogs
7-2-21: Exempted Activities
7-2-22: Law Enforcement
7-2-23: Criminal Penalty
7-2-24: Prosecution for Violations
7-2-25: Additional Remedies
7-2-26: Late Payment Penalty
7-2-27: Businesses That Sell Or Board Dogs Or Cats For Profit Or Act As A
Breeder
7-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
                        The provision at suitable intervals for the species, of
                        a quantity of wholesome foodstuff for the species,
ADEQUATE FOOD:          physical condition, and age, sufficient to maintain an
                        adequate level of nutrition in the animal, such
                        foodstuff to be served in a clean receptacle, dish, or
                        container.
ADEQUATE SHELTER:       A physical structure or place suitable for maintaining
                        the health and life of an animal.
                        An adequate supply of clean, fresh, potable water
ADEQUATE WATER:         provided at suitable intervals for the species,
                        physical condition and age of the animal provided at
                        least once every twelve (12) hours.
                        A person appointed by the Elko County Sheriff or the
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: Board of Elko County Commissioners for the propose of
                        enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and state
                        laws relating to animals and animal control.
                        Any domesticated animal of the canine family of either
DOG:                    sex. The term "dog does not include wolves or wolf
                        hybrids.
NON-ALTERED DOG:        A dog, whether male or female, which has not been
                        surgically rendered incapable of producing offspring.
                        Any person keeping, harboring, or having charge or
                        control of, or permitting any dog or animal to
                        habitually remain on or be lodged or fed within such
OWNER:                  person s house, yard, or premises. This term shall not
                        apply to veterinarians or kennel operators temporarily
                        maintaining on their premises dogs or other animals
                        owned by others for a period of less than thirty (30)
                        days.
PERSON WITH DISABILITY: A person with a physical or mental impairment that
                        substantially limits one or more major life activities.
                        Any place off the premises of the owner or person
                        having custody and control of a dog and not accompanied
RUNNING AT LARGE:       by and under the control of the owner or any other
                        responsible person by physical restraint or signal
                        command or voice command.
SERVICE ANIMAL:         A dog or other animal that is individually trained to
                        do work or perform tasks for people with disabilities.
                        A dog, whether male or female, which has been
                        surgically rendered incapable of producing offspring,
SPAY OR NEUTERED DOG:   as evidenced by a signed statement to that effect by a
                        licensed veterinarian. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-
                        94; amd. Ord. 2023-02, 2-15-2023)
 
7-2-2: JURISDICTION:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply in all unincorporated areas within
Elko County. (Ord. 2023-02, 2-15-2023)
7-2-3: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   (A)   Authority: The animal control officer is empowered to:
      1.   Enforce all provisions of this chapter and Nevada State laws related
to animals and animal control, including the power to issue misdemeanor
citations for violations of this chapter and Nevada State law.
      2.   Take into custody and safely keep animal(s) found to be in violation
of the provisions of this Chapter and Nevada State law, except those animals
explicitly prohibited by Nevada State law.
      3.   Remove from any property any animal(s) when necessary for the
protection of the animal(s) or the general public.
   (B)   Interference With Animal Control Officer: No person shall interfere
with or resist any animal services officer while engaged in the performance of
their duties pertaining to the enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Consult with State veterinarian: In the performance of his/her duties,
the animal services officer and his/her authorized representative will consult
with the state veterinarian or their representatives concerning the type and
method of use of all drugs to be utilized. (Ord. 2023-02, 2-15-2023)
7-2-4: LICENSE - FEES:
   (A)   It is unlawful for an owner to keep or maintain a dog over the age of
six (6) months, unless the dog is licensed.
   (B)   The owner of such dog shall make application for a license upon a form
to be provided by the County Clerk, which application shall state:
      1.   The owner’s name and address.
      2.   The name, breed, color, sex, and age of each dog owned or kept by
the owner.
      3.   The date the owner acquired the dog.
   (C)   The County Clerk, or the Clerk’s authorized representative, shall not
license any dog until:
      1.   It has been inoculated against rabies by a veterinarian, and the
owner of the dog has produced a certificate of inoculation and a tag evidencing
such fact from a veterinarian; or
      2.   The owner of the dog has furnished a statement from a veterinarian
to the effect that the dog should not or need not be inoculated; or
      3.   The owner of the dog provides proof satisfactory to the Clerk, in
lieu of a certificate of inoculation, that the dog has been inoculated with the
appropriate vaccine for the prevention of rabies.
   (D)   License fee:
      1.   Every owner of a dog over six (6) months in age, shall pay to the
County Clerk an annual license fee as follows:
 
Spayed female or neutered male dog       $ 5.00
Nonspayed female or nonneutered male dog 10.00
 
      2.   The owner of a guide dog shall make an application for a license on
the provided form, but the license shall be issued without charge.
   (E)   The license fee shall be for the calendar year, or part thereof
remaining after the date such license is obtained, and shall be payable in
advance. No prorations shall be made for fractional parts of the year. The
annual license fee for a dog license shall be due and payable on or before
January 1 of each year, or if such day is a legal holiday, then on the first
business day thereafter.
   (F)   The annual license fee for any dog not previously licensed shall be
due and payable when an unlicensed dog reaches six (6) months of age, upon
acquiring ownership or possession of any unlicensed dog six (6) months of age
or older, or upon the owner of an unlicensed dog six (6) months of age or older
establishing a residence in Elko County. If any dog license fee is not paid
within sixty (60) days from the date it becomes due, a penalty of three dollars
($3.00) shall be paid to the Clerk in addition to the annual license fee.
   (G)   The provisions of this Section shall not apply to:
      1.   Dogs owned by persons who are not residents of Elko County, and are
temporarily in Elko County for a period of not to exceed thirty (30) days; or
      2.   Dogs brought exclusively into Elko County for the purpose of
participating in a dog show or exhibition.
   (H)   Upon completion of the dog license application and compliance with the
requirements of this Section, together with the payment of the proper annual
license fee and penalty, if any, the Clerk or his/her duly authorized
representative shall issue an appropriate metal or plastic dog license with the
tag number stamped thereon.
   (I)   If the dog tag is lost at any time prior to the expiration date
thereof, it shall be the duty of the owner of the dog to procure a replacement
tag from the Clerk and pay a fee of five dollars ($5.00) therefor.
   (J)   Dog tags and licenses are not transferable from one dog to another,
and no refund shall be made on any dog license fee because of the death of the
dog or the owner leaving the County prior to the expiration date of the
license.
   (K)   1.   Any person, firm or corporation owning, any business involving
the keeping of dogs and/or cats for the purpose of breeding shall make
application to the Elko County Sheriff’s Office for a permit to operate said
business. An application for a permit must contain the following:
         (a)   The name of the person or business applying for the permit;
         (b)   The address or location of the facility used in the applicant’s
business;
         (c)   The type of animals the person or business breeds; and
         (d)   A copy of a State business license and Elko County Certificate
of Business or Fictitious Firm name.
      2.   The Elko County Sheriff may charge an application fee, not to exceed
the approximate cost of providing the service associated with the issuance of
an annual permit.
      3.   The Animal Control Officer or a Sheriff’s Deputy may enter and
inspect any facility for which a permit is issued at any reasonable hour.
      4.   The Sheriff’s Office may terminate or temporarily suspend a permit
pending investigation if the following occurs: if the Animal Control Officer or
Sheriff’s Deputy finds that a permit holder violated any of the provisions of
Chapter 574 of the N.R.S. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94; amd. Ord. 10-
2019, 1-8-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-15-2023)
7-2-5: DOG LICENSE AND DOG OR CAT INOCULATION REQUIRED:
   (A)   Every owner of a dog licensed under the provisions of this Chapter
shall provide the dog with a suitable collar or harness to be worn around the
neck or forepart of the body of the dog, to which the license tag issued by the
County Clerk and the required inoculation tag shall be securely affixed. The
owner shall ensure that the collar and tag are worn by the dog at all times.
   (B)   Inoculation; Reinoculation: All dogs or cats, harbored or maintained
within Elko County, four (4) months of age or older shall be inoculated by a
veterinarian with an anti-rabies vaccine approved by and in the manner and at
such intervals as may be prescribed by the state department of agriculture,
from time to time; provided, that every dog or cat shall be reinoculated at not
more than twenty four (24) month intervals thereafter if inoculated with
modified live vaccine, or at not more than twelve (12) month intervals if
inoculated with killed vaccine. It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian
of any dog or cat to keep, maintain or allow such dog or cat to remain Elko
County, unless such dog or cat shall have been inoculated with anti-rabies
vaccine by a veterinarian at the time and in the manner specified in this
chapter. (Ord. 2023-02, 2-15-2023)
7-2-6: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of an animal to
suffer, permit or allow the animal to run at large.
   (B)   The owner of a dog must restrain the dog so that it does not run at
large. The owner of a dog is responsible for the dog being at large, and is in
violation of this Chapter unless the dog is at all times restrained by the
following:
      1.   Within the confines of the owner’s residence or other building on
the owner’s premises.
      2.   Within the confines of a secure fence, a secured dog run, or other
secured dog tight enclosure sufficient to keep the dog on the owner’s premises
and from which the dog cannot stray.
      3.   Within the owner’s automobile or within the cab or enclosed portion
of any other vehicle of the owner, or within the bed of a truck, provided the
dog is restrained by a leash which will prevent it from leaving the confines of
the truck bed.
      4.   On a leash sufficient to hold the dog in restraint, and which is not
more than eight feet (8') in length.
      5.   Under effective voice or other nonverbal control when off the
owner’s premises.
   (C)    Failure to restrain a dog in compliance with this Section is a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not less than twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by
imprisonment in the jail for a period of not to exceed thirty (30) days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94; amd. Ord.
2023-02, 2-15-2023)
7-2-7: DOGS TRESPASSING:
   (A)   Where an animal is found to be running at large in violation of
Section
7-2-6, it may be captured and turned over to the Animal Control Officer or a
deputy sheriff. If the animal is thereupon returned to its owner, the Animal
Control Officer or Deputy Sheriff may issue a citation to the owner or file a
report for criminal prosecution for violations of this Chapter. The citation
shall indicate that the owner shall appear before the Justice of the Peace for
disposition of the citation, or the date and time indicated on the citation.
   (B)   This Section shall not apply to service animal, or the animal used to
aid persons with disabilities. Whenever such a service animal is found to be
running at large and is captured, the Animal Control Officer or Deputy Sheriff
shall take the service animal and return it to its owner. No citation shall be
issued, and no fine levied. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94; amd. Ord. 2023-
02, 2-15-2023)
7-2-8: IMPOUNDING AND FEES:
   (A)   Record of Impounding: Immediately after impounding an animal, it shall
be the duty of the Animal Control Officer or Deputy Sheriff to make a report of
the impoundment.
   (B)   Fees and Charges: Elko County is authorized to set forth reasonable
regulations for charging owners or person having the care, custody, or
possession of an animal impounded under this chapter for all costs and
maintenance incurred by the County.
   (C)   Number of Impoundments: If determining the number of impounds, the
total number of impounds in any city and the county shall be counted. A dog
impounded only once during any twelve (12) month period shall be treated as if
impounded for a first offense.
   (D)   Reimbursement of Costs: The County of Elko shall be reimbursed by the
owner for the cost of apprehending, detaining, and/or caring (impoundment,
board, and veterinary expenses) for animals impounded under the provisions of
this Chapter.
   (E)   Liability of Owner: Failure of the owner of an impounded animal to
claim the animal does not relieve such owner of liability for payment of
impoundment, board, veterinary, euthanasia and/or disposal fees. (Ord. 1994-A,
3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94; amd. Ord. 2023-02, 2-15-2023)
7-2-9: NOTICE TO OWNERS AND REDEMPTION:
   (A)   No later than twenty-four (24) hours after the impounding of an
animal, the owner shall be notified of that fact, by mail or personally, or if
the owner of the animal is unknown, by posting a written notice for five (5)
days at the County Courthouse, describing the animal and the place and time of
taking; a copy of the notice shall be given to central dispatch.
   (B)   Any Animal may be reclaimed by the owner within five (5) days of
impoundment. Before an animal may be released the owner must do the following:
      1.   Pay all past due license fees and penalties if required, and pay all
costs and charges incurred by the County for the impounding and maintenance of
the animal.
      2.   If the animal is a dog the owner must first present a current
license if the dog is untagged and obtain a rabies inoculation or present proof
of rabies inoculation. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94; amd. Ord. 2023-02,
2-15-2023)
7-2-10: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS:
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer shall keep all animals for a period of five
(5) days after impoundment. If at the expiration of five (5) days the animal
has not been redeemed, the Animal Control Officer may make disposition of the
animal in one of the following ways:
      1.   The Officer may turn a dog or cat over to the shelter where the dog
or car has been impounded.
      2.   The Officer may have the animal destroyed in some humane manner or
adopted out as provided in Section
7-2-11.
      3.   Any dog that appears to be suffering from rabies or affected with
hydrophobia, mange or other infectious or dangerous disease shall not be
released, but may be forthwith destroyed. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94;
amd. Ord. 2023-02, 2-15-2023)
7-2-11: ADOPTION POLICY:
The Animal Control Officer may offer apparently healthy animal for adoption at
the end of the claiming period set forth in subsection
7-2-10(A), upon the following conditions:
   (A)   Dog and Cats: That adoptive owner agree to have the dog or cat be
neutered or spayed at the expense of the adoptive owner. That the adoptive
owner obtains a valid rabies tag or certificate from a licensed veterinarian
stating that the dog or cat has been inoculated with suitable vaccines for the
prevention of rabies, or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that the dog
should not be so vaccinated and present the same to the Animal Control Officer
within thirty (30) days of adoption.
   (B)   All animals other than dogs and cats impounded and not redeemed within
the five (5) days provided herein, or destroyed pursuant to this chapter, shall
be adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 7-2-20. (Ord. 1994-A,
3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94; amd. Ord. 2023-02, 2-15-2023)
7-2-12: DANGEROUS DOGS:
   (A)   As used in this Section, "dangerous dog" means a dog with the
propensity to bite human beings. It shall be prima facie evidence that a dog is
dangerous if it has bitten any person, unless the person was trespassing upon
the property of the owner.
   (B)   Whenever the owner of any dog has knowledge that the dog has bitten a
human being, the owner shall immediately inform the Animal Control Officer. The
provisions of Elko County Code Section
7-3-1 et seq. shall be strictly complied with.
   (C)   If a dog bites a human being on a second occasion, the owner shall
comply with subsection (B). The dog must thereafter be kept at all times in a
secure dog tight pen. The pen must be inspected and approved by the Animal
Control Officer. If the dog is held in the animal shelter, the dog shall not be
released until the Animal Control Officer has inspected and approved the pen.
If the owner refuses to provide a secure dog tight pen that has been inspected
and approved by the Animal Control Officer, the owner may appeal pursuant to
the provisions contained in subsection
7-2-14(B).
   (D)   The dog license issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be restricted
whenever a dog is found to be dangerous, and the dog shall be continuously kept
by the owner in a secure dog tight pen that has been inspected and approved by
the Animal Control Officer. A dog whose license has been restricted upon that
ground shall be forthwith destroyed if it is thereafter found or observed to be
out of the pen in which it is required to be confined.
   (E)   The provisions of this Section are minimum standards which do not
supersede stricter or additional requirements which may be imposed by the
Nevada Revised Statutes under the circumstances.
   (F)   Substantial Bodily Harm: If any animal attacks a person, and such
attack results in "substantial bodily harm," as defined by NRS 0.060, the
animal shall be immediately surrendered to the animal control officer, and
shall be destroyed in a humane manner, and shall be subsequently tested for
rabies. This provision shall not apply if the person attacked was trespassing
upon the property of the owner. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94; amd. Ord.
2021-02, 9-1-2021)
7-2-13: BARKING DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor, or possess any animal
which, by loud or frequent habitual barking, howling, yelping, braying or other
noise, causes annoyance to the neighbors or to any person in the vicinity. In
addition to any other fines and penalties imposed by the court in the event of
a conviction of this section, the court shall have full powers to order
abatement of the nuisance caused by the animal. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-
17-94; amd. Ord. 2023-02, 2-15-2023)
7-2-14: BARKING DOGS; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   The dog license issued under this Chapter shall be revoked whenever
the owner or owners of a dog have been convicted three (3) times of a violation
of Section
7-2-13. It is unlawful to keep or maintain any dog within Elko County after its
license has been revoked, and no other license shall be issued for such dog.
   (B)   If such dog is not removed from the County within five (5) days after
its license has been revoked, the Animal Control Officer may impound the dog.
The dog shall not thereafter be released from the animal shelter without the
written permission of the Animal Control Officer. Prior to granting permission
to release the dog, the Animal Control Officer shall first obtain from the
owner or other person receiving the dog a written agreement that the dog will,
if released, be permanently removed from the County. If the owner of the dog
refuses to so agree, the dog shall be destroyed in some humane manner. The
owner, however, may sign an agreement under written protest and thereby appeal
to the Board of Elko County Commissioners for reinstatement of the dog's
license. The Board of Elko County Commissioners shall set the appeal for
hearing within forty five (45) days after receipt of the appeal. Pending a
decision of the appeal, the dog shall be kept by the owner outside the County.
After completion of the appeal hearing, the Board of Elko County Commissioners
may reinstate the license, conditionally reinstate the license, or permanently
revoke the license. The decision of the Board of County Commissioners shall be
final. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94)
7-2-15: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT AND HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD:
   (A)   The responsibility for compliance with the provisions of this Chapter
shall rest upon the head of the household at which a dog is being kept or
harbored, whether or not the ownership of such dog is claimed by any other
person residing in said household. A husband or wife, or two (2) or more adults
living together, may be jointly or separately charged as heads of the household
where a dog is kept or harbored if the requirements of this Chapter are not
complied with.
   (B)   It shall not be a defense to an alleged violation of this Chapter that
the true and registered owner of a dog is of such minor age as to prohibit
answer in court, and upon such occurrence, the parent or guardian of such minor
owner shall be required to appear instead and assume full responsibility for
the actions or omissions of their minor. The parent, guardian, or custodian of
any child under eighteen (18) years of age who owns, keeps, harbors or has
custody of an animal shall be deemed to be the owner of such animal. (Ord.
1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94)
7-2-16: GUARD DOGS:
It is unlawful to place or maintain guard dogs in any area for the protection
of persons or property unless the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The dogs shall be confined to a secure, enclosed, and dog tight area
adequate to ensure that they will not escape; and
   (B)   Warning signs shall be conspicuously posted on the property indicating
the presence of guard dogs and shall plainly show a telephone number where some
person responsible for controlling the guard dogs can be reached at all times.
(Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94)
7-2-17: UNLAWFUL USES OF LICENSE TAGS:
It is unlawful to deprive any licensed dog of its collar or tag, or to place a
license tag on any dog not licensed. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94)
7-2-18: ABANDONMENT, MISTREATMENT, AND KILLING OF ANIMALS OTHER THAN BY A LEGAL
METHOD OF TAKE; IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, it is unlawful for any person to
do any of the following:
      1.   To maliciously apprehend, detain, secrete or impound the animal or
fowl of another person, or to knowingly aid or abet in the commission of any
such act by some other person. Any person aiding or abetting shall be
considered a principal.
      2.   To maltreat, starve, or torture any animal. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-1994,
eff. 3-17-1994)
      3.   To overcrowd any animal in a crate, box or other receptacle, or to
fail to provide the animal with adequate food, water, shelter, or sanitation.
(Ord. 2012-10, 8-9-2012, eff. 12-31-2012)
      4.   To abandon any animal, living or dead, in a public street, road,
alley or any other public place, or upon the private property of another.
      5.   To carry or enclose, or cause to be carried or enclosed, in or upon
any vehicle or conveyance, any animal in a cruel or inhumane manner.
         (a)   No person having charge or custody of any animal, as owner or
otherwise, shall place or confine the animal or allow the animal to be placed,
confined or to remain in a motor vehicle under such conditions or for such a
period of time as may endanger the health or well being of the animal due to
heat, cold, lack of food or drink, or other circumstances as may reasonably be
expected to cause suffering, disability or death.
         (b)   The animal control officer or any sheriff's deputy who finds an
animal in a motor vehicle in violation of this section may break and enter the
motor vehicle if necessary to remove the animal.
   (B)   The animal control officer or a sheriff's deputy may impound any
animal found to be kept in violation of this section. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-1994,
eff. 3-17-1994)
7-2-19: IMPOUNDING ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS:
The Animal Control Officer or any Sheriff’s deputy is authorized to enter into
any agreements necessary to impound, capture, control, transport, care for,
feed and maintain large animals such as horses, cows, sheep, or any other
animal that cannot be maintained in the animal shelter when it becomes
necessary to take the animal into custody or impound the same pursuant to this
chapter. All expenses thus incurred (including veterinary expenses) are to be
charged to the owner or owners of the animal upon redemption, or the owner
shall be ordered to pay the same as restitution upon conviction of a violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-1994, eff. 3-17-1994; amd. Ord. 2023-02, 2-
15-2023)
7-2-20: ADOPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS:
   (A)   All animals except dogs and those listed in Nevada Revised Statutes
569.005 that are impounded pursuant to this chapter shall be advertised for
sale and adoption by the animal control officer by written notice. The notice
shall be posted conspicuously at the entrance to the animal shelter and at the
sheriff's office. The notice shall describe the kind and number of animals to
be sold for adoption, with a description of each animal including generally,
the color, age, marks, brands, and owner if known, together with the date and
place taken into custody. The notice shall further give the time, place, and
date of the auction, and state that if the animals are not redeemed prior to
the date and time of the auction, the animals shall be sold. The auction shall
be held no sooner than seven (7) days after impoundment.
   (B)   If any animal is wearing an identification collar or other means of
identification, a copy of the notice shall be sent to the owner or to the
person so identified. If the means of identification is not legible or the
owner cannot be determined, the mailing may be dispensed with.
   (C)   If the ownership of the animal is not proven and the animal redeemed
prior to the auction, the animal control officer shall conduct the auction at
the time and place specified. At the sale the animal control officer shall sell
the animals to the highest bidder for cash, except that if all bids received
for any animal shall be less than the charges for redemption plus any and all
further costs and expenses incurred by the county in connection with the animal
and the expense of the sale, the animal control officer may reject any and all
bids. If no bids for the animal are received the animal may be destroyed, sold
at a private sale or otherwise disposed of by the animal control officer.
   (D)   Estray livestock regulated under chapter 569 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes shall be administered pursuant to the provisions and regulations
applicable thereto. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-1994, eff. 3-17-1994)
7-2-21: EXEMPTED ACTIVITIES:
Hunting, trapping, and fishing activities utilizing legal methods of take are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-1994, eff. 3-17-
1994)
7-2-22: LAW ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to law enforcement agencies
utilizing dogs for law enforcement purposes. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-1994, eff. 3-17-
1994)
7-2-23: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified, any person who commits any act in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, or fails to do any act required to
be done pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or
by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Each day which an activity occurs or continues to be conducted in
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (C)   Whenever the doing of any act or the failure or omission to do any act
constitutes a violation of any section or provision of this chapter, and there
shall be no penalty specifically declared for such act or omission, the penalty
provided by this section shall apply. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-1994, eff. 3-17-1994)
7-2-24: PROSECUTION FOR VIOLATIONS:
For the purpose of prosecution for violations of any section of this chapter,
it shall not be necessary in order to obtain a conviction to prove notice or
knowledge on the part of the owner that the animal was in violation of the
provisions of this chapter at the place and time charged. Failure to fully
comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be sufficient to obtain a
conviction. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-1994, eff. 3-17-1994)
7-2-25: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
   (A)   In addition to the penalties provided for in this chapter, the county
may take appropriate action to collect as sums due, including bringing suit in
a court of competent jurisdiction to obtain a judgment for all sums due,
including, but not limited to, penalties and fines.
   (B)   The county may seek an injunction to prohibit any person from
violating this chapter. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-1994, eff. 3-17-1994)
7-2-26: LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
Whenever a fee, cost, charge or fine required by this chapter is not paid when
due, a penalty shall be added to the fee in an amount equal to ten percent
(10%) of the total amount due for each month or part thereof during which the
fee, cost, charge, fine, and accumulated penalty remains unpaid. The total
amount of the accumulated penalty shall not exceed one hundred percent (100%)
of the original fine. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-1994, eff. 3-17-1994)
7-2-27: BUSINESSES THAT SELL OR BOARD DOGS OR CATS FOR PROFIT OR ACT AS A
BREEDER:
It is unlawful for any business to keep or board any dog or cat for sale or
profit or to act as a breeder within Elko County without first obtaining a
permit from Elko County Sheriff’s Office.
   (A)   Application: The owner of the business shall submit an application to
Elko County Sheriff’s Office on a form prescribed by the County. The
application for a permit must contain the following:
      1.   The name of the person or businesses applying for the permit;
      2.   The address or location of the facility used in the applicant’s
business;
      3.   The type of animals the person or business breeds; and
      4.   A copy of a State business license and Elko County Certificate of
Business or Fictitious Firm name.
   (B)   Inspection: Prior to issuing the permit, Elko County Sheriff’s Office
may inspect the business to see if the location is suitable for the proposed
business operation. For the purposes of enforcing Nevada Revised Statutes
574.360 to 574.440, inclusive, as those provisions apply to breeders, a
representative of Elko County Sheriff’s Office or the Animal Control Officer
may enter and inspect the premises specified on the permit at any reasonable
hour.
   (C)   Fee: The permit fee shall be set by the Elko County board of
commissioners.
   (D)   Term Of Permit: The term of the permit for a breeder is for one year.
The permit is nontransferable. The permit issued by Elko County Sheriff’s
Office for a breeder must specify the address of the    premises at which the
person may act as a breeder.
   (E)   Grandfathering Provision: Any business keeping or boarding dogs for
sale or profit in existence in Elko County prior to March 1, 2023, shall submit
an application for permit no later than October 1, 2023. All existing business
that fails to submit an application prior to October 1, 2023, shall be in
violation of this provision.
   (F)   Suspension, Revocation or Denial of Permit: Any permit issued or
requested pursuant to this section may be suspended, revoked, or denied for
good cause. Good cause shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   Failure to renew this permit within thirty (30) days of the due
date;
      2.   Failure to maintain other licenses required by federal, state or
local law necessary to legally conduct the operation;
      3.   Failure to keep the enterprise free of unsanitary conditions,
excessive noise, disturbances and other conditions on or about the premises
which cause, or tend to cause, a nuisance or which injuriously affect the
public health, safety and welfare;
      4.   Any act in the operation of the business which is unlawful or
prohibited by federal, state or local law, including violations of Nevada
Revised Statutes 574.360 to 574.440, inclusive, as those provisions apply to
breeders;
      5.   Any fraudulent practices or misrepresentations in the operation of
the business;
      6.   Any concealment or misrepresentation in procuring a license;
      7.   Two (2) or more violations of federal, state, local law, or the
provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Suspension Of Permit: If a permit holder violates any of the
provisions contained in subsections (F)1. through (F)7. of this section, animal
services may suspend the permit, pending board action on revocation, under the
following conditions:
      1.   Contents Of Notice: Animal Control Officer or the Elko County
Sheriff’s Office shall notify the permit holder of the violation. The notice
shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the permit holder;
         (b)   The violation which has occurred;
         (c)   That the permit holder has five (5) days, excluding weekends and
holidays, from the receipt of the notice to remedy the violation; and
         (d)   That if the permit holder fails to remedy the violation the
permit will be suspended.
      2.   Second Notice: If the permit holder fails to remedy the violation,
animal services shall send a second notice which shall contain:
         (a)   The name and address of the permit holder;
         (b)   The violation which has occurred;
         (c)   The date the suspension will be in effect; and
         (d)   A notice of revocation and hearing as provided in subsection H1
of this section.
      3.   Service Date: The date the permit holder is deemed to receive the
notice shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   If the permit holder is personally served, the date of service;
         (b)   If animal services posts the notice at the location, the date
posted; and
         (c)   If animal services sends the notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, the date of delivery as evidenced by the return receipt.
      4.   Hearing: If a permit is suspended, the Sheriff’s Office shall place
on the next available Elko County board of commissioner’s agenda a hearing for
revocation pursuant to subsection (H) of this section.
   (H)   Revocation Of the Permit: Unless otherwise specified in this chapter,
the board may revoke any permit issued under this chapter, under the following
conditions:
      1.   Notice Of Revocation and Hearing: The board shall serve upon the
permit holder a notice of revocation and hearing. The notice shall include:
         (a)   The name and address of the permit holder;
         (b)   The cause(s) of the revocation;
         (c)   The date and time of the revocation hearing; and
         (d)   That the permit holder may submit evidence in opposition to the
revocation.
      This notice shall be served upon the permit holder at least three (3)
days prior to the time specified for the hearing. The Notice shall be deemed
received in accordance with subsection G3 of this section
      2.   Hearing Of Revocation: In order to revoke a permit under this
chapter, the board shall conduct a hearing to determine whether to revoke the
permit. The board shall allow any interested party, including the permit
holder, to testify or otherwise submit evidence in favor of or opposition to
the revocation. The board shall consider all the evidence presented and cause
to have entered in the minutes its findings, stating specifically any causes
for revocation found by the board. The board shall then enter its order in the
minutes.
      3.   Notice Of Revocation: If the board revokes the permit, the permit
holder shall be served notice of revocation following the hearing. The
revocation shall be effective upon receipt of the notice, as specified in
subsection G3 of this section.
   (I)   Impounding Animals: At any time after suspension or revocation of the
permit as provided hereunder, animal services may impound any animals that are
in danger, constitute a nuisance, are a threat to the public, or are held in
violation of this chapter. Any costs associated with the impounding and keeping
of the animals is the responsibility of the permit holder. (Ord. 2023-02, 2-15-
2023)
CHAPTER 3
RABIES CONTROL
SECTION:
7-3-1: Appointment of Rabies Control Authority
7-3-2: Rabies Control Authority
7-3-3: Investigation of Suspected Case of Animal Rabies
7-3-4: Management of Animals That Have Bitten Persons
7-3-5: Management of Animals That Have Been in Close Contact With an Animal
Suspected or Known to Have Rabies
7-3-6: Owner Required to Maintain Dog, Cat or Ferret Currently Vaccinated;
Exemption
7-3-7: Issuance of Certificate of Vaccination and Rabies Vaccination Tags
7-3-8: Prohibited Activities on Private Property Involving Bat, Skunk, Raccoon,
Fox or Coyote; Exemptions
7-3-9: Penalties
7-3-1: APPOINTMENT OF RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY:
   (A)   The County hereby establishes the Elko County Sheriff's Department as
the Rabies Control Authority.
   (B)   All dogs, cats and ferrets within the County of Elko must be
vaccinated against rabies as required by Section
7-3-6. The Rabies Control Authority is authorized to issue a citation to the
owner of a dog, cat or ferret which is not vaccinated against rabies as
required by Section
7-3-6. Only a certificate of vaccination against rabies issued pursuant to
Section
7-3-7 shall be acceptable as proof of vaccination against rabies. (Ord. 1994-E,
4-7-94, eff. 4-21-94)
7-3-2: RABIES CONTROL AUTHORITY:
   (A)   The Rabies Control Authority shall investigate each report of a person
bitten by a rabies-susceptible animal to confirm the report, to gather
information about the circumstances of the biting incident, to determine the
disposition of the biting animal, and to make recommendations for post-exposure
rabies prophylaxis.
   (B)   The Rabies Control Authority shall ensure that the proper procedures
are carried out for the confinement, testing, quarantine, or euthanasia of the
biting animal as specified in Section
7-3-6. Lagomorphs (rabbits and hares) and rodents must be submitted for
laboratory testing under exceptional circumstances such as an unprovoked
attack. (Ord. 1994-E, 4-7-94, eff. 4-21-94)
7-3-3: INVESTIGATION OF SUSPECTED CASE OF ANIMAL RABIES:
   (A)   The Rabies Control Authority shall investigate each report of a case
of animal rabies or suspected case of animal rabies, to identify the source of
infection, to identify any human or animal contacts, to order disposition of
rabid or suspected rabid animals, and to make recommendations for post-exposure
rabies prophylaxis.
   (B)   The Rabies Control Authority may enter private property for the
purpose of seizing an animal that has bitten a person, to determine if any
animal kept or harbored has rabies or has been exposed to rabies, or to
implement orders for quarantine, confinement, confiscation or euthanasia of an
animal.
   (C)   Unless authorized by the Rabies Control Authority, a person shall not
destroy or allow to be destroyed the head of a rabies-susceptible animal which
has bitten a person. (Ord. 1994-E, 4-7-94, eff. 4-21-94)
7-3-4: MANAGEMENT OF ANIMALS THAT HAVE BITTEN PERSONS:
   (A)   The Rabies Control Authority shall cause a dog or cat, regardless of
current vaccination against rabies, which has bitten a person, to be
quarantined and observed for ten (10) days following the bite under the
supervision of a licensed veterinarian or other person designated by the Rabies
Control Authority. The observation must be within an enclosure or with
restraints deemed adequate by the Rabies Control Authority to prevent direct
contact with a person or an animal.
   (B)   The dog or cat must be examined by a licensed veterinarian at the
first sign of illness during the ten (10) days of observation. Any illness must
be reported immediately to the Rabies Control Authority. If signs of rabies
develop during the ten (10) days of observation, the dog or cat must be
euthanatized and its head removed and shipped under refrigeration for
examination at the laboratory of the Department of Agriculture. If at the end
of the quarantine period, the animal is free of all signs of rabies, the animal
must be returned to its owner.
   (C)   If, after a reasonable effort is made to locate the owner of an
unwanted or stray dog or cat, the owner is unknown or cannot be located, or if
the owner agrees, the unwanted or stray dog or cat which has bitten a person
may be euthanatized and the head submitted for laboratory examination without a
period of quarantine.
   (D)   A bat, raccoon, skunk, fox or unvaccinated ferret which has bitten a
person must be euthanatized immediately without a period of quarantine and the
head submitted for laboratory examination.
   (E)   A vaccinated ferret or other species of animal which has bitten a
person must be managed as deemed appropriate in the discretion of the Rabies
Control Authority. (Ord. 1994-E, 4-7-94, eff. 4-21-94)
7-3-5: MANAGEMENT OF ANIMALS THAT HAVE BEEN IN CLOSE CONTACT WITH AN ANIMAL
SUSPECTED OR KNOWN TO HAVE RABIES:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this Section, a wild or exotic animal
that is rabies-susceptible, including an unvaccinated ferret, which has been in
close contact with an animal suspected or known to have rabies must be
euthanatized immediately. The Rabies Control Authority may exempt a rare or
valuable animal from the provisions of this Section.
   (B)   Unless the owner of the animal objects, a dog or cat which has not
been vaccinated pursuant to subsection
7-3-6(A), and which is considered by the Rabies Control Authority to have been
in close contact with an animal suspected or known to have rabies, must be
euthanatized immediately. If the owner of the animal objects, the dog or cat
must be immediately vaccinated against rabies and quarantined within an
enclosure or with restraints deemed adequate by the Rabies Control Authority to
prevent direct contact with a person or an animal for a period of one hundred
eighty (180) days, under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian or a person
designated by the Rabies Control Authority. The dog or cat must be vaccinated
one month before release.
   (C)   A dog, cat or ferret which has been vaccinated pursuant to subsection
7-3-6(A), and which is considered by the Rabies Control Authority to have been
in close contact with an animal suspected or known to have rabies must be:
      1.   Immediately revaccinated and confined for ninety (90) days in a
manner prescribed by the Rabies Control Authority; or
      2.   Upon the request of the owner of the dog, cat or ferret,
euthanatized.
   (D)   A domesticated animal of a rabies-susceptible species, other than a
dog, cat or ferret, which is considered by the Rabies Control Authority to have
been in close contact with an animal suspected or known to have rabies, must be
managed according to the discretion of the Rabies Control Authority.
   (E)   The owner of an animal confined pursuant to the provisions of this
Section is responsible for all costs of confinement, veterinary care and
examination.
   (F)   As used in this Section, "in close contact with an animal suspected or
known to have rabies" means, within the past one hundred eighty (180) days, to
have been bitten, mouthed, or mauled by, or closely confined on the same
premises with an animal either suspected or known to have rabies. (Ord. 1994-E,
4-7-94, eff. 4-21-94)
7-3-6: OWNER REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN DOG, CAT OR FERRET CURRENTLY VACCINATED;
EXEMPTION:
   (A)   An owner of a dog, cat or ferret shall maintain the dog, cat or ferret
currently vaccinated against rabies in accordance with the recommendations set
forth in the latest published edition of "The Compendium of Animal Rabies
Control", a publication of the National Association of State Public Health
Veterinarians, Inc., which is hereby adopted by reference. "The Compendium of
Animal Rabies Control" is available, free of charge, from the Virginia
Department of Health, Office of Epidemiology, 109 Governor Street, Room 701,
Richmond, Virginia 23219.
   (B)   A licensed veterinarian may exempt a dog, cat or ferret from
vaccination for health reasons. The veterinarian shall record the reasons for
exemption and a specific description of the dog, cat or ferret, including name,
age, sex, breed and color on a rabies vaccination certificate which must bear
the owner's name and address. The veterinarian shall also record whether the
reason for exemption is permanent, and if it is not, the date the exemption
expires.
   (C)   A dog, cat or ferret exempted from or too young for vaccination
against rabies must be confined to the premises of the owner or kept under
physical restraint by the owner.
   (D)   If the owner of a dog, cat or ferret violates any provision of this
Section, the Rabies Control Authority may impound the dog, cat or ferret.
   (E)   The Director of the Nevada Division of Animal Industry of the
Department of Agriculture (State veterinarian) shall review any revision or
amendment of the recommendations for vaccination against rabies of dogs, cats
and ferrets set forth in "The Compendium of Animal Rabies Control" to determine
whether the revision or amendment made to the recommendations is appropriate
for application in this State. For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of
this Section, a revision or amendment of the recommendations is effective in
this State ten (10) days after its revision or amendment unless the Director of
the Nevada Division of Animal Industry of the Department of Agriculture (State
veterinarian) files an objection to the amendment or revision with the Nevada
State Board of Health. (Ord. 1994-E, 4-7-94, eff. 4-21-94)
7-3-7: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION AND RABIES VACCINATION TAGS:
   (A)   A veterinarian who vaccinates an animal against rabies shall complete
two (2) copies of a certificate of vaccination against rabies for the animal
vaccinated. The certificate of vaccination against rabies must include, but is
not limited to:
      1.   The name and address of the owner of the animal.
      2.   A description of the animal, including the name, age, sex, breed,
color and weight of the animal.
      3.   The date the vaccination was administered.
      4.   The type of vaccine used (killed or MLV).
      5.   The manufacturer and lot number of the vaccine.
      6.   The date the animal is due for revaccination based on the duration
of immunity provided by the vaccine according to its label.
      7.   The number on the rabies vaccination tag issued pursuant to
subsection (C).
      8.   The name and address of the veterinarian.
      9.   The signature of the veterinarian who administered the vaccine.
   (B)   The veterinarian shall give the original of the certificate of
vaccination against rabies to the owner of the animal and retain one copy for
the period that the vaccination is current.
   (C)   A veterinarian who vaccinates an animal against rabies shall issue to
the owner a metal rabies vaccination tag, serially numbered to match the number
on the certificate of vaccination against rabies. A rabies vaccination tag must
not conflict with the shape or color of local license tags.
   (D)   A veterinarian shall cooperate with any investigation of an animal
bite, or of a case of rabies or an animal suspected to have rabies by providing
all information requested by the Rabies Control Authority. (Ord. 1994-E, 4-7-
94, eff. 4-21-94)
7-3-8: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY INVOLVING BAT, SKUNK, RACCOON,
FOX OR COYOTE; EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (B):
      1.   A person shall not keep, harbor or in any way care for, maintain,
lodge or feed on private property, a bat, skunk, raccoon, fox or coyote.
      2.   Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall, upon
request of the Rabies Control Authority and the Nevada Department of Wildlife,
relinquish the animal to the Rabies Control Authority or the Department of
Wildlife.
   (B)   The Rabies Control Authority with the concurrence of the Nevada
Department of Wildlife may grant to any person an exemption from the provisions
of this Section. (Ord. 1994-E, 4-7-94, eff. 4-21-94)
7-3-9: PENALTIES:
Any person who commits any act in violation of the provisions of this Chapter,
or fails to do any act required to be done pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), imprisonment in the County jail for a
period of not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 1994-E, 4-7-94, eff. 4-21-94)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT FEE FOR COURT FACILITIES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Short Title
7-4-2: Duration (Rep. by Ord. 2023-01, 2-15-2023)
7-4-3: Administrative Assessment
7-4-4: Exceptions
7-4-5: Addition To Fine
7-4-6: Installments
7-4-7: Special Revenue Fund
7-4-8: Regional Justice Center
7-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ELKO COUNTY COURT
FACILITIES ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT FEE CODE. (Ord. 1997-L, 12-4-1997, eff.
12-22-1997)
7-4-2: DURATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 2023-01, 2-15-2023)
7-4-3: ADMINISTRATIVE ASSESSMENT:
Whenever a defendant pleads guilty, guilty but mentally ill, no contest or is
found guilty of a misdemeanor or violation of any Elko County code, the Justice
of the Peace shall include in each sentence the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for
each misdemeanor or violation as an administrative assessment for the provision
of court facilities and render a judgment against the defendant for the
assessment. (Ord. 1997-L, 12-4-1997, eff. 12-22-1997)
7-4-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The court facilities assessment fee shall not be levied upon:
   (A)   A violation of any ordinance regulating metered parking, or
   (B)   A violation of any ordinance imposing a civil penalty or liability
pursuant to this Code or NRS 244.3575. (Ord. 1997-L, 12-4-1997, eff. 12-22-
1997)
7-4-5: ADDITION TO FINE:
The money collected for an administrative assessment for the provision of court
facilities must not be deducted from the fine imposed by the Justice of the
Peace but must be taxed against the defendant in addition to the fine. The
money collected for such an administrative assessment must be stated separately
on the court's docket and must be included in the amount posted for bail. If
the defendant is found not guilty or the charges are dismissed, the money
deposited with the court must be returned to the defendant. If the Justice of
the Peace cancels a fine because the fine has been determined to be
uncollectible, any balance of the fine and the administrative assessment
remaining unpaid shall be deemed to be uncollectible and the defendant is not
required to pay it. If a fine is determined to be uncollectible, the defendant
is not entitled to a refund of the fine or administrative assessment he has
paid and the Justice of the Peace shall not recalculate the administrative
assessment. (Ord. 1997-L, 12-4-1997, eff. 12-22-1997)
7-4-6: INSTALLMENTS:
If the Justice of the Peace permits the fine and administrative assessment for
court facilities to be paid in installments, the payments must be applied in
the following order:
   (A)   To pay the unpaid balance of an administrative assessment imposed
pursuant to NRS 176.059;
   (B)   To pay the unpaid balance of an administrative assessment for court
facilities; and
   (C)   To pay the fine. (Ord. 1997-L, 12-4-1997, eff. 12-22-1997)
7-4-7: SPECIAL REVENUE FUND:
The money collected for administrative assessments for court facilities must be
paid by the Clerk of the Court of each township to the Elko County Treasurer on
or before the fifth day of each month for the preceding month. The Elko County
Treasurer shall deposit the money received from each township in a special
revenue fund for that township. The Elko County Townships are Elko, Carlin,
Wells, Eastline, Tecoma, Mountain City, Jackpot, and Jarbidge. The County may
use the money in the special revenue funds only to:
   (A)   Acquire land on which to construct additional facilities for the
justice courts or a regional justice center that includes the justice courts.
   (B)   Construct or acquire additional facilities for the justice courts or
regional justice center that includes the justice courts.
   (C)   Renovate or remodel existing facilities for the justice courts.
   (D)   Acquire furniture, fixtures and equipment necessitated by the
construction or acquisition of additional facilities or the renovation of an
existing facility for the justice courts or a regional justice center that
includes the justice courts, except this subsection does not authorize the
expenditure of money from the special revenue fund for furniture, fixtures or
equipment for judicial chambers.
   (E)   Acquire advanced technology for use in the additional or renovated
facilities.
   (F)   Pay debt service on any bonds issued pursuant to NRS 350.020(3) for
the acquisition of land or facilities or the construction or renovation of
facilities for the justice courts or a regional justice center that includes
the justice courts.
Any money remaining in the special revenue fund after five (5) fiscal years
must be deposited in the Elko County General Fund for the continued maintenance
of court facilities if it has not been committed for expenditure pursuant to a
plan for the construction or acquisition of court facilities or improvements to
court facilities. The Elko County Treasurer shall provide, upon request by a
Justice of the Peace, monthly reports of the revenue credited to and
expenditures made from the special revenue funds. (Ord. 1997-L, 12-4-1997, eff.
12-22-1997)
7-4-8: REGIONAL JUSTICE CENTER:
If money collected pursuant to this Chapter is to be used to acquire land on
which to construct a regional justice center, to construct a regional justice
center or to pay debt service on bonds issued for these purposes, the County
and the participating cities shall, by interlocal agreement, determine all such
issues concerning the regional justice center. (Ord. 1997-L, 12-4-1997, eff.
12-22-1997)
CHAPTER 5
CURFEW
SECTION:
7-5-1: Short Title
7-5-2: Definitions
7-5-3: Curfew For Minors
7-5-4: Responsibility Of Owners Of Public Places
7-5-5: Parent's Responsibility
7-5-6: Special Functions
7-5-7: Procedures
7-5-8: Penalties
7-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ELKO COUNTY CURFEW
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 1996-B, 3-20-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
7-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivation shall have the meanings given herein.
COUNTY: The unincorporated areas of Elko County.
CUSTODIAN: Any person over the age of eighteen (18) who is in loco parentis to
a juvenile.
GUARDIAN: Any person other than a parent, who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or other
place to which the public has access. A public place shall include, but not be
limited to, a store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, cafe, theater,
drugstore, poolroom, shopping center or any other place devoted to the
amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall include the front
and immediate area surrounding the above. (Ord. 1996-B, 3-20-1996, eff. 4-8-
1996)
7-5-3: CURFEW FOR MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain, idle, wander, stroll or play in
any public place either on foot or to cruise about without a set destination in
any vehicle in, about or upon any place in the County between the hours of ten
thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on school nights and
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on nonschool nights
unless accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person
having custody or control of such minor or unless the minor is on an emergency
errand or specific business or an activity directed or permitted by his parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor or
where the presence of such minor is connected with or required by some
legitimate employment, trade, profession or occupation. (Ord. 1996-B, 3-20-
1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
7-5-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS OF PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person operating or having charge of any public
place to knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors between the hours of
ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on school nights
and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on nonschool
nights. (Ord. 1996-B, 3-20-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
7-5-5: PARENT'S RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other adult person having
custody or control of any minor to suffer, permit or allow such minor by
ineffective control to be on the streets or sidewalks or in any public property
or public place within the County between the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:
30) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on school nights, and between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on nonschool
nights. However, the provisions of this Section do not apply to a minor
accompanied by his parent, guardian, custodian or other adult person having the
care, custody or control of the minor, or if the minor is on an emergency
errand or specific business or activity directed by his parent, guardian,
custodian or other adult having the care and custody of the minor or if the
parent, guardian or other adult person herein has made a missing person
notification to the Sheriff's office. (Ord. 1996-B, 3-20-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
7-5-6: SPECIAL FUNCTIONS:
Any minor attending a special function or entertainment of any church, school,
club or other organization that requires such minor to be out at a later hour
than that called for in Section
7-5-3 of this Chapter shall be exempt from the provisions of that Section,
provided that the church, school, club or other organization shall notify in
advance the Elko County Sheriff's Office of the special function and the time
it shall end. The minors who attend the function shall be required to be in
their homes or usual places of abode promptly after the function has ended.
(Ord. 1996-B, 3-20-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
7-5-7: PROCEDURES:
   (A)   A Sheriff's deputy, upon finding a minor in violation of Section
7-5-3 of this Chapter, shall ascertain the name and address of such minor and
warn the minor that he is in violation of curfew and shall direct the minor to
proceed at once to his or her home or usual place of abode. The officer shall
notify the parents, guardian or other person having custody or control of such
minor.
   (B)   If the minor refuses to heed the warning or direction of the Sheriff's
deputy or refuses to give the deputy his correct name and address, or if the
minor has been warned on a previous occasion that he or she is in violation of
curfew, he or she shall be taken to the Sheriff's Office or nearest substation,
and the parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of
such minor shall be notified to come and take charge of the minor. If the
parent, guardian or other adult person cannot be located or fails to come and
take charge of the minor, the minor shall be released to the juvenile
authorities. (Ord. 1996-B, 3-20-1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
7-5-8: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any minor violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be processed
in accordance with juvenile court law and procedure.
   (B)   Any parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody
of a minor in violation of this Chapter, after having once been previously
notified under Section
7-5-7 of this Chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1996-B, 3-20-
1996, eff. 4-8-1996)
CHAPTER 6
WEST WENDOVER OFFICIAL ADDRESSES
(Rep. by Ord. 1994-Z, 11-3-1994, eff. 11-21-1994)
CHAPTER 7
AID TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT
SECTION:
7-7-1: Title
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Purpose
7-7-4: Application Procedure
7-7-5: Approval Of Application
7-7-6: Costs
7-7-7: Emergency Medical Treatment; Reimbursement
7-7-8: Fraudulent Claims
7-7-9: Validity
7-7-10: Repealer
7-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the AID TO VICTIMS OF SEXUAL
ASSAULT ORDINANCE. (Ord. 1988-C, 4-20-1988, eff. 5-1-1988)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, whenever used or referred to in this chapter shall have
the following meanings:
APPLICANT: A victim of sexual assault or a victim's spouse.
BOARD: The board of Elko County commissioners.
MANAGER: The duly appointed Elko County manager.
VICTIM OF SEXUAL ASSAULT: A person who has been sexually assaulted as defined
in Nevada Revised Statutes 200.366, or a person upon whom a sexual assault has
been attempted. (Ord. 04-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005)
7-7-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for:
   (A)   Counseling of a victim of sexual assault or the victim's spouse or
other eligible person, and initial emergency medical care and medical treatment
for a victim of sexual assault, as required by and subject to the limitations
contained in Nevada Revised Statutes 217.280 through 217.350, inclusive, and as
the same may from time to time be amended; and
   (B)   Procedures for making application to receive counseling and medical
treatment pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 217.290. (Ord. 1988-C, 4-20-1988,
eff. 5-1-1988)
7-7-4: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
   (A)   An applicant may make application for medical treatment or counseling
to the manager. (Ord. 04-2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005)
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by an affidavit from the
applicant and a statement that a written report has been filed with the
appropriate law enforcement agency. No application for medical treatment or
counseling shall be approved unless the application and supporting documents
comply with the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 217.310.
   (C)   The Elko County district attorney's office shall assist in preparing
the application and supporting documents described in this section. (Ord. 1988-
C, 4-20-1988, eff. 5-1-1988)
7-7-5: APPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
   (A)   Upon receipt of the completed application for medical treatment or
counseling, and being satisfied that the applicant is eligible for aid under
the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 217.280 through 217.350, inclusive,
the manager shall approve the application for treatment. The manager may
request additional documentation in support of the application from the
applicant. Where a fraudulent claim is found to exist, the manager shall deny
the claim and refer it to the district attorney for prosecution.
   (B)   As a condition of continued counseling, the manager shall require the
treating psychologist, psychiatrist or counselor to make, from time to time,
the certification required by Nevada Revised Statutes 217.330. The manager may
order treatment terminated for failure to make such certification. (Ord. 04-
2005, 9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005)
7-7-6: COSTS:
The cost of authorized medical treatment and counseling for eligible persons,
other than costs incurred under section
7-7-7 of this chapter, shall be paid by the county and shall not exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) as provided by Nevada Revised Statutes 217.320.
(Ord. 1990-R, 7-6-1990, eff. 7-19-1990)
7-7-7: EMERGENCY MEDICAL TREATMENT; REIMBURSEMENT:
   (A)   Any costs incurred for initial emergency medical examination and
treatment of the physical injuries of a victim of sexual assault shall be
charged directly to the county in whose jurisdiction the offense was committed.
Initial emergency medical care is deemed to terminate upon completion of
initial emergency medical treatment, further treatment of the victim due to the
injuries, or the lapse of seventy two (72) hours after the victim first arrives
for treatment, whichever occurs first. (Ord. 1988-C, 4-20-1988, eff. 5-1-1988)
   (B)   Should any victim of sexual assault pay the costs of initial emergency
medical care, the victim may file a claim with the manager for reimbursement of
such costs within six (6) months following the date of payment. (Ord. 04-2005,
9-7-2005, eff. 10-7-2005)
7-7-8: FRAUDULENT CLAIMS:
All persons who knowingly assist in the preparation or payment of fraudulent
applications shall be prosecuted under the applicable criminal statutes. (Ord.
1988-C, 4-20-1988, eff. 5-1-1988)
7-7-9: VALIDITY:
If any provision of this chapter or amendments thereto, or the application
thereof to any person, thing or circumstance is held to be invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect the validity of provisions or applications of this
chapter or amendments thereto which can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end, the provisions of this chapter and
amendments thereto are declared to be severable. (Ord. 1988-C, 4-20-1988, eff.
5-1-1988)
7-7-10: REPEALER:
All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict or inconsistent with this
chapter are hereby repealed, but only to the extent of such conflict or
inconsistency. The repeal of prior ordinances provided in this section shall
not affect any act done, or any cause of action accrued or established, or any
plea, defense, bar or matter existing before the time when such repeal takes
effect. (Ord. 1988-C, 4-20-1988, eff. 5-1-1988)
CHAPTER 8
JACKPOT COMMUNITY PARK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Title
7-8-2: Consumption of Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
7-8-3: Possession of Glass Containers Prohibited
7-8-4: Posting of Signs
7-8-5: Penalties
7-8-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the JACKPOT COMMUNITY PARK
REGULATIONS. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94)
7-8-2: CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
Consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in the following areas:
   (A)   Children's park.
   (B)   Swimming pool.
   (C)   Athletic fields while organized children's activities and youth events
are in progress. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94)
7-8-3: POSSESSION OF GLASS CONTAINERS PROHIBITED:
The possession of glass containers in the park including the athletic fields is
prohibited. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94)
7-8-4: POSTING OF SIGNS:
The Jackpot Community Park including the athletic fields shall be posted with
signs giving notice of the regulations contained in this Chapter. (Ord. 1994-A,
3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94)
7-8-5: PENALTIES:
Violations of this Chapter are unlawful and shall be punished as a misdemeanor
under Section
7-1-25 of this Code. (Ord. 1994-A, 3-3-94, eff. 3-17-94)
CHAPTER 9
GENETIC MARKER TESTING
SECTION:
7-9-1: Laboratory Designated
7-9-2: Fee
7-9-3: Fund Established
7-9-1: LABORATORY DESIGNATED:
Elko County Board of Commissioners designates the Washoe County Crime Lab as
the designated forensic laboratory to conduct or oversee any genetic marker
testing ordered pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 176.0913, so long as the
Washoe County Crime Lab meets the requirements of Nevada Revised Statutes
176.0917. (Ord. 1998-E, 8-6-1998, eff. 9-1-1998)
7-9-2: FEE:
The Fourth Judicial District Court shall impose a two hundred fifty dollar
($250.00) genetic marker testing fee upon each defendant convicted of any crime
specified in Nevada Revised Statutes 176.0913.
   (A)   The imposition of the two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) genetic
marker testing fee must be stated separately in the judgment of the Court or on
the docket of the Court;
   (B)   The fee must be collected from the defendant before or at the same
time that any fine imposed by the Court is collected from the defendant;
   (C)   The fee must not be deducted from any other fine imposed by the Court.
(Ord. 1998-E, 8-6-1998, eff. 9-1-1998)
7-9-3: FUND ESTABLISHED:
Elko County Board of Commissioners hereby designates the "Genetic Marker
Testing Fund" in the Elko County Treasury.
   (A)   The Elko County Clerk shall pay to the Elko County Treasurer all money
collected pursuant to Section
7-9-2 of this Chapter on or before the fifth day of each month.
   (B)   The Elko County Treasurer shall use the money deposited in the Fund to
pay the actual amount charged to the County each month for obtaining samples of
blood from defendants pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 176.0913.
   (C)   The Elko County Treasurer shall pay any money remaining in the Genetic
Marker Testing Fund, each money to the designated forensic laboratory pursuant
to Nevada Revised Statutes 176.0915(5), after all payments required by
subsection (B) of this Section are made. (Ord. 1998-E, 8-6-1998, eff. 9-1-1998)
CHAPTER 10
FINGERPRINT BASED BACKGROUND CHECKS
SECTION:
7-10-1: Purpose; Enactment
7-10-2: Regulated Activities
7-10-3: Transmittal
7-10-4: Fitness Determination
7-10-5: Subject Copy
7-10-1: PURPOSE; ENACTMENT:
Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010(1)(a), the county of Elko may
request personal history and background information, including, without
limitation, fingerprint based investigation, from the federal bureau of
investigation on any person who has applied to it for a license as required by
any statute or local ordinance which it has the power to grant or deny. (Ord.
2011-05, 12-7-2011, eff. 12-26-2011)
7-10-2: REGULATED ACTIVITIES:
   (A)   An applicant, employee, or volunteer seeking to engage in an activity
regulated by this code or the Elko County sheriff shall submit two (2) sets of
his/her fingerprints taken by any law enforcement agency located within Elko
County, along with appropriate fees, to the Elko County sheriff's department.
   (B)   Regulated activities included:
      1.   All licenses and permits issued pursuant to Title 6 of this code.
         (a)   Liquor licenses and bartender cards pursuant to Title 6, Chapter
4 of this Code;
         (b)   Locksmith permits pursuant to Title 6, Chapter 9 of this Code;
         (c)   Sexually oriented employee licenses pursuant to Section
6-11-12 of this Code;
         (d)   Cannabis establishment business licenses issued pursuant to
Title 6, Chapter 15 of this Code;
         (e)   Cannabis Work Permit issued pursuant to
6-15-16 of this Code;
      2.   All city of Wells brothel worker permits issued by the Sheriff
pursuant to Wells City Code Title 3, Chapter 6;
      3.   Rental housing employee work cards pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 118A.335;
      4.   Concealed weapons permits pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
202.366 and Nevada Administrative Code 202.020;
      5.   Telephone Soliciting work cards pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
599B.115;
      6.   Security guard work card pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
648.060;
      7.   Applications for Elko County employment or volunteer services
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010. (Ord. 02-2008, 9-3-2008, eff. 9-
11-2008; amd. Ord. 2011-05, 12-7-2011, eff. 12-26-2011; Ord. 06-2020, 11-4-
2020)
7-10-3: TRANSMITTAL:
Upon receipt of the fingerprints and the appropriate fees, the Elko County
sheriff's department will transmit both sets of fingerprints and appropriate
fees to the Nevada department of public safety. The Nevada department of public
safety will compare the subject's fingerprints against its criminal file for
disqualifying conduct, and if necessary, submit the fingerprints to the federal
bureau of investigation for a comparison with nationwide records. The results
of the federal bureau of investigation check will be returned to the Nevada
department of public safety, which will disseminate the state and national
results to the Elko County sheriff's department. (Ord. 2011-05, 12-7-2011, eff.
12-26-2011)
7-10-4: FITNESS DETERMINATION:
   (A)   If an employer or organization is a private entity, the Elko County
sheriff's department shall render a fitness determination based upon the
results of the criminal background check and communicate its fitness
determination to such private employer or organization.
   (B)   If an employer or organization is a public entity, the Elko County
sheriff's department shall render a fitness determination based upon the
results of the criminal background check and communicate its fitness
determination to such public entity or disseminate the results of the criminal
background check to the public entity for a fitness determination.
   (C)   In rendering a fitness determination, the Elko County sheriff's
department will decide whether the record subject has been convicted of:
      1.   A crime which bears upon his/her ability or fitness to serve in that
capacity;
      2.   Any felony or a misdemeanor which involved force or threat of force,
controlled substances, or was a sex related offense; or
      3.   Other enumerated disqualifiers. (Ord. 02-2008, 9-3-2008, eff. 9-11-
2008)
7-10-5: SUBJECT COPY:
A record subject may request and receive a copy of his/her criminal history
record information from the Elko County sheriff's department. Should the record
subject seek to amend or correct his/her record, he/she must contact the Nevada
department of public safety for a Nevada state record or the federal bureau of
investigation for records from other jurisdictions maintained in its file.
(Ord. 02-2008, 9-3-2008, eff. 9-11-2008)
CHAPTER 11
COURT SECURITY PROGRAM FILING FEE
SECTION:
7-11-1: Title
7-11-2: Filing Fee
7-11-3: Court Security Program Fund
7-11-4: Court Security Programs
7-11-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ELKO COUNTY COURT SECURITY PROGRAM
FILING FEE CODE. (Ord. 04-2009, 9-2-2009, eff. 9-21-2009)
7-11-2: FILING FEE:
Except as otherwise provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 19.034, on the
commencement of any civil action or proceeding in the district court for which
a filing fee is required, and on the filing of any answer or appearance in any
such action or proceeding for which a filing fee is required, the county clerk
shall charge and collect an additional twenty dollars ($20.00) from the party
commencing, answering, or appearing in the action or proceeding. This fee shall
be used only to provide for programs for court security. This fee is in
addition to any other fee required by law. (Ord. 04-2009, 9-2-2009, eff. 9-21-
2009)
7-11-3: COURT SECURITY PROGRAM FUND:
On or before the fifth day of each month the county clerk shall account for and
pay over to the county treasurer any such fees collected during the preceding
month for credit to an account for programs for court security in the county
general fund. Any balance in the fund may be carried forward to the next fiscal
year. (Ord. 04-2009, 9-2-2009, eff. 9-21-2009)
7-11-4: COURT SECURITY PROGRAMS:
Programs for court security include, without limitation:
   (A)   Funding for additional positions for bailiffs, marshals, security
guards or similar personnel;
   (B)   Supplementing existing funding used to pay bailiffs, marshals,
security guards and similar personnel;
   (C)   Acquiring necessary capital goods for court security;
   (D)   Providing security training and education to personnel;
   (E)   Conducting security audits; and
   (F)   Acquiring and/or using appropriate technology relating to court
security. (Ord. 04-2009, 9-2-2009, eff. 9-21-2009)
CHAPTER 12
OFFENSES RELATED TO TOBACCO
SECTION:
7-12-1: Tobacco Products Defined
7-12-2: Offenses Related to Tobacco
7-12-3: Penalty
7-12-1: TOBACCO PRODUCTS DEFINED:
As used in this section, "Tobacco products," means cigarettes, cigarette paper,
tobacco of any description or products made or derived from tobacco. As used in
this subsection, the term "products made or derived from tobacco" does not
include any product regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration
pursuant to Chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. § 351
et seq. (Ord. 01-2020, 6-17-2021)
7-12-2: OFFENSES RELATED TO TOBACCO:
   (A)   A Child under the age of eighteen (18) is prohibited from the
following acts:
      1.   Purchasing or attempting to purchase tobacco products;
      2.   Possessing or attempting to possess tobacco products;
      3.   Using tobacco products; or
      4.   Falsely representing that he or she is 18 years of age or older to
purchase, possess or obtain tobacco products.
   (B)   The following activities do not constitute an Offense related to
Tobacco:
      1.   Assisting in an inspection pursuant to NRS 202.2496;
      2.   Handling or transporting tobacco products in the course of his or
her lawful employment;
      3.   Handling or transporting tobacco products in the presence of his or
her parent, spouse, or legal guardian who is 18 years or older; or
      4.   Possessing or using tobacco products for an established religious
purpose. (Ord. 01-2020, 6-17-2021)
7-12-3: PENALTY:
A child found to be in violation of the provisions of the Chapter is a child in
need of supervision and shall be punished under the provisions of NRS 62E.440.
(Ord. 01-2020, 6-17-2021)
CHAPTER 13
OFFENSES RELATED TO VAPING
SECTION:
7-13-1: Definitions
7-13-2: Offenses Related To Vapor Products
7-13-3: Penalties
7-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
         (A)   Any noncombustible product containing nicotine or any other substance that
         employs a heating element, power source, electronic circuit or other electronic,
         chemical or mechanical means, regardless of the shape or size thereof, that can be
         used to produce vapor from nicotine or any other substance in a solution or other
         form, for the use of inhalation of which simulates smoking.
         (B)   Includes, without limitation:
            1.   An electronic cigarette, cigar, cigarillo, pipe, hookah, or vape pen, or a
VAPOR    similar product or device; and
PRODUCT:    2.   The components of such a product or device, whether or not sold separately,
         including, without limitation, vapor cartridges or other container of nicotine, or
         any other substance in a solution or other form that is intended to be used with or
         in an electronic cigarette, cigar, cigarillo, pipe, hookah, or vape pen, or a
         similar product or device, atomizers, cartomizers, digital displays, clearomizers,
         tank systems, flavors, programmable software or other similar products or devices.
         As used in this paragraph, "component" means a product intended primarily or
         exclusively to be used with or in an electronic cigarette, cigar, cigarillo, pipe,
         hookah, or vape pen, or a similar product or device.
CHILD:   Any person under the age of eighteen (18). (Ord. 02-2020, 6-17-2021)
 
7-13-2: OFFENSES RELATED TO VAPOR PRODUCTS:
A child is prohibited from the following acts:
   (A)   Purchasing or attempting to purchase vapor products;
   (B)   Possessing or attempting to possess vapor products; or
   (C)   Using or attempting to use vapor products. (Ord. 02-2020, 7-15-2021)
7-13-3: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any child violating any provision of this Chapter is a child in need
of supervision and shall be punished in the following manner:
      1.   For the first offense:
         (a)   The child shall pay a twenty-five dollars ($25.00) fine; and
         (b)   Attend and complete a tobacco awareness and cessation program.
      2.   For the second offense:
         (a)   The child or person shall pay a fifty dollars ($50.00) fine; and
         (b)   Attend and complete a tobacco awareness and cessation program.
      3.   For third or any subsequent offense:
         (a)    The child or person shall pay a seventy-five dollars ($75.00)
fine;
         (b)   Attend and complete a tobacco awareness and cessation program;
and
         (c)   The driver's license of the child be suspended for a least
thirty (30) days, but not more than ninety (90) days, or, if the child does not
possess a driver's license, prohibit the child from receiving a driver's
license for at least thirty (30) days, but not more than ninety (90) days:
            (1)   Immediately following the date of the order, if the child is
eligible to receive a driver's license.
            (2)   After the date the child becomes eligible to apply for a
driver's license, if the child is not eligible to receive a license on the date
of the order.
   (B)   If the Juvenile Court orders a child to pay a fine pursuant to this
Section, and the child willfully fails to pay the fine, the Juvenile Court may
order that the driver's license of the child be suspended for at least thirty
(30) days but not more than ninety (90) days or, if the child does not possess
a driver's license, prohibit the child from receiving a driver's license for at
least thirty (30) days but not more than ninety (90) days:
      1.   Immediately following the date of the order, if the child is
eligible to receive a driver's license.
      2.   After the date the child becomes eligible to apply for a driver's
license, if the child is not eligible to receive a license on the date of the
order.
      3.   If the child is already the subject of a court order suspending or
delaying the issuance of the driver's license of the child, the juvenile court
shall order the additional suspension or delay, as appropriate, to apply
consecutively with the previous order.
   (C)   If the Juvenile Court suspends the driver's license of a child
pursuant to this section, the Juvenile Court may order the Department of Motor
Vehicles to issue a restricted driver's license pursuant to NRS 483.490
permitting the child to drive a motor vehicle:
      1.   To and from work or in the course of his or her work, or both;
      2.   To and from school; or
      3.   To acquire supplies of medicine or food or receive regularly
scheduled medical care for himself, herself or a member of his or her immediate
family.
   (D)   A peace officer shall not take the child into physical custody for any
violation of this Chapter. (Ord. 02-2020, 7-15-2021)
TITLE 8
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: State Law Adopted
8-1-2: Additional Definitions
8-1-3: Police Orders
8-1-4: Right Of Way For Emergency Vehicles
8-1-5: Clinging To Vehicles
8-1-6: Speed Regulations
8-1-7: Vehicle Equipment
8-1-8: Stopping And Parking
8-1-9: Driving Regulations And Restrictions
8-1-10: Putting Injurious Materials On Streets
8-1-11: Driving On Sidewalks
8-1-12: Scope Of Regulations
8-1-13: Traffic Control Manual
8-1-14: Enforcement Of Handicapped Parking Spaces
8-1-15: Temporary Parking Permits For Physically Handicapped Persons
8-1-16: Conditions On Occupancy Of Streets And Highways
8-1-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
   (A)   The traffic laws set forth in chapter 484A through 484E of the Nevada
Revised Statutes, and as the same may be amended from time to time, are
incorporated and adopted herein by reference, except those traffic laws that
are prohibited by Nevada Revised Statutes to be adopted as County Ordinances.
It shall be unlawful to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act
required therein and such unlawful act or failure to act shall be punished as a
civil infraction, unless Nevada Revised Statutes provides that the offense is a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Punishment for Civil Infractions: All Civil Infractions shall be
punished in accordance with penalties listed in Nevada Revised Statutes for the
specific offense committed.
   (C)   Misdemeanor Offenses: All misdemeanor offenses shall be punished in
accordance with Elko County Code
7-1-26. (Ord. 2012-05, 6-6-2012, eff. 7-14-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-03, 2-15-2023)
8-1-2: ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS:
These definitions are to be used in reference to the sections of this title
which do not specifically incorporate Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 484.
(Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-1983, eff. 10-1-1983)
Any such term used in the singular shall include the plural, and any such terms
used in the plural shall include the singular. Words used in the masculine
gender shall comprehend and include as well the feminine and neuter.
CITIES AND TOWNS: All towns or cities governed by the board of county
commissioners pursuant to section 269.010, Nevada Revised Statutes and all acts
amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto.
CURB: The boundaries of a street as defined herein.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way dedicated to
a public authority when any part of the way is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular traffic, whether or not the public authority is
maintaining the way.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled but not operated upon
rails.
PARK: A waiting vehicle except vehicles stopped to load or unload.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, company, partnership or corporation.
SIDEWALK: Shall be held to include the space between the property line and the
outer curb as existing in any city or town.
STREET: That part of the public highway intended for vehicles.
TRAVEL AND TRAFFIC: For the purposes of this chapter, is intended to include
vehicles in actual motion and also those which may be at rest and intended or
expected to soon again be put in motion.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails. (Ord. dated 6-5-37; amd. Ord. 1970-C,
9-8-70; 1990-J, 4-4-90, eff. 4-26-90)
8-1-3: POLICE ORDERS:
Drivers of motor vehicles shall, at all times, comply with any direction by
voice or hand or whistle of any sheriff, deputy, constable, traffic officer or
police officer as to stopping, starting, approaching or departing from any
place, and as to the manner of taking on or discharging of passengers or
loading or unloading goods, or as to parking vehicles, or as to the speed at
which a motor vehicle is being driven (Ord. dated 6-5-37; 1975-D, 8-7-75, eff.
9-1-75; renumbered Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-83, eff. 10-1-83)
8-1-4: RIGHT OF WAY FOR EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
The officers and firemen and all vehicles and apparatus of any fire department,
when going to or returning from a fire, and all ambulances, whether public or
private, and all other vehicles, when employed in carrying sick or injured
persons to a hospital or other place for relief or treatment, and the officers,
patrolmen and vehicles of the Police Department, when answering an alarm or
call, shall have the right of way over all other persons and vehicles on any
street and through any procession.
Upon the approach of all vehicles or apparatus of the Fire Department, Police
Department or ambulance service making use of audible and/or visible signals,
the driver of any vehicle shall immediately draw up said vehicle as near as
practicable to the right-hand curb and bring his vehicle to a stop and shall
remain stationary until the vehicle or apparatus making use of the audible and/
or visible signals has passed the stationary vehicle.
No person shall drive or park within two hundred feet (200') of any vehicle or
apparatus of the Fire Department, Police Department or ambulance service when
that vehicle or apparatus is engaged in answering an alarm or call and has
audible and/or visible signals in operation. (Ord. 1976-G, 4-8-76; renumbered
Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-83, eff. 10-1-83)
8-1-5: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner catch on, hold or
otherwise attach any sled, sleigh or object to any moving motor vehicle. (Ord.
dated 6-5-37; amd. Ord. 1975-D, 8-7-75, eff. 9-1-75; renumbered Ord. 1983-N, 9-
8-83, eff. 10-1-83)
8-1-6: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Establishment of Speed Zones: Whenever the Public Works Department
shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that
a maximum or minimum speed limit is necessary under the conditions found to
exist at any intersection, or upon any highway, street, road, alley or other
thoroughfare open to the public, or section or portion thereof, and after
considering factors bearing on safe speeds, including but not limited to
different times of day, different types of vehicles, varying weather
conditions, the facilitation of the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
and actual and potential hazards then existing, the Public Works Department may
determine and declare a reasonable and safe maximum or minimum speed limit,
which shall be effective upon approval of the Board of Elko County
Commissioners and after appropriate fixed or variable signs giving notice
thereof are erected. Such maximum and minimum speed limits may be declared to
be effective at all times, or at such times as are indicated upon the said
signs. (Ord. 1993-Q, 12-3-93, eff. 12-20-93)
   (B)   General: Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to ride, drive or propel any motor vehicle in the said towns or cities
at a rate of speed greater than twenty (20) miles per hour on or along any
street, alley, highway, or portion thereof; provided, however this Section
shall not apply to officers and firemen and all vehicles and apparatus of the
Fire Department when going to or returning from a fire, and all ambulances,
whether public or private, and all other vehicles when employed in carrying
sick or injured persons to a hospital or other place for relief or treatment.
   (C)   Jarbidge: The speed limit in the Town of Jarbidge shall be ten (10)
miles per hour and shall be properly posted by speed limit signs.
   (D)   Jackpot: The speed limit in the unincorporated Town of Jackpot shall
be fifteen (15) miles per hour excepting therefrom Highway U.S. 93, the road to
the landfill site, and the County road serving the WD Ranch beginning at a
posted point southeast of the elementary school. The speed limit on the
exception thoroughfares shall be thirty five (35) miles per hour. The speed
limits shall be properly posted by speed limit signs.
   (E)   Old Elko-Hamilton State Road and Bullion Road: The speed limit shall
be twenty five (25) miles per hour on the old Elko-Hamilton State Road from the
City limits of the City of Elko to the cattle guard on said road, an
approximate distance of one thousand three hundred eighty feet (1,380'), and on
Bullion Road from the City limits of the City of Elko until said road
intersects with Section 29, Township 34 North, Range 55 East, M.D.B. & M.
   (F)   Pleasant Valley Estates Subdivision: The speed limit in the Pleasant
Valley Estates Subdivision as encompassed with the N 1/2 of Section 26,
Township 33 North, Range 57 East, shall be twenty five (25) miles per hour. The
speed limits shall be properly posted by speed limit signs. (Ord. 1982-M, 12-8-
82, eff. 1-6-83)
   (G)   Spring Creek Subdivision: The speed limit in Spring Creek Subdivision
as described on the deed on file with Elko County Recorder's office, in Book
397, page 363, as document number 165405, shall be thirty five (35) miles per
hour unless posted for a different speed limit. The speed limits shall be
properly posted by speed limit signs. (Ord. 1988-J, 9-8-88, eff. 9-22-88)
   (H)   Lamoille: The speed limit within the Town of Lamoille shall be ten
(10) miles per hour, unless posted for a different speed limit; speed limit
signs may be properly posted by the County Highway Department.
   (I)   Montello: The speed limit within the Town of Montello shall be twenty
(20) miles per hour, unless posted for a different speed limit. (Ord. 1986-L,
9-4-86, eff. 9-18-86)
   (J)   Lower Southfork Road:
      1.   The speed limit on County Road No. 715, known as the Lower Southfork
Road, from the junction with State Route 228, near Ten Mile Creek, bearing
westerly, then southerly, along said Lower Southfork Road, to the northern
boundary of the Southfork State Recreation Area shall be fifty five (55) miles
per hour. Speed limit signs shall be properly posted by the County Highway
Department. (Ord. 1993-O, 11-4-93, eff. 12-1-93)
      2.   The speed limit on the portion of County Road No. 715, known as the
Lower Southfork Road, that lies within the boundaries of the Southfork State
Recreation Area shall be thirty (30) miles per hour. Speed limit signs shall be
properly posted by the County Highway Department. (Ord. 1989-I, 6-8-89, eff. 6-
26-89)
      3.   The speed limit on the portion of County Road No. 715, known as the
Lower Southfork Road, from the eastern boundary of the Southfork State
Recreation Area to the junction with State Route 228 near Twin Bridges shall be
thirty five (35) miles per hour. Speed limit signs shall be properly posted by
the County Highway Department. (Ord. 1993-O, 11-4-93, eff. 12-1-93)
   (K)   County Road Number 732, known as the North Fork - Jack Creek Road: The
speed limit on County Road Number 732, known as the North Fork - Jack Creek
Road, from the junction with State Route 225 to the millsite of the Freeport -
McMoran Big Springs Project shall be forty five (45) miles per hour unless
posted for a lesser speed limit; speed limit signs shall be properly posted by
the County Highway Department. (Ord. 1987-K, 12-16-87, eff. 1-7-88)
   (L)   Spring Creek Elementary School Zone: East Spring Creek Parkway from
the intersection of East Spring Creek Parkway and State Route 227 (also known
as the Lamoille Highway), to the intersection of East Spring Creek Parkway and
Shadypoint Drive is designated as a school zone with a speed limit of fifteen
(15) miles per hour from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:00) P.M.
on those days when school is in session. The school zone shall be properly
posted by the County Highway Department. (Ord. 1988-I, 8-4-88, eff. 8-17-88)
   (M)   Gold Circle: The speed limit on all County roads located within the
original townsite of Gold Circle as described in the "Map of Gold Circle" filed
for record in the office of the Elko County Recorder, official records of Elko
County, on November 5, 1907, and the original Moffat Addition to the Town of
Gold Circle as described in the "Map of the Moffat Addition to the Town of Gold
Circle" filed for record in the office of the Elko County Recorder, on April
22, 1908, shall be fifteen (15) miles per hour. Speed limit signs shall be
properly posted by the County Highway Department. (Ord. 1989-P, 8-16-89, eff.
9-1-89)
   (N)   Corral Lane: The speed limit on County Road No. 711-B, known as Corral
Lane, in the unincorporated area of the County, shall be, and now is, thirty
five (35) miles per hour; speed limit signs shall be properly posted by the
County Highway Department. (Ord. 1990-A, 3-21-90, eff. 4-5-90)
8-1-7: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT:
It shall be lawful for the police officers of the Township, County and State to
inspect or cause to be inspected at any time the lights or brakes on any and
all motor vehicles, and to prohibit the driving and/or operating the same on
the streets, alleys and highways in said towns and cities when such motor
vehicles have defective lights or brakes, and to cause the arrest of any person
so driving, operating or in charge of any such motor vehicle who has failed to
equip the said motor vehicle with proper lights and brakes. (Ord. dated 6-5-37)
8-1-8: STOPPING AND PARKING:
   (A)   A person shall not stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a member of the Sheriff's office authorized to direct or regulate
traffic or to make arrests for a violation of traffic laws, ordinances or
regulations, or official traffic control devices, in any of the following
places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant in a place where
parallel parking is permitted, or within twenty feet (20') of a fire hydrant if
angle parking is permitted and a local ordinance requires the greater distance;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any official traffic-
control signal located at the side of a highway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of a driveway entrance to any fire station
and, on the side of a highway opposite the entrance to any fire station, within
seventy five feet (75') of that entrance;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any highway excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the highway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge of
or curb of a highway;
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within a highway
tunnel;
      14.   Within five feet (5') of a public or private driveway; and
      15.   At any place where official traffic-control devices prohibit
stopping, standing, or parking.
   (B)   A person shall not move a vehicle not owned by him into any prohibited
area or away from a curb to a distance which is unlawful.
   (C)   A local authority may place official traffic-control devices
prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing, or parking of vehicles on
any highway where in its opinion stopping, standing or parking is dangerous to
those using the highway or where the vehicles which are stopping, standing, or
parking would unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic. It is
unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park any vehicle in violation of the
restrictions stated on those devices. (Ord. 1990-H, 4-4-90, eff. 4-23-90)
   (D)   Spring Creek Subdivision: Within the Spring Creek Subdivision as
described on the deed on file with Elko County Recorder's office, in Book 397,
page 363, as document number 165405, it shall be unlawful for a person to stop,
stand, or park any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon any highway or
street right of way, or upon the paved, graveled, or main-traveled part of any
highway or street. (Ord. 1990-N, 6-20-90, eff. 7-3-90)
8-1-9: DRIVING REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway in any other than a careful or prudent manner.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in or drive or operate a motor
vehicle upon a highway in a speed contest or race with another motor vehicle.
   (C)   Every person driving or operating any motor or other vehicle shall,
upon meeting any other vehicle at any place upon any street, alley or highway
in the said towns and cities, turn to the right and on all occasions when it is
practicable shall travel on the right side of such street, alley or highway.
   (D)   Every person driving or operating any motor or other vehicle shall,
upon overtaking and passing any other vehicle, on any street, alley or highway
in the said towns and cities, pass to the left of such vehicle and the person
driving or operating such vehicle being so overtaken and passed shall give way
to the right to allow such vehicle to pass with safety.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate or cause to be
driven or operated in or upon any street, alley or highway of the said towns
and cities, any motor or other vehicle in a backward direction, if by so doing
the free and uninterrupted passage of another vehicle is impeded, and in no
event shall any person drive or operate a motor vehicle in the said towns or
cities backward and across a street intersection.
   (F)   Every person driving or operating a motor or other vehicle upon the
streets, alleys or highway of the said towns and cities shall, before backing
such vehicle give ample warning by sounding the horn of said vehicle and while
backing exercise unceasing vigilance as not to injure or damage any person or
vehicle behind such backing motor vehicle, and in all events the approaching
vehicle at the rear of such backing car shall have the right of way.
   (G)   No person shall drive or operate or permit to be driven or operated
any motor or other vehicle upon the streets, alleys or highways of the said
towns and cities by the side of another vehicle going in the same direction
longer than is necessary to pass such other vehicle, and in no event shall one
vehicle pass another at a street intersection.
8-1-10: PUTTING INJURIOUS MATERIALS ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, deposit or place upon any public
street, alley or highway in the said towns and cities any nails, tacks,
crockery, scrap iron, tin, wire, bottles, glass or any other article or thing
likely to puncture or injure the tires of any motor vehicle. (Ord. 1983-N, 9-8-
83, eff. 10-1-83)
8-1-11: DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate or cause to be driven
or operated any wagon, bicycle or motor vehicle upon or along any sidewalk,
except at permanent or temporary driveways or alley entrances, in said towns
and cities, or to leave any wagon, bicycle or motor vehicle standing upon any
sidewalk in such manner as to obstruct the free use of such sidewalk. The
provisions of this Section shall not apply to baby carriages or similar
conveyances for children. (Ord. 1976-G, 4-8-76)
8-1-12: SCOPE OF REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter are intended to supplement the statutes of the
State of Nevada. The said statutes shall prevail in the event of any conflict
between said statutes and any provision hereof. (Ord. 1970-C, 9-8-70, eff. 9-
25-70)
8-1-13: TRAFFIC CONTROL MANUAL:
   (A)   The County of Elko hereby adopts the "Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices (1971)" as revised.
   (B)   Successive revisions of the manual may be adopted by resolution of the
Board of County Commissioners, acting as the Board of County Highway
Commissioners. (Ord. 1976-O, 6-10-76)
8-1-14: ENFORCEMENT OF HANDICAPPED PARKING SPACES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle in a
parking space designated and reserved for the physically handicapped, on either
public or private property, unless:
      1.   The vehicle visibly bears the temporary parking permit issued
pursuant to Section
8-1-15 of this Code; or
      2.   The vehicle visibly bears the parking permit or license plate issued
to the physically handicapped by the Nevada Department of Motor Vehicles,
pursuant to NRS 482.384; or
      3.   The vehicle visibly bears the special license plates for a disabled
veteran issued pursuant to NRS 482.377.
   (B)   Handicapped parking spaces shall be designated by the installation of
appropriate control devices which comply with NRS 484.408.
   (C)   "Private property" as used in this Section means parking areas to
which the public is invited and that are located on property other than that
owned by Elko County or any of the unincorporated towns within the County.
   (D)   A violation of this Section shall be punished as a misdemeanor under
Section
7-1-25 of this Code.
8-1-15: TEMPORARY PARKING PERMITS FOR PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PERSONS:
   (A)   Applications for temporary parking permits for motor vehicles used by
or for persons having temporary handicaps which impair their ability to walk,
may be made through the Motor Vehicle Division of the Elko County Assessor's
Office (hereinafter referred to as the "Motor Vehicle Division").
   (B)   Upon receipt of a completed application for a temporary parking permit
on a form for that purpose supplied by the Motor Vehicle Division, together
with a written statement from the applicant's treating physician which states
the nature of the disability, the length of time the disability is expected to
last, and that the disability impairs the applicant's ability to walk, the
Motor Vehicle Division shall issue a temporary parking permit for a period of
time not to exceed ninety (90) days. The Motor Vehicle Division may demand such
additional supporting documents or information as it deems appropriate prior to
issuing the temporary parking permit.
   (C)   Except as provided in subsection (F), owners of motor vehicles
displaying a temporary parking permit issued pursuant to this Section may park
such motor vehicles for not more than four (4) hours at any one time in
controlled parking zones restricted as to the length of time parking is
permitted, without penalty, if such parking is otherwise consistent with public
safety.
   (D)   A temporary parking permit issued pursuant to this Section may be
renewed for an additional period or periods of time not to exceed ninety (90)
days per renewal upon submission to the Motor Vehicle Division of a
supplemental statement by the applicant's treating physician which contains the
information required by subsection
8-1-15(B) of this Code.
   (E)   No person, other than the physically handicapped person or a person
actually transporting the physically handicapped person, may use the temporary
parking permit issued to the handicapped person for the purpose of obtaining
the special parking privileges available under this Section. A violation of
this subsection shall be punished as a misdemeanor under Section
7-1-25 of this Code.
   (F)   This Section does not authorize the parking of a motor vehicle in any
privately or publicly owned parking space without paying the required fee for
the time during which such vehicle is so parked. (Ord. 1988-E, 7-20-88, eff. 8-
1-88)
8-1-16: CONDITIONS ON OCCUPANCY OF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS:
   (A)   Noninterference: All pipes, sewers, drains, lines, valves or other
structures and appurtenances laid or placed by any person shall be so located
in the streets and highways in the County as not to obstruct or interfere with
any pipes, sewers, drains, lines, valves or other structures already installed.
Whether or not there is any such interference or obstruction shall be
determined in the sole discretion of the County.
   (B)   Repair of Streets and Highways: If any portion of a sidewalk, curb,
gutter, highway, street, alley, road or right of way shall be damaged by reason
of defects in any of the pipes, sewers, drains, lines, valves or other
structures and appurtenances installed, utilized, maintained or constructed, or
by reason of any cause whatsoever, including the subsidence of any cut in the
street or highway, or the existence of any pipes, sewers, drains, lines, valves
or other structures and appurtenances constructed or maintained under this
Section, the person who initially constructed such improvements shall, at his
own cost and expense, within ten (10) days, repair any such damage and restore
such sidewalk, curb, gutter, street, alley, public road or right of way, or
portion thereof, to as good a condition as it existed before such excavation,
disturbance, work, or other cause of damage occurred. (Ord. 1990-I, 4-4-90,
eff. 4-23-90)
   (C)   Bonding: To insure replacement of streets and highways in as good a
condition as existed before the work, the person who is to do such construction
shall enter into an undertaking with a surety company authorized to do business
in the State of Nevada, and the County, to insure faithful performance of the
conditions of this Section, in an amount and for a length of time, as
determined by the County Engineer, necessary to insure compliance with the
conditions of this Section.
      1.   The bonding requirement of this subsection may be waived by the
Board of Elko County Commissioners in favor of a utility company with suitable
guarantees/warranties of faithful performance contained in the franchise
agreement; the suitability of the guarantees/warranties to justify an exemption
from the bonding requirements of this subsection are to be determined in the
sole discretion of the Board of Elko County Commissioners. (Ord. 1990-W, 11-20-
90)
   (D)   Construction Standards: All pipes, sewers, drains, lines, valves or
other structures and appurtenances which shall be laid and used shall be
installed, constructed and maintained in accordance with any applicable
standards set by the Elko County Engineering Department, codes and ordinances
of the County, Nevada Statutes and the rules, regulations and orders of the
Nevada Public Service Commission, and in a good and workmanlike manner and
shall be maintained in compliance with all applicable standards set by the Elko
County Engineering Department, laws, ordinances, rules, regulations and codes
from time to time in force.
   (E)   Relocation: Any person who lays or places any pipes, sewers, drains,
lines, valves or other structures and appurtenances shall relocate, without
expense to the County, any such pipes, sewers, drains, lines, valves or other
structures and appurtenances when made necessary by any lawful change in any
public street, road, or highway by the County. (Ord. 1990-I, 4-4-90, eff. 4-23-
90)
CHAPTER 2
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Operator Requirements
8-2-3: General Rules And Regulations
8-2-4: Designated Routes And Trails
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the words and
terms hereafter shall have the following meanings ascribed to them:
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way, road,
highway, trail recognized and/or maintained and/or owned by Elko County.
LARGE ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE: Any all-terrain vehicle that includes seating
capacity for at least two (2) people abreast and total seating capacity for at
least four (4) people; or a truck bed. This definition has the same meaning and
intent as Nevada Revised Statutes 490.043.
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE: A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for off highway
and all-terrain use. This definition has the same meaning and intent as Nevada
Revised Statutes 490.060. The term includes, but is not limited to:
   (A)   Large all-terrain vehicle whether or not the large all-terrain vehicle
is registered with the Nevada department of motor vehicles;
   (B)   All-terrain motor motorcycle;
   (C)   Dune buggy;
   (D)   Snowmobile; and
   (E)   Any other motor vehicle used on public lands for purposes of
recreation.
   (F)   Off highway vehicle does not include any vehicle excluded by law under
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 490.060(2) or any other chapter of the Nevada
Revised Statutes. (Ord. 2014-09, 6-5-2014, eff. 6-19-2014)
8-2-2: OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS:
All operators of off highway vehicles shall follow all requirements of Nevada
Revised Statutes 490.090 through 490.130. Operators of off highway vehicles
shall comply with this title. (Ord. 2014-09, 6-5-2014, eff. 6-19-2014)
8-2-3: GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   (A)   There shall be a maximum speed limit for the operation of every off
highway vehicle of twenty five (25) miles per hour when operated on any county
highway unless otherwise posted as lower or identified by section
8-1-6 of this title.
      1.   Exclusion: Large all-terrain vehicles equipped and in compliance
with all requirements of Nevada Revised Statutes 490.120 and legally registered
in compliance with Nevada Revised Statutes 490.0825 may travel the posted speed
limit on any road, highway, trail recognized and/or maintained and/or owned by
Elko County and state highways as per Nevada Revised Statutes 490.110(d).
   (B)   There shall be a maximum speed limit of fifteen (15) miles per hour
when operating in specific unincorporated areas of Elko County including
Jarbidge, Jackpot, Lamoille, Midas, Montello, Tuscarora, Contact, Mountain
City, recognized and filed residential subdivisions, and other like
communities.
   (C)   Homeowners' associations (HOAs) and/or architectural review committees
as recognized pursuant to section
4-9-4 of this code may ban or further restrict the operation of off highway
vehicles on county highways within the respective subdivision boundaries by
amendment or inclusion of the ban or restrictions within HOA approved
conveniences, conditions and restrictions or declarations of reservations. Such
amendments of the CC&Rs and/or DORs shall be recorded with the Elko County
recorder.
   (D)   Unincorporated town advisory boards may ban or further restrict the
operation of off highway vehicles on town roads within the respective town
boundaries by petitioning for approval from the Elko County board of county
commissioners sitting as the official town board of the respective
unincorporated town.
   (E)   There shall be a maximum speed limit for the operation of every off
highway vehicle of fifteen (15) miles per hour when:
      1.   The off highway vehicle is within five hundred feet (500') of any
residential home or neighborhood, that distance being measured from the off
highway vehicle to the nearest point of the lot or parcel of such home or
neighborhood; or
      2.   The off highway vehicle is being operated on any designated public
street, road or highway unless otherwise signed for an approved special event.
Such public streets, roads and/or highways are designated herein as part of the
exit/entry approved routes/trails.
   (F)   There shall be no more than the approved number of occupants per
vehicle pursuant to the manufacturer's recommendation and design, operating
and/or riding the off highway vehicle.
   (G)   Operation of any off highway vehicle under this chapter shall only
occur between the hours of sunrise and sunset, unless the operation of the off
highway vehicle occurs in rural nonresidential areas of the county. If the
operation of the off highway vehicle occurs after sundown the vehicle must have
legal lighting to permit nighttime use.
   (H)   Any off highway vehicle that is being operated on a paved roadway
shall use headlamps and tail lights even during daytime hours.
   (I)   It is recommended that any off highway vehicle operated on county
highways should be equipped with a "whip" six feet (6') in height. (Ord. 2014-
09, 6-5-2014, eff. 6-19-2014)
8-2-4: DESIGNATED ROUTES AND TRAILS:
   (A)   Off highway vehicles may be used and operated within Elko County only
over such ways, trails, streets, roads or highways that are recognized and/or
maintained by Elko County including any town streets recognized and/or
maintained by the official town board of any unincorporated town. To the
fullest extent possible, off highway vehicles shall be operated only on the
outer edge of streets and roads and shall not be operated on sidewalks.
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as giving operators of off highway
vehicles permission to ride on highways controlled and/or maintained by other
entities unless expressly allowed.
   (B)   Signage or authorization concerning designated routes will be
provided, but:
      1.   Designating or authorizing such routes does not assure the safety of
any operators, passengers or users of the route; and
      2.   Designating or authorizing such routes does not assure that the
route itself is safe for off highway vehicle use or for any other purpose.
   (C)   If authorized by a specific incorporated city code, unincorporated
town code, or residential HOA rules, any operator of an off highway vehicle who
begins or ends such operation within a residential neighborhood location within
any incorporated city, unincorporated community or town, shall use the most
direct route possible to reach a designated route. Nothing in this section is
intended to supersede the authority of the incorporated cities to regulate off
highway vehicle use within their respective city limits.
   (D)   The Elko County board of commissioners shall adopt by resolution
appropriate map(s) which describe and identify the routes where off highway
vehicle use is permitted under this chapter and establish the routes
appropriate for off highway vehicle use.
   (E)   Elko County shall seek permission from the Nevada department of
transportation to incorporate certain portions of state highways into Elko
County's designated off highway vehicle routes. (Ord. 2014-09, 6-5-2014, eff.
6-19-2014)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
JACKPOT MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-1-1: Title, Severability
9-1-2: Definitions
9-1-3: Description of Service
9-1-4: Application for Service
9-1-5: Special Contracts
9-1-6: Special Information
9-1-7: Credit Establishment
9-1-8: Deposits
9-1-9: Notices
9-1-10: Installation Connections and Meter Connections
9-1-11: Connection Charges
9-1-12: Multiple Units
9-1-13: Bills and Payment
9-1-14: Disputed Bills
9-1-15: Meter Error
9-1-16: Discontinuance of Service
9-1-17: Monthly Water Rates and Charges
9-1-18: Temporary Service
9-1-19: Pools and Tanks
9-1-20: Fire Hydrants
9-1-21: Responsibility for Equipment
9-1-22: Damage to District's Property
9-1-23: Control Valves
9-1-24: Cross Connections
9-1-25: Ground Wire Attachments
9-1-26: Water Waste
9-1-27: Access to Premises
9-1-28: Interruptions in Services
9-1-29: Extension of Service
9-1-30: Appeals
9-1-31: Violation; Penalties
9-1-1: TITLE, SEVERABILITY:
   (A)   This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Jackpot Municipal
Water District Rates and Regulations.
   (B)   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Chapter
is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this Chapter.
9-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: An individual, corporation, partnership, sole trader, or agency
applying for water service.
DISTRICT: The Jackpot Municipal Water District.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS: The Elko County Board of Commissioners acting as the
Jackpot Town Board.
CUSTOMER: An individual or agency of record receiving water service from the
utility.
DATE OF PRESENTATION: The date upon which a bill or notice is mailed or
delivered personally to the customer.
DOMESTIC SERVICE: Provision of water for household residential purposes,
including water for sprinkling lawns, gardens and shrubbery; watering
livestock; washing vehicles and other similar and customary purposes.
FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE: Provision of water to premises for automatic fire
protection.
COMMERCIAL SERVICE: Provision of water to premises where the customer is
engaged in trade.
MAINS: Distribution pipelines located in streets, highways, public ways or
private rights of way which are used to serve the general public.
MUNICIPAL or PUBLIC USE: Provision of water to a municipality or other public
body.
PREMISES: The integral property or area, including improvements thereon, to
which water service is or will be provided.
SERVICE AREA: Comprises the area within the Jackpot Town limits.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The pipe, valves and other facilities by means of which the
utility conducts water from its distribution mains to the meter, or to the curb
stop.
RATE AND FEE SCHEDULES: The effective rates, fees, rentals, charges and
regulations as set forth by resolution of the Board of Directors.
TEMPORARY SERVICE: A service for construction work, irrigation of vacant
property and similar uses, that because of their nature will not be used
steadily or permanently.
CROSS CONNECTION: Means any physical connection between the piping system from
the Jackpot Municipal Water District Service and that of any other water
supply.
9-1-3: DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Supply. The District will exercise reasonable diligence and care to
deliver a continuous supply of water to the customer at a sufficient pressure
at the service connection, and to avoid any shortage or interruption in
delivery.
If in the opinion of the District it is doubtful if satisfactory water service
can be given, due to location or elevation of the premises, then the District
may require a written release from liability for any damage or inconvenience
that may occur by reason of insufficient pressure or inadequate volume of water
or intermittent supply. The said release shall, without further notice from the
District, remain in effect for all consumers taking water through the service,
until changes, extensions or betterments may be made to the distribution system
by the District.
If the customer desires a reduced service pressure below the District static
pressure, he shall provide the necessary pressure reducing valve and blow-off
at his own expense.
   (B)   Quality. The District will endeavor to supply a safe and potable water
at all times.
9-1-4: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
   (A)   Application. Each applicant for water service following initial
"hookup" period ending midnight, October 15, 1973, will be required to sign a
form provided by the District setting forth:
      1.   The date and place of application;
      2.   The location of premises to be served;
      3.   The date on which the applicant will be ready for service;
      4.   The size of service;
      5.   The address to which bills are to be mailed or delivered;
      6.   Whether the applicant is an owner or tenant of, or agent for, the
premises;
      7.   An agreement to abide by all regulations of the District;
      8.   Whether other water sources exist on the premises;
      9.   Such other data as the Board of Directors in their sole discretion
shall from time to time shall be, by resolution, passed by the said Board of
Directors.
The application is a written request for service and does not bind the
applicant to take service for any period of time longer than the one upon which
the rates and minimum charges of the rate schedule are based; neither does it
bond the District to give service, except under reasonable conditions. Where
extension of District mains is required to provide service, the applicant will
be required to provide such extension subject to the provisions of Section
9-1-28 herein.
   (B)   Individual Liability for Joint Service: Two (2) or more parties who
join to make application for service shall be jointly and individually liable
and shall be sent a single periodic bill.
   (C)   Changes in Customer's Equipment: Customers making any material change
in the size, character or extent of the equipment or operations utilizing water
service, or whose change in operations results in a large increase in the use
of water, shall immediately give the District written notice of the nature of
the change and, if necessary, amend their application. Said application shall
also be amended upon request made by the District Director and in the event of
disagreement as to the facts for such amendment, a hearing shall be had before
the Board of Directors and their decision shall be final and binding upon the
customer.
9-1-5: SPECIAL CONTRACTS:
Contracts, other than applications, may be required prior to service, under the
following conditions:
   (A)   When construction of special extension facilities is necessary.
   (B)   For temporary service.
   (C)   For standby service or fire service.
   (D)   For connections with other qualified utilities.
   (E)   For meters or service connections larger than two inch (2").
9-1-6: SPECIAL INFORMATION:
   (A)   Contracts: Each contract for water service shall at all times be
subject to such charges or modifications by the Board of Directors of the
District as it may, from time to time in its discretion, direct by resolution.
   (B)   Customer's Bills: In the event a bill is not paid within thirty (30)
days after presentation, service may be discontinued. A cash deposit and a
reconnection fee will be required to re- establish service in an amount as from
time to time is set by resolution of the Board of Directors.
   (C)   Deposit Receipts: All deposits will be applied to unpaid balances if
service has been discontinued by the District by reason of unpaid bills; and a
new deposit must be made in such amount as shall from time to time be set by
the Board of Directors, before service may be resumed. Any remaining surplus
shall be refunded to the person making the deposit. Deposits shall in no event
bear interest.
Each receipt for a cash deposit to establish or re-establish credit for service
will contain the following statements: "This deposit will be applied to unpaid
balances if service has been discontinued by the District because of nonpayment
of bill and the full amount shall be re-established before service will be
resumed." "This deposit, less the amount of any unpaid water bills, will be
refunded without interest on discontinuance of service."
9-1-7: CREDIT ESTABLISHMENT:
   (A)   Establishment of Credit: Each applicant, before receiving service,
will be required to establish his credit by either of the following methods:
      1.   A cash deposit in such amount as shall from time to time be set by
resolution of the Board of Directors.
      2.   Use of service for more than a year, during the last twelve (12)
months of which the customer paid all water bills promptly.
   (B)   Re-Establishment of Credit: To re-establish his credit, a customer
will be required to pay all back bills up to the time service was discontinued.
He will be required to pay a reconnection charge and make a cash deposit as
described in the regulation on deposits.
9-1-8: DEPOSITS:
The above requirements for deposit shall not apply to Federal, State or County
or Municipal service.
9-1-9: NOTICES:
   (A)   Notices to Customers: Notices from the District to a customer will
normally be given in writing and either delivered or mailed to him at his last
known address. Where conditions warrant and in emergencies, the District may
resort to notification either by telephone or messenger.
   (B)   Notices From Customers: Notice from the customer to the District may
be given by him or his authorized representative orally or in writing, (1) at
the District's operating offices, or (2) to an agent duly authorized to receive
notices or complaints. (Ord. 1973-I, 8-9-73, eff. 9-1-73)
9-1-10: INSTALLATION CONNECTIONS AND METER CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   Installation Connections: The District will furnish and install a
service of such size and at such location as the applicant requests, provided
such requests are reasonable and there is access to the connection by public
way; the service will be installed from its water distribution main to the curb
line or property line of the premises which may abut on the street, on other
thoroughfares, or on the District right of way or easement. Charges for new
service are payable in advance and shall be fixed by the Board of Directors by
resolution. No such charge for installation connection shall be made before
midnight, October 15, 1973.
Charges for new service connection(s) may be exempted by the District if the
applicant will furnish and install the designated service at his own expense.
Said installation connection will require the use of pipe, valves and other
facilities that comply with the quality of materials acceptable to the
District. Said service shall be installed as agreed with the District for
location, and materials installation shall be inspected by an authorized
District representative. (Ord. 1980-J, 6-5-80, eff. 7-1-80)
   (B)   Mandatory Connections: It shall be mandatory for the owner of all
houses, buildings or other properties used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation, commercial, industrial or other like purposes situated within the
District and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is
located a public water main to connect to such main within ninety (90) days
following enactment of this Chapter whenever such public water main is within
three hundred feet (300') of any building utilizing water. For new construction
or installations, such connection shall be made before a certificate of
occupancy will be issued. A specific exception to the foregoing shall apply to
the properties of Club "93", Inc. In lieu of the mandatory water connection,
Club "93", Inc., agrees to pay two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month to the
Water Fund, as and for standby water for it's fire sprinkler systems. (Ord.
1982-E, 4-19-82, eff. 5-11-82)
   (C)   Meters (Option at the Discretion of the Customer)
      1.   Meters will be installed inside the customer's property line and
shall be installed at the expense of the customer.
      2.   All meters will be inspected and sealed by the District following
installation, and no seal shall be altered or broken except by one of its
authorized employees or agents.
      3.   Only duly authorized employees or agents of the District will be
permitted to install a service connection from the District's main to a
customer's meter.
      4.   Meter shall be of a size prescribed by the District.
   (D)   Change in Location of Meters or Services: Meters or services moved for
the convenience of the customer will be relocated at the customer's expense.
Meters or services moved to protect the District's property will be moved at
District's expense.
   (E)   Changes in Size of Meter or Services: Permanent changes in the size of
meters or existing services will be made at the expense of the customer.
   (F)   Ownership: The service connection, whether located on public or
private property, is the property of the District, and the District reserves
the right to repair, replace or maintain it, as well as to remove it upon
discontinuance of service.
   (G)   Maintenance: The service connection will be repaired and maintained by
the District at its expense except as provided in Section
9-1-21 hereof, but the District is not responsible for the maintenance of
meters and water lines beyond the end of its service. Installation of water
lines beyond the service connection may be provided by the District prior to
midnight, October 15, 1973. (Ord. 1973-1, 8-9-73, eff. 9-1-73)
9-1-11: CONNECTION CHARGES:
   (A)   Connection Charges: In order to equalize investment in facilities made
by present water users in the County, special water connection charges shall be
collected in accordance with the provisions of this Section. Such connection
charges must be paid to the County prior to the connection of the facilities of
the customer to the water system of the County in accordance with the terms and
conditions stated in this Section, unless the Board shall, by special agreement
with the customer, provide other charges than those hereinafter stated or other
terms and conditions of payment than those hereinafter stated.
For the purpose of determining water connection charges the schedule of units
adopted by resolution of the Board for and in accordance with the Jackpot Water
District shall be used. The rate to be applied per unit is established as two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 1985-E, 5-2-85, eff. 5-22-85)
   (B)   Connection Charge; Rights of Service in Existing Facilities. A
connection charge for the right of service in existing water supply, storage,
transmission, and distribution facilities of the Town shall be payable to the
County for all water connections within boundary of the town as now existing
except existing buildings or where house services have been installed. The
charge shall be calculated according to subsection (A) hereof.
   (C)   Connection Charges; Outside Town. A special and additional connection
charge shall be paid in all areas outside the Town boundary in lieu of the
charge established in subsection (A) hereof. The charge shall be one and one-
half (11/2) times the normal unit rate as set forth in subsection (A) hereof.
   (D)   Prepayment of Connection Charges; Subdivisions. Prepayment of
connection charges required under this Section, together with any other charges
which may be established by the County, shall be made to the County before the
improvement plans for any subdivision are approved by the County and before any
permit to install water mains to provide service to the subdivision is issued,
and before entering into any agreement relating to the installation of the
subdivision water system.
   (E)   Connection Charges; Alteration of Use. The connection charges herein
established are applicable to the use proposed to be made of the water service
at the time the service is to be rendered. In the event of alteration of the
service requirements requiring greater use of water facilities, additional
charges shall be paid for added family units or charges in use as herein
defined at the connection charge rate in effect at the time such alterations or
additions are made.
   (F)   Special Connection Charges. Where, in the opinion of the County,
special conditions exist relating to service to any customer or customers, the
County may revise, either upward or downward, any of the connection charges
provided herein by motion, resolution, or ordinance, or it may provide for the
charges to be paid by special agreement between the County and the application
for water service. (Ord. 1980-J, 6-5-80, eff. 7-1-80)
9-1-12: MULTIPLE UNITS:
   (A)   Number of Services to Separate Premises: Separate premises shall be
supplied through individual service connections.
   (B)   Service to Multiple Units: Separate houses, buildings, living or
business quarters on the same premises under a single control or management may
be served at the option of the applicant by either of the following methods:
      1.   Through separate service connections to each or any unit provided
that the pipeline system from each service is independent of the others and is
not interconnected.
      2.   Through a single service connection to the entire premises, on which
only one minimum charge will be applied.
The responsibility for payment of charges for all water furnished to combined
units, supplied through a single service connection, must be assumed by the
applicant.
   (C)   Resale of Water: Except by special agreement in writing first had and
obtained, no customer shall resell at a profit any of the water received by him
from the District, nor shall such water be delivered to premises other than
those specified in his application for service.
9-1-13: BILLS AND PAYMENT:
   (A)   Rendering of Bills.
      1.   Bills for water service will be rendered monthly with initial
billing period to commence September 1, 1973.
      2.   Opening and closing bills and monthly bills.
         a.   Opening bills rendered for periods smaller or greater than one
month will be prorated.
         b.   If the closing period of water service is less than one month,
the bill will not be less than the monthly minimum charge.
   (B)   Payment of Bills.
      1.   Periodic bills are due and payable on presentation. Payment may be
made at the District's office or to an authorized collector.
      2.   Closing bills, if service is to be discontinued, are due and payable
on presentation. Collection will be made at the time of presentation.
      3.   Thirty (30) days will be allowed after bills are mailed before
service is discontinued for nonpayment.
      4.   When bills are delinquent, the District may demand that the full
amount of both delinquent and current bills be paid in full. (Ord. 1973, 8-9-
73, eff. 9-1-73)
      5.   All receipts shall be deposited to the credit of the Jackpot Water
Fund. (Ord. 1973-1, 8-9-73, eff. 9-1-73; amd. Ord. 1977-D, 5-5-77, eff. 7-1-77)
9-1-14: DISPUTED BILLS:
Should the customer dispute the correctness of a bill for District water
service, said customer shall deposit the amount of the disputed bill with the
District Director within fifteen (15) days after the receipt of the bill. The
District Director shall then forthwith make a factual investigation and shall
submit his findings to the person making the deposit and to the Board of
Directors. The Board of Directors shall then hear the matter and the
determination of the Board shall be final and binding upon the customer.
Service will not be discontinued pending the outcome of the Director's
investigation provided that subsequent bills are paid or deposited with the
District.
9-1-15: METER ERROR:
   (A)   Meter Test.
      1.   The District may conduct a meter test any time at its discretion.
      2.   A customer may, giving not less than one week's notice, request the
District to test the meter serving his premises.
      3.   A customer may have the right to require the District to conduct the
test in his presence, or in the presence of his representative.
      4.   A written report giving the results of the test will be shown to the
customer within ten (10) days after completion of the test.
      5.   The cost of a meter test shall be borne by the customer requesting
said test.
   (B)   Adjustment of Bills for Meter Error:
      1.   Fast Meters: When upon test a meter is found to be registering more
than two percent (2%) fast, under conditions of normal operation, the District
will refund to the customer the full amount of the overcharge based on
corrected meter readings for the period, not exceeding six (6) months, that the
meter was in use; unless the exact duration of fast meter registration can be
determined.
      2.   Slow Meters:
         a.   When upon test a meter used for domestic or residential service
is found to be registering more than twenty five percent (25%) slow, the
District may bill the customer for the amount of the undercharge based upon
corrected meter readings for the period, not exceeding six (6) months, that the
meter was in use.
         b.   When upon test a meter used for other than domestic or
residential service is found to be registering more than five percent (5%)
slow, the District may bill the customer for the amount of the undercharge
based upon correct meter readings for the period, not exceeding six (6) months,
that the meter was in use.
      3.   Nonregistering and Unreadable Meters: The District shall bill the
customer for water consumed while the meter was not registering or not
readable. The bill will be the amount computed by multiplying the prevailing
flat rate times the total of equivalent units. A pro rata adjustment shall be
allowed for periods less than twenty seven (27) days or more than thirty three
(33) days. The opinion and findings of the Director shall be conclusive,
subject to the right of review and alteration by the Board of Directors.
9-1-16: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Nonpayment of Bills:
      1.   A customer's water service may be discontinued if a bill is not paid
within thirty (30) days after presentation. The service will not be
discontinued, however, until the amount of the deposit made to establish credit
for that service has been fully absorbed.
      2.   A customer's water service may be discontinued if water service
furnished at a previous location is not paid for within thirty (30) days after
presentation of a bill.
      3.   If a customer receives water service at more than one location and
the bill for service at any one location is not paid within thirty (30) days
after presentation, water service at all locations may be turned off. Domestic
service, however, will not be turned off for nonpayment of bills for other
classes of service.
   (B)   Unsafe Apparatus:
      1.   The District may refuse to furnish water and may discontinue service
to any premises where apparatus, appliances or equipment using water is
dangerous, unsafe or not in conformity with any laws or ordinances. All
customer installed booster pump installations shall be approved by the
District. Where necessary to protect the District system or service, a suction
tank may be required.
      2.   The District does not assume liability for inspecting apparatus on
the customer's property. The District does reserve the right of inspection,
however, if there is reason to believe that unsafe apparatus is in use.
   (C)   Service Detrimental to Others:
      1.   The District may refuse to furnish water and may discontinue
services to any premises where the demand is greatly in excess of past average
or seasonal use, and where such excessive demands by one customer are or may be
detrimental or injurious to the service furnished to other customers.
      2.   The District may refuse to furnish water and may discontinue service
to any premises where excessive demands by one customer will result in
inadequate service to others.
   (D)   Fraud and Abuse: The District shall have the right to refuse or
discontinue water service to any premises to protect itself against fraud or
abuse.
For the failure of the customer to comply with all of this Chapter and any
ordinance, resolution or order fixing rates and charges of this District, a
penalty for which has not heretofore been specifically fixed, the customer's
service shall be discontinued and the water shall not be supplied such customer
until he shall have complied with the rule or regulation rate or charge which
he has violated, or in the event that he cannot comply with said rule or
regulation, until he shall have satisfied the District that in the future he
will comply with all the rules and regulations established by this Chapter and
with all rates and charges of this District. In addition thereto, he shall pay
the District a sum to be fixed by the District for renewal of his services. All
determinations made by the Board of Directors shall be final and binding upon
the customer.
   (E)   Noncompliance: The District may, unless otherwise provided,
discontinue water service to a customer for noncompliance with any of these
regulations if the customer fails to comply with them within five (5) days
after receiving written notice of the District's intention to discontinue
service. If such noncompliance affects matters of health and safety and
conditions warrant, the District may discontinue water service immediately.
   (F)   Customer's Request for Service Discontinuance: Upon application of the
owner or occupant of a building or premises to have water shut off, the
District will shut off the water and a closing bill rendered to date. The
monthly service charge shall be made to the person who has applied for water to
be furnished to a premise, whether water is used or not, unless and until the
District is requested in writing to discontinue service therefrom.
   (G)   Restoration-Reconnection Charge: The District shall charge such sum or
sums as it from time to time may set by resolution of the Board of Directors
for restoring water service which has been discontinued.
It shall be unlawful for any person other than authorized District personnel to
turn on water after the same shall have been turned off as herein provided.
9-1-17: MONTHLY WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   (A)   Monthly Minimum Service Charge: The minimum monthly service charge for
all services within the District shall be fixed by the Board of Directors from
time to time and set forth in a resolution.
   (B)   Service Outside the Boundaries of the District: For water and service
furnished to each premise outside the District boundaries, a monthly charge
shall be in such amount as the Board of Directors shall from time to time in
its sole discretion set by resolution of said Board.
   (C)   Charges for Water Service: The charges for services and water used
within the District boundaries shall be fixed from time to time by resolution
of the Board of Directors.
9-1-18: TEMPORARY SERVICE:
   (A)   Time Limit: Temporary service connections shall be disconnected and
terminated within six (6) months after installation unless an extension of time
is granted in writing by the District.
   (B)   Charge for Water Served: Charges for water furnished through a
temporary service connection shall be at the established rates set by the Board
of Directors.
   (C)   Installation Charge and Deposits: The applicant for temporary service
will be required:
      1.   To obtain a portable meter from the District at a rental of two
dollars fifty cents ($2.50) per week.
      2.   To deposit with the District an amount equal to the value of any
equipment loaned by the utility to such applicant for use on temporary service,
such value to be set by the Director.
   (D)   Responsibility for Meters and Installation: The customer shall use all
possible care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other loaned facilities
of the utility which are involved in furnishing the temporary service from the
time they are installed until they are removed, or until forty eight (48)
hours' notice in writing has been given to the District that the contractor or
other person is through with the meter or meters and the installation. If the
meter or other facilities are damaged, the cost of making repairs shall be paid
by the customer.
   (E)   Temporary Service on a Fire Hydrant: If temporary service is supplied
through a fire hydrant, a permit for the use of the hydrant shall be obtained
from the Fire District authority and the District. It is specifically
prohibited to operate the valve of any fire hydrant other than by the use of a
spanner wrench designed for this purpose. The hydrant valve shall not be used
for throttling or regulating the flow rate.
9-1-19: POOLS AND TANKS:
When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired for filling a swimming
pool or for other purposes, arrangements must be made with the District prior
to taking such water.
Permission to take water in unusual quantities will be given only if it can be
safely delivered through the District's facilities and if other consumers are
not inconvenienced.
9-1-20: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   (A)   Use of and Damage to Fire Hydrants: No person or persons, other than
those designated and authorized by the Fire District authority, or by the
District, shall open any fire hydrant, attempt to draw water from it or in any
manner damage or tamper with it. Any violation of this regulation will be
prosecuted according to law. Any person causing damage to a fire hydrant shall
be responsible for its repair or replacement.
   (B)   Moving of Fire Hydrants: When a fire hydrant has been installed in the
location specified by the proper authority, the District has fulfilled its
obligation. If a property owner or other party desires a change in the size,
type or location of the hydrant, he shall bear all costs of such changes,
without refund. Any change in the location of a fire hydrant must be approved
by the proper authority.
9-1-21: RESPONSIBILITY FOR EQUIPMENT:
The customer shall, at his own risk and expense, furnish, install and keep in
good and safe condition all equipment that may be required for receiving,
controlling, applying and utilizing water, and the District shall not be
responsible for any loss or damage caused by the improper installation of such
water equipment, or the negligence, want of proper care or wrongful act of the
customer or of any of his tenants, agents, employees, contractors, licensees or
permittees in installing, maintaining, using, operating or interfering with
such equipment. The District shall not be responsible for damage to property
caused by spigots, faucets, valves and other equipment that are open when water
is turned on, either when the water is turned on originally or when turned on
after a temporary shutdown.
9-1-22: DAMAGE TO DISTRICT'S PROPERTY:
The customer shall be liable for any damage to equipment or property owned by
the District which is caused by an act of the customer or his tenants, agents,
employees, contractors, licensees or permittees, including any damage that may
result from surges or from hot water or steam from a boiler or heater on the
customer's premises. The District shall be reimbursed by the customer for any
such damage promptly on presentation of a bill.
9-1-23: CONTROL VALVES:
The customer shall install a suitable valve, as close to the service location
as practicable, the operation of which will control the entire water supply
from the service. The operation by the customer of the curb stop in a meter box
is not permitted.
9-1-24: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   Health Regulations: Regulations of the Nevada State Department of
Public Health and the drinking water standards of the United States Public
Health Service prohibit unprotected cross connections between the public water
supply and any unapproved source of water.
   (B)   District Requirements: To comply with the regulations of these health
agencies, the District will require the installation of approved double check
valves or other approved backflow protection devices by and at the expense of
the customer before service will be granted under any of the following
conditions:
      1.   Where an unapproved fresh water supply is already available from a
well, spring, reservoir or other source. If the customer agrees to abandon this
other supply and agrees to remove all pumps and piping necessary for the
utilization of the supply, the installation of backflow protective devices will
not be required.
      2.   Where salt water or water otherwise polluted is available for
industrial or fire protection purposes.
      3.   Where the premises are or may be engaged in industrial processes
using or producing process waters or liquid industrial wastes, or where the
premises are or may be engaged in handling sewage or any other dangerous
substance.
      4.   Where the circumstances are such that there is special danger of
backflow of sewage or other contaminated liquids through plumbing fixtures or
water using or treating equipment, or storage tanks and reservoirs.
   (C)   Plumbing Changes Required: In special circumstances, when the customer
is engaged in the handling of especially dangerous or corrosive liquids or
industrial or process waters, the District may require the customer to
eliminate certain plumbing or piping connections as an additional precaution
and as a protection to the backflow preventive devices. In making plumbing
connections, the customer shall be guided entirely by local or State plumbing
ordinances and not by the District.
   (D)   Relief Valve Required: As a protection to the customer's plumbing
system a suitable pressure relief valve must be installed and maintained by
him, at his expense, when check valves or other protective devices are used.
The relief valve shall be installed between the check valves and the water
heater.
   (E)   Backflow Protection on Additional Water Supply Lines: Whenever
backflow protection has been found necessary on a water supply line entering a
customer's premises, then any and all water supply lines from the District's
mains entering such premises, buildings or structures shall be protected by an
approved backflow device, regardless of the use of the additional water supply
lines.
   (F)   Inspection of Backflow Protective Devices: The double check valve or
other approved backflow protection devices may be inspected and tested
periodically for water tightness by the District. The devices shall be
serviced, overhauled or replaced whenever they are found defective and all
costs of repair and maintenance shall be borne by the customer.
   (G)   Discontinuance of Service for Defective Apparatus: The service of
water to any premises may be immediately discontinued by the District if any
defect is found in the check valve installations or other protective devices,
or if it is found that dangerous unprotected cross connections exist. Service
will not be restored until such defects are corrected.
   (H)   Pressure Regulators: Where reduced or increased pressure is desired,
the customer shall be responsible for installing and maintaining the necessary
regulators, pumps and relief valves. In such cases, the equipment shall be
installed on the customer's side of the service connection and at his own risk
and expense in such a manner as not to endanger the water system.
9-1-25: GROUND-WIRE ATTACHMENTS:
All individuals or business organizations are forbidden to attach any ground
wires to any plumbing which is or may be connected to a service connection or
main belonging to the District; the District will hold the customer liable for
any damage to its property occasioned by such ground-wire attachments.
9-1-26: WATER WASTE:
Where water is wastefully or negligently used on a customer's premises,
seriously affecting the general service, the District may discontinue the
service if such conditions are not corrected within five (5) days after giving
the customer written notice thereof.
The consumer has sole control of the amount of water drawn from the District's
mains through the service connection and is responsible for maintenance and
repairs of pipes and fixtures beyond that point. No allowance will be made for
loss of water due to faulty fixtures or broken or damaged water pipes;
provided, however, that if and when it shall appear that such loss or leakage
has occurred without negligence upon the part of the consumer, an allowance may
be made by the District to the extent of such loss at the discretion of the
Board.
9-1-27: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
   (A)   The District or its duly authorized agents shall at all reasonable
times have the right to enter or leave the customer's premises for any purpose
properly connected with the service of water to the customer.
   (B)   Any inspection or recommendations made by the district or its agents
on plumbing or appliances or use of water on the customer's premises, either as
the result of a complaint or otherwise, will be made or offered without charge.
9-1-28: INTERRUPTIONS IN SERVICE:
The District shall not be liable for damage resulting from an interruption in
service. Temporary shutdowns may be resorted to by the District for
improvements and repairs. Whenever possible and as time permits, all customers
affected will be notified prior to such shutdowns.
The District will not be liable for interruption, shortage or insufficiency of
supply, or for any loss or damage occasioned thereby, if caused by accident,
Act of God, fire strikes, riots, war or any other cause not within its control.
The District whenever it shall find it necessary or convenient for the purpose
of making repairs or improvements to its system, shall have the right
temporarily to suspend delivery of water and it shall not be liable for any
loss or damage occasioned thereby. Repairs or improvements will be prosecuted
as rapidly as is practicable and, so far as possible, at such times as will
cause the least inconvenience to the customers.
9-1-29: EXTENSION OF SERVICE:
(Water main extension and storage increases)
   (A)   All applicants for service shall be required to file an application
and make the following payments:
      1.   Service hookup as set by District resolution.
      2.   Storage facility charge.
   (B)   Service hookup charges are payable in advance and shall be fixed from
time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.
   (C)   A "storage facility charge" shall be determined by the Board of
Directors from time to time and set forth by resolution. It shall be based on
the number and size of actual and/or potential service connections and shall be
payable upon application for service (or upon construction and prior to
acceptance of "in- tract" water system in the case of developers). Such rate
shall be computed so as, in the sole discretion of the Board, to equalize the
cost of providing storage facilities with necessary appurtenances, throughout
the District.
The "storage facility charge" payable by developers shall be determined by
applying the rate for a three-fourths inch (3/4") service connection to each
lot in a tract. If a tract lot owner subsequently applies for a service
connection larger than three-fourths inch (3/4"), the difference between the
"storage facility charge" for the service connection ordered and the "storage
facility charge" for a three-fourths inch (3/4") service connection shall be
payable upon application for service.
   (D)   All subdividers, developers or property owners (applicants for
service) are required to have main extensions established at their own expense.
No one may run a private line through or by intervening properties that should
be served by a public main. All intervening applicants within the area whose
developments will use said extension will be required to pay their share of
this expense on a prorated basis before they connect with the system and such
moneys are to be returned to the party or their heirs that originally bore the
cost of the line. This is to be accomplished by an agreement between the Board
of Directors and the applicant. For mains extended as per the foregoing, the
District will pay for sizing, in excess of the subdivider, developers or
property owners' needs, and for hydrants, valves, stubouts, etc., which are
necessary appurtenances to the entire system, but not of immediate necessity to
the applicant. It is the policy of the District to require applicants for
service to construct main extensions under District supervision and
specifications.
   (E)   All "in-tract" facilities, including easements and tank sites, must be
dedicated to the District prior to acceptance of a development for service. The
cost of such "in-tract" facilities shall be borne by the developer. All such
facilities must meet District's standards and specifications. The term "in-
tract" as used herein shall refer to the following facilities installed within
the boundaries of a subdivided tract: All distribution mains, including
connections to existing mains, even if outside the tract, necessary service
stubs, or service pipelines, fire hydrants, fittings, valves and housing
thereof, exclusive of individual service connections and meters.
If additional facilities of a permanent nature are required to provide pressure
or storage exclusively for the service requested, such facilities will be
included.
   (F)   Schools, whether private or public, and nonprofit or charitable
institutions shall be considered as commercial applicants for the purpose of
this Section.
9-1-30: APPEALS:
The Board of Directors shall review any decision made by the District
representatives or agents in interpreting, applying or enforcing the provisions
of this Chapter, and any order, requirement, decision or determination relating
thereto, upon the receipt of an application or petition in writing requesting a
review of such decision. In exercising its powers of review, the Board may in
conformity with the provisions of the law, reverse or affirm wholly or partly
or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from
and make such order, requirement or determination as ought to be made.
9-1-31: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person wilfully violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine
in any sum not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in
the County jail for a period of not to exceed ninety (90) days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. Each day's violation of the provisions of this Chapter
may be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 1973-1, 8-9-73, eff. 9-1-73; renumbered
Ord. 1980-J, 6-5-80; eff. 7-1-80)
CHAPTER 2
JACKPOT MUNICIPAL SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Matter Excluded From Sanitary Sewers
9-2-3: Inspection of Sewers and Attachments
9-2-4: Permission to Discharge Objectionable Waste or Water
9-2-5: Testing of Sewage Waste
9-2-6: Septic Tank Contents
9-2-7: Septic Tank Contents; Discharge of
9-2-8: Septic Tank Contents; Discharge Fees; Report
9-2-9: Determination of Character of Waste Matter
9-2-10: Pretreatment of Sewage
9-2-11: Sewage From Outside Town Limits
9-2-12: Building Sewers and Service Connections
9-2-13: Industrial Users
9-2-14: Injuries to Sewerage System Unlawful
9-2-15: Charges and Rates for Sewage Disposal Outside Town Limits
9-2-16: Charges and Rates for Sewage
9-2-17: Minimum Charge
9-2-18: Certain Installations Unlawful
9-2-19: Grease Traps; Commercial Kitchens
9-2-20: Bills and Collections
9-2-21: Contracts With Municipal Corporations
9-2-22: Sewer Fund Created
9-2-23: Mandatory Connections
9-2-24: Capital Improvement Fund Created
9-2-25: Industrial User Charges
9-2-26: Industrial Cost Recovery
9-2-27: Subdivisions and Development Requirements
9-2-28: Appeals
9-2-29: Violation; Penalties
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this Chapter:
JACKPOT MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM shall mean the system of conduits, pumps,
treatment plants and structures owned by the unincorporated Town of Jackpot,
and used for the purpose of conveying to final points of disposal all wastes of
any nature permitted by this Chapter to enter said system. Specifically
included as integral parts of the system are all conduits of any nature forming
a part of the general network of conduits or connected directly or indirectly
to said network; all pumps, treatment plants and structures of any kind used in
connection with the collection, treatment and disposal of wastes handled by the
system, and all appurtenances to any of the above, either physically or
functionally connected therewith. Storm, sanitary and combined sewers, as
defined below, are all included as parts of the Municipal sewer system.
ADVISORY COUNCIL shall mean the Citizens Advisory Council consisting of not
less than three (3) nor more than five (5) members, all of which has been set
forth in Section
2-1D-1 of this Elko County Code.
DIRECTOR means the County Manager or any of his duly authorized
representatives.
SANITARY SEWERS shall mean those sewers which are designated to collect all
waste matter permitted by this Chapter to enter the system other than surface
drainage water.
STORM SEWERS shall mean those sewers which are designated to carry surface
drainage water and such other waters as are not required to be disposed of
through the sanitary sewer system, in accordance with the provisions
hereinafter set forth.
COMBINED SEWERS shall mean those sewers which will carry both waste matter
permitted by this Chapter to enter either the sanitary sewers or storm sewers.
PREMISES shall be defined as a continuous tract of land, building or group of
adjacent buildings under a single control with respect to use sewer service and
responsibility for payment therefor. Subdivision of such use or responsibility
shall constitute a division into separate premises as herein defined, except
that where more than one dwelling is being served through the same sewer
service, in which case each of said dwellings shall constitute a separate
premises and shall be subject to the same charges as if separate single family
dwellings.
B.O.D. (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand) shall mean the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under the standard
laboratory procedure in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20°) Centigrade,
expressed in parts per million by weight.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS shall mean solids that either float on the surface if, or are
in suspensions in water, sewage or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
FLOW shall mean the volume of sewage being discharged into the sewerage system.
ACT shall mean the Federal Water Pollution Control Act entitled Public Law 92-
500, and its amendments of 1972 and 1977, as administered by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY means the financial recovery by the City from the
industrial users of the sewerage system of that portion of the U.S. Government
grant amount allocable to the treatment of wastes from such users pursuant to
Section 204(b) of the Act.
INDUSTRIAL USER means any non-governmental user of publicly- owned treatment
works identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office
of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented under the following
divisions:
   (A)   Division A-Agricultural, Forestry and Fishing.
   (B)   Division B-Mining.
   (C)   Division D-Manufacturing.
   (D)   Division E-Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and Sanitary
Services.
   (E)   Division I-Services.
Any industrial user is also defined as follows:
   (A)   A non-governmental, non-residential user which discharges more than
the equivalent of twenty five thousand (25,000) gallons per day of sanitary
waste, and which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual
under Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   (B)   A user which discharges any waste water containing toxic pollutants or
which has any other adverse effect on the treatment works; or
   (C)   A commercial user of an individual system.
A user in the Divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined that it will
introduce primarily segregated waste or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
9-2-2: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM SANITARY SEWERS:
   (A)   From All Sewers: Sewage, water or any matter having the following
characteristics shall, under no conditions, be discharged into, be placed where
they might find their way into or be allowed to run, leak or escape into any
part of the sewer system:
      1.   Ashes, cinders, sand, earth, gravel, coal, rubbish or any matter
which is chemically or physically stable for at least five (5) days at twenty
degrees (20°) Centigrade, or which would form a deposit or obstruction or
damage or reduce the capacity of the sewer into which it was placed.
      2.   Inflammable, explosive or poisonous liquids, gases or solids or any
matter which after entrance into a sewer might reasonably be expected to form
in any way such inflammable, explosive or poisonous liquids, gases or solids.
      3.   Matter of any nature at a temperature above one hundred degrees
(100°) Centigrade.
      4.   Liquid matter of any nature containing suspended solids in excess of
one thousand (1,000) parts per million.
      5.   Matter of any nature containing five (5) day biochemical oxygen
demand in excess of three hundred (300) parts per million.
      6.   Animal or vegetable greases, oils or matter containing animal or
vegetable grease or oil of any nature in excess of three hundred (300) parts
per million, or any petroleum products.
      7.   Liquid matter with hydrogen ion concentration below 5.5 or above
9.0.
      8.   Any matter which, in the opinion of the Director, might interfere
with the satisfactory operation of any treatment plants or any portion of the
sewer system; provided, however, with the written approval of the Director
being first obtained, sewage, wastes or other matter herein excluded, may be
discharged into the sewage system upon the payment to the Town of additional
costs for processing the same as hereinafter provided and set forth.
   (B)   From Storm Sewers: In addition to the matter excluded heretofore, all
other matter of any nature shall be excluded from those parts of the sewer
system designated by the Director as storm sewers, excepting only such waters
as hereinbefore authorized. Such drainage water shall be directed into a storm
sewer only under the authorization and direction of the Director.
   (C)   In addition to the matter heretofore, discharge of any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, sub- surface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process water shall be excluded from
all parts of the sewer system designated by the Director as the sanitary sewer
system.
9-2-3: INSPECTION OF SEWERS AND ATTACHMENTS:
The Director or other County officials or employees of the unincorporated Town
of Jackpot, bearing proper credentials, shall have the right to enter upon
premises drained by any side sewer or connected with any public sewer at all
reasonable hours to ascertain whether the provisions of this Chapter relative
to sewerage have been complied with. If said sewer, or its attachments, are in
conflict with the provisions of any law or ordinance in regard thereto, the
owner of said premises, or his agent, shall be notified to cause said sewer or
its attachments to be so altered, repaired or reconstructed as to make them
conform to the requirements of the laws and ordinances within fifteen (15) days
from the time of receipt of such notice.
9-2-4: PERMISSION TO DISCHARGE OBJECTIONABLE WASTE OR WATER:
The admission into the public sewers of any water or wastes having:
   (A)   Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) greater than 300 mg/l.
   (B)   Chemical oxygen demand (COD) greater than 900 mg/l, or
   (C)   Suspended solids in excess of 300 mg/l, shall be subject to the review
and approval of the Director.
Where necessary, in the opinion of the County, the owner shall provide at his
expense such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to reduce the BOD to 300
mg/l, the COD to 900 mg/l, and the suspended solids to 300 mg/l. Plans,
specifications and other pertinent information relating to the proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for approval of the
Director and of the Nevada Environmental Protection Agency, and no construction
of such facilities shall be commenced until said approvals are obtained in
writing.
9-2-5: TESTING OF SEWAGE WASTE:
The Director or other County officials or employees of the Town bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon any and all
premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing of sewage waste in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter; and it is unlawful for any person to prevent or
attempt to prevent any such entrance or obstruct or interfere with any such
officer or employee while so engaged.
9-2-6: SEPTIC TANK CONTENTS:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to discharge the contents of any septic tank,
cesspool, or chemical toilet into the Municipal sewer system except in
accordance with the provisions of Sections
9-2-7 and
9-2-8 of this Chapter.
9-2-7: SEPTIC TANK CONTENTS; DISCHARGE OF:
The Director shall designate in writing the particular points where the
contents of septic tanks, cesspools or chemical toilets can be discharged into
the municipal sewer system, and the manner in which said contents shall be
discharged. No matter prohibited from sewers by this Chapter shall be permitted
to be so discharged.
9-2-8: SEPTIC TANK CONTENTS; DISCHARGE FEES; REPORT:
A charge of two dollars ($2.00) shall be made for each truckload of material or
container load discharged into the municipal sewer system and shall be paid to
the Director and credited to the sewer utility. Payments due the Town as a
result of said charges shall be combined with a monthly report, properly sworn
to before a Notary Public, to be filed with the Director at the end of each
month's business and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Date of report.
   (B)   Number of loads discharged into the sewer system.
   (C)   The following data on each load:
      1.   The name and address from whence the material was obtained.
      2.   Number of gallons involved.
      3.   Sewer discharge point.
      4.   Date and hour discharged into sewer.
   (D)   Signature.
   (E)   Affidavit and Notary Seal.
   (F)   Check in the amount of two dollars ($2.00) per load.
9-2-9: DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER OF WASTE MATTER:
Before any matter of any nature may be discharged into the sewer system, which
discharge might reasonably be considered a violation of this Chapter, the
controlling characteristic of such matter shall be determined to the
satisfaction of the Director. The responsibility of initiating such
determination, any costs involved, and of submitting the results of said
determinations to the Director for his approval lie solely with the party or
parties desiring to discharge the matter into the sewer system. Verification of
these results and the decision as to whether or not a permit shall be issued,
shall be the responsibility of the Director. The fact that any matter has been
discharged into the sewer system prior to the passage of this Chapter or
subsequent thereto but without any objection from the Director does not
constitute a valid right to so discharge such matter. If, upon discovery by the
Director at any time that any matter being discharged into the sewer does not
conform to the requirements of this Chapter, the Director may immediately stop
the discharge of such matter into the sewer system.
9-2-10: PRETREATMENT OF SEWAGE:
When at any time it becomes necessary or desirable to discharge into the sewer
system any matter from any source which does not conform to the requirements
outlined in Section
9-2-2 hereof, it is hereby required that before such matter may be discharged
into the sewer system, the producer thereof shall pretreat same at his own
expense to a degree that will produce an effluent which does conform to said
requirements.
Such pretreatment plants shall be understood to include grease traps, chemical
or biochemical plants, sedimentation chambers and any other devices which
effect a change of any nature in the characteristics of the matter being
treated. Any and all such devices and equipment shall be subject to the
approval of the Director, shall not be put into operation without a written
permit of approval issued by said Director, shall be provided with all
necessary features of construction to permit inspection of operations and
testing of material passing through them and shall be open to the inspection of
the Director at any time; provided, however, that the producer, in lieu of the
treatment of said sewage, as hereinabove provided for, may, with the written
approval of the Director being first obtained, discharge said sewage, waste or
other matter into said sewer system in accordance with Section
9-2-2 hereof and subject to the payment of the additional cost of the treatment
thereof, as hereinafter provided.
9-2-11: SEWAGE FROM OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS:
Sewage from premises outside the Town limits may be discharged into the
municipal sewer system only after a permit has been issued by the Director,
which permit shall be subject to termination at any time at the direction of
the Director.
9-2-12: BUILDING SEWERS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
All materials and workmanship in the installation of building sewers and
service connections shall conform to the following regulations:
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Director. The permit is not
to be issued until all sewer connection charges and fees have been paid in
full.
   (B)   There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits:
      1.   General permits shall be applied for by the owner or his agent on a
form provided by the Director. The permit application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the Director at the time the application is filed. Also, the owner
or his agent shall pay to Elko County, at the time the application is filed, a
connection fee; and
      2.   Industrial user permits shall be applied for by the owner or his
agent by letter to the Director accompanied by an executed copy of the
industrial user agreement together with any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Director. Industrial
user permits shall be approved by the Elko County Commissioners based on
recommendation by the Engineer for the County. Approval shall be contingent
upon the availability of excess capacity in the sewerage treatment plant, the
provisions of this Chapter and any other considerations the Elko County
Commissioners deem appropriate. The amount of the permit, inspection fee and
hookup fee for an industrial wastes sewer service will vary with each permit,
and shall be established by the Director at the time of application.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer and service connection shall be borne by the owner. The
owner shall indemnify and hold harmless Elko County from any loss or damage
that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer and the marking of the service connection for the same to the
public sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer and service connection shall
be provided for every building; except where one building stands at the rear of
another on an interior lot and no separate sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and being tested as required by Elko
County, to meet all requirements of this Chapter.
   (F)   The materials of construction of the building sewer and service
connections, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes as have been or may be adopted
by Elko County.
   (G)   The building sewer from the building drain to the public sewer and the
service connection thereto shall not be smaller than four inch (4") diameter
sewer pipe. The minimum grade or slope of the building sewer shall be as
follows:
      1.   Four inch (4") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of not
less than one-quarter inch (1/4") per foot (1').
      2.   Six inch (6") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of not
less than four feet (4') per one thousand feet (1,000').
The alignment of the building sewer from the outlet of the building drain to
the public sewer connection shall be straight, with no bends, warps or sags
permitted, except with the permission of the Director. The trench bottom shall
be cut to proper grade so that when the pipe is laid the body or barrel of the
pipe shall be on solid material. Bell holes are to be excavated in the trench
bottom at all pipe joints.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The service connection to the public sewer shall conform to the
requirements of the Building and Plumbing Codes 1  as adopted by Elko County.
In addition, the materials and workmanship of the service connection shall meet
the following requirements:
      1.   A precast service connection fitting shall be installed as an
increment of the sewer pipe line or installed as an external fabrication to the
sewer pipe line, said fabrication to be installed within the center one-third
(1/3) of an individual laying length of the public sewer pipe, as a precaution
in preventing the breaking of the bell or the spigot end of the sewer pipe. The
service connection fitting shall be installed as a water-tight connection to
the public sewer, care being taken not to extend the building sewer line into
the public sewer line, therefore creating a possible restriction. The invert of
the building sewer line at the service connection fitting shall be at an
elevation above the invert of the public sewer at least equal to two-thirds (2/
3) of the diameter of the public sewer. All foreign materials shall be removed
from the sewer pipe, and there shall be a permanent connection which is air-
tight and watertight between the public sewer line and the building sewer line;
and
      2.   The building sewer service connection fitting to reinforced sewer
pipe lines shall be made as specified under subsection (I)1 herein, except that
in cutting a hole in reinforced pipe for installation of the service connection
tee, extreme care shall be exercised to avoid damage to the pipe. The hole for
the tee shall be carefully chipped first to expose the reinforcing steel and
the steel cut by torch or saw. No chisel cutting of the reinforcing steel of
any character will be permitted.
In lieu of a standard service connection fitting, a riser service connection
may be made to sewer lines that are deep below ground surface. The branch or
riser shall be connected the same as a tee, except that it shall be set
vertically over the public sewer pipe, and extended vertically upward such that
the top of the riser is not to be less than five feet (5') below the surface of
the ground.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Director
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Director; and
   (L)   The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall be made
by a plumber holding a valid Elko County plumbing permit and a validated Elko
County plumbing license.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 3, Chapter 1 of this Code.
9-2-13: INDUSTRIAL USERS:
All industrial users of the sewerage system 307 and 308 of the Act. There shall
be two (2) classes of industrial users: (1) Major contributing industry; and
(2) minor contributing industry. They are defined as follows:
   (A)   A MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY is one that:
      1.   Will contribute greater than ten percent (10%) of the designated
hydraulic flow of the treatment works.
      2.   Will contribute greater than ten percent (10%) of the designated
pollutant loading of the treatment works.
      3.   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under Section 307(a) of the Act; or
      4.   Has significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on the sewerage system or the quality of its effluent.
   (B)   A MINOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY shall be all industries not included in
the major contributing industry classification as defined herein.
All major contributing industries' wastes shall be monitored by Elko County or
industry on a regular basis at intervals not less than monthly, and more
frequently as the characteristics of the specific industrial discharge may
dictate. Minor contributing industries shall be monitored by Elko County or
Industry as the characteristics of the specific industrial discharge may
dictate as determined by Elko County.
All major contributing industries shall submit to the Director on the first day
of the months of June and December, a statement in writing regarding specific
actions taken to achieve full compliance with the requirements of Section 307
of the Act.
Each contributing industry shall report any substantial (exceeding ten percent
[10%], plus or minus) change in flow or characteristic of wastewater being
discharged into the sewerage system. The report shall include quantity and
quality of effluent and duration and frequency of discharge.
9-2-14: INJURIES TO SEWERAGE SYSTEM UNLAWFUL:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewerage works.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any garbage, rubbish, dead
animals, or any substance having a tendency to obstruct the flow of the sewer
in any manhole, clean out or sewer opening.
9-2-15: CHARGES AND RATES FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL OUTSIDE TOWN LIMITS:
Persons owning property outside the corporate limits of the Town but adjacent
to and abutting upon a sanitary sewer main owned by the Town may, upon receipt
of a permit from the Director, discharge sewage into said sanitary sewers.
Such a permit shall be issued only upon the written application of the property
owner and subject to the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   The applicant for any such permit shall attach to the application a
plumbing construction permit duly issued to applicant or his contractor by the
Elko County Department of Buildings and Inspections for the construction of a
side sewer.
   (B)   The applicant shall agree to pay a monthly sewer service charge for
sewer service and connection fees in an amount charged to residents of the
unincorporated Town of Jackpot as set forth and established pursuant to Section
9-2-16.
   (C)   Future service connections to property abutting the sanitary sewer
main on which a sewer connection charge has not been paid, but which adjoins a
specific parcel of property previously charged, shall be subject to the charges
as hereinafter set forth.
   (D)   Any and all monies received from sewer construction charges pursuant
to the provisions of this Section shall be placed in the Jackpot Enterprise
Fund for the use and benefit of the sewer utility.
   (E)   All ordinances, rules, regulations and procedures relating to the use,
maintenance and connection to sanitary sewers in the Town as the same are now
or may hereafter be adopted by the Town shall apply with equal force to such
sewer connection, and any violation of any such ordinance, rule, regulation or
procedure by any property owner connected to a city sewer pursuant to the
provisions hereof may result in the disconnecting of said sewer by the Town,
which event the owner of the property shall forfeit all rights to any moneys
paid pursuant to the provisions of this Section.
   (F)   The owner of any property connecting to the sanitary sewer system of
the Town, pursuant to the provisions hereof, shall permit an inspection of his
premises at any and all reasonable times by the Director for the purpose of
ascertaining whether or not said connection has been properly made and whether
or not the use of said sanitary sewer is in accordance with the ordinances,
rules and regulations of the Town pertaining thereto.
   (G)   In the event of a change in ownership, or if property is rented, the
new owner or renter shall likewise be invoiced for payments per subsection (C)
above. The refusal to make said payments may result in the disconnecting of
sewer by the Town.
9-2-16: CHARGES AND RATES FOR SEWAGE: 1
   (A)   As permitted by Nevada law, charges shall be made for the discharge of
and the availability for the discharge of all sewage into the Jackpot Municipal
sewer system, which charges shall be as follows:
      1.   Each residence or establishment requiring sewer service during any
billing period shall pay a flat rate per month as established by the Jackpot
Town Board in accordance with the following schedule:
   Unincorporated Town of Jackpot
For the purpose of determining sewer service charges and connection charges for
various types of establishments:
Residential        Units
Residential                               Units
 Multiple Family Dwellings        1.00 per dwelling unit
 Single Family Dwellings
 3 or more rooms                  1.00 per dwelling
 2 or less rooms                  .35  per dwelling
 Apartment housing                1.00 per dwelling
 Rooming houses:
 per rentable room w/o             
  private bath                     .30
 per rentable room w/              
  private bath                     0.50
 per manager's or owner's          
  quarters                         1.00
 Restricted rooming houses        2.50 per house
 Trailers located in courts       1.00 per dwelling unit
 Trailers located on private lots 1.00 per trailer
 Hotels and motor lodges          0.50 per dwelling unit
 Motel and auto courts            0.50 per dwelling unit
 Overnight trailer parks          0.50 per hookup
 (Ord. 1972-2, 1-6-72, eff. 3-1-72; amd. Ord. 1979-2, 6-9-79, eff. 7-1-79)
  
Commercial
 Restaurants                      4    seats per unit
 Taverns                          6    seats per unit
 Theaters                         30   seats per unit
 Retail or wholesale stores       1.00 per store
 Gaming houses                    500  sq. ft. per unit
 Service station                  3.75 per restroom
 Automatic car wash               2.50 per stall
 Drive-in eating establishment    2.50 per restroom
 Laundries (commercial and
  self-service)
 per machine w/12 lb.              
  capacity or less                 .65
 per machine w/13-25               
  lb. capacity                     1.00
 per machine w/26-50               
  lb capacity                      1.65
                                   1.00 per 250 sq. ft. pool
 Swimming pools                   1.00 per 1000 sq. ft. deck
                                        area
 (Ord. 1983-C, 4-7-83, eff. 5-1-83)
  
 Institutional                                Units
 Schools                          16   students ADA per unit
 Churches                         1000 sq. ft. per unit
 Lodges, halls, etc.              1000 sq. ft. per unit
 Hospitals                        6    beds per unit
  
Industrial
 Special--based on character of waste and quantity of flow.
 
 *Fixture unit--lavatory and toilet or equivalent combination.
 
"Availability" means those premises directly abutting upon such sewer
facilities, and which can be directly connected for the discharge of sewer
therein. (Ord. 1972-1, 1-6-72, eff. 3-1-72; amd. Ord. 1979-2, 6-9-79, eff. 7-1-
79)
   (B)   The rate or charge for premises connected to the sanitary sewer shall
be computed at fourteen dollars ($14.00) per unit. The above rate shall be
reviewed every year and shall be adjusted periodically as necessary for
adequate financial support of the sewerage facilities.
   (C)   All new applicants for connections to the sanitary sewer system which
are classified as residential pursuant to Section
9-2-16(A)1, shall be required to place a deposit of fourteen dollars ($14.00)
per unit of assessment multiplied by two (2) months of service. Said deposits
shall be retained by the town for a period of one year or until service is
discontinued, whichever shall occur first. In the event service is
discontinued, prior to the expiration of one year from the time of the deposit,
the deposit shall be applied to the final billing of the applicant. In the
event service continues beyond one year from the date of the deposit, the
deposit shall be returned to the applicant by the town. (Ord. 1994-U, 10-5-94,
eff. 11-1-94)
   (D)   Effective on and after May 22, 1985, there shall be charged an initial
fee for connection to the system in the amount of five hundred fifty dollars
($550.00) for each "unit" as set forth in subsection (A) herein connected to
the system. (Ord. 1985-E, 5-2-85, eff. 5-22-85)
   (E)   Connection Charges; Alteration of Use. The connection charges herein
established are applicable to the use imposed to be made of the sewer service
at the time the service is to be rendered. In the event of alteration of the
service requirements requiring greater use of sewage facilities, additional
charges shall be paid for added units or charges in use as herein defined at
the connection charge rate in effect at the time such alterations or additions
are made. (Ord. 1981-C, 4-9-81, eff. 5-1-81)
Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary within this Chapter, where, in
the opinion of the County, special conditions exist relating to service to any
customer or customers, the County may revise any of the charges or rates
provided herein by motion or resolution, or it may require a special agreement
between the County and the customer. (Ord. 1983-C, 4-7-83, eff. 5-1-83)
   (F)   In all cases other than those entitled to the flat rate charge
hereinabove set forth, the sewer use charge shall be computed and paid as
follows:
Where Water Service is Metered: A determination of the amount of sewage
discharged into the sanitary sewer system shall be made. Ordinarily, except
where a significant proportion is not discharged into the sanitary sewer
system, the amount shall be considered equal to the water used as measured by
the water supply meter.
Whenever a customer uses water for irrigation or for cooling, processing or
other purposes which produce an uncontaminated effluent, satisfactory for
direct discharge into storm sewers or surface waterways, he may separate this
water from the sewage and discharge it into a storm sewer or waterway as
approved by the Director. He may submit, either the sewage flow or the
uncontaminated water flow, whichever is the more practicable, so that he may
receive credit for the uncontaminated flow and be charged only for the sewage
discharged into the sanitary system. It shall be incumbent upon the customer to
provide the facilities, including the submeter, to accomplish separation. Such
facilities and the manner of operation thereof shall be satisfactory to and as
approved by the Director in writing.
For all other services discharging the equivalent of sanitary sewage, that is
having strength not greater than three hundred (300) parts per million of
either suspended solids or Biochemical Oxygen Demand, the monthly charge shall
be an amount equal to seventy five percent (75%) of the water bill charged for
the identical period of time.
   (G)   For services discharging sewage of greater strength than three hundred
(300) parts per million of either suspended solids or Biochemical Oxygen
Demand, the monthly charge shall be as defined in the paragraph immediately
preceding plus five dollars ($5.00) per ton ($.0025 per pound) of suspended
solids or B.O.D., whichever is the greater over and above three hundred (300)
parts per million. The strength of sewage shall be determined by samples tested
and computed by the Town at such times and as often as it determines to be
necessary to provide a representative sample of the sewage discharge from
industrial or commercial establishments. The pounds per one hundred (100) cubic
feet shall be computed on such excess as above mentioned and a rate determined
at $.0025 per pound which will be charged additionally on such excess for each
unit of one hundred (100) cubic feet of sewerage for which the customer is
billed.
Where a customer demonstrates that metering of process or uncontaminated water
is impracticable, but nevertheless separates sewage so that it only is
discharged into the sanitary system, the Director may estimate the credit
against the water used to determine the amount of sewage contributed to the
sanitary system.
   (H)   During a construction period or until such time as all facilities,
trunks, both sanitary and storm, are available to provide separation when a
customer makes demonstration that he is separating process or; uncontaminated
water from sewage but has no facility in which to discharge the uncontaminated
water other than the sanitary sewer, the Director may meter or estimate the
amount of sanitary sewer and bill the customer upon the basis.
   (I)   The charge for sewer service furnished applies to each building on a
domestic or combination domestic and commercial service. When in the judgment
of the Director an industrial plant is located upon one tract of land with a
single sanitary sewer connection, the sewer service charge may be computed as
though the water were served through one connection.
   (J)   When an industrial or commercial establishment is served water through
a larger line for the purpose of standby fire protection or other contaminated
water not to be discharged into the sanitary sewer, the water charge shall be
established for computation of the sewer service charge as though the service
were provided through a line only large enough to provide the sewage service
required.
   (K)   There shall be no reduction in rates for any premises when a sewer
service connection has been made or when it is available. (Ord. 1972-1, 1-6-72,
eff. 3-1-72; amd. Ord. 1979-2, 6-9-79, eff. 7-1-79; relettered Ord. 1980-K, 6-
5-80, eff. 7-1-80; Ord. 1981-C, 4-9-81, eff. 5-1-81)
 
Notes
1 1. See Sec. 10-9-1 for additional landfill charges.
9-2-17: MINIMUM CHARGES:
Every premise to which service is furnished by the sewer system of the
unincorporated Town of Jackpot, and every premise to which such sewer system
service is available, as that term is defined in Section
9-2-16 hereof, shall be charged for such service in accordance with the rates
and charges herein placed in effect; provided, however, that in no event shall
any such charge be less than one dollar ($1.00) per calendar month.
9-2-18: CERTAIN INSTALLATIONS UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful to so install, change, bypass, adjust or alter any
metering device or any piping arrangement connected therewith as to show the
quantity of water used on the premises to be less than the actual quantity.
(Ord. 1972-1, 1-6-72, eff. 3-1-72; amd. Ord. 1979-2, 6-9-79, eff. 7-1-79)
9-2-19: GREASE TRAPS; COMMERCIAL KITCHENS:
Effective September 15, 1981, all commercial kitchens shall be equipped with
grease traps.
   (A)   Commercial kitchen means any kitchen where the food prepared or cooked
is to be sold or provided to the public on a regular basis.
   (B)   Grease trap means an interceptor device designed and installed so as
to separate and retain deleterious, hazardous, or undesirable matter, including
but not limited to grease, from normal wastes and permits normal sewage of
liquid wastes to discharge into the disposal terminal by gravity.
   (C)   All grease traps installed shall be subject to approval by the County
Manager or County Engineer. (Ord. 1981-B, 4-9-81, eff. 5-1-81)
9-2-20: BILLS AND COLLECTIONS:
   (A)   All bills for sewage charges as set forth herein shall be rendered
monthly or as determined by the Director and shall become due and payable on or
before the tenth day after the statement has been mailed and shall become
delinquent thereafter. Service charges shall be payable in advance and shall
begin to accrue the day on which service became available. To each monthly
payment which has become delinquent, a basic penalty of fifteen percent (15%)
of each month's charge for the first delinquent month shall be added. In
addition to the basis penalty, a penalty of one and five- tenths percent (1.5%)
per month for nonpayment of sewage charges shall be added. (Ord. 1981-C, 4-9-
81, eff. 5-1-81)
   (B)   Any sewage charge which becomes delinquent shall immediately become a
lien against the premises and if unpaid for ninety (90) days from the date on
which it becomes due shall be certified by the Director to the Treasurer and
Assessor of Elko County and in each such case such delinquent charges together
with interest and penalties shall immediately upon such certification become a
lien on the delinquent premises on a parity with and collectible at the same
time and in the same manner as general County taxes. As an additional and
concurrent method of enforcing the lien herein provided, the Town may order the
utilities serving water to the delinquent premises to cut off the water service
from the premises until such rates and charges are paid.
9-2-21: CONTRACTS WITH MUNICIPAL CORPORATIONS:
Whenever, in view of the sewage and drainage requirements of the Town, the
existing sewer system is adequate therefor, the Town may contract with any
organized and established sewer district or with any other municipal
corporation for the discharge into the Jackpot Municipal Sewer System of sewage
or drainage from any part or parts of such sewer district or municipal
corporation, or for discharge into the sewer system of any sewer district or
other municipal corporation of sewage or drainage from any part or parts of the
Town, upon such terms and conditions and for such periods of time as may be
deemed reasonable.
9-2-22: SEWER FUND CREATED:
There shall be and is hereby created a special fund to be known as the Jackpot
Municipal Enterprise Fund. Any and all revenues received for the use of sewers
as set forth herein, from revenues received from the sale of by-products from
the sewerage treatment plant or from any other source of rental, use or
services rendered by such utility, shall be credited to said fund, and all
expenses for the operation, maintenance, and repair of the Jackpot Municipal
sewer system shall be charged to said fund.
9-2-23: MANDATORY CONNECTIONS:
It shall be mandatory for the owner of all houses, buildings or other
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, commercial
industrial or other like purposes situated within the Town and abutting on any
street, alley or right of way in which there is located a public sanitary
sewer, to connect to such sewer within ninety (90) days following enactment of
this Chapter for use whenever such public sewer line is within three hundred
feet (300') of any building discharging sanitary or industrial waste.
9-2-24: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND CREATED:
There is hereby created a special fund to be known as the "Jackpot Sewer
Capital Improvement Fund". Revenues derived from connection charges are to be
deposited in a Sewer Capital Improvement Fund. Moneys from this Fund are to be
applied in making such sewer extensions and improvements as may from time to
time be determined by the Town Board.
9-2-25: INDUSTRIAL USER CHARGES:
All industrial user charges shall be established by separate agreement between
each separate contributing industry and Elko County. All charges so established
shall be in proportion to the benefits derived by the user from the sewerage
system and shall be in accordance with pertinent federal regulations as are
defined herein as the Act. The charges so established shall generate sufficient
revenue to pay the industrial user portion of the bonded indebtedness,
operating and maintenance of the sewerage system, reserve fund as required to
pay for further capital improvements to the sewerage treatment plant and
industrial cost recovery payments as outlined in Section
9-2-25, all as required by the Act. The charges shall be based on the amount of
flow (Q), the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), the suspended solids (SS) and
any other pertinent components of the wastes that the industrial user is
contributing to the sewerage system.
All contributing industrial user charges shall be reviewed annually and revised
as necessary to insure that each contributing industrial user pays its
allocable share. If the discharge of a contributing industrial user changes
significantly, greater than ten percent (10%) plus or minus, (by strength,
volume, delivery flow rate or other pertinent component characteristics) such
industrial user's charge shall be adjusted accordingly to assure that the user
continues to pay its allocable share.
9-2-26: INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY:
All contributing industrial users of the sewerage system shall make industrial
cost recovery payments for that portion of the cost of construction of the
sewerage system which is allocable to the treatment of their industrial wastes
in accordance with Section 204(b)(1)(B) of the Act.
Pertinent components of the said Section are that:
   (A)   Industrial cost recovery payments shall be in proportion to the amount
of flow (Q), biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), suspended solids (SS) and any
other characteristics of wastes, which contribute to the cost of construction,
the industrial user is contributing to the sewerage system.
   (B)   Contributing industrial users discharging pretreated process wastes
into the sewerage system shall pay industrial cost recovery based on the
characteristics of the waste effluent from the pretreatment facilities.
   (C)   Elko County may permit contributing industrial users to reserve extra
or additional capacity in the sewerage system for future use by the industry.
Such capacity shall be reserved through formal, written agreement, and shall be
subject to pertinent industrial cost recovery regulations. The industrial user
shall be required to pay the full industrial cost recovery allocable to the
capacity reserved. In the event that the Town of Jackpot has unused capacity in
its sewerage system available for use, and the said industrial user is
permitted by Elko County to exceed its agreed upon reserved capacity, the
industry shall be required to pay industrial cost recovery calculated on the
full reserved capacity plus the additional industrial cost recovery for the use
above the limits of the original agreed upon reserve capacity or any element
thereof.
   (D)   All contributing industrial users shall be required to pay any
additional industrial cost recovery charges associated with the cost of future
upgrading the treatment works as may be required of Elko County to comply with
waste discharge requirements.
   (E)   Industrial cost recovery for expansion of the treatment works shall be
required from those industries which have exceeded their reserved capacity and
have been a contributing factor to the need for expansion. Industrial cost
recovery payments will be required for that portion of the expanded capacity
which is allocable to the industrial users discharge.
   (F)   Payments for industrial cost recovery shall begin within a month of
the date of initiation of service by the industry of the treatment facility as
was constructed with grant assistance funds, and shall continue for a base
period of thirty (30) years. Contributing industrial users shall pay their
share of industrial cost recovery, at no interest, in two hundred forty (240)
equal monthly payments except that any increase as a result of using extra
capacity beyond the original agreed upon amount will be in addition thereto.
   (G)   A contributing industry which connects to the treatment works at some
time after such treatment works have been put into initial service shall begin
industrial cost recovery payments on the date use is initiated, and shall
continue for the unexpired portion of the initial base period of twenty (20)
years for industrial cost recovery, or until the new industry ceases the use of
the facility, whichever occurs first. The total industrial cost recovery
payment from a "new" contributing industry shall be the federal cost of the
capacity used multiplied by the ratio of its period of use to the industrial
cost recovery base period of twenty (20) years.
   (H)   The amount of payment required from an industry for industrial cost
recovery is to be determined by the following procedure:
      1.   The costs of the treatment facility shall be allocated in proportion
to the benefit of the proposed facility to each wastewater characteristic as
follows:
Q   = 50% of Grant Amount
BOD   = 30% of Grant Amount
SS   = 20% of Grant Amount
The cost of any future expansion, upgrading or reconstruction of the waste
treatment facility shall be allocated in proportion to the benefit of the said
improvement to any wastewater characteristic so benefited at that time.
      2.   The total cost per unit of each characteristic shall be calculated
as follows:
 
Q Unit Cost   =   (Grant Amount) (Percent of Grant Amount Allocated to Q)
              (Total Design Flow of Facility in Gallons per Day)
BOD Unit Cost =   (Grant Amount) (Percent of Grant Amount Allocated to BOD)
              (Total Design SS Capability of Facility in Pounds per Day)
SS Unit Cost  =   (Grant Amount) (Percent of Grant Amount Allocated to SS)
              (Total Design SS Capability of Facility in Pounds per Day)
 
      3.   The cost to an industry for industrial cost recovery (ICR) is
calculated as follows:
Total ICR Cost = (Industry's Final Reserved amount of Q) (Q Unit Cost)
+ (Industry's Final Reserved Amount of BOD (BOD Unit Cost)
+ (Industry's Final Reserved Amount of SS) (SS Unit Cost)
 
Annual ICR Cost  =   Total ICR Cost
                    20
Monthly ICR Cost =   Total ICR Cost
                    240
 
For small contributing industrial concerns where it is impractical to develop a
monitoring program to measure wasteload discharges, industrial cost recovery
payments may be made on the basis of estimated flows alone, provided that the
industry does not discharge an excessive strength waste that may disrupt the
treatment process as determined by the City. The industrial cost recovery
payments will be calculated on a similar basis as described herein, except that
one hundred percent (100%) of the grant amount will be allocated to flow.
   (I)   All industrial cost recovery payments collected from industry and paid
to the Sewer Fund shall be used in accordance with the EPA grant agreement as
follows: Fifty percent (50%) shall be returned to the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA); forty percent (40%) together with all interest earned thereon
shall be used solely for the cost of any future expansion, upgrading or
reconstruction on the sewerage system eligible for EPA assistance; and ten
percent (10%) shall be used as the City sees fit in the maintenance, operation
and/or construction of sewerage facilities to serve any or all areas of the
City; and
   (J)   Actions for non-payment will be in accordance with Section 7-549 and
Section 7-550 as are hereinafter provided.
9-2-27: SUBDIVISIONS AND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS: 1
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, subdividers, developers or property
owners who install sewer mains to their properties, are exempt from the
connection fees when these mains are acceptably installed solely at their own
expense.
   (B)   However, when a sewer main extension is necessary or desired to
provide service to a subdivision, development or property, the Director shall
have prepared a detailed estimate of the cost of this extension segment and
shall determine the area that may be served by said extension:
      1.   This estimate and determination shall be submitted to the Advisory
Council and the Town Board.
      2.   The Board will review the estimate and recommendations of the
Advisory Council and within the complete discretion of the Board approve a cost
per unit of area to be served by such extensions and all property owners within
said area or whose development will use said extension will be required to pay
this cost on a prorated basis prior to Board approval.
      3.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as requiring the Board
to approve or the Town to share, initially or otherwise, in the cost of
extensions to any subdivision, development or property.
   (C)   All sewer main extensions constructed as per this Section upon
completion and acceptance, shall become the property of the Jackpot Municipal
Sewer System.
   (D)   Within the discretion of the Board, mains within or to the
subdivisions, other developments or property and necessary trunk sewers may be
sized to allow future connections as determined by the Director. Cost of
materials over that required by the subdivision, development or property will
be borne by the Town.
 
Notes
1 1. See Section 5-7-4(E) of this Code.
9-2-28: APPEALS:
The Town Board shall review any decision made by the Director or his
representative or agents in interpreting, applying or enforcing the provisions
of this Chapter and any order, requirement, decision or determination relating
thereto, upon the receipt of an application or petition in writing requesting a
review of such decision. In exercising its powers of review, the Board may in
conformity with the provisions of the law, reverse or affirm wholly or partly,
or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination of the director
appealed from and make such order, requirement or determination as ought to be
made. The Board may also initiate a review of Director's interpretation of the
provisions of this Chapter by a motion and by a vote of a majority of the
quorum or a majority of the members present if such number exceeds a quorum. In
all cases, the decision of the Board shall be final.
9-2-29: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person wilfully violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine
in any sum not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in
the County jail for a period of not to exceed ninety (90) days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. Each day's violation of the provisions of this Chapter
may be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 1972-1, 1-6-72, eff. 3-1-72; amd. Ord.
1979-2, 6-9-79, eff. 7-1-79; relettered Ord. 1981-B, 4-9-81, eff. 5-1-81)
CHAPTER 3
JARBIDGE MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-3-1: Title, Severability
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Description Of Service
9-3-4: Application For Service Or Reserved Service
9-3-5: Special Contracts
9-3-6: Special Information
9-3-7: Credit Establishment
9-3-8: Deposits
9-3-9: Notices
9-3-10: Installation Connections And Meter Connections
9-3-11: Connection Charges
9-3-12: Multiple Units
9-3-13: Bills And Payment
9-3-14: Disputed Bills
9-3-15: Discontinuance Of Service
9-3-16: Monthly Water Rates And Charges
9-3-17: Temporary Service
9-3-18: Pools And Tanks
9-3-19: Fire Hydrants
9-3-20: Responsibility For Equipment
9-3-21: Damage To District's Property
9-3-22: Control Valves
9-3-23: Cross-Connections
9-3-24: Ground-Wire Attachments
9-3-25: Water Waste
9-3-26: Access To Premises
9-3-27: Interruptions In Service
9-3-28: Extension Of Service
9-3-29: Appeals
9-3-30: Violations; Penalties
9-3-1: TITLE, SEVERABILITY:
   (A)   This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the JARBIDGE WATER
RATES AND REGULATIONS.
   (B)   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this Chapter
is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Chapter. (Ord. 2000-
C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: An individual, corporation, partnership, sole trader, or agency
applying for water service.
COMMERCIAL SERVICE: Provision of water to premises where the customer is
engaged in trade, business or commerce.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical connection between the piping system from the
Jarbidge Water District Service and that of any other water supply.
CUSTOMER: An individual or agency of record receiving or scheduled to receive
water service.
DATE OF PRESENTATION: The date upon which a bill or notice is mailed or
delivered personally to the customer.
DISTRICT: The Jarbidge Water District.
DOMESTIC SERVICE: Provision of water for household residential purposes,
including water for sprinkling lawns, gardens and shrubbery; watering
livestock; washing vehicles and other similar and customary purposes.
FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE: Provision of water to premises for fire protection.
MAINS: Distribution pipelines located in streets, highways, public ways or
private rights of way which are used to serve the general public.
PREMISES: The property or area, including improvements, to which water service
is or will be provided.
RATE AND FEE SCHEDULES: The rates, fees, rentals, charges and regulations, as
set forth by resolution of the Jarbidge Town Board.
RESERVED SERVICE: The provision of guaranteed availability of water service in
the future. Charges for reserved service shall be the same as for domestic
service.
SERVICE AREA: The area within the Jarbidge Town limits.
SERVICE CONNECTION: The pipe, valves and other facilities through which the
utility conducts water from its distribution mains to the meter, or to the curb
stop.
TEMPORARY SERVICE: Service for construction work, irrigation of vacant property
and similar uses, that because of their nature will not be used steadily or
permanently. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-3: DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Supply: The District will exercise reasonable diligence and care to
deliver a continuous supply of water to the customer.
If in the opinion of the District it is doubtful that satisfactory water
service can be given due to location or elevation of the premises, the District
may require a written release from liability and for any damage or
inconvenience that may occur by reason of insufficient pressure, inadequate
volume of water or intermittent supply.
If the customer desires a reduced service pressure below the District static
pressure, he shall install a pressure reducing valve and blowoff at his own
expense.
   (B)   Quality: The District will endeavor to supply safe and potable water
at all times. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-4: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE OR RESERVED SERVICE:
   (A)   Application: Each applicant for water service or reserved service will
be required to sign a form provided by the District setting forth:
      1.   The date and place of application;
      2.   The location of premises to be served;
      3.   The date on which the applicant will be ready for service;
      4.   The size of service;
      5.   The address to which bills are to be mailed or delivered;
      6.   Whether the applicant is an owner or tenant of the premises;
      7.   An agreement to abide by all regulations of the District;
      8.   Whether other water sources exist on the premises;
      9.   Such other information called for in the application.
The application is a written request for service and does not bind the
applicant to take service for any period of time longer than the one upon which
the rates and minimum charges of the rate schedule are based; neither does the
application bind the District to give service, except under reasonable
conditions. Where extension of District mains is required to provide service,
the applicant will be required to provide and pay for such extension.
   (B)   Individual Liability For Joint Service: Two (2) or more parties who
join to make application for service shall be jointly and individually liable
and shall be sent a single periodic bill.
   (C)   Changes In Customer's Equipment: Customers making a material change in
the size, character or extent of the equipment utilizing water service, or
whose change in the size or scope of the customer's operation results in a
material increase in the use of water, the customer shall immediately give the
District written notice of the nature of the change. In the event of
disagreement as to the facts, a hearing shall be had before the Town Board.
(Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-5: SPECIAL CONTRACTS:
   (A)   Special Contracts: Contracts, other than applications, may be required
prior to service, under the following conditions:
      1.   When construction of special extension facilities is necessary.
      2.   For temporary service.
      3.   For fire service.
      4.   For connections with other qualified utilities.
      5.   For meters or service connections larger than two inches (2"). (Ord.
2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-6: SPECIAL INFORMATION:
   (A)   Contracts: Each contract for water service shall at all times be
subject to such charges or modifications by the Town Board as it may, from time
to time in its discretion, direct by resolution.
   (B)   Customer's Bills: In the event a bill is not paid within thirty (30)
days after presentation, service may be discontinued or made unavailable. A
cash deposit and a reconnection fee will be required to reestablish service in
an amount as from time to time may be set by resolution of the Town Board of
Directors.
   (C)   Deposit Receipts: All deposits will be applied to unpaid balances if
service has been discontinued by the District by reason of unpaid bills. A new
deposit must be made in such amount as shall from time to time be set by the
Town Board before service may be resumed. Any remaining surplus shall be
refunded to the person making the deposit. Deposits shall not bear interest.
Each receipt for a cash deposit to establish or reestablish credit for service
will contain the following statements:
This deposit will be applied to unpaid balances if service has been
discontinued by the District because of nonpayment of a bill, and the full
amount of the deposit shall be reestablished before service will be resumed.
This deposit, less the amount of any unpaid water bills, will be refunded
without interest upon the discontinuance of service.
   (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-7: CREDIT ESTABLISHMENT:
   (A)   Establishment Of Credit: Each applicant, before receiving service,
will be required to establish his credit by either of the following methods:
      1.   A cash deposit in such amount as may from time to time be set by
resolution of the Town Board.
      2.   Use of service for more than a year, during the last twelve (12)
months of which the customer promptly paid all water bills.
   (B)   Reestablishment Of Credit: To reestablish his credit, a customer will
be required to pay all back bills up to the time service was discontinued. The
customer will also be required to pay a reconnection charge and make a cash
deposit as described in the regulation on deposits. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000,
eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-8: DEPOSITS:
Federal, State, or County service shall not require a deposit. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-
20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-9: NOTICES:
Notices from the District to a customer will normally be given in writing and
either delivered or mailed to him at his last known address. Where conditions
warrant and in emergencies, the District may notify the customer by telephone
or messenger. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-10: INSTALLATION CONNECTIONS AND METER CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   Installation Connections: The service will be installed by the
District from its water distribution main to the curb line or property line of
the premises which may abut on the street, or on a District right of way or
easement. Charges for new service are payable in advance and shall be fixed by
resolution of the Town Board.
      1.   Applicable charges for a new service connection may be waived by the
District if the applicant furnishes and installs the service at his own
expense. The installation connection will require the use of pipe, valves and
other facilities that comply with the quality of materials acceptable to the
District. The service shall be installed as decided by the District for
location and materials installation and shall be inspected by an authorized
District representative.
   (B)   Mandatory Connections: It shall be mandatory for the owner of all
houses, buildings or other properties used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation, commercial, industrial or other like purposes situated within the
District and abutting on any street, alley or right of way in which there is
located a public water main to connect to such main within ninety (90) days
following enactment of this Chapter, provided however, that a public water main
is within three hundred feet (300') of the property utilizing water. For new
construction, such connection shall be made before a certificate of occupancy
will be issued.
   (C)   Meters: The Town Board may promulgate rules and regulations relating
to the installation and administration of water meters.
   (D)   Change In Location Of Services: Services moved for the convenience of
the customer will be relocated at the customer's expense. Services moved to
protect the District's property will be moved at District's expense.
   (E)   Changes In Size Of Services: Permanent changes in the size or capacity
of existing services will be made at the expense of the customer.
   (F)   Ownership: The service connection, whether located on public or
private property, is the property of the District, and the District reserves
the right to repair, replace or maintain the service connection as well as to
remove it upon discontinuance of service.
   (G)   Maintenance: The service connection will be repaired and maintained by
the District at its expense except as provided in Section
9-3-21 of this Chapter. However, the District is not responsible for the
maintenance of water lines beyond the end of its service. Installation of water
lines beyond the service connection may be provided by the District. (Ord.
2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-11: CONNECTION CHARGES:
   (A)   Connection Charges: In order to equalize investment in facilities made
by present water users in the District, special water connection charges shall
be collected in accordance with the provisions of this Section. Special
connection charges must be paid to the District prior to the connection of the
facilities of the customer to the water system unless the Board shall, by
special agreement with the customer, provide other charges than those
hereinafter stated or other terms and conditions of payment than those
hereinafter stated. For the purpose of determining water connection charges the
schedule of units adopted by resolution shall be used. The rate to be applied
per unit is established as five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (B)   Connection Charges; Rights Of Service In Existing Facilities: A
connection charge for the right of service in existing water supply, storage,
transmission, and distribution facilities shall be payable to the District for
all water connections within the boundary of the Town as now existing except
existing buildings or where house services have been installed. The charge
shall be calculated according to subsection (A) of this Section.
   (C)   Connection Charges; Outside Town: A special and additional connection
charge shall be paid in all areas outside the District boundary in lieu of the
charge established in subsection (A) of this Section. The charge shall be one
and one-half (11/2) times the normal unit rate as set forth in subsection (A)
of this Section.
   (D)   Prepayment Of Connection Charges; Subdivisions: Prepayment of
connection charges required under this Section, together with any other charges
which may be established by the District, shall be made to the District before
the improvement plans for any subdivision are approved by the County and before
any permit to install water mains to provide service to the subdivision is
issued, and before entering into any agreement relating to the installation of
the subdivision water system.
   (E)   Connection Charges; Alteration Of Use: The connection charges herein
established are applicable to the use proposed to be made of the water service
at the time the service is to be rendered. In the event of alteration of the
service requirements requiring greater use of water facilities, additional
charges shall be paid for added family units or charges in use as herein
defined at the connection charge rate in effect at the time such alterations or
additions are made.
   (F)   Special Connection Charges: Where, in the opinion of the Town Board,
special conditions exist relating to service to any customer, the Board may
revise, either upward or downward, any of the connection charges provided by
resolution or it may provide for the charges to be paid by special agreement
between the District and the applicant for water service. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-
2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-12: MULTIPLE UNITS:
   (A)   Number Of Services To Separate Premises: Separate premises shall be
supplied through individual service connections.
   (B)   Service To Multiple Units: Separate houses, buildings, living or
business quarters on the same premises under a single control or management may
be served at the option of the applicant by either of the following methods:
      1.   Through separate service connections to each or any unit provided
that the pipeline system from each service is independent and is not
interconnected.
      2.   Through a single service connection to the entire premises, on which
only one minimum charge will be applied.
      3.   The responsibility for payment of charges for all water furnished to
combined units, supplied through a single service connection, must be assumed
by the applicant.
   (C)   Resale Of Water: Except by special agreement in writing first had and
obtained, no customer shall resell any of the water received from the District,
nor shall water be delivered to premises other than those specified in the
application for services. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-13: BILLS AND PAYMENT:
   (A)   Rendering Of Bills:
      1.   For the purpose of determining billing dates, the billing schedule
adopted by resolution of the Town Board shall be used.
   (B)   Payment Of Bills:
      1.   Bills for service are due and payable on presentation. Payment may
be made at the District's office or to an authorized collector.
      2.   Thirty (30) days will be allowed after bills are mailed before
service is discontinued for nonpayment.
      3.   When a bill is delinquent, the District may demand that the full
amount of both the delinquent and the current bill be paid in full.
      4.   All receipts shall be deposited to the credit of the Jarbidge Water
Fund. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-14: DISPUTED BILLS:
Should the customer dispute the correctness of a bill for District water
service, the customer shall deposit the amount of the disputed bill with the
District Director within fifteen (15) days after the receipt of the bill. The
District Director shall then forthwith make a factual investigation and shall
submit the findings to the person making the deposit and to the Town Board. The
Town Board shall then hear the matter and the determination of the Board shall
be final and binding. Service will not be discontinued pending the outcome of
the Director's investigation provided that subsequent bills are paid or
deposited with the District. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-15: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Nonpayment Of Bills:
      1.   A customer's water service may be discontinued or service made
unavailable if a bill is not paid within thirty (30) days after presentation.
      2.   A customer's water service may be discontinued or service made
unavailable if water service furnished at a previous location for which the
customer was responsible is not paid within thirty (30) days after presentation
of a bill.
   (B)   Unsafe Apparatus:
      1.   The District may refuse to furnish water and may discontinue service
to any premises where apparatus, appliance or equipment is dangerous, unsafe or
not in conformity with laws, regulations or ordinances. All customer-installed
booster pump installations shall be approved by the District. Where necessary
to protect the District system or service, a suction tank may be required.
      2.   The District does not assume liability for inspecting apparatus on
the customer's property. The District does reserve the right of inspection,
however, if there is reason to believe that unsafe apparatus is in use.
   (C)   Service Detrimental To Others:
      1.   The District may refuse to furnish water and may discontinue service
where the demand is greatly in excess of past average or seasonal use, and
where such excessive demands by one customer are or may be detrimental or
injurious to the service furnished to other customers.
      2.   The District may refuse to furnish water and may discontinue service
to any premises where excessive demands by one customer may result in
inadequate service to others.
   (D)   Fraud And Abuse:
      1.   The District shall have the right to refuse or discontinue water
service to any premises to protect itself against fraud or abuse.
      2.   For the failure of the customer to comply with the provisions of
this Chapter and any ordinance, resolution or order fixing rates and charges
for which a penalty has not been specified, the customer's service shall be
discontinued and water shall not be supplied to such customer until the
customer has complied with the rule or regulation rate or charge which has been
violated, or in the event that the customer cannot comply with the rule or
regulation, the customer shall satisfy the District that in the future all
rules, regulations, rates and charges shall be complied with. In addition, he
shall pay the District a sum to be fixed by the District for renewal of
services. All determinations made by the Town Board shall be final and binding.
   (E)   Noncompliance: The District may, unless otherwise provided,
discontinue water service to a customer for noncompliance with the provisions
of this Chapter if the customer fails to comply within five (5) days after
receiving written notice of the District's intention to discontinue service. If
such noncompliance affects matters of health and safety and conditions warrant,
the District may discontinue water service immediately.
   (F)   Customer's Request For Service Discontinuance: Upon application to
have water shut off, the District will shut off the water and a closing bill
rendered. The monthly service charge shall be made to the person who has
applied for water to be furnished, whether water is used or not, unless and
until the District is requested in writing to discontinue service.
   (G)   Restoration; Reconnection Charge:
      1.   The District shall charge such sum or sums as it from time to time
may set by resolution of the Town Board for restoring water service which has
been discontinued.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person other than authorized District
personnel to turn on water after the same shall have been turned off as herein
provided. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-16: MONTHLY WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   (A)   Monthly Minimum Service Charge: The service charge for all services
within the District shall be fixed by resolution of the Town Board.
   (B)   Service Outside The Boundaries Of The District: The Town Board shall
set charges by resolution for service outside the District.
   (C)   Charges For Service: The charges for services and water used within
the District shall be fixed by resolution of the Town Board. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-
20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-17: TEMPORARY SERVICE:
   (A)   Time Limit: Temporary service connections shall be discontinued and
terminated within six (6) months after installation unless an extension is
granted in writing by the District.
   (B)   Charge For Water Served: Charges for water furnished through a
temporary service connection shall be at the established rates set by the Town
Board.
   (C)   Installation Charge And Deposits: The applicant for temporary service
may be required to obtain a portable meter from the District and to deposit
with the District an amount equal to the value of any equipment loaned by the
utility to the applicant.
   (D)   Responsibility For Meters And Installation: The customer shall use all
possible care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other loaned equipment
of the utility which are involved in furnishing the temporary service from the
time they are installed until they are removed, or until forty eight (48)
hours' notice in writing has been given to the District that the contractor or
other person is through with the meter or meters and the installation. If the
meter or other facilities are damaged, the cost of making repairs shall be paid
by the customer.
   (E)   Temporary Service On A Fire Hydrant: If temporary service is supplied
through a fire hydrant, a permit for the use of the hydrant shall be obtained
from the fire district authority and the District. It is specifically
prohibited to operate the valve of any fire hydrant other than by the use of a
spanner wrench designed for this purpose. The hydrant valve shall not be used
for throttling or regulating the flow rate. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-
2000)
9-3-18: POOLS AND TANKS:
When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired for any purpose,
arrangements must be made with the District prior to taking such water.
Permission to take water in unusual quantities may be denied at the discretion
of the Board. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-19: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   (A)   Use Of And Damage To Fire Hydrants: No person or persons, other than
those designated and authorized by the fire district authority, or by the
District, shall open any fire hydrant, attempt to draw water from it or in any
manner damage or tamper with it. Any violation of this regulation will be
prosecuted according to law. Any person causing damage to a fire hydrant shall
be responsible for its repair or replacement.
   (B)   Moving Of Fire Hydrants: When a fire hydrant has been installed in the
location specified by the proper authority, the District has fulfilled its
obligation. If a property owner or other party desires a change in the size,
type or location of the hydrant, he shall bear all costs of such changes,
without refund or contribution. Any change in the location of a fire hydrant
must be approved by the proper authority. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-
2000)
9-3-20: RESPONSIBILITY FOR EQUIPMENT:
The customer shall, at his own risk and expense, furnish, install and keep in
good and safe condition all equipment that may be required for receiving,
controlling, applying and utilizing water, and the District shall not be
responsible for any loss or damage caused by the improper installation of such
water equipment, or the negligence, want of proper care, or wrongful act of the
customer or of any of the customer tenants, agents, employees, contractors,
licensees or permittee in installing, maintaining, using, operating or
interfering with such equipment. The District shall not be responsible for
damage to property caused by spigots, faucets, valves and other equipment that
are open when water is turned on, either when the water is turned on originally
or when turned on after a temporary shutdown. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-
11-2000)
9-3-21: DAMAGE TO DISTRICT'S PROPERTY:
The customer shall be liable for any damage to equipment or property owned by
the District which is caused by an act of the customer or his tenants, agents,
employees, contractors, licensees or permittee, including any damage that may
result from surges or from hot water or steam from a boiler or heater on the
customer's premises. The District shall be reimbursed by the customer for any
such damage promptly on presentation of a bill. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff.
5-11-2000)
9-3-22: CONTROL VALVES:
The customer shall install a suitable valve, as close to the service location
as practicable, the operation of which will control the entire water supply
from the service. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-23: CROSS-CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   Health Regulations: Regulations of the Nevada State Department of
Public Health and the drinking water standards of the United States Public
Health Service prohibit unprotected cross-connections between the public water
supply and any unapproved source of water.
   (B)   District Requirements: To comply with the regulations of health
agencies the District will require the installation of approved double check
valves or other approved backflow protection devices by and at the expense of
the customer before service will be granted under any of the following
conditions:
      1.   An unapproved freshwater supply is already available from a well,
spring, reservoir, or other source. If the customer agrees to abandon this
other supply and agrees to remove all pumps and piping necessary for the
utilization of the supply, the installation of backflow protective devices will
not be required.
      2.   Where saltwater or water otherwise polluted is available for
industrial or fire protection purposes.
      3.   Where the premises is or may be engaged in industrial processes
using or producing process waters or liquid industrial wastes, or where the
premises is or may be engaged in handling sewage or any other dangerous
substance.
      4.   Where the circumstances are such that there is special danger of
backflow of sewage or other contaminated liquids through plumbing fixtures or
water using or treating equipment, or storage tanks and reservoirs.
   (C)   Relief Valve Required: As a protection to the customer's plumbing
system a suitable pressure relief valve must be installed and maintained by
him, at his expense, when check valves or other protective devices are used.
The relief valve shall be installed between the check valves and the water
heater.
   (D)   Backflow Protection On Additional Water Supply Lines: Whenever
backflow protection has been found necessary on a water supply line entering a
customer's premises, then any and all water supply lines from the District's
mains entering such premises, buildings or structures shall be protected by an
approved backflow device, regardless of the use of the additional water supply
lines.
   (E)   Inspection Of Backflow Protective Devices: The double check valve or
other approved backflow protection devices may be inspected and tested
periodically for water tightness by the District. The devices shall be
serviced, overhauled or replaced whenever they are found defective and all
costs of repair and maintenance shall be borne by the customer.
   (F)   Discontinuance Of Service For Defective Apparatus: The service of
water to any premises may be immediately discontinued by the District if any
defect is found in the check valve installations or other protective device, or
if it is found that dangerous unprotected cross-connections exist. Service will
not be restored until such defects are corrected.
   (G)   Pressure Regulators: Where reduced or increased pressure is desired,
the customer shall be responsible for installing and maintaining the necessary
regulators, pumps and relief valves. In such cases, the equipment shall be
installed on the customer's side of the service connection and at his own risk
and expense in such a manner as not to endanger the water system. (Ord. 2000-C,
4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-24: GROUND-WIRE ATTACHMENTS:
Ground wires may not be attached to plumbing which is or may be connected to a
service connection or main belonging to the District. The customer is liable
for any damage to District property occasioned by ground-wire attachments.
(Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-25: WATER WASTE:
   (A)   Where water is wastefully or negligently used on a customer's
premises, the District may discontinue service if the condition is not
corrected within five (5) days after giving the customer written notice
thereof.
   (B)   The customer has control of the amount of water drawn from the
District's mains through the service connection and is responsible for
maintenance and repairs of pipes and fixtures beyond that point. No allowance
will be made for loss of water due to faulty fixtures or broken or damaged
water pipes; provided, however, that if a loss or leakage has occurred without
negligence upon the part of the consumer, an allowance may be made by the
District to the extent of such loss at the discretion of the Town Board. (Ord.
2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-26: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
   (A)   The District or its duly authorized agents shall at all reasonable
times have the right to enter or leave the customer's premises for any purpose
properly connected with the service of water to the customer.
   (B)   Any inspection or recommendations made by the District or its agents
on plumbing or appliances or use of water on the customer's premises, either as
the result of a complaint or otherwise, will be made or offered without charge.
(Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-27: INTERRUPTIONS IN SERVICE:
The District shall not be liable for damage resulting from an interruption in
service. The District may temporarily shut down and interrupt service for
improvements and repairs. Whenever possible and as time permits, all customers
affected will be notified prior to a shutdown.
The District is not liable for interruption, shortage or insufficiency of water
supply, or for any loss or damage occasioned thereby, if caused by accident,
act of God, fire, strikes, riots, war or any other cause not within its
control. The District, whenever it shall find it necessary or convenient for
the purpose of making repairs or improvements to its system, may temporarily
suspend delivery of water and it shall not be liable for any loss or damage
occasioned thereby. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-28: EXTENSION OF SERVICE:
The purpose of this Section is for water main extensions and storage increases.
   (A)   All applicants for service must file an application and make the
following payments:
      1.   Service hookup as set by District resolution.
      2.   Storage facility charge.
   (B)   Service hookup charges are payable in advance and shall be fixed from
time to time by resolution of the Town Board.
   (C)   A storage facility charge:
      1.   May be determined by the Town Board from time to time and set forth
by resolution. It shall be based on the number and size of actual and/or
potential service connections and shall be payable upon application for service
(or upon construction and prior to acceptance of in-tract water system in the
case of developers). The rate shall be computed so as, in the sole discretion
of the Town Board, to equalize the cost of providing storage facilities with
necessary appurtenances throughout the District.
      2.   The storage facility charge payable by developers shall be
determined by applying the rate for a three-fourths inch (3/4") service
connection to each lot in a tract. If a tract lot owner subsequently applies
for a service connection larger than three-fourths inch (3/4"), the difference
between the storage facility charge for a three-fourths inch (3/4") service
connection shall be payable upon application for service.
   (D)   All developers or property owners (applicants for service) are
required to have main extensions established at their own expense. No person
may run a private line through or by intervening applicants within the area
whose developments will use said extension. Applicants for service must pay
their share of the expense of extension on a prorated basis before they connect
with the system and such monies will be returned to the party or their heirs
that originally bore the cost of the line. This is to be accomplished by an
extension agreement between the Town Board and the applicant. For mains
extended as per the foregoing, the District will pay for sizing, in excess of
the subdivider, developers or property owners' needs, and for hydrants, valves,
stubouts, etc., which are necessary appurtenances to the entire system, but not
of immediate necessity to the applicant. It is the policy of the District to
require applicants for service to construct main extensions under District
supervision and specifications.
   (E)   All in-tract facilities, including easements and tank sites, must be
dedicated to the District prior to acceptance of a development for service. The
cost of such in-tract facilities shall be borne by the developer, and must meet
District standards and specifications. The term "in-tract" means the following
facilities installed within the boundaries of a subdivided tract: all
distribution mains, including connections to existing mains, even if outside
the tract, necessary service stubs, or service pipelines, fire hydrants,
fittings, valves and housing thereof, exclusive of individual service
connections and meters.
   (F)   Schools, whether private or public, and nonprofit or charitable
institutions shall be considered as commercial applicants for the purpose of
this Section. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-29: APPEALS:
The Jarbidge Town Board shall review any decision made by the District
representatives or agents in interpreting, applying or enforcing the provisions
of this Chapter, and any order, requirement, decision or determination relating
thereto, upon the receipt of an application or petition in writing requesting a
review of such decision. In exercising its powers of review, the Board may
reverse or affirm wholly or partly or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from and make such order, requirement or
determination as ought to be made. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
9-3-30: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person wilfully violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine
in any sum not exceeding three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in
the County jail for a period of not to exceed ninety (90) days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. Each day's violation of the provisions of this Chapter
is deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 2000-C, 4-20-2000, eff. 5-11-2000)
CHAPTER 4
WEST WENDOVER SEWER REGULATIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 1994-BA, 11-3-1994, eff. 11-21-1994)
CHAPTER 5
LAMOILLE SEWER DISTRICT
(Rep. by Ord. 1980-B, 1-10-1980, eff. 2-1-1980)
CHAPTER 6
MONTELLO WATER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-6-1: General Provisions
9-6-2: Nonapplicability of Ordinance
9-6-3: Definitions
9-6-4: Notices
9-6-5: Water Department
9-6-6: Application for Regular Water Service
9-6-7: Application for Regular Water Service When Main Extension Required
9-6-8: Subdivisions
9-6-9: General Use Regulations
9-6-10: Meters
9-6-11: Credit
9-6-12: Billing
9-6-13: Discontinuance of Service
9-6-14: Collection of Suit
9-8-15: Public Fire Protection
9-6-16: Private Fire Protection Service
9-6-17: Temporary Service
9-6-18: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-6-19: Rates
9-6-20: Connection Charges
9-6-21: Existing System
9-6-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Short Title: This Ordinance shall be known and may be cited as "Elko
County Water Ordinance for the Unincorporated Town of Montello, Nevada".
   (B)   Words and Phrases: For the purpose of this Ordinance, all words used
herein in the present tense shall include the future; all words in the plural
number shall include the singular number; and all words in the singular number
shall include the plural number.
   (C)   Water System: The County will furnish a system, plant, works and
undertaking used for and useful in obtaining and conserving water for public
and private uses, including all parts of the water system, all appurtenances to
it, and lands, easements, rights in land, water rights, contract rights,
franchises, and other water supply, storage and distribution facilities and
equipment.
   (D)   Separability: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase
of this Ordinance is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Ordinance.
   (E)   Pressure Conditions: All applicants for service connections or water
service shall be required to accept such conditions of pressure and service as
are provided by the distribution system at the location of the proposed service
connection, and to hold the County harmless for any damages arising out of low
pressure or high pressure conditions or interruptions in service.
   (F)   Maintenance of Water Pressure and Shutting Down for Emergency Repairs:
The County shall not accept any responsibility for the maintenance of pressure
and it reserves the right to discontinue service while making emergency repairs
and shutdowns required in the operation of the Water System. Consumers
dependent upon a continuous supply should provide emergency storage.
   (G)   Tampering With County Property: No one except an employee or
representative of the Board shall at any time in any manner operate the curb
cocks or valves (except to repair or change private plumbing), main cocks or
valves (except to repair or change private plumbing), main cocks, gates or
valves of the County's system; or interfere with meters or their connections,
street mains or other parts of the Water System.
   (H)   Penalty for Violation: For the failure of the customer to comply with
all or any part of this Ordinance, and any ordinance, resolution or order
fixing rates and charges of this County, a penalty for which has not hereafter
been specifically fixed, the customer's service shall be discontinued and the
water shall not be supplied such customer until he shall have complied with the
rule or regulation, rate or charge which he has violated or, in the event that
he cannot comply with said rule or regulation, until he shall have satisfied
the County that in the future he will comply with all the rules and regulations
established by ordinance of the County and with all rates and charges of this
County.
   (I)   Ruling Final: All rulings of the Board shall be final. All rulings of
the Water Superintendent shall be final unless appealed in writing to the Board
within five (5) days. When appealed, the Board's ruling shall be final.
9-6-2: NONAPPLICABILITY OF ORDINANCE:
The Board of Elko County Commissioners recognizes that the Southern Pacific
Transportation Company, a Delaware corporation conveyed and transferred the
water rights and water system serving the Town of Montello by Indenture dated
April 11, 1977. Said Indenture was made subject and subordinate to the prior
and continuing right of the Southern Pacific Transportation Company and its
successors and assigns to use the water rights and water system. This Ordinance
shall have no force and effect on the Southern Pacific Transportation Company
and its successors and assigns so far as any provisions of this Ordinance are
in conflict with any of the rights, privileges, licenses, easements,
conditions, covenants and other matters reserved by the Southern Pacific
Transportation Company in that certain Indenture dated April 11, 1977, and
recorded in the Elko County Recorder's Office, Official Records, Volume 247,
page 209.
9-6-3: DEFINITIONS:
BOARD: The Board of Elko County Commissioners, or the Town Advisory Board to
the exclusion of the Board of Elko County Commissioners, provided such Advisory
Board is duly authorized by the Board of County Commissioners to manage the
water system.
CONNECTION: The pipeline and appurtenant facilities such as the curb stop,
meter and meter box, all used to extend water service from a main to premises,
the laying thereof and the tapping of the main. Where services are divided at
the curb or property line to serve several customers, each such branch of
service shall be deemed a separate service.
COST: The cost of labor, material, transportation, supervision, engineering,
and all other necessary overhead expenses.
CROSS-CONNECTION: Any physical connection between the piping system from the
County service and that of any other water supply that is not, or cannot be,
approved as safe and potable for human consumption, whereby water from the
unapproved source may be forced or drawn into the County distribution mains.
COUNTY: Elko County, Nevada.
TOWN: The unincorporated Town of Montello, Nevada.
MAIN: A water line in a street, highway, alley or easement used for public and
private fire protection and for general distribution of water.
PERSON: An individual or a company, association, copartnership or public or
private corporation.
PREMISES: A lot or parcel of real property under one ownership, except where
there are well-defined boundaries or partitions such as fences, hedges or other
restrictions preventing the common use of the property by the several tenants,
in which case each portion shall be deemed separate premises.
PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE: Water service and facilities for building
sprinkler systems, hydrants, hose reels and other facilities installed on
private property for fire protection and the water available therefor.
PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE: The service and facilities of the entire water
supply, storage and distribution system of the County, including the fire
hydrants affixed thereto, and the water available for fire protection,
excepting house service connections and appurtenances thereto.
OWNER: The person owning the fee, or the person in whose name the legal title
to the property appears, by deed duly recorded in the County Recorder's Office,
or the person in possession of the property or buildings under claim of, or
exercising acts of ownership over same for himself, or as executor,
administrator, guardian or trustee of the owner.
RATES and FEE SCHEDULES: The effective rates, fees, rentals, charges and
regulations as set forth by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
REGULAR WATER SERVICE: Water service and facilities rendered for normal
domestic, commercial and industrial purposes on a permanent basis, and the
water available therefor.
TEMPORARY WATER SERVICE: Water service and facilities rendered for construction
work and other uses of limited duration, and the water available therefor.
TOWN ADVISORY BOARD: The Town Board as allowed by N.R.S. 269.
WATER DEPARTMENT: Personnel appointed by the County to perform functions
related to water service in the Town.
DOMESTIC USE: The use of water for household residential purposes, including
water for sprinkling lawns, gardens, and shrubbery, washing vehicles, watering
animals, and other similar and customary purposes.
COMMERCIAL USE: The use of water in premises where customer is engaged in a
trade or profession or any situation in which the water is used directly or
indirectly to obtain monetary benefits.
9-6-4: NOTICES:
   (A)   Notices to Customers: Notices from the County to a customer will
normally be given in writing, and either delivered or mailed to him at his last
known address. Where conditions warrant and in emergencies, the County may
resort to notification either by telephone or messenger.
   (B)   Notices From Customers: Notice from the customer to the County may be
given by him or his authorized representative in writing (1) at the County's
operating office or (2) to the Water Superintendent.
9-6-5: WATER DEPARTMENT:
   (A)   Creation: A Water Department is hereby created comprised of the Board
and a Water Superintendent.
   (B)   Water Superintendent: The position of Water Superintendent is hereby
created. He shall regularly inspect all physical facilities related to the
County's water system, to see that they are in good repair and proper working
order, and to note violations of any water regulations. He shall be under the
control and supervision of the Board.
      1.   Id.--Violation, Repairs: He shall promptly report any violation or
disrepair to the County. If the work required is in the nature of an emergency,
he shall take whatever steps are necessary to maintain service to consumers
pending action by the County.
      2.   Id--Supervision. He shall supervise all repair or construction work
authorized by the Board and perform any other duties prescribed elsewhere in
this Ordinance or which shall be hereafter prescribed by the Board.
      3.   Performance of Duties: The foregoing duties of Water Superintendent
may be performed by an additional employee or employees.
9-6-6: APPLICATION FOR REGULAR WATER SERVICE:
   (A)   Mandatory Connection: It shall be mandatory for the owner of all
houses, buildings, or other properties used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation, commercial, industrial, or other like purposes situated within the
unincorporated Town of Montello, to use the Montello water system to the
exclusion of all others.
   (B)   Application for Service: A property owner or his agent may make
application for regular water service on the following application form or by
letter giving the same information:
Montello Water Service
Court House, Room 106
Elko, Nevada 89801
Phone (702) 738-5398
APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE
Name                                         Location of Premises
                                                                                     to be served                                
Mailing                                                                              Date Service
Address                                        Required                                     
                                                                                    Size of Meter
                                                                                     (optional)                                    
By signing this application, applicant agrees to observe any County regulations now or hereafter adopted related to the water service and to pay water bills promptly.
                                                                                    Applicant                                     
                                                                                                                                     
Received           , 19                                                 Deposit $                                    
                                                                                                                                     
                                                                                     Secretary-Auditor
 
   (C)   Undertaking of Applicant: Such application will signify the customer's
willingness and intention to comply with this and other ordinances or
regulations relating to the regular water service and to make payment for water
service required.
   (D)   Payment for Previous Service: An application will not be honored
unless payment in full has been made for water service previously rendered to
the applicant by the County. (Ord. 1978-L, 7-6-78, eff. 7-27-78)
   (E)   Installation Charge: The charge for a service connection shall be paid
in advance by the applicant based on an estimated cost by the Water Department
and subject to an adjustment billing or rebate, whichever applicable, on the
final total cost. The installation charge for a service connection of three-
quarters inch (3/4"), one inch (1"), one and one-half inch (11/2"), two inch
(2"), four inch (4") or six inch (6") shall be on the basis of the actual cost
for materials and labor for the size of service installed. The installation
charge shall be the same for both domestic and non-domestic users. The cost of
larger size service connections to properties outside the boundaries of the
Unincorporated Town of Montello shall not be made without prior approval of
such connection by the Board. The granting of permission by such outside
connection shall be optional with the Board. Only duly authorized employees or
agents of the County will be authorized to install service connections. (Ord.
1980-M, 7-17-80, eff. 8-7-80)
   (F)   Special Contracts:
      1.   At the option of the Board, contracts, other than applications, may
be required prior to service under the following condition:
         (a)   When construction of special extension facilities is necessary;
or
         (b)   For temporary services; or
         (c)   For service outside the unincorporated Town.
      2.   Each special contract for water service shall at all times be along
such terms and conditions as the Board shall at its discretion direct. The
Board may refuse to enter into such a contract when it would be detrimental to
the availability of water for use of the Town.
   (G)   Installation of Services: Regular water services will be installed at
the location desired by the applicant of the size determined by the water
Department. Service installation will be made only to property abutting on
distribution mains as have been constructed in public streets, alleys or
easements, or to extensions thereof as herein provided. Services installed in
new subdivisions prior to the construction of streets or in advance of street
improvements must be accepted by the applicant in the installed location.
   (H)   Changes in Customer's Equipment: Customers making any material change
in the size, character or extent of the equipment or operations utilizing water
service, or whose change shall immediately give the County written notice of
the nature of the change, and, if necessary, amend their application.
   (I)   Size and Location: The County reserves the right to determine the size
of service connections and their location with respect to the boundaries of the
premises to be served. The laying of the consumer's pipeline to the curb should
not be done until the location of the service connection has been approved by
the Superintendent.
   (J)   Curb Stop: Every service connection installed by the County shall be
equipped with a curb stop on the inlet side of the meter (in addition to any
stops required in the meter yoke). Such curb stop is intended for the exclusive
use of the County in controlling the water supply through the service
connection pipe. If the curb stop is damaged by the consumer's use to an extent
requiring replacement, then such replacement shall be at the consumer's
expense.
   (K)   Domestic, Commercial and Industrial Service Connection: It shall be
unlawful to maintain a connection except in conformity with the following
rules:
      1.   Separate Building: Each house or building under separate ownership
must be provided with a separate service connection. Two (2) or more houses
under one ownership and on the same lot or parcel of land may be supplied
through the same service connection; provided that for each house under a
separate roof which shall face a street an additional minimum will be applied
to the single meter serving said houses, or a separate service connection may
be provided for each building. The Board reserves the right to limit the number
of houses or the area of land under one ownership to be supplied by one service
connection.
      2.   Single Connection: Not more than one service connection for domestic
or commercial supply shall be installed for one building, except under special
conditions.
      3.   Different Owners: A service connection shall not be used to supply
adjoining property of a different owner or to supply property of the same owner
across a street or alley.
      4.   Divided Property: When property provided with a service connection
is divided, each service connection shall be considered as belonging to the lot
or parcel of land which it directly enters.
   (L)   Service Connections: The service connections extending from the water
main to the property line shall be maintained by the County. All pipes and
fixtures extending or lying beyond the property line shall be installed and
maintained by the owner of the property.
9-6-7: APPLICATION FOR REGULAR WATER SERVICE WHEN MAIN EXTENSION REQUIRED:
   (A)   Application for Main Extension: The following rules are established
for making main extensions:
      1.   Application: Any owner of one or more lots or parcels of land
desiring the extension of one or more water mains, to service such property,
shall make a written application therefor to the County, said application to
contain the legal description of the property to be served and any additional
information which may be required by the County, end be accompanied by a map
showing the location of the proposed connections. All main extensions shall be
installed to e point opposite to distance property line of the applicant
servicing his total front footage.
      2.   Investigation: Upon receipt of the application, the Water
Superintendent shall make an investigation and survey of the proposed extension
and shall report his findings to the Board, including the estimated cost
thereof.
      3.   Ruling: The Board shall thereupon consider said application and
report, and after such consideration, reject or approve it.
      4.   County Lines: All extensions thus provided for, in accordance with
these regulations shall be and remain the property of the County.
      5.   Dead-End Lines: No dead-end lines shall be permitted except at the
discretion of the Water Superintendent, and in cases where circulation lines
are necessary they shall be designed and installed by the County as a part of
the cost of the extension.
   (B)   General: The County will provide all main extensions upon application
for service, subject to any conditions to the contrary herein.
   (C)   Determination: If, in the opinion of the Board, the cost thereof is in
excess of what it is prepared to advance, or it questions the economic
advantage to the County of making such advance, it shall determine the cost of
such line.
   (D)   Advance Cost: When the Board so determines, the applicant shall
advance the amount of such estimate, and the line shall be installed by the
County.
   (E)   Facilities Exceeding Needs. Should the Water Department desire to
install facilities greater than are needed to meet the applicant's service
demands, the cost of the excess size of facilities shall be borne by the
County, unless the Board shall determine that the increased size is necessary
to serve the applicant.
   (F)   Specifications and Construction: The size, type and quality of
materials and location of the lines shall be specified by the Water Department
and the actual construction will be done by the Water Department or by a
contractor acceptable to it, supervised and inspected by the Water
Superintendent.
   (G)   Adjustment: Adjustment of any substantial difference between the
estimated and reasonable actual total installed cost thereof shall be made
after the completion of the installation. The County shall be paid the amount
of any excess cost and shall refund the amount of any saving.
   (H)   Extensions by County: The Water Department may make extensions to the
facilities constructed under this Chapter without obligation to applicant.
   (I)   Main Extension by Applicant: Should the Board determine that the cost
of the main extension should be paid in whole or in part by the applicant, the
Board may, in lieu of requiring the applicant to deposit the cost of the main
extension with the County, enter into an agreement with the applicant whereby
the applicant undertakes to provide for the installation of the facilities
comprising the public main extension in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the Board and subject to inspection by the County.
In such event the Board may require the applicant to post a surety bond, cash
or other improvement security with the County to guarantee the satisfactory
completion of the main extension in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the Board.
   (J)   Reimbursements: Where the cost of main extension has been paid by the
property owner pursuant to subsection (I) hereof, the County shall thereafter,
but for not longer than ten (10) years after the date said extension is
originally connected to the County's water system, collect from any water user
connecting to such extension that fraction of the cost of such extension, as
approved by the County, as the number of front feet or acreage, or combination
of the two (2), held by said water user bears to the total number of front feet
or acreage, or combination of the two (2), which may be served by such
extension is connected to the County's water system. Such sums as are thus
actually received by the County shall be paid by the County only to the
property owner originally installing such extension, but the County shall in no
way be obligated to assure that the property owner making such extension is
paid the total cost thereof nor to initiate any action or incur any expense to
collect any sum to be paid to property owner; nor shall such refund be from any
revenues derived from the sale of water. Where different property owners
contribute to the making of the extension, such sums shall be refunded to such
property owners prorate according to the amounts which they severally
contributed toward the extension and pursuant to the preceding plan.
   (K)   Special Reimbursement Agreements: Where special conditions exist in
the opinion of the County which justify reimbursement to the person paying the
cost of a main extension which justify reimbursement on any basis other than
that provided in subsection (J) hereof, the Board may authorize a special
reimbursement contract by the County and the person or persons constructing the
main extension. Said special reimbursement agreement shall be made and entered
into prior to acceptance of the work and water main by the County.
9-6-8: SUBDIVISIONS:
   (A)   Application: A person desiring to provide a water system within a
tract of land which he proposes to subdivide shall make written application
therefor.
   (B)   Contents of Application: The application shall state the name of the
subdivision, and its location. It shall be accompanied by a copy of the
tentative map, and of the plans, profiles and specifications for the street
work therein.
   (C)   Subdivisions, Tracts or Housing Projects - Deposit: Subdividers will
be required to advance to the County one hundred twelve percent (112%) of the
estimated cost of the labor and material necessary to install the main lines,
valves, service connections and fire hydrants within the subdivision. Fire
hydrants shall be so located that each lot is within a reasonable distance of a
hydrant as determined by the Board.
   (D)   Specifications and Construction: The size, type and quality of
materials and location of the lines shall be specified by the Water Department
and the actual construction will be done by the Water Department or by a
contractor acceptable to it, supervised and inspected by the Water
Superintendent.
   (E)   Adjustment: Adjustments of any substantial difference between the
estimated and actual number of feet of line installed shall be made at or
before the completion of the installation, and any excess shall be refunded to
the subdivider and any shortage will be paid by him to the County.
   (F)   Property of County. All facilities shall be the property of the
County.
   (G)   Connections: The subdivider shall, at his cost, provide all
connections to houses constructed by him, as herein provided.
   (H)   Subdivision Main Extension by Application: In lieu of the provisions
of this Chapter relating to the deposit of construction cost of the main
extension with the County, the Board may, upon written request of the
applicant, authorize a subdivision main extension agreement between the
applicant and the County. The main extension agreement in such event shall
provide for the construction of the water facilities in accordance with plans
and specifications provided by the applicant and approved by the Board, and
subject to inspection by the County. The agreement costs and expenses of the
County relating to the installation of the subdivision water system including,
but not limited to, the County's costs of engineering, inspection, legal and
administrative expenses, and may provide for the deposit by applicant of cash
or surety bonds, or other improvement security satisfactory to the County, to
guarantee the faithful performance of the agreement for the water main
extension. Said cash deposits, surety bonds or other improvement security shall
be in the sum or sums of the estimated costs of the engineering, inspection,
legal and administrative expenses of the County, and the estimated cost of the
installation of the water main extension, and said bond or improvement security
shall, in addition to guaranteeing the faithful performance of the work,
guarantee the maintenance of the water system to be installed pursuant to the
agreement for a period of one year following completion and acceptance of the
work by the County.
9-6-9: GENERAL USE REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Number of Services Per Premises: The applicant may apply for as many
services as may be reasonably required for his premises provided that the
pipeline system for each service be independent of the others and that they are
not interconnected.
   (B)   Water Waste: No customer shall negligently or knowingly permit leaks
or waste of mater. Where water is wastefully used on a customer's premises, the
County may discontinue the service if such conditions are not corrected within
five (5) days after giving the customer written notice. Waste is defined as
nonbeneficial use.
   (C)   Responsibility for Equipment on Customer Premises: All facilities
installed by the County on private property for the purpose of rendering water
service shall remain the property of the County and may be maintained, repaired
or replaced by the Water Department without consent or interference of the
owner or occupant of the property. The property owner shall use reasonable care
in the protection of the facilities. No payment shall be made for placing or
maintaining said facilities on private property.
   (D)   Damage to Water System Facilities: The customer shall be liable for
any damage to the service facilities when such damage is from causes
originating on the premises by an act of the customer or his tenants, agents,
employees, contractors, licensees or permittees, including the breaking or
destruction of locks by the customer or others on or near a meter, and any
damage to e meter that may result from a boiler or heater on the customer's
premises. The County shall be reimbursed by the customer for any such damage
promptly on presentation of a bill.
   (E)   Ground-Wire Attachments: All individuals or business organizations are
forbidden to attach any ground-wire or wires to any plumbing which is or may be
connected to e service connection or main belonging to the County. The County
will hold the customer liable for any damage to its property occasioned by such
ground-wire attachments.
   (F)   Control Valve on the Customer Property: The customer shall provide a
valve on his side of the service installation, as close to the meter location
as practicable, to control the flow of water to the piping on his premises. The
customer shall not use the service curb stop to turn water on and off for his
convenience.
   (G)   Cross-Connections: The customer must comply with State and Federal
laws governing the separation of dual water systems or installations of back
flow protective devices to protect the public water supply from the danger of
cross-connections. Back flow protective devices must be installed as near the
service as possible and shall be open to test and inspection by the Water
Department. Plans for installation of back flow protective devices must be
approved by the Water Department prior to installation.
   (H)   Special Cases: In special circumstances, when the customer is engaged
in the handling of especially dangerous or corrosive liquids or industrial or
process waters, the County may require the customer to eliminate certain
plumbing or piping connections as an additional precaution and as a protection
to the back flow protective devices.
   (I)   Relief Valves: As a protection to the customer's plumbing system, at
locations determined by the Water Superintendent, a suitable pressure relief
valve must be installed and maintained by him, at his expense, when check
valves or other protective devices are used. The relief valve shall be
installed between the check valves and the water heater.
   (J)   Back Flow Device: Whenever back flow protection has been found
necessary on a water supply line entering a customer's premises, then any and
all water supply lines from the County's mains entering such premises,
buildings or structures shall be protected by an approved back flow device,
regardless of the use of the additional water supply lines.
   (K)   Inspection: The double check valve or other approved back flow
protection devices may be inspected and tested periodically for water tightness
by the County. The devices shall be serviced, overhauled, or replaced whenever
they are found defective and all costs of repair and maintenance shall be borne
by the customer.
   (L)   Discontinued Service: The service of water to any premises may be
immediately discontinued by the County if any protective devices, or if it is
found that dangerous unprotected cross- connections exist. Service will not be
restored until such defects are corrected.
   (M)   Interruptions in Service: The County shall not be liable for damage
which results from an interruption in service from a cause beyond the control
of the Water Department.
   (N)   Ingress and Egress: Representatives from the Water Department shall
have the right of ingress and egress to the customer's premises at reasonable
hours for any purpose reasonably connected with furnishing of water service.
9-6-10: METERS:
   (A)   Meters (Option at the Discretion of the Customer):
      1.   Meters will be installed inside the customer's property line and
shall be installed at the expense of the customer.
      2.   All meters will be inspected and sealed by the Board following
installation, and no seal shall be altered or broken except by one of its
authorized employees or agents.
      3.   Only duly authorized employees or agents of the Board will be
permitted to install a service connection from the District's main to a
customer's meter.
      4.   Meter shall be of seize prescribed by the Board.
   (B)   Change in Location of Meters or Services: Meters or services moved for
the convenience of the customer will be relocated at the customer's expense.
Meters or services moved to protect the Board's property will be moved at
Board's expense.
   (C)   Changes in Size of Meter or Services: Permanent changes in the size of
meters or existing services will be made at the expense of the customer.
   (O)   Ownership: The service connection, whether located on public or
private property, is the property of the Board, and the Board reserves the
right to repair, replace or maintain it, as well as to remove it upon
discontinuance of service.
   (E)   Maintenance and Damage: The Board reserves the right to set and
maintain a meter on any service connection. The water consumer shall be held
liable, however, for any damage to the meter due to his intentional, negligent
or careless acts.
9-6-11: CREDIT:
   (A)   Establishment and Maintenance: Each applicant for service shall
establish and maintain credit to the satisfaction of the County by a cash
guarantee deposit, as hereinafter provided, or otherwise, before service will
be rendered.
   (B)   Guarantee Deposit: The amount of deposit required will be equal to
twice the amount of the estimated billing for the regular billing period. No
interest will be paid on guarantee deposits.
   (C)   Loss and Reestablishment of Credit: Any amount due for water service
that remains unpaid for twenty (20) days after presentation of a bill therefor,
during the depositor's first year of service, may be deducted from the
guarantee deposit, and service shall be subject to discontinuance until the
deposit is again restored to the original amount. Any such unpaid amount
accruing subsequently to the depositor's first year of service, where the
premises are owned by the depositor, may also be deducted from any guarantee
deposit remaining in the County's possession.
   (D)   Return of Guarantee Deposit: A guarantee deposit with the Water
Department made by a consumer who owns the premises for which the deposit was
made, and whose account has not been in arrears at any time during the first
year of said deposit, is returnable after the expiration of said year. If the
service is discontinued in less than a year, the deposit will be returned
provided all outstanding bills against the consumer for water service have been
paid. Any deposit uncalled for within five (5) years from the date when made
will become the property of and be retained by the County.
   (E)   Deposit by Other Than Owner: Deposits made by applicants other than
the owner shall be refunded only on discontinuance of service.
9-6-12: BILLING:
   (A)   Billing Period: The regular billing period will be monthly or
bimonthly at the option of the County, however, the method adopted shall be
uniform to all users unless special circumstances dictate otherwise.
   (B)   Meter Reading: If meters have been installed, they will be read as
nearly as possible on the same day of each month. Billing period containing
less than twenty seven (27) days or more than thirty three (33) days for bills
rendered monthly, or less than fifty four (54) days and more than sixty six
(66) days for bills bimonthly, will be prorated.
   (C)   Opening and Closing Bills: Opening and closing bills for less than the
normal billing period shall be prorated both as to minimum charges and quantity
blocks. If the total period for which service is rendered is less than one
month, the bill shall not be less than the monthly minimum charge applicable.
Closing bills may be estimated by the County for the final period as an
expediency to permit the customer to pay the closing bill at the time service
is discontinued.
   (D)   Water Charges: Water charges are due and payable at the office of the
County on the date of mailing the bill to the property owner or his agent as
designated in the application, and delinquent fifteen (15) days after the Post
Office cancellation date. Service may be discontinued without further notice if
payment is not made by the delinquent date. (Ord. 1978-L, 7-6-78, eff. 7-27-78)
   (E)   Payment of Bills: Bills for metered water service shall be rendered at
the end of each billing period. Bills shall be payable on presentation. On each
bill for water service rendered by the County, there shall be printed
substantially the following: "If this bill is not paid within 15 days after the
Post Office cancellation date of this card, service may be discontinued. A
reconnection charge and penalties will be made and collected prior to renewing
service following a discontinuance". (Ord. 1993-K, 10-7-93, eff. 10-21-93)
   (F)   Billing of Separate Meters Not Combined: Separate bills will be
rendered for each meter installation except where the Water Department has, for
its own convenience, installed two (2) or more meters in place of one meter.
Where such installations are made the meter reading will be combined for
billing purposes.
   (G)   Consumer's Guarantee: The water charge begins when a service
connection is installed (and the meter set if a meter is used) unless the water
is ordered to be left shut off when the service connection is ordered to be
installed. Before water is turned on by the County for any purpose whatever,
the property owner must sign a form in which he guarantees payment of future
water bills for the service required. The person signing the guarantee form or
meter set form will be held liable for water used until the Board is notified
in writing to discontinue service or to transfer the account to another
property owner.
   (H)   Water Used Without Regulation Application Being Made: A person taking
possession of premises and using water from an active service connection
without having made application to the County for water service, shall be held
liable for the water delivered from the date of the last recorded meter
reading, and if the meter is found inoperative the quantity consumed will be
estimated. If proper application for water service is not made upon
notification to do so by the County, and if accumulated bills for service are
not paid immediately, the service may be discontinued by the County without
further notice.
   (I)   Damages Through Leaking Pipes and Fixtures: When turning on the water
supply as requested and the house or property is vacant, the owner or a
representative of the owner shall ascertain if water is running on the inside
of the building. If such is found to be the case, the water will be left shut
off at the curb cock on the inlet side of the meter. The Board's jurisdiction
and responsibility ends at the property line and the Board will in no case be
liable for damages occasioned by water running from open or faulty fixtures, or
from broken or damaged pipes inside the property line.
9-6-13: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Disconnection for Nonpayment: Service may be discontinued for
nonpayment of bills on or before the fifteenth day following the date of Post
Office cancellation on the notice of amount due. The service will not be
discontinued, however, until the amount of the deposit made to establish credit
for that service has been fully absorbed.
   (B)   Reconnection: Failure to receive bill does not relieve consumer of
liability. Any amount due shall be deemed a debt to the County, and any person,
firm or corporation failing, neglecting or refusing to pay said indebtedness
shall be liable to an action in the name of the County in any court of
competent jurisdiction for the amount thereof.
   (C)   Reconnection Charge: A reconnection charge of ten dollars ($10.00)
plus penalties will be made and collected prior to renewing service following a
discontinuance.
   (D)   Unsafe Apparatus: Water service may be refused or discontinued to any
premises where apparatus or appliances are in use which might endanger or
disturb the service to other customers.
   (E)   Cross-Connections: Water service may be refused or discontinued to any
premises where there exists a cross- connection in violation of State or
Federal laws.
   (F)   Fraud or Abuse: Service may be discontinued if necessary to protect
the County against fraud or abuse.
   (G)   Noncompliance with Regulations: Service may be discontinued for
noncompliance with this or any other ordinance or regulation relating to the
water service.
   (H)   Upon Vacating Premises: Customers desiring to discontinue service
should so notify the Water Department two (2) days prior to vacating the
premises. Unless discontinuance of service is ordered, the customer shall be
liable for charges whether or not the water is used.
9-6-14: COLLECTION BY SUIT:
   (A)   Penalty: Rates and charges which are not paid on or before the day of
delinquency shall be subject to a penalty of twenty five cents ($.25) every
sixty (60) days.
   (B)   Suit: All unpaid rates and charges and penalties herein provided may
be collected by suit.
   (C)   Costs: Defendant shall pay all costs of suit and attorney fees, if
any, in any judgment rendered in favor of County.
9-6-15: PUBLIC FIRE PROTECTION:
   (A)   Use of Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants, if any, are for use by the County
or by organized fire protection agencies pursuant to contract with the County.
Other parties desiring to use fire hydrants for any purpose must first obtain
written permission from the Water Department prior to use and shall operate the
hydrant in accordance with instructions issued by the Water Department.
Unauthorized use of hydrants will be prosecuted according to law.
   (B)   Moving of Fire Hydrants: When afire hydrant has been installed in the
location specified by the proper authority, the County has fulfilled its
obligation. If a property owner or other party desires a change in the size,
type or location of the hydrant, he shall bear all costs of such changes,
without refund. Any change in the location of a fire hydrant must be approved
by the proper authority.
9-6-16: PRIVATE FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE:
   (A)   Payment of Cost: The applicant for private fire protection service
shall pay the total actual cost of installation of the service from the
distribution main to the customer's premises including the cost of a detector
check meter or other suitable and equivalent device, valve and meter box, said
installation to become the property of the County. The County may agree to
install the connection end meter et cost plus ten percent (10%).
   (B)   No Connection to Other System: There shall be no connections between
this fire protection system and any other water distribution system on the
premises.
   (C)   Use: There shall be no water used through the fine protection service
except to extinguish fires and for testing the fire fighting equipment.
   (D)   Meter Rates: Any consumption recorded on the meter will be charged for
at double the regular service rates except that no charge will be made for
water used to extinguish fires where such fires have been reported to the duly
authorized fire protection agency.
   (E)   Monthly Rates: The monthly rates for private fire on shall be
established by the Board upon receipt of application.
   (F)   Water for Fire Storage Tanks: Occasionally water may be obtained from
a private fire service for filling a tank connected with the fire service, but
only if written permission is secured from the County in advance and an
approved means of measurement is available. The regular water rates will be
applied.
   (G)   Violation of Agreement: If water is used from n private fire service
in violation of the agreement or of these regulations, the County may, at its
option, discontinue and remove the services.
   (H)   Water Pressure and Supply: The County assumes no responsibility for
loss or damage due to lack of water or pressure, either high or how, and merely
agrees to furnish such quantities and pressures as ore available in its general
distribution system. The service is subject to shutdowns and variations
required by the operation of the system.
   (I)   Rules: The following rules shall apply to fire service connections:
      1.   Valve: When a fire service connection is installed, the valve
governing same will be closed and sealed and remain so until a written order is
received from the owner of the premises to have the water turned on.
      2.   Meter: If the County does not require a meter, and if water is used
through a fire service connection for any other purpose than extinguishing of
fines, it shall have the right to place a meter on the fire service connection
and at the owner's expense, or shut off the entire water supply from such
premises.
      3.   Additional Service: The County shall have the right to take a
domestic, commercial or industrial service connection from the fire service
connection at the curb to supply the same premises as those to which the fire
service connection belongs. The Board shall also have the right to determine
the proportion of the installation costs properly chargeable to each service
connection, if such segregation of costs shall become necessary.
      4.   Check Valve: The Board reserves the right to install on all fire
service connections a check valve of a type approved by the National Board of
Fire Underwriters, and to equip the same with a meter at the expense of the
owner of the property.
9-6-17: TEMPORARY SERVICE:
   (A)   Duration of Service: Temporary service connections shall be
disconnected and terminated within six (6) months after installation unless an
extension of time is granted in writing by the County.
   (B)   Deposit: The applicant shall in advance, the estimated cost of
installing and removing the facilities required to furnish said service
exclusive of the cost of salvageable material. Upon discontinuance of service,
the actual cost shall be determined and an adjustment made as an additional
charge, refund or credit. If service is supplied through a fire hydrant, the
applicant will be charged in accordance with the following rate schedule:
 
Flat charge per connection, for both installation and removal of service $15.00
facilities, including meter:
Each additional move of facilities to another location:                  5.00
 
   (C)   Installation and Operation: All facilities for temporary service to
the customer connection shall be made by the Water Department and shall be
operated in accordance with its instructions.
   (D)   Responsibility for Meters and Installations: The customer shall use
reasonable care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other loaned
facilities of the County which are involved in furnishing temporary service
from the time they are installed until they are removed, or until forty eight
(48) hours notice in writing has been given to the County that the contractor
or other person is through with the meter or meters and the installation. If
the meter or other facilities are damaged, the cost of making repairs shall be
paid by the customer.
   (E)   Supply from Fire Hydrant: An applicant for temporary use of water from
afire hydrant must secure a permit therefor from the County and pay the regular
fee charged for the installation and removal of a meter to be installed on said
hydrant; provide himself with a hydrant wrench necessary to operate such
hydrant, or pay the Board five dollars ($5.00) for the loan of such equipment,
and pay for the water used in accordance with the meter readings, at the rates
prescribed by the Board.
   (F)   Unauthorized Use of Hydrants: Tampering with any fire hydrant for the
unauthorized use of water therefrom, or for any other purpose, is a
misdemeanor, punishable by law.
   (G)   Rates: The rates for regular service shall be increased by fifty
percent (50%) for temporary service. The minimum charge for water shall be five
dollars ($5.00).
   (H)   Credit: The applicant shall pay the estimated cost of service in
advance or shall be otherwise required to establish credit.
9-6-18: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Pools and Tanks: When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired
for filling a swimming pool or for other purposes, arrangements must be made
with the County prior to taking such water. Permission to take water in unusual
quantities will be given only if it can be safely delivered through the
County's facilities and if other consumers are not inconvenienced thereby.
   (B)   Responsibility for Equipment: The customer shall, at his own risk and
expense, furnish, install and keep in good and safe condition all equipment,
that may be required for receiving, controlling, applying and utilizing water,
and the County shall not be responsible for any loss or damage caused by the
improper installation of such equipment, or the negligence or wrongful act of
the customer or of any of his tenants, agents, employees, contractors,
licensees or permittees in installing, maintaining operating or interfering
with such equipment. The County shall not be responsible for damage to property
caused by faucets, valves and other equipment that are open when water is
turned on at the meter, either originally or when turned on after a temporary
shutdown.
9-6-19: RATES:
   (A)   Rate Schedule: Rates for water service are to be established by
resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. The Board may from time to
time by resolution change, modify, or establish new rates for service or for
connections.
9-6-20: CONNECTION CHARGES:
   (A)   Connection Charges: In order to equalize investment in facilities made
by present water users in the County, special water connection charges shall be
collected in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. Such connection
charges must be paid to the County prior to the connection of the facilities of
the customer to the water system of the County in accordance with the terms and
conditions stated in this Chapter, unless the Board shall, by special agreement
with the customer, provide other charges than those hereinafter stated or other
terms and conditions of payment than those hereinafter stated. (Ord. 1978-L, 7-
6-78, eff. 7-27-78)
   (B)   Connection Charges: The Board of County Commissioners, by resolution,
shall establish a schedule of connection charges which may be changed by
resolution as circumstances dictate. (Ord. 1980-M, 7-17-80, eff. 8-7-80)
   (C)   Connection Charge - Rights of Service in Existing Facilities: A
connection charge for the right of service in existing water supply, storage,
transmission, and distribution facilities of the Town shall be payable to the
County for all water connections within boundary of the Town as now existing
except existing buildings or where house services have been installed. The
charge shall be calculated from the resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners establishing the schedule of charges.
   (D)   Prepayment of Connection Charges - Subdivisions: Prepayment of
connection charges required under this Chapter shall be made to the County
before the improvement plans for any subdivision are approved by the County and
before any permit to install water mains to provide service to the subdivision
is issued, and before any agreement relating to the installation of the
subdivision water system is entered into pursuant to Section
9-6-7 hereof.
   (E)   Connection Charges - Alteration of Use: The connection charges
established are applicable to the use proposed to be made of the water service
at the time the service is to be rendered. In the event of alteration of the
service requirements requiring greater use of water facilities, additional
charges shall be paid for added family units or changes in use as herein
defined at the connection charge rate in effect at the time such alteration or
additions are made.
   (F)   Special Connection Charges: Charges: Where, in the opinion of the
County, special conditions exist relating to service to any customer or
customers, the County may revise, either upward or downward, any of the
connection charges provided by resolution, or it may provide for the charges to
be paid by a special agreement between the County and the applicant for water
service.
9-6-21: EXISTING SYSTEM:
   (A)   Verification of Existing Connections: It is recognized that a water
system presently exists in the unincorporated Town of Montello, and in order to
effectuate the purpose of this Ordinance, all connections shall be examined by
a designate of the Board to verify compliance with the terms of this Ordinance.
   (B)   Compliance with Ordinance: Any consumer found not to be in compliance
with the terms of this Ordinance shall have ninety (90) days from the date of
notice of noncompliance to conform to the terms of this Ordinance.
   (C)   Cost of Compliance: Any costs incurred necessary to insure a
connection by a user, if in compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance,
shall be borne by the user whose connection is corrected. (Ord. 1978-L, 7-6-78,
eff. 7-27-78)
CHAPTER 7
MONTELLO SEWER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Definitions
9-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter unless otherwise noted, the following are to mean:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter in a specified time and at a specified
temperature, usually at five (5) days and twenty degrees (20°) Celsius.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Elko County, Nevada, acting as the
Town Board of the unincorporated Town of Montello, Nevada.
CAPITAL COSTS: Costs of major rehabilitation, expansion or upgrading required
as facilities reach the end of their useful life.
CAPITAL OUTLAYS: Expenditures which result in the acquisition of, or addition
to, fixed or capital assets.
CAPITALIZATION CHARGE: The charge to sewer system customers to produce revenues
to retire outstanding indebtedness and maintain reserve accounts for capital
improvements to the sewer system, and other such nonoperating, maintenance and
replacement items as the Board may specify.
CAPITALIZATION FUND: The reserve account to which capitalization charges
accrue; and from which capital costs are met. The Fund may be used to meet debt
service, depreciation and other expenses as the Board determines (except OM&R).
CONNECTION CHARGE: A fee charged in order to equalize the investment in sewer
plant equipment and related facilities. The charge is applied to all new users
of sewer facilities in approximate proportion to their anticipated usage and is
for the right of service in the system. All connection charges and fees
collected are deposited in the Capitalization Fund.
DEPARTMENT: The division of government empowered by the Board with
responsibility for and authority over the operations and policies for the
wastewater treatment facilities of the Town of Montello.
DIRECTOR: The Elko County Director of Engineering, or any of his duly
authorized representatives.
EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU): The annual one hundred twenty six thousand
(126,000) gallon allowance of domestic strength wastewater the average
residential user is estimated to contribute annually to the total wastewater
flow including the user's proportionate share of infiltration and inflow.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: The accounting and budgetary procedures utilized
in the development and application of the user charge system, and shall follow
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and those of the governmental
accounting standards board (GASB).
FIXED ASSETS: Permanent property such as land, buildings, sewer collection
pipelines, tanks, etc.
FIXTURE UNIT: The arbitrary value assigned to various plumbing fixtures based
upon the "Uniform Plumbing Code" and the fixtures typical discharge loading
contribution to the sewer system. Utilized in the development of proportional
connection charges and user charge rates (derived from "Uniform Plumbing
Code"). (See sewerage fixtures.)
INFILTRATION: Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system
(including sewer service connections) from the ground, through such means as
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes, etc.
INFLOW: Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system through such
sources as: roof, yard and cellar drains, catch basins, surface runoff, street
wastewater or drainage.
OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT (OM&R): Those functions that result in
expenditures during the useful life of the treatment works for materials,
labor, utilities, and other items which are necessary for managing and
maintaining the sewage works to achieve the capacity and performance for which
such works were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance"
includes replacement as defined below. The term shall exclude expenditures for
fixed or capital assets and any consideration of debt service or depreciation.
PREMISES: A continuous tract of land, building or group of adjacent buildings
under a single control with respect to use of the sewer and responsibility for
payment thereof. Subdivision of such use or responsibility shall constitute a
division into separate premises as herein defined, except that where more than
one dwelling is being served through the same sewer service, in which case each
of said dwellings shall constitute separate premises and shall be subject to
the same separate charges as if they were separate single-family dwellings.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term operation and maintenance includes
replacement. The term excludes replacement of any fixed or capital asset.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial wastewaters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants
and institutions.
SEWER SYSTEM: The system of conduits, pumps, treatment plants and structures
used for the purpose of conveying from their source, treating in any manner and
conveying to final points of disposal all wastes of any nature permitted by
this Chapter to enter said system. Specifically included as integral parts of
the system are all conduits of any nature forming a network of conduits or
connected directly or indirectly to said network; all pumps, treatment plants
and structures of any kind used in connection with the collection, treatment
and disposal of the wastes handled by the system; and all appurtenances to any
of the above, either physically or functionally connected therewith. Sanitary
sewers, as defined herein, are all included as parts of the Montello Sewer
System.
SEWER USE ORDINANCE: The legally binding ordinance which establishes parameters
controlling connection to, and wastes contributed to a wastewater treatment
system, including a mandate that: all residences shall be connected; all
connections shall be properly designed and constructed; the introduction of
hazardous or toxic wastes which may threaten public safety or the plant's
physical integrity shall be prohibited; new sources of inflow are prohibited.
SEWERAGE FIXTURES: Approved type installed receptacles, devices or appliances
which are supplied with water or which receive liquid or liquid borne wastes,
and discharge such wastes into the drainage system to which they may be
directly or indirectly connected. Industrial or commercial tanks, vats and
similar processing equipment are not sewerage fixtures, but may be connected
to, or discharged into, approved sewerage fixtures.
SHALL/MAY: "Shall" is imperative; "may" is permissive.
STORM DRAIN: A sewer line intended to carry only storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters, and drainage.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
TREATMENT WORKS: Treatment Facility, Sewer Plant, Sewer System: any devices and
systems for the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal
sewage, domestic sewage or liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting
sewers, outfall sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping, power, and other
equipment and their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling,
additions and alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable
recycled supply; and any works that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
treatment.
USER: A recipient of wastewater treatment services:
Commercial User: All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings, laundries
and other private or public businesses and service establishment.
Industrial User: Includes any nongovernmental, nonresidential user or publicly
owned treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented, under the following divisions: Division A-Agriculture, Forestry,
and Fishing; Division B-Mining; Division D-Manufacturing; Division E-
Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and Sanitary; and Division I-
Services.
Residential User: Any contributor to the Town's treatment works whose lot,
parcel or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.
USER CHARGE FUND: The fiscal account to which all user charge system revenues
shall accrue and through which funds are disbursed to meet only OM&R expenses.
USER CHARGE RATE (UCR): The charge assessed users of a wastewater treatment
facility to obtain revenue to fund the user's proportionate share of OM&R
expenses. The rate shall be proportionate to their usage (volume and loading)
of the facility. The rate is determined through the application of the user
charge system. The user charge rate is a distinct portion of the annual/monthly
sewer fee, reflecting only OM&R expenses.
USER CHARGE SYSTEM: The process through which OM&R expenses are determined and
the correlating user charge rate derived and assessed to users of the treatment
facility (proportionate to usage), to generate revenue to meet those OM&R
expenses, thereby assuring fiscal self-sufficiency of the plant over its useful
life. The user charge system is an essential element of these regulations and
shall be inclusive of:
- Rates proportionate to usage
- Annual notification to each user of the UCR and OM&R costs.
- A financial management system which accounts for OM&R expenses and
established the user charge rates.
- Disposition of infiltration/inflow expense.
- Precedence over conflicting legal enactments.
- Disposition of earned or capital income.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of the community. It may be a combination of the
liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants, and institutions. Wastewater shall specifically exclude
uncontaminated water such as groundwater, rainwater, and surface drainage. Also
known as sanitary wastewater.
ARTICLE A. PARAMETERS OF SEWER USAGE
SECTION:
9-7A-1: Matter Excluded From All Sewers
9-7A-2: Matter Excluded From All Storm Drains
9-7A-3: Matter Excluded From Sanitary Sewers
9-7A-4: Sewer Service
9-7A-5: Discontinuance of Service
9-7A-6: Termination For Noncompliance With Rules
9-7A-7: Termination For Unsafe Apparatus
9-7A-8: Termination For Fraudulent Use of Service
9-7A-9: Restoration of Service
9-7A-10: Refusal to Serve
9-7A-11: Continuity of Service
9-7A-12: Mandatory Connections
9-7A-13: Unlawful Installations
9-7A-14: Inspection of Treatment Facility, Sewers and Attachments
9-7A-15: Testing of Wastewater
9-7A-16: Septic Tank Contents
9-7A-17: Designation of Places and Manner of Discharge of Septic Tank Contents
9-7A-18: Determination of Character of Waste Matter
9-7A-19: Pretreatment of Sewage
9-7A-20: Design, Construction of New Connections, Inflow Sources
9-7A-21: Prohibition Against Altering Connections
9-7A-22: Sewer Main Extension/Enlargement
9-7A-23: Prohibition of Connection of Inflow Sources
9-7A-24: Amendments to Sewer Use Ordinance
9-7A-1: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM ALL SEWERS:
   (A)   Wastewater, waste or any matter having the following characteristics
shall not, under any circumstances, be discharged into, be placed where they
might find their way into, or be allowed to run, leak or escape into any part
of the sewer system including:
      1.   Ashes, cinders, sand, earth, coal, rubbish or any matter which is
chemically or physically stable for at least five (5) days at twenty degrees
(20°) Celsius or which would form a deposit or obstruction or damage or reduce
the capacity of the sewer into which it was placed.
      2.   Flammable, explosive or poisonous liquids, gases or solids or any
matter which after entrance into a sewer might reasonably be expected to form
into flammable, explosive or poisonous liquids, gases or solids.
      3.   Liquid matter of any nature containing suspended solids in excess of
one thousand parts per million (1,000 PPM).
      4.   Matter of any nature containing five (5) day biochemical oxygen
demand in excess of three hundred parts per million (300 PPM).
      5.   Animal or vegetable greases, oils or matter containing animal or
vegetable greases or oils of any nature in excess of three hundred parts per
million (300 PPM).
      6.   Liquid matter with a log hydrogen ion (pH) concentration below five
and five-tenths (5.5) or above nine and zero-tenths (9.0) measured at the point
where discharge enters the sewer main.
      7.   Any matter that would be poisonous to or inhibit the biologic
organisms associated with any sewage treatment process, and which in the
opinion of the Department, might interfere with the satisfactory operation of
any treatment facility or any portion of the sewer system.
   (B)   Upon obtaining the written approval of the Director, sewage wastes or
other matters herein excluded may be discharged into the sewage system upon the
payment to the Town the additional costs for processing the same as hereinafter
provided and set forth.
9-7A-2: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM STORM DRAINS:
In addition to the matter excluded heretofore, all other matter of any nature
shall be excluded from those parts of the sewer system designated by the
Director as storm sewers, excepting only surface drainage waters. All drainage
waters shall be directed into storm sewers only under the authorization and
direction of the Director.
9-7A-3: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM SANITARY SEWERS:
In addition to the matter excluded heretofore, all surface drainage water
(inflow) shall be excluded from all parts of the sewer system designated by the
Director as the sanitary sewer system.
9-7A-4: SEWER SERVICE:
   (A)   Applications:
      1.   Content: Each applicant for sewer service shall be required to sign,
on a form provided by the Department, an application which shall set forth:
         (a)   Date.
         (b)   Location of premises to be served, giving street address and
description of property to be served.
         (c)   Applicant's name and mailing address and the name and mailing
address of the legal owner of the premises.
         (d)   Purpose for which the property will be used (residential,
commercial, apartments, etc.).
         (e)   Person and address to which the monthly bills are to be mailed.
         (f)   The date the applicant will be ready for sewer service.
         (g)   The name of the contracting or plumbing agency that will be
connecting the premises to the Town sewer system (new connections).
         (h)   If the applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the
applicant shall provide written evidence of authorization to apply for service
from the legal owner of the property.
      2.   Purpose: The application is merely a written request for service and
does not bind the applicant to take service for any period of time, nor does it
bind the Town to serve except under reasonable conditions.
      3.   Responsibility: The legal owner is responsible for the payment of
all sewer charges at the premises for which an application is made. Only the
legal owner of the premises may request termination of sewer service or a
change in the person or address to which the monthly sewer bill is to be sent.
   (B)   Change in Customer's Sewerage Fixtures, Equipment, or Operations: A
customer making any change in the size, character or extent of the equipment or
operations for which the service is utilized shall immediately file with the
Department a new application for additional service.
   (C)   Sewer Service Laterals: All sewer service laterals shall be
constructed and maintained by the property owner in accordance with Department
standards, rules and regulations.
9-7A-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
Sewer service will normally be considered terminated when the water service to
the property has been shut off. The billing for sewer service will be
discontinued at that time and the customer will be billed in accordance with
this Chapter. If, in the opinion of the Director, unusual circumstances warrant
continued billing for sewer service or partially billing for service, the
customer shall be so notified.
9-7A-6: TERMINATION FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH RULES:
The Department may terminate water and/or sewer service to any customer for
violation of these rules after it has given the customer written notice of such
intention.
9-7A-7: TERMINATION FOR UNSAFE APPARATUS:
If any condition is found to exist on a customer's premises which constitutes a
hazard to health or which threatens to damage any portion of the Town sewer
system the service may be terminated without notice. The Department shall
notify the customer immediately of the reasons for the discontinuance and the
corrective action to be taken by the customer before service can be restored.
9-7A-8: TERMINATION FOR FRAUDULENT USE OF SERVICE:
When the Department declares that a customer has obtained service by fraudulent
means, the service to that customer may be discontinued without notice. The
Department shall not restore service to such customer until that customer has
complied with the Montello sewer regulations and rules and reasonable
requirements of the Department, and the Department has been reimbursed for the
full amount of the service rendered and the actual cost to the Department
incurred by reason of the fraudulent use. Connection to the sewer system
without having first obtained the necessary permit(s) shall be considered
fraudulent use.
9-7A-9: RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
Sewer service shall be considered restored and subject to billing at such time
as the water reconnection takes place.
9-7A-10: REFUSAL TO SERVE:
   (A)   Conditions of Refusal: The Department may refuse to serve an applicant
for service under the following conditions:
      1.   If the applicant fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
Chapter.
      2.   If the intended use of the service is of such a nature that it will
be detrimental or injurious to existing customers.
      3.   If, in the judgment of the Department, the applicant's installation
for utilizing the service is unsafe or hazardous, or subject to freezing, or of
such nature that satisfactory service cannot be rendered.
      4.   Where service has been discontinued for fraudulent use, the
Department will not serve an applicant until it has been determined that all
conditions of fraudulent use or practice have been corrected.
      5.   If in the judgement of the Department, there is insufficient
capacity to serve the applicant.
   (B)   Notification to Customers: When an applicant is refused service under
the provisions of this Chapter, the Department will notify the applicant that
he may appeal the decision of the Department to the Board.
9-7A-11: CONTINUITY OF SERVICE:
   (A)   Emergency Interruptions: The Department will make all reasonable
efforts to prevent interruptions to service, if and when such interruptions
occur, and will endeavor to re-establish service with the shortest possible
delay consistent with the safety of its customers and the general public.
   (B)   Scheduled Interruptions: Whenever the Department finds it necessary to
schedule an interruption to its service, it will, where feasible, notify all
customers to be affected by the interruption, stating the approximate time and
anticipated duration of the interruption. Scheduled interruptions will be made
at such hours as will provide least inconvenience to the customers consistent
with reasonable Department operations.
9-7A-12: MANDATORY CONNECTIONS:
Each owner of houses, buildings or other properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, commercial, industrial or other like purposes situated
within the unincorporated areas of the Town shall connect to such sewer within
ninety (90) days after such sewer is available for use wherever the public
sewer line is within three hundred feet (300') of any building discharging
sanitary or industrial waste or whenever such sewer line is available within
four hundred feet (400') of the nearest property line, whichever is closer.
Connections to the sewer system are the sole responsibility of the owner of the
property so connected.
9-7A-13: UNLAWFUL INSTALLATIONS:
It is unlawful to install, change, bypass, adjust or alter any metering device
or any piping arrangement connected therewith as to show the quantity of sewage
discharged from the premises to be less than the actual quantity.
9-7A-14: INSPECTION OF TREATMENT FACILITY, SEWERS AND ATTACHMENTS:
Authorized individuals, including employees and officials of the Town of
Montello or of Elko County may enter any premises connected to the sewer system
and the treatment facility to ascertain if all applicable ordinances and
regulations are being met. If an exception to compliance with a law or
ordinance is noted, the owner of said premises, or his agent, shall, upon
notice, cause such sewer or its attachments to be altered, repaired or
reconstructed so as to make them conform to the requirements of the laws and
ordinance within fifteen (15) days from the time of receipt of such notice.
9-7A-15: TESTING OF WASTEWATER:
Authorized Town of Montello and Elko County officials and employees may enter
upon any and all premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection, observation, management, sampling and testing of wastewater in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter or of other relevant local,
State or Federal regulations; and it shall be unlawful for any person to
prevent or attempt to prevent any such entrance or obstruct or interfere with
any such officer or employee while so engaged.
9-7A-16: SEPTIC TANK CONTENTS:
It is unlawful for anyone to discharge the contents of any septic tank,
cesspool or chemical toilet into the sewer system of the Town except in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
9-7A-17: DESIGNATION OF PLACES AND MANNER OF DISCHARGE OF SEPTIC TANK CONTENTS:
The Department may designate in writing the particular point(s) where the
contents of septic tanks, cesspools or chemical toilets can be discharged into
the sewer system, and the manner in which said contents shall be discharged. No
matter prohibited from sewers by this Chapter shall be permitted to be so
discharged.
9-7A-18: DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER OF WASTE MATTER:
Prior to the introduction of any material which may reasonably be expected to
threaten public safety, effluent water quality, the physical integrity of the
plant, or any section of this Chapter or any State or Federal regulations, the
Department shall be apprised of such proposed discharge, and upon analysis
shall issue conditional approval permits or prohibition within twenty one (21)
days. The Department shall have responsibility for instituting and/or
completing such analysis, assigning costs for such analysis, and issuing
permits. The fact that any matter has been discharged into the sewer system
prior to the passage of this Chapter or subsequent thereto, but without any
objection from the Department does not constitute a valid right to so discharge
such matter. If, upon discovery that matter being discharged into the sewer
does not conform to the requirements of this Chapter, the Department may
immediately stop the discharge of such matter into the sewer system.
9-7A-19: PRETREATMENT OF SEWAGE:
   (A)   Any discharge matter which may be made to comply with the discharge
standards, herein contained, may be discharged into the sewer system provided
it is treated prior to discharge (pretreatment) thereby bringing it into
compliance with the declared standards. Such pretreatment plants shall be
understood to include grease traps, chemical or biochemical plants,
sedimentation chambers and any other devices which effect a change of any
nature in the characteristics of the matter being treated. Any and all such
devices and equipment shall be:
      1.   Subject to the approval of the Department.
      2.   Issued a written permit of approval issued by the Department prior
to operation.
      3.   Provided with all necessary features of construction to permit
inspection of operations and testing of material passing through them.
      4.   Open to the inspection of the Department at any time.
   (B)   The producer, in lieu of the treatment of said sewage as hereinabove
provided for, may, with the written approval of the Department, discharge said
sewage, waste or other matter into said sewage system, subject to the
provisions of this Chapter and subject to the payment of the additional cost of
the treatment thereof.
9-7A-20: DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION OF NEW CONNECTIONS, INFLOW SOURCES:
No new connection shall be made to the Montello Sewer System unless the same is
properly designed and constructed complying with the Uniform Building Code and
the Uniform Plumbing Code, latest edition. All inflow sources as defined in EPA
regulations, 40 CFR part 35, including, but not limited to, roof leaders,
cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from
storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff,
street washwaters or drainage shall not be permitted to be connected to the
sewer system.
9-7A-21: PROHIBITION AGAINST ALTERING CONNECTIONS:
It is unlawful to change, bypass, adjust, or alter any piping arrangement
(including metering device) from a premises and connecting to the sewer system
without the prior written consent to the Department.
9-7A-22: SEWER MAIN EXTENSION/ENLARGEMENT:
   (A)   Sewer main facilities may be extended by a subdivider, developer,
property owner, or other person in accordance with plans and specifications
submitted to, and approved by, the Director and the Department. All sewer main
extensions shall comply with the following minimum standards for construction:
The inside diameter of every sewer main shall not be less than eight inches
(8"), except as may be permitted by the Director. The minimum slopes for
sanitary sewers shall be as follows, unless otherwise permitted by the
Director:
   6" Sanitary sewer - 0.0049 ft./ft.
   8" Sanitary sewer - 0.0034 ft./ft.
   10" Sanitary sewer - 0.0025 ft./ft.
   12" Sanitary sewer - 0.0020 ft./ft.
   15" Sanitary sewer - 0.0015 ft./ft.
   (B)   The subdivider, developer, property owner, or other persons shall
construct all sewer mains in accordance with the plans and specifications as
submitted to, and approved by, the Director; and pay any and all costs for the
minimum size sewer main required for the development, as determined by the
Director,
   (C)   Upon connection to the sewer system, the subdivider, developer,
property owner, or other persons shall dedicate all sewer mains located on
property owned or controlled by the Town of Montello or Elko County to the Town
of Montello. Upon dedication, and after the one year contractor warranty period
has expired, the Town of Montello will operate and maintain the sewer main
located on said property.
   (D)   Construction of Larger Mains: Whenever in the opinion of the Board or
the Director, it is desirable for the Town's benefit that a sewer main be
constructed of a capacity larger than the minimum capacity set forth in
subsection (A) above, the Town will pay the difference in pipe material cost
for the oversized sewer main. The subdivider, developer, property owner, or
other person shall be required to purchase materials, construct and install
such oversized sewer main.
9-7A-23: PROHIBITION OF CONNECTION OF INFLOW SOURCES:
All sources of inflow, including, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, catch basins, manholes, etc., shall be prohibited from
connection to the sewer system.
9-7A-24: AMENDMENTS TO SEWER USE ORDINANCE:
The Board shall have the power and duty to adopt, and may from time to time
amend rules and regulations for the operation of the Montello Sewer System
including, but not limited to, rules and regulations concerning the method of
hooking up, and the type of use of the sewer, so long as such amendments are
not in conflict with the rules and regulations of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, Nevada Division of Environmental Protection,
or County law. The Nevada Division of Environmental Protection shall be advised
of all amendments to this Chapter at least fourteen (14) days prior to their
effective date.
ARTICLE B. SEWER FINANCIAL SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-7B-1: Sewer Revenue System
9-7B-2: The Capitalization Fund
9-7B-3: Sewer Connection Charges
9-7B-4: The User Charge System
9-7B-5: Financial Management System
9-7B-6: Separate Accounts
9-7B-7: Operation, Maintenance, and Replacement (OM&R) Costs
9-7B-8: Revenue Gained Through Sale of Treatment By-products
9-7B-9: User Charge Rate
9-7B-10: Equivalent Dwelling Unit (EDU)
9-7B-11: Equivalent Dwelling Unit Benchmarks
9-7B-12: Annual User Charge Rate (UCR)
9-7B-13: Surcharges
9-7B-14: Residential User Charge Rate
9-7B-15: Commercial/Industrial (C/I) User Charge Rate
9-7B-16: Annual Notification
9-7B-17: Infiltration/Inflow
9-7B-18: Biennial Review of Operation And Maintenance Charges
9-7B-19: Termination of Service Procedure For Nonpayment
9-7B-20: Appeals
9-7B-21: Penalties
9-7B-22: Credit And Payment
9-7B-23: Fixture Unit Value Table
9-7B-24: Precedence
9-7B-25: Appendix A - Sewer Fee Schedule
9-7B-1: SEWER REVENUE SYSTEM:
The Town of Montello sewer revenue system shall be responsible for the fiscal
operations of the Montello wastewater treatment facilities. The sewer revenue
system shall consist of two (2) discrete programs; the capitalization system
and the user charge system, with separate accounts being maintained for each.
9-7B-2: THE CAPITALIZATION SYSTEM:
The capitalization system shall provide funding for capital expenditures, debt
service, including the redemption of principle and payment of interest on debt
issues, and all other nonoperating, maintenance, and replacement costs as the
Board may consider appropriate, including redemption of the principle and
payment of the interest on sewer bonds. Components for the capitalization
system shall include:
   (A)   Capitalization Charges: Assessed customers to recover non-OM&R costs
(for which the use of the user charge system is not appropriate) including late
payment fees and other penalties; the sewer connection fees; and the monthly
capitalization charge portion of the sewer fee. The rate of the capitalization
charge shall be established by the Board and customers shall be notified
annually of the charge as a portion of their annual/monthly sewer fee schedule.
   (B)   Sewer Connection Charges: Funds generated through fees charged to new
users of the system for the privilege of connection to and use of the system as
defined in Section
9-7B-3 below.
   (C)   Fees, Penalties, and Special Charges: Special fees collected by the
Town and not related to regular OM&R expenses shall accrue to the
Capitalization Fund.
   (D)   Capitalization Fund: Shall be created in the Treasury of Elko County
in the name of the Town of Montello a special Fund to be known as the Montello
Sewer Capitalization Fund to which capitalization revenues shall accrue and
from which funds shall be disbursed for the aforementioned purposes.
9-7B-3: SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES:
   (A)   For each initial or new connection made to the sewer system, there
shall be an initial charge in the form of a connection fee in accordance with
the following schedules:
      1.   Each separate residential unit, or other individual housing unit
within a multi-family dwelling, apartment house or trailer court, shall be
considered one equivalent dwelling unit. (See sewer fee schedule, Appendix A.)
The connection charge shall apply to all parcels and lots which have not
previously been served by the Montello sewer system, and each lot of any new
subdivision to be served by the sewer system.
      2.   For all initial or new commercial and industrial sewer connections,
the connection charge shall be charged per SFU. The number SFUs is determined
by using the schedule for commercial and industrial buildings as set forth in
Section
9-7B-23 of this Chapter. The minimum SFU count for commercial and industrial
buildings shall be twenty five (25).
      3.   Modification and Expansion of Facilities: If a commercial or
industrial service is expanded, and the expansion results in a sewer fixture
unit (SFU) count above twenty five (25), the connection charge shall be the
current rate times the net increase in SFUs above the twenty five (25) minimum.
In converting a residential building to commercial use or developing a
commercial use on a lot with previous sewer service, the applicant shall pay
the connection charge based upon the net increase in fixture units. In the
event there is no record of the fixture units in the original structure, the
applicant will be credited with twenty five (25) fixture units. In no case will
a refund be granted for a reduction in fixture units. (See Appendix "A".)
      4.   Determination of Sewer Fixture Unit Count: The Department will
conduct a fixture unit survey at the time a building permit is requested. This
will be done through an assessment of the construction plans provided by the
applicant. The final count will be based upon the final inspection of the
completed structure.
   (B)   Payment: The sewer connection charge shall be payable on demand to the
Town at the time the Building Inspector issues a building permit. Funds
received through connection charges shall accrue to the Capitalization Fund.
Any additional charges incurred due to increased fixture unit count upon
completion of the facility shall be paid prior to issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
   (C)   Until further resolution of the Board, the rate for sewer use and
connection to the sewer system for residences shall be calculated at one
equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) per dwelling unit. One EDU is the equivalent of
twenty five (25) sewer fixture units.
   (D)   Home occupations shall be charged for one-half (1/2) of an equivalent
dwelling unit (1/2 EDU, 13 fixture units) at the commercial rate, in addition
to the residential rate. Additional sewer fixture units shall be assessed for
sewer fixtures which are occupation specific, see Section
9-7B-23, the Sewer Fixture Value Table.
   (E)   All sewer users not specifically identified in subsections (C) or (D)
above shall be classified as commercial or industrial users and SFUs shall be
determined on the basis of the "Sewer Fixture Value Table" contained in Section
9-7B-23. The minimum SFU count for the purposes of calculating the monthly
capitalization charge for commercial/industrial users shall be twenty five (25)
SFUs equal to one equivalent dwelling unit (1 EDU).
9-7B-4: THE USER CHARGE SYSTEM:
The user charge system shall be used to determine the user charge rate. The
user charge rate shall be based on actual use of the Town of Montello
wastewater treatment facilities. Each user shall pay his proportionate share of
operation, maintenance and replacement costs based upon his estimated
contribution (expressed as an equivalent dwelling unit) to the total flow
volume and loading of the plant, thereby assuring the fiscal self-sufficiency
of the facility over its useful (design) life. The user charge system shall
include the financial management system, user charge rates, and user charge or
OM&R Fund.
9-7B-5: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM:
The financial management system shall prescribe accounting budgetary procedures
to accurately depict revenue requirements and procedures to generate revenue
sufficient to operate and maintain the wastewater collection and treatment
system.
9-7B-6: SEPARATE ACCOUNTS:
Separate accounts shall be maintained for the user charge system and the
capitalization system.
9-7B-7: OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPLACEMENT (OM&R) COSTS:
Operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) costs of the treatment system
shall be enumerated through a line item budget including the following
categories:
   (A)   Salaries and wages.
   (B)   Indirect salary and wage costs.
   (C)   Contractual services.
   (D)   Materials and supplies.
   (E)   Utilities.
   (F)   Equipment replacement.
   (G)   Administrative expenses.
OM&R costs shall include the costs required to achieve and maintain compliance
with discharge permits.
9-7B-8: REVENUE GAINED THROUGH SALE OF TREATMENT BY-PRODUCTS:
Revenue gained through the sale or use of treatment related by-products shall
be credited to the user charge system.
9-7B-9: USER CHARGE RATE:
The user charge rate shall generate revenue sufficient to meet OM&R costs
thereby assuring the facility's fiscal operational viability, through charges
to customers which are proportionate to their usage (both volume and loading).
The user charge rate shall be recalculated annually based upon actual and
projected OM&R expenses.
9-7B-10: EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT (EDU):
The equivalent dwelling unit shall form the basis for the user charge system.
Residential equivalent dwelling units shall be calculated according to the
following scale:
 
Single-family dwelling    1 unit per dwelling unit
Multiple-family dwelling  1 unit per dwelling unit
Apartment or rental units 1 unit per dwelling unit
Trailer court             1 unit per dwelling unit
 
Commercial and industrial equivalent dwelling units shall be calculated
according to the fixture unit value table in Section
9-7B-23. Each commercial or industrial facility shall pay at a minimum for one
EDU, which shall include up to twenty five (25) fixture units as listed in
Section
9-7B-23. Any additional fixture units shall be charged at the rate of four one-
hundredths (0.04) EDU per fixture unit (25 fixture units per EDU), and the
facility may have partial EDUs. The user charge rate will be calculated based
upon the total number of EDUs.
9-7B-11: EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT BENCHMARKS:
   (A)   Loading Levels:
 
Parameter Domestic Wastewater
         Strength   Loading
BOD5      250 mg/l   0.65 lbs/day
SS        250 mg/l   0.46 lbs/day
Pp        11.0 mg/l  0.03 lbs/day
Nn        26.0 mg/l  0.07 lbs/day
 
   (B)   Volume: An equivalent dwelling unit shall be the equivalent volume of:
350 gallons per day; 10,500 gallons per month, and 126,000 gallons per year.
   (C)   Sewer Fixture Units: 25 sewer fixture units = 1 EDU.
9-7B-12: ANNUAL USER CHARGE RATE (UCR):
The annual user charge rate per equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) shall be based
on the following formula:
 
Annual User Charge Rate (per EDU) = (OM&R)
                                    (Total EDU)
 
9-7B-13: SURCHARGES:
   (A)   High-Strength Discharges: A surcharge shall be levied upon customers
whose discharge loadings exceed those listed in Section
9-7B-11. The surcharge shall be based on treatment costs of additional loading
above standard loading levels, expressed as additional EDUs or fractions
thereof.
   (B)   Discharge Permit Fees/Toxic Pollutants: All commercial and industrial
dischargers must obtain a discharge permit at time of service application. All
dischargers whose anticipated discharge level of toxic pollutants will increase
the cost of treating the wastewater shall pay for such increased costs.
9-7B-14: RESIDENTIAL USER CHARGE RATE:
A uniform rate shall be assessed based upon the average discharge volume and
strength of the predominant user class (residential) and as further specified
above (Section
9-7B-11). This fee shall be recalculated annually based upon the adopted budget
for OM&R expenses.
9-7B-15: COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL (C/I) USER CHARGE RATE:
All sewer users not specifically identified above shall be classified as
commercial/industrial users and their user charge rate shall be based upon the
total number of equivalent dwelling units (EDUs) for the facility, with the
addition of appropriate surcharges for wastewater characteristics which exceed
the benchmarks identified in Section
9-7B-11.
   (A)   The minimum commercial/industrial (C/I) user charge rate (UCR) shall
be one EDU (25 SFU), with the addition of four one-hundredths (0.04) of an EDU
for each additional SFU.
   (B)   Combination of Charges: Where sewer service is provided for a
combination of businesses or a combination of a business and a residence, there
shall be a cumulative sewer charge for all types of businesses and residences
so served at said location.
   (C)   Commercial and Industrial User Rate: The commercial and industrial
user rate shall be the current rate. This charge shall be recalculated annually
based upon the annual budget for OM&R expenses.
9-7B-16: ANNUAL NOTIFICATION:
Annual notification shall be given to each customer with the annual sewer fee
schedule of the anticipated OM&R costs, number of EDUs and the user charge rate
(and capitalization charge) per EDU.
9-7B-17: INFILTRATION/INFLOW:
Infiltration/inflow costs shall be included with operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) expenses and shall be distributed among customers
proportionate to their usage of the treatment facilities.
9-7B-18: BIENNIAL REVIEW OF OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE CHARGES:
The Board shall review not less often than every two (2) years the contribution
of users and user classes, the total cost of operation and maintenance of
treatment works and its approved user charge system. The Board shall revise the
charges for users or user classes to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes as required herein.
   (B)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and maintenance
costs necessary for the proper operation and maintenance (including necessary
equipment replacement) of the treatment works.
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly.
9-7B-19: TERMINATION OF SERVICE PROCEDURE FOR NONPAYMENT:
   (A)   Each billing for sewer service shall indicate the date due for payment
of that billing. If payment is not received within fifteen (15) days of the
date due, the payment shall become past due. In the event that payment becomes
past due, the Director shall mail a notice to the legal owner or the applicant
for service and the occupant at the address receiving service that the sewer
and water service will be terminated on a specific date, which date shall be
ten (10) days after the date of mailing of such delinquent notice.
   (B)   The owner or applicant applying for service or occupant of the
premises may request to present his position concerning termination of sewer
services to the Board and the Board's action shall be final.
   (C)   Failure of the owner, customer or occupant to appear before the Board
after having requested such right, as provided above, will cause the sewer and
water service to be terminated on the next working day.
   (D)   On the date of termination of sewer and water services, or any date
thereafter, the Director may cause to be filed with the Elko County Recorder a
statement of the amount due and unpaid for sewer services and a description of
the property to which the services were rendered to perfect a lien against the
property.
   (E)   Upon vacating the premises, all customers desiring to discontinue
sewer service shall notify the Department two (2) days prior to vacating the
premises. Unless discontinuance of service is ordered, the customer shall be
liable for charges whether or not the sewer is used.
9-7B-20: APPEALS:
The Board shall review any decision made by the Director or his representatives
or agents in interpreting, applying or enforcing the provisions of this
Chapter, upon the receipt of an application or petition in writing, requesting
a review of such decision. In exercising its powers on review the Board may, in
conformity with the provisions of the law, reverse or affirm wholly or partly,
or may modify the order, requirements, decision or determination of the
Director. The Board may also initiate a review of the Director's interpretation
of the provisions of this Chapter by a motion and by a vote of a majority of
the quorum or a majority of the members present, if such number exceeds a
quorum. In all cases, the decision of the Board shall be final.
9-7B-21: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this Chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punished by
imprisonment in the Elko County jail for a term not to exceed six (6) months,
or by a fine of not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both such
fine and imprisonment. Each day's violation of the provisions of this Chapter
may be deemed a separate offense.
9-7B-22: CREDIT AND PAYMENT:
   (A)   Establishment and Maintenance: Each applicant for service shall
establish and maintain credit to the satisfaction of the Department before
service will be rendered.
   (B)   Loss and Re-Establishment of Credit: Any amount due for sewer service
that remains unpaid for twenty (20) days after presentation of a bill during
the depositor's first year of service, may be deducted from the guarantee
deposit and service shall be subject to discontinuance until the deposit is
again restored to the original amount. Any such unpaid amount accruing
subsequently to the depositor's first year of service, where the premises are
owned by the depositor, may also be deducted from any guarantee deposit
remaining in the Department's possession.
   (C)   Bills and Collections:
      1.   All bills for sewer services or for having sewer services available
shall be rendered monthly on the last day of the month in which the services
were used or available. In the event any such bill is not paid in full within
fifteen (15) days after the date when rendered, sewer service as well as water
service may be immediately discontinued and shall be shut off, as provided by
the laws of the State and the ordinances of the County.
      2.   In the event any service is so discontinued, a penal charge of ten
dollars ($10.00) together with all costs and expenses incurred by the Town,
including, but not limited to, the prorated portion of the employee or
employees' salaries required to effect the discontinuance and reconnection, a
reasonable sum for use of machinery and equipment required, and the expense of
any valves, faucets, or other plumbing fixtures required. Service shall not be
resumed until all legal charges for water service, sewer service, or facilities
up to the time of the disconnection, and all penalty charges, or the costs and
expenses incurred in causing the discontinuance and the resumption of the water
and sewer services, have been paid in full to the Town.
9-7B-23: FIXTURE UNIT VALUE TABLE:
Fixture unit surveys are conducted and fixture units established in accordance
with the following table:
                      FIXTURE VALUE
DESCRIPTION OF FIXTURE PER UNIT
                                                        FIXTURE VALUE
DESCRIPTION OF FIXTURE                                   PER UNIT
Bathroom Group:                                           
Bathtub and/or shower                                    2
Water closet, private installation                       4
Water closet, public installation                        6
Lavatory                                                 1
Sink, private bar                                        1
Sink, public bar                                         2
Sink, commercial                                         3
Sink, service                                            3
Urinal                                                   2
Bathtub (with or without shower)                         2
Bidet                                                    2
Dental unit cuspidor                                     1
Dental unit lavatory                                     2
Dishwashers:
Conveyor                                                 6
Undercounter, public                                     3
Residential                                              2
Disposals                                                3
Drinking fountains                                       1
Floor drains                                             2
Interceptors for grease, oil, solids                     3
Interceptors for sand, car wash, etc.                    6
Laundry tub and faucets                                  2
Clothes washer                                           2
Automatic:      8 lb.                              6
         12–19 lb.                            8
         20–39 lb.                            10
         40–50 lb.                            12
         50+ per lb.                            0.2
      of machine weight
Receptors for refrigerator, coffee urn, soft drinks, ice 1
machines, etc.
Showers per head and drain                               1
Sink:
Bar                                                      1
Flushing rim (clinic)                                    6
Industrial-washup, etc.                                  3
Kitchen                                                  2
Lavatory                                                 1
Trailer parks:
Dump station                                             12
Recreation vehicle park per pad                          6
Urinals:
Pedestal-siphon                                          6
Stall                                                    2
Wall                                                     2
Trough/2 ft.                                             2
Water Closet:
Tank                                                     4
Flush valve                                              6
Swimming pool                                            5
 
For fixture types not listed, fixture units shall be estimated using the latest
edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code.
9-7B-24: PRECEDENCE:
This user charge system shall take precedence over the terms or conditions of
any agreements or contracts which the Town is party to which are inconsistent
with the requirements of the Water Quality Act (as amended 1986) and the
regulation of the United States EPA (40 CFR parts 35.2005 - 35.2208). (Ord.
1990-Q, 6-20-90, eff. 7-3-90)
9-7B-25: APPENDIX A - SEWER FEE SCHEDULE:
OBLIGATIONS:
 Anticipated OM&R Expense               $10,512.00
 Anticipated Capitalization Requirement 10,188.00
 TOTAL OBLIGATIONS                      $20,700.00
RESOURCES:
 Number of Customers                    $ 50.00
 Number of EDUs                         70.00
 Number of New Connections              0.00
 Annual USER CHARGE RATE per EDU        150.17
 Monthly USER CHARGE RATE per EDU       12.51
 Annual CAPITALIZATION CHARGE per EDU   145.54
 Monthly CAPITALIZATION CHARGE per EDU  12.13
 TOTAL ANNUAL SEWER FEE                 $ 295.71
 TOTAL MONTHLY SEWER FEE                $ 24.64
 CONNECTION CHARGE PER SFU              $ 120.00
 CONNECTION CHARGE PER EDU              $ 1,500.00
 
(March 1991; amd. Ord. 1993-D, 8-5-93)
CHAPTER 8
CABLE TELEVISION
SECTION:
9-8-1: Title
9-8-2: Definitions
9-8-3: Compliance with Applicable Laws and Ordinances
9-8-4: Franchise; Provisions, Conditions
9-8-5: Franchise Termination
9-8-6: Construction and Facilities
9-8-7: Service and Operation
9-8-1: TITLE:
This Chapter may be cited as the "Unincorporated Town of West Wendover, Nevada,
Cable Television System Chapter".
9-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
terms and their derivatives shall have the meaning herein given (and when not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular, and words in the
singular number include the plural):
BASIC CATV SERVICE: The distribution of broadcast television signals by the
grantee.
BASIC SUBSCRIBER REVENUES: All remuneration received directly by the grantee
from subscribers in payment for regularly furnished basic CATV service, but
shall not include any taxes on services furnished by the grantee imposed on any
subscriber or user by any government, governmental unit, political subdivision,
agency or instrumentality, and collected by the grantee.
BOARD: The governing body of the Unincorporated Town of West Wendover, Nevada,
which is the Board of County Commissioners of the County of Elko, Nevada.
CATV A cable television system.
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM: A system composed of, without limitation, antenna,
cables, wires, lines, towers, wave guides, or any other conductors, converters,
equipment or facilities, designed, constructed or wired for the purpose of
producing, receiving, amplifying and distribution by coaxial cable radio,
television or other electronic or electrical signals to and from persons,
subscribers and locations in the franchise area.
COUNTY: The County of Elko, Nevada.
FRANCHISE AREA: That area within the Unincorporated Town of West Wendover,
Nevada, as now or hereafter constituted.
GRANTEE: MISCO, Inc., its successors and assigns, the grantee of rights under
this Chapter.
PERSON: Any natural person, company or entity of any kind.
PROPERTY OF GRANTEE: All property owned, installed or used by the grantee in
the conduct of a CATV business in the Town.
STREET: The surface of and the space above and below any public street, way,
place, right of way, road, highway, freeway, bridge, tunnel, lane, path, bike
path, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, drive, communications or utility
easement, by whatever name called, now or hereafter existing as such within the
franchise area.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person or entity receiving and paying for basic CATV service.
TOWN: The Unincorporated Town of West Wendover, Nevada.
9-8-3: COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAWS AND ORDINANCES:
The grantee shall, at all times during the life of this franchise, be subject
to all lawful exercise of the police power by the Town or County. The Board
reserves the right to adopt, from time to time in addition to the provisions
herein contained, such ordinances as may be necessary to the exercise of police
power. Such regulation shall be reasonable and not in derogation of the rights
herein granted, nor in conflict with the laws of the State or other local or
Federal laws or regulations.
9-8-4: FRANCHISE; PROVISIONS, CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Grant of Authority: The grantee shall file a written acceptance of the
franchise with the Board within twenty (20) days after the date of adoption of
this Chapter. The franchise shall go into effect only when such acceptance has
been filed, and when the performance bond and evidence of general comprehensive
liability insurance provided for hereinafter have been filed and approved. Upon
grantee complying with such provisions, there shall be granted by the County to
the grantee the right and privilege to engage in the business of operating and
providing a CATV system in the Town, and for that purpose to erect, install,
construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain and retain in, on, over,
under, upon, across and along any street or streets laid out or dedicated and
all extensions thereof and additions thereto in the franchise area, such poles,
wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduit, vaults, manholes, pedestals,
amplifiers, appliances, attachments and other property as may be necessary and
apparent to the CATV system; and in addition, so to use, operate and provide
similar facilities or properties rented or leased from other persons,
including, but not limited to, any public utility or other grantee franchised
or permitted to do business in the Town.
   (B)   Nonexclusive Grant: The right to use and occupy said streets for the
purposes herein set forth shall not be exclusive to the grantee.
   (C)   Term of Franchise: The franchise and rights herein granted shall
commence twenty (20) days from the final passage hereof, contingent upon
grantee's compliance with subsection (A) herein, and shall continue in force
and effect for ten (10) years after said effective date. Upon application by
the grantee to the County, the franchise may be renewed for a subsequent ten
(10) year term.
   (D)   Franchise Payments: The grantee shall pay the County on or before each
March 31, a franchise fee of three percent (3%) of basic subscriber revenues
received for cable television operations in the Town for the preceding calendar
year, and no other fee, charge or consideration. Sales tax or other taxes
levied on a per subscription basis and collected by the grantee shall be
deducted from the gross annual basic subscriber revenues in computing any sums
due the Town. The grantee shall provide an annual summary report showing gross
annual basic subscriber revenues received during the preceding year.
   (E)   Indemnification of County and Town:
      1.   The grantee shall, at all times, protect and hold the Town and
County harmless from all claims, actions, suits, liability, loss, expense or
damages of every kind and description, including investigation costs, court
costs and reasonable attorney fees which may accrue to or be suffered or
claimed by any person or persons arising out of the negligence of the grantee
in the ownership, construction, repair, replacement, maintenance and operation
of said cable television system, and by reason of any license copyright, cable
television system, and by reason of any license, copyright, property right or
patent of any article or system used in the construction or use of said system;
provided the Town and/or County gives the grantee prompt notice of any such
claims, actions and suits, without limitation, in writing. The grantee shall
maintain in full force and effect during the life of any franchise, public
liability and property damage insurance for an amount of at least three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) single limit liability from the time of
commencement of construction of the CATV system. The Unincorporated Town of
West Wendover, Nevada and the County of Elko, Nevada, shall be named as
insured. A copy of the policies and proof of premium payments shall be filed as
issued with the County Manager.
      2.   The Board may require that any and all investigation of claims made
by any person against the Board arising out of any use or misuse of privileges
granted to the grantee hereunder shall be made by, or at the expense of, the
grantee or its insurer. The grantee may bring its obligations to carry any
insurance required hereby within the coverage of any so-called blanket policy
or policies of insurance now or hereafter carried by appropriate amendment,
endorsement or otherwise; provided, however, the interests of the Town and
County shall be as fully protected thereby as if the grantee had obtained
individual policies of insurance.
   (F)   Performance Bond:
      1.   Grantee shall, within twenty (20) days after the date of adoption of
this Chapter, file with the County Manager, and at all times thereafter
maintain in full force and effect for the entire term of the franchise, at its
expense, a faithful performance bond executed by a surety company approved by
the Board and in form satisfactory to the Board, in the amount of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00), renewable annually, and conditioned on the
faithful performance by grantee of all the terms, conditions and covenants
contained in the franchise. if grantee fails to comply with any one or more of
the provisions of the franchise, there shall be recoverable jointly and
severally from the principal and surety of such bond any damages or losses
suffered by grantor as a result thereof. Such bond shall provide that thirty
(30) days' prior written notice of cancellation, material change, or intention
not to renew such bond be given to grantor.
      2.   Neither the provisions of any bond accepted by grantor pursuant
hereto, nor any damages recovered by grantor thereunder, shall be construed to
excuse faithful performance by grantee or limit the liability of grantee under
the franchise or for damages, either to the full amount of the bond or
otherwise, or preclude exercise of any other right or remedy given to grantor
by law, whether exercised concurrently or subsequently.
   (G)   Miscellaneous Provisions:
      1.   When not otherwise prescribed herein, all matters herein required to
be filed with the Town, Board or County shall be filed with the County Clerk.
      2.   The grantee shall assume the cost of publication of this franchise
Chapter when such publication is required by law. A bill for publication costs
shall be presented to the grantee by the County Manager.
      3.   The grantee shall provide without charge, one outlet of basic CATV
service to one governmental office building, fire station, police station and a
public school building that is passed by its cable. The distribution of the
cable facility inside such buildings and the extent thereof shall be at the
option, duty and expense of the building owner.
      4.   In the case of any emergency or disaster, the grantee shall, upon
request of the Town, make available its facilities to the Town for emergency
use during the emergency or disaster period.
9-8-5: FRANCHISE TERMINATION:
   (A)   Procedures to Terminate:
      1.   The Board may terminate this franchise if after the hearing
hereinafter provided for, the Board finds that any representation or warrant of
the grantee set out in this Chapter is false or has been breached, or that the
grantee has defaulted in the performance of any of the provisions of this
Chapter on its part to be performed and such default has not been cured within
thirty (30) days after a written copy of the Board's decision has been served
on the grantee by mail or personal service on any officer or employee of the
grantee.
      2.   Any hearing, proceeding, or other action to be taken or proposed to
be taken by the County in regard to the operations of the grantee's cable
television system, or to terminate this franchise shall be taken only after:
         a.   A copy of such action or proposed action is served directly on
the grantee by mail or service on any officer or employee of the grantee; and
         b.   The grantee has been given an opportunity to respond in writing;
         c.   Any hearing which may be specified by the Board shall be only
after ten (10) days' public notice of such hearing, proceeding, action or
proposed action is published in a local daily or weekly newspaper having
general circulation in the Town.
      3.   The public notice required by this Section shall state clearly:
         a.   The action or proposed action to be taken; and
         b.   The time provided for response and the person or persons in
authority to whom such responses should be addressed; and
         c.   Such other procedures as may be specified by the Board.
      4.   If a hearing is to be held, the public notice shall:
         a.   Give the date and time of such hearing; and
         b.   Whether public participation will be allowed; and
         c.   The procedures by which such participation may be obtained.
      5.   The grantee shall be a necessary party to any hearing conducted in
regard to its operation.
   (B)   Procedure Upon Termination: Upon expiration of the franchise, or upon
termination as otherwise provided herein, if the grantee shall not have
acquired an extension renewal thereof and accepted the same, it may have, and
it is hereby granted, the right to enter upon the streets or other property of
the Town, for the purpose of removing therefrom any or all of its property or
otherwise. In so removing said property, the grantee shall refill, at its
expense, any excavation that it shall make, and shall leave said streets in as
good condition as that prevailing prior to the grantee's removal of its
property.
   (C)   Assignment: The grantee shall not sell or transfer its plant or system
to another, other than a person controlling, controlled by, or under common
control with the grantee, nor transfer any rights under this franchise to
another without the Board's written approval. No sale or. transfer of the
grantee's assets used in the performance of this franchise shall be effective
until the vendee, assignee or lessee has filed in the office of the County
Clerk, an instrument duly executed, reciting the fact of such sale, assignment
or lease, accepting the terms of the franchise, and agreeing to perform all the
conditions thereof. Such Board approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, and
neither this Section, nor any other sections of this franchise shall preclude
the mortgaging, hypothecating or assigning the rights in the system, or the
pledge of stock by the grantee for the purpose of financing.
9-8-6: CONSTRUCTION AND FACILITIES:
   (A)   Conditions of Street Occupancy:
      1.   All transmission and distribution structures, poles, lines and
equipment installed or erected by the grantee within the franchise area shall
be so located as to cause minimum interference with the proper use of streets
and with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin
any of said streets. The CATV system shall be constructed and operated in
compliance with applicable governmental construction and electrical codes.
      2.   In case of disturbance of any street or paved area, the grantee
shall, in its expansion and in a manner approved by the Board, replace and
restore such street or paved area in as good condition as theretofore.
      3.   The grantee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the same street or other public place, or remove from
the street or other public place, any property of the grantee when lawfully
required by the Board by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street
vacation, freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street
grade, installation of sewers, drains, gas or water pipes, or any other type of
structures or improvements by the Board; but, the grantee shall, in all cases
have the right of abandonment of its property, subject to County ordinances,
and, if public funds are available to any utility company for the purpose of
defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, such funds shall also be made
available to the grantee.
      4.   The grantee shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit issued by the County, temporarily raise or lower its wires to
permit the moving of buildings; provided:
         a.   The expense of such temporary raising or lowering of wires is
paid by said person, including, if required by the grantee, making such payment
in advance; and
         b.   The grantee is given not less than seven (7) business days'
advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
      5.   The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees overhanging any
streets in the franchise area so as to prevent branches from coming in contact
with the grantee's wires and cables, except that at the option of the Board,
such trimming may be done by it or under its supervision and direction at the
grantee's expense.
      6.   Subject to any applicable State or Federal regulations or tariffs,
the Town shall have the right to make additional use, for any public purpose,
of any poles or conduits controlled or maintained exclusively by or for the
grantee in any street; provided:
         a.   Such use by the Town does not interfere with the use by the
grantee; and
         b.   The Town holds the grantee harmless against and from all claims,
demands, causes of actions, suits, actions, proceedings, damages, costs or
liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever arising out of such use of said
poles or conduits.
   (B)   Safety Requirements:
      1.   The grantee shall, at all times, employ ordinary care and shall
install and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices for
preventing failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries or
nuisances to the public.
      2.   All structures and all lines, equipment and connections, in, over,
under and upon all streets of the franchise area shall be kept and maintained
in a safe and suitable condition and in good order and repair.
   (C)   System Construction and Extension:
      1.   The grantee is hereby authorized to extend the system within the
franchise area to the extent that such extension is or may become technically
and economically feasible.
      2.   For all residential structures hereinafter erected which are to be
served by underground utilities, the developer of the subdivision or
development may acquire CATV service for this development under the following
conditions; but, otherwise, the grantee shall not be obligated to construct
CATV system in new development Developer shall perform all trenching and
backfilling necessary for the provision of cable television service, including
furnishing of any imported backfill material required, and will furnish and
install for the grantee any necessary distribution conduit and substructures,
including pedestals, required in accordance with the grantee's plans and
specifications.
      3.   In addition to providing plans and specifications to the developer,
the grantee shall inspect the facilities required hereunder and certify to the
County, or its designated County Agent, prior to the final approval of the
subdivision or development that the facilities required herein are properly
installed. The Town shall have the right to review and require its approval of
the maps and specifications provided by the grantee. The cost of that portion
of an extension to a subdivision or development from the grantee's existing
facilities in excess of forty five (45) meters (one hundred fifty feet [150'])
outside the boundaries of the subdivision or development shall be borne by the
developer. Facilities installed hereunder shall be owned, operated and
maintained by grantee.
   (D)   Line Severing: If at any time the grantee's cable and/or other
equipment is disturbed, damaged or severed, the cost of repair shall be paid by
the party responsible for said damage. The grantee may charge the responsible
party for the time and materials expended for repair of said damage. The Town
will cooperate with the grantee to assist in enforcing any charge or penalty
arising from cable severing, or other damage to grantee's property.
9-8-7: SERVICE AND OPERATION:
   (A)   Operational Standards; Force Majeure:
      1.   The grantee shall operate and maintain its cable television system
in full compliance with the standards set forth by the Federal Communications
Commission.
      2.   The grantee shall have no obligation to construct or extend the
system, nor to provide, repair, replace, maintain or operate CATV service, for
any cause beyond grantee's control, including, without limitation, acts of God,
fire, flood, earthquakes, hurricane, unavoidable casualty, extraordinary delays
in transportation, strikes, lockouts, picketing, boycotts, embargoes government
orders or other requirements, acts of civil or military authorities,
governmental restrictions, regulations or controls, enemy or hostile
governmental action, civil commotion, energy shortages, acts or omissions of
carriers or activities or other emergency conditions, including weather
conditions incompatible with good quality workmanship.
   (B)   Local Office; Complaints: The grantee shall maintain a local business
office or agent which subscribers may telephone during regular business hours
without incurring added message or toll charges, so that complaints regarding
cable television operations may be promptly reported to the grantee.
   (C)   Rates: The grantee shall maintain on file with the County Manager a
schedule setting forth all rates and charges to be made to subscribers for
basic CATV service, including connection and service charges. Notice of changes
in rates and charges shall be filed with the County Manager at least thirty
(30) days in advance of the effective date thereof. (Ord. 1982-H, 6-10-82, eff.
6-29-82)
CHAPTER 9
MOUNTAIN CITY SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-9-1: Definitions
9-9-2: General Provisions
9-9-2-1: Rules and Regulations
9-9-2-2: Purpose
9-9-2-3: Violation Unlawful
9-9-2-4: Relief From Provisions of Chapter
9-9-2-5: Relief on Own Motion
9-9-2-6: Plumbing, Inspection, Compensation
9-9-2-7: Matter Excluded From All Sewers
9-9-2-8: Plant Capacity and Design Criteria
9-9-2-9: Annual Notification
9-9-3: Fees and Rates
9-9-3-1: Sewer User Charges
9-9-3-2: Unit Determination
9-9-3-3: Dwelling Unit or Residential Unit Privilege Connection Fee
9-9-3-4: Industrial/Commercial/Institutional Privilege Connection Fee
9-9-3-5: Charges for Operation and Maintenance (O & M) Costs for Extraneous
Flows
9-9-3-6: Weighted Fixture Unit Schedule
9-9-3-7: Permit and Inspection Fees
9-9-3-8: Billing and Collection
9-9-3-9: Billing Time
9-9-3-10: Penalties
9-9-3-11: Collection by Suit
9-9-4: Use of Public Sewers Required
9-9-5: Private Sewage Disposal
9-9-6: Building Sewers, Lateral Sewers and Service Connections
9-9-6-1: Permit Required
9-9-6-2: Costs
9-9-6-3: Separate Sewers
9-9-6-4: Old Building Sewers
9-9-6-5: Materials
9-9-6-6: Sizes and Grades
9-9-6-7: Sewer Too Low
9-9-6-8: Maintenance of Side Sewer
9-9-6-9: Cleanouts
9-9-6-10: Check Valves
9-9-6-11: Illegal Connections
9-9-6-12: Service Connection
9-9-6-13: Inspections
9-9-6-14: Safety
9-9-6-15: Contractor's License
9-9-6-16: Testing
9-9-7: Public Sewer Construction
9-9-8: Use of Public Sewers
9-9-8-1: Drainage Into Sanitary Sewers Prohibited
9-9-8-2: Types of Wastes Prohibited
9-9-8-3: Objectionable Wastes
9-9-8-4: Control of Objectionable Wastes
9-9-8-5: Interceptors Required
9-9-8-6: Maintenance of Pretreatment Facilities
9-9-8-7: Control Manholes
9-9-8-8: Measurements and Tests
9-9-8-9: Special Agreements
9-9-8-10: Swimming Pools
9-9-9: Sewer Line Extensions
9-9-10: Permits and Fees
9-9-10-1: Permit Required
9-9-10-2: Application for Permit
9-9-10-3: Compliance With Permit
9-9-10-4: Agreement
9-9-10-5: Fees; Connection Charges
9-9-10-6: Performance Bond
9-9-10-7: Disposition of Fees
9-9-10-8: All Work to be Inspected
9-9-10-9: Notification
9-9-10-10: Condemned Work
9-9-10-11: All Costs Paid by Owner
9-9-10-12: Permits for Outside Sewers
9-9-10-13: Permit Optional
9-9-10-14: Special Outside Agreements
9-9-10-15: Street Excavation Permit
9-9-10-16: Liability
9-9-10-17: Time Limit on Permits
9-9-11: Enforcement
9-9-12: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT The person making application for a permit for sewer installation and
shall be the owner of premises to be served by the sewer for which a permit is
requested or his authorized agent.
BOD Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and shall mean the quantity of oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20°) centigrade,
expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
BOARD The Board of Directors of the Mountain City Water and Sewer Users, Inc.,
(MCW&SU). A nonprofit corporation organization to manage and control the
Municipal sewer system of Mountain City, Nevada, under contract with the County
to so operate the system.
BUILDING Any structure used for human habitation.
COMBINED SEWER A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
CONTRACTOR An individual, firm, corporation, partnership or association duly
licensed by the State of Nevada to perform the type of work to be done under
the permit and shall be the owner or his agent.
COUNTY The County of Elko, owner of the Mountain City sewer system.
FLOW Q The volume of sewage being discharged into the sewage system.
GARBAGE Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food, and
from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
HOUSE SEWER Any sewer or drain beginning at the plumbing or drainage outlets of
any buildings and running to the property line.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sewage and shall mean the waste discharged by industrial users as defined by
EPA rules and regulations, section 35.905, and excludes all domestic wastewater
and uncontaminated water.
INFILTRATION Any water that enters a sewerage system (including sewer service
connections) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe
joints, connections or manhole walls. Infiltration does not include, and is
distinguished from, inflow.
INFLOW Any water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system (including
sewer service connections) from sources such as roof leaders, cellar drains,
yard drains, area drains, foundation drains, drains from swampy and spring
areas, manhole covers, cross connections between storm sewers and sanitary
sewers, catch basins, cooling towers, storm waters, surface runoff, street wash
waters or drainage. Inflow does not include, and is distinguished from
infiltration.
LATERAL SEWER The portion of the side sewer within a public street.
MOUNTAIN CITY SEWER SYSTEM The system of conduits, pumps, treatment plants and
structures used for the purpose of conveying from their source, treating in any
manner and conveying to final points of disposal all wastes of any nature
permit ted by this Chapter to enter said system. Specifically included as
integral parts of the system are all conduits of any nature forming a part of
the general network; all pumps, treatment plants and structures of any kind
used in connection with the collection, treatment and disposal of the wastes
handled by the system and all appurtenances of any of the above, either
physically or functionally connected therewith. Storm, sanitary and combined
sewers, as defined below, are all included as parts of the sewer system.
MULTIPLE BUILDING DEVELOPMENT The various types of developments that would have
common or joint ownership areas such as condominiums, townhouses, mobile home
parks or courts, shopping centers, etc.
OUTSIDE SEWER A private sewer beyond the limits of the unincorporated town of
Mountain City, Nevada.
OWNER A person owning real estate which is, or proposes to be connected to the
sewage system.
pH The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution with a pH value of seven (7) being neutral.
PERMIT Any written authorization required pursuant to this or any other rule,
regulation or resolution of the Board for the installation of any sewage works.
PERSON Any human being, firm, company, partnership, association and private,
public or Municipal corporation, the United States of America, the State of
Nevada, districts and all political subdivisions and governmental agencies
thereof.
PLUMBING SYSTEM All plumbing fixtures and traps, or soil, waste, special waste
and vent pipes, and all sanitary sewage pipes within the building on the
premises.
PRIVATE SEWER One which has an independent sewage disposal system not connected
with a public sewer and which accommodates one or more houses.
PUBLIC SEWER A sewer lying within a street or easement and which is controlled
by or under the jurisdiction of the MCW&SU. All owners of abutting properties
have equal rights.
SANITARY SUPERINTENDENT The inspector acting for and appointed by the Board.
SERVICE CONNECTION The point at which the side sewer connects to the public
sewer.
SEWAGE A combination of water-carried wastes from buildings and industrial
establishments connected to sewage works or from any private sewer.
SEWER A pipe or conduit which carries sewage and/or industrial wastes to which
storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
SEWER USER Any individual, firm, company, association, society or corporation
or group who has connected to the sewage system.
SHALL/MAY "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SIDE SEWER The part of the horizontal piping beginning at the foundation wall
of any building and terminating in the public sewer.
SLUG Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes for more than five (5) times the
average twenty four (24) hour concentrations or flows during normal operation.
STORM DRAIN Sometimes termed "storm sewer", is a sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted water such as cooling water.
STREET Any public highway, road, street, avenue, alley, easement or right of
way.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS Solids, organic or inorganic, that either float on the surface
of, or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Waste Water" and referred to as a nonfilterable
residue.
TOWN The Town of Mountain City, Elko County, Nevada.
USER CHARGE A charge levied on users of treatment works for the use of
operation and maintenance (and replacement of equipment) of such works.
WASTEWATER The spent water of the community. It may be a combination of the
liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions. Wastewater shall specifically exclude
uncontaminated water such as groundwater, rainwater and surface drainage.
9-9-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
9-9-2-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations governing sewer construction and disposal
of sewage and drainage of buildings and connection to the sewage works in
Mountain City are hereby adopted, and all work in respect thereto shall be
performed as herein required and not otherwise.
9-9-2-2: PURPOSE:
This Chapter is intended to provide certain minimum standards, provisions and
requirements for design, methods of construction and use of materials in
sanitary sewage facilities in lateral sewers hereafter installed, altered or
required. This Chapter shall not apply retroactively and, in the event of an
alteration or repair hereafter made, it shall apply only to the new materials
and methods used herein.
9-9-2-3: VIOLATION UNLAWFUL:
This Chapter shall be effective upon the date of adoption and thereafter. The
further maintenance or use of cesspools or other local means of sewage disposal
constitutes a public nuisance and it shall be unlawful for any person to
connect to, construct, install or provide, maintain and use any other means of
sewage disposal from any dwelling place, provided the dwelling to be connected
is within four hundred feet (400') of an existing public sewer, in which
connection to in the usual manner is possible.
9-9-2-4: RELIEF FROM PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER:
   (A)   When any person, by reason of special circumstances, is of the opinion
that any provision of this Ordinance is unjust or inequitable as applied to his
premises, he may make written application to the County Board of Commissioners,
stating the special circumstances, citing the provision complained of, and
requesting suspension or modification of the provision as applied to his
premises.
   (B)   There will be a hearing on such application at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the County Board of Commissioners or a noticed special
meeting. If, upon such hearing, the Board of Commissioners finds that the
provisions are unjust or inequitable as applied to the subject premises, the
County Board of Commissioners may, by resolution, suspend or modify the
provision complained of, as applied to such premises, to be effective as of the
date of the application and continuing during the period of the special
circumstances. Any such resolution shall be transmitted by the Clerk of the
Board of County Commissioners to the Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board.
   (C)   The County Board of Commissioners may not suspend or modify the sewer
user fee, in any circumstances, unless the applicant shows clear and convincing
evidence of reduced inflow or inflow substantially below similarly classified
users.
9-9-2-5: RELIEF ON OWN MOTION:
The County Board of Commissioners, on its own motion, may find that by reason
of special circumstances, any provision of this Chapter should be suspended or
modified as applied to particular premises and may, by resolution, order such
suspension or modification for such premises during the period of such special
circumstances, or any part thereof. No suspension or modification of the sewer
use fee may be made unless there is a clear showing of reduced inflow or inflow
substantially below similarly classified users, and in all circumstances, the
use fee must remain reflective of proportional share of the inflow. Any such
resolution shall be transmitted by the Clerk of the County Board of
Commissioners to the Mountain City Water and Sewer Users, Inc. for its action.
9-9-2-6: PLUMBING, INSPECTION, COMPENSATION:
The Board shall employ the Sanitary Superintendent or such other person as may
be designated by the Board to perform the duties of inspecting the
installation, connection, maintenance and use of all lateral sewers and
plumbing, sewerage, sanitary drainage work and facilities in connection
therewith in Mountain City, Nevada. He shall receive as compensation for his
services for making inspections required to be made by the ordinances, and
orders and regulations from time to time enacted and ordered by the County and/
or Board a sum to be fixed by the Board. He shall serve during the pleasure of
the Board.
9-9-2-7: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM ALL SEWERS:
All surface drainage water or connection to inflow sources shall be excluded
from all parts of the sewer system designed as the sanitary sewer system.
9-9-2-8: PLANT CAPACITY AND DESIGN CRITERIA:
The new wastewater treatment plant (1983) is designed for a twenty (20) year
population of one hundred fifty (150) and a total average daily flow of forty
eight thousand (48,000) gallons. To accommodate more flow than the design flow
could damage the system or cause operational difficulties, therefore, the
system shall be protected accordingly by the City.
9-9-2-9: ANNUAL NOTIFICATION:
The Board shall notify each user, at least annually, the rate and that portion
of the user charges or ad valorem taxes which are attributable to wastewater
treatment services. Notification shall be in conjunction with a regular bill or
other means acceptable to the Regional Administrator of Environmental
Protection Agency.
9-9-3: FEES AND RATES:
9-9-3-1: SEWER USER CHARGES:
   (A)   The user of each dwelling unit within the Town of Mountain City
discharging sewage into the sewerage system, shall pay the Mountain City Water
and Sewer Users Board, Inc., for the use and right of use of the Mountain City
sewage facility. The use charge shall be determined by the following formulas:
 
Rate =        Total O & M and Debt Retirement
              Total units of contribution to the system
User Charge = Rate x user's units of contribution
 
The use charge (a unit) is based on the volume of sewage discharged from a
single-family residential unit. The unit volume of flow is 470 gallons per day
per residence.
The user charge for premises within the Town limits shall be $9.00 per unit per
month.
   (B)   When B.O.D., suspended solids or other pollutant concentrations from a
user exceed the range of concentration of these pollutants in normal domestic
sewage, a surcharge added to the base charge, calculated above, will be levied.
The surcharge will be computed by the model below:
Cs =   [Bc (B) = Sc (S) + Pc (P)] Vu
The unit of time shall be one year based upon the following:
Cs =   A surcharge for wastewater of excessive strength
Vu =   Volume contribution from a user per unit
Bc =   O & M cost for treatment of a unit of biochemical oxygen demand (B.O.D)
B =   Concentration of B.O.D. from a user above a base level
Sc =   O & M cost for treatment of a unit of suspended solids
S =   Concentration of suspended solids from a user above a base level
Pc =   O & M cost for treatment of unit of any pollutant
P =   Concentration of any pollutant from a user above a base level
   (C)   Where a sewer is provided for a combination of business or a
combination of a business and a residence, there shall be cumulative sewer
charge for all types of businesses and residences so served at said location.
   (D)   Charges herein set forth shall be payable while the user is actually
using the system. If a vacancy occurs, a use charge will not be assessed.
   (E)   The County shall review not less than every two (2) years the
wastewater contribution of users and user classes, the total cost of operation
and maintenance of the treatment work, and its approved user charge system. The
County shall revise the charges for users or user classes to accomplish the
following:
      1.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes as required herein;
      2.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the treatment works; and
      3.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs
of operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly.
   (F)   Each user will be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges or ad valorem
taxes which are attributable to wastewater treatment services.
   (G)   The Board may have pre-existing agreements which address: 1) the
reservation of capacity in the Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board
Treatment Works; or 2) the charges to be collected by the Mountain City Water
and Sewer Users Board in providing wastewater treatment services or reserving
capacity. This use charge system shall take precedence over any terms or
conditions of agreements or contracts between the Mountain City Water and Sewer
Users Board and users (including industrial users, special districts, other
municipalities, or Federal Agencies or installations) which are inconsistent
with the requirements of section 204(b)(1)(A) of the Act and the regulations of
the U.S. EPA, September 27, 1978.
9-9-3-2: UNIT DETERMINATION:
Each residence, business or establishment using sewer service shall pay a use
rate per month as established in the following schedule:
Type of User                                Units of Service
RESIDENTIAL
Single-family                               1.0  unit per dwelling unit
Trailer court                               1.0  unit per trailer lot
Multiple-family dwelling                    1.0  unit per dwelling unit
Apartment                                   1.0  unit per dwelling unit
INSTITUTIONAL
School (grammar)                            0.03 units/student
School (jr. high)                           0.04 units/student
School (high school)                        0.05 units/student
Church                                      1.00 units
Lodge, hall (per 2,000 ft.2 or fraction of) 1.00 unit
Medical center                              1.00 unit
Hospital                                    0.50 units/bed
Nursing or convalescent home                0.25 units/bed
Dentist                                     1.00 unit
COMMERCIAL
Motels                                      0.40 units/per rental unit
Hotels                                      0.40 units/per rental unit
Rooming houses                              0.40 units/per rental unit
Recreational vehicle park                   0.70 units/per unit
Office building                             1.00 units/15 employees
Restaurants                                 0.25 units/seat
Taverns and bars                            0.10 unit/seat
Public building                             1.00 units/15 employees
Service stations                            1.00 units/2 pumps
Laundromats                                 1.00 units/per machine
Stores                                      1.00 unit
Grocery stores                              2.00 units
Theaters                                    0.10 unit/seat
Drive-in cafes                              1.00 units
Banks                                       1.00 unit/15 employees
Bowling alleys                              1.00 alley
Car wash                                    3.00 unit/stall
Barber shop                                 1.00 unit
Beauty shop                                 2.00 units
 
9-9-3-3: DWELLING UNIT OR RESIDENTIAL PRIVILEGE CONNECTION FEE:
The sewer connection fee is at a flat rate for each residential unit and shall
be in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Type of Residential Unit                                  Connection Fee
Single-family unit                                        $300.00  
Apartment house (per each apartment)                      $300.00  
Mobile home estates and parks (per each mobile home unit) $300.00  
Multiple-family residential unit (per unit)               $300.00  
Rooming house                                             $300.00 + 150/room
 
9-9-3-4: INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL/INSTITUTIONAL PRIVILEGE CONNECTION FEE:
The sewer connection fees will be based on the number of weighted fixture units
which are being connected times ten dollars ($10.00) per weighted fixture unit.
The number of weighted fixture units shall be in accordance with the weighted
fixture unit schedule in Section
9-9-3-6 of this Chapter. The connection charge shall not be less than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) per connection.
9-9-3-5: CHARGES FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M) COSTS FOR EXTRANEOUS
FLOWS:
The O&M costs attributable to infiltration and/or inflow will be apportioned
among all users in the same manner that the sewer user charges are apportioned.
9-9-3-6: WEIGHTED FIXTURE UNIT SCHEDULE:
The number of weighted fixture units for industrial/commercial/institutional
dischargers shall be deter mined from the following schedule:
             Weighted Fixture Units
Fixture Type Private Public
                                                         Weighted Fixture Units
Fixture Type                                             Private Public
1 bathroom group (water closet - tank operated, lavatory 8       ---
and bathtub or stall shower)
Bathtub (including shower head)                          2.5     ---
Bedpan (washer and sterilizer)                           3       5
Car wash (stall)                                         12      28
Dental units (cuspidors)                                 1       ---
Drinking fountain (per head) with valve control          1       2
Dishwasher (conveyor)                                    ---     100
Dishwasher (undercounter type)                           2       10
Disposal (commercial type)                               25      50
Laundry (tub and trays)                                  2       4
Lavatory                                                 1       2
Laundry, commercial (per pound capacity of machine)      1.5     ---
Laundry, self-service (per pound capacity of machine)    1       1.5
Sink, kitchen or service                                 2       4
Sink, wash or bar                                        1       2
Shower, each head                                        2.5     5
Urinal, trough (per 2 foot) valve-controlled             3       6
Urinal, individual valve-controlled                      3       6
Water closet                                             3       6
Floor drain                                              2       4
Recreational vehicle dump station                        25      ---
Recreational vehicle park (per wet space)                7       ---
 
9-9-3-7: PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES:
The following are the various classes and associated fees for permits and
inspections on the sewer system:
Classification Permit and Inspection Fee
Classification                          Permit and Inspection Fee
Single-family resident                  $25.00
Multiple-family units                   $25.00
Commercial                              $25.00
Industrial                              $25.00
Institutional                           $25.00
Sewer main relocation (inspection only) No fee
Repairs, disconnects                    No fee
Alteration, additions                   No fee
Swimming pool discharge                 $50.00
 
9-9-3-8: BILLING AND COLLECTION:
The amount of sewer service shall be bill ed monthly, bi-monthly or annually,
at the option of the Board. Opening and closing bills for less than the normal
billing period shall be prorated.
9-9-3-9: BILLING TIME:
Bills for sewer service shall be rendered at the beginning of each billing
period and are payable on presentation and delinquent fifteen (15) days after
the post office cancellation date.
9-9-3-10: PENALTIES:
All charges shall become due and payable on the first day of the billing period
specified in the bill. All charges not paid, when due, shall become delinquent
and shall be subject to a basic penalty of ten percent (10%) for the first
month delinquent. In addition, a penalty of one and one-half percent (11/2%)
per month for nonpayment of the charges and the basic penalty shall thereafter
be imposed.
9-9-3-11: COLLECTION BY SUIT:
Until paid, such charges shall constitute a perpetual lien on and against the
property served and any such lien may be foreclosed in the same manner as
provided by the laws of the State for the foreclosure of mechanic's liens. In
addition, and as an alternative to any of the other procedures herein provided,
the Board may bring an action against the person or per sons who occupy the
premises of the delinquent rate and all penalties and costs of collection,
including a reasonable attorney's fee.
9-9-4: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   (A)   Required Use of Sewers: The owner or occupant of any house, building
or property used for residential, commercial, industrial, governmental or
recreational use, or other purpose, situated within Mountain City, which is
abutting on or having a permanent right of access to any street, alley or right
of way in which there is located a public sewer of said Town, is hereby
required to cease using any other method of disposing of sewage, waste or
polluted water, and at his expense to connect such building directly with the
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, within ninety
(90) days after date of official notice from the Board to do so; provided,
however, that said sewer is within four hundred feet (400') of any property
line of the building to be served or common property line in a multiple-
building development.
   (B)   New Developments: The developer of a new subdivision shall, at his
expense, construct the necessary extensions of the public sewer system to
provide public sewer facilities for each lot in his subdivision.
   (C)   Disposal of Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any person to place or
deposit in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the Town
or in any area under the jurisdiction of said MCW&SU, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (D)   Treatment of Wastes Required: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within Mountain City or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the County, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
Chapter.
   (E)   Unlawful Disposal: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facilities intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (F)   Occupancy Prohibited: No building, industrial facility or other
structure shall be inhabited until the owner of the premises has complied with
the rules and regulations set forth in this Chapter.
9-9-5: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   (A)   Sewer Not Available: Where a public sanitary sewer is not available
under the provisions of this Chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to
a private sewer disposal system complying with the provisions of this Chapter
and in accordance with the following special provisions:
      1.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the Nevada Bureau of
Regulatory Health Services. The application for said permit shall be made on a
form furnished by the State which the applicant shall supplement by plans,
specifications and other information as may be deemed necessary by the State. A
permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the State at the time the
application is filed.
      2.   A permit for private sewage disposal system shall not be effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the State Health
Regulator. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the State Health
Regulator when the work is ready for final inspection and before any
underground works are covered. The inspection shall be made by the State within
forty eight (48) hours after receipt of notice from applicant, Saturdays,
Sundays and holidays being excluded in calculating the elapsed time.
   (B)   Additional Rules and Regulations: The type, capacities, location and
layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all of the rules
and regulations and recommendations of the State Division of Health. No septic
tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (C)   Abandonment of Facilities: At such time as a public sewer becomes
available to property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this Chapter
and any septic tank, cesspool or similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (D)   Cost of Maintenance by Owners: The owners shall operate and maintain
the private sewage disposal facility in a sanitary manner at all times and at
no ex pense to the MCW&SU.
   (E)   Miscellaneous Requirements: No statement contained in this Section
shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be
imposed by any law, resolution, rule or other regulations.
9-9-6: BUILDING SEWERS, LATERAL SEWERS AND SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
9-9-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Mountain City Water and Sewer Users
Board. The permit is not to be issued until all sewer connection charges and
fees have been paid in full. Permits shall be applied for by the owner or his
agent on a form provided by the Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Board at the time the
application is filed. Also, the owner or his agent shall pay to the Mountain
City Water and Sewer Users Board at the time the application is filed, a hookup
fee, which shall be established by resolution of the Mountain City Water and
Sewer Users Board.
9-9-6-2: COSTS:
All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer and service connection shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board and/or County
from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer and the marking of the service connection
for same to the public sewer. Any damage to the public sewer shall be repaired
at the cost of the applicant and to the satisfaction of the Board.
9-9-6-3: SEPARATE SEWERS:
A separate and independent building sewer and service connection shall be
provided for every building; except where one building stands at the rear of
another on an interior lot and no separate sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front of the building may be extended to
the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
9-9-6-4: OLD BUILDING SEWERS:
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they
are found, on examination and being tested as required by the MCW&SU to meet
all requirements of this Chapter.
9-9-6-5: MATERIALS:
The materials of construction of the building sewer and service connections,
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Codes, as have been or may be adopted by the County.
1
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1 of this Code.
9-9-6-6: SIZES AND GRADES:
   (A)   The building sewer from the building drain to the public sewer and the
service connection thereto shall not be smaller than four inch (4") diameter
sewer pipe. The minimum grade or slope of the building sewer shall be as
follows:
      1.   Four inch (4") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of not
less than one-quarter inch (1/4") per foot.
      2.   Six inch (6") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of not
less than four feet (4') per one thousand feet (1,000').
      3.   Eight inch (8") diameter sewer pipe shall be laid on a grade of not
less than four feet (4') per one thousand feet (1,000').
   (B)   The alignment of the building sewer from the outlet of the building
drain to the public sewer connection shall be straight, with no bends, warps or
sags permitted, except with the permission of the Board. Trench bottom shall be
cut to proper grade so that when the pipe is laid, the body or barrel of the
pipe shall be on solid material. Bell holes are to be excavated in the trench
bottom at all pipe joints.
9-9-6-7: SEWER TOO LOW:
In all buildings in which any building sewer is too low to permit gravity flow
to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building sewer shall be
lifted by artificial means, approved by the Board and discharged to the public
sewer at the expense of the owner.
9-9-6-8: MAINTENANCE OF SIDE SEWER:
Side sewers shall be maintained by the owner of the property served thereby,
which includes the horizontal piping beginning at the foundation wall of the
building and terminating in the main sewer.
9-9-6-9: CLEANOUTS:
Cleanouts in building sewers shall be provided in accordance with the rules,
regulations and resolutions of the MCW&SU. All cleanouts shall be maintained
watertight. A cleanout shall be located at the property line on each lateral
sewer.
9-9-6-10: CHECK VALVES:
An approved check valve shall be installed on all building sewers where the
floor elevation of the building is lower than the ground level of the sewer
main.
9-9-6-11: ILLEGAL CONNECTIONS:
No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains,
areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer.
9-9-6-12: SERVICE CONNECTION:
The service connection to the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Codes as adopted by the County. 1  In addition, the
materials and workmanship of the service connection shall meet the following
requirements:
   (A)   A precast service connection fitting shall be installed as an
increment of the sewer pipe line or installed as an external fabrication to the
sewer pipe line. Said fabrication to be installed within the center one-third
(1/3) of an individual laying length of the public sewer pipe, as a precaution
in preventing the breaking of the bell or the spigot end of the sewer pipe. The
service connection fitting shall be installed as a watertight connection to the
public sewer, care being taken not to extend the building sewer line into the
public sewer line, therefore, creating a possible restriction. The invert of
the building sewer line at the service connection fitting shall be at an
elevation above the invert of the public sewer at least equal to two-thirds (2/
3) of the diameter of the public sewer. All foreign material shall be removed
from the sewer pipe and there shall be a permanent connection which is airtight
and watertight between the public sewer line and the building sewer line.
   (B)   The building sewer service connection fitting to reinforced sewer pipe
lines shall be made as specified under this Section hereof, except that in
cutting a hole in reinforced pipe for installation of the service connection
tee, extreme care shall be exercised to avoid damage to the pipe. The hole for
the tee shall be carefully chipped first to expose the reinforcing steel.
In lieu of a standard service connection fitting, a riser service connection
may be made to sewer lines that are deep below ground surface. The branch or
riser shall be connected the same as a tee, except that it shall be set
vertically over the public sewer pipe, and extended vertically upward such that
the top of the riser is not to be less than five feet (5') below the surface of
the ground.
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-1-1 of this Code.
9-9-6-13: INSPECTIONS:
The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the MCW&SU when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
9-9-6-14: SAFETY:
All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Board.
9-9-6-15: CONTRACTOR'S LICENSE:
The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall be made by a
plumber holding a valid contractor's license in the State.
9-9-6-16: TESTING:
All building sewers shall be tested in the presence of the Sanitary
Superintendent by filling the line with water or air and inspecting for
excessive leakage under pressure. Compressors, pumps, fittings, plugs, water
and labor for testing shall be furnished by the person constructing the sewer.
All lines showing excessive leakage shall be repaired or replaced at the
expense of the person doing the work and shall be done at the direction and to
the satisfaction of the Sanitary Superintendent.
9-9-7: PUBLIC SEWER CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Permit Required: In accordance with this Chapter, no person shall
construct, extend or connect to any public sewer without first obtaining a
written permit from the MCW&SU and paying all fees and connection charges and
furnishing bonds as required therein. The provisions of this Section requiring
permits shall not be construed to apply to contractors constructing sewers and
appurtenances under contracts awarded and entered into by the MCW&SU.
   (B)   Plans, Profiles and Specifications Required: The application for a
permit for public sewer construction shall be accompanied by complete plans,
profiles and specifications, complying with all applicable resolutions, rules
and regulations and standards of the MCW&SU showing all details of the proposed
work based on an accurate survey of the ground. The application, together with
the plans, profiles and specifications shall be examined by the Board who shall
approve them as filed or require them to be modified as deemed necessary for
proper installation. When the Board is satisfied that the proposed work is
proper and the plans, profiles and specifications are sufficient and correct,
it shall order the issuance of a permit predicted upon the payment of all
connection charges and fees, and the furnishing of an agreement in form to be
approved by the Board that the applicant will construct the facilities in
strict accordance with the approved plans and specifications, the faithful
performance of which agreement shall be secured by a faithful performance bond
in an amount and with sureties satisfactory to the Board. The permit shall
prescribe such terms and conditions as the Board finds necessary in the public
interest.
   (C)   Easements or Rights of Way: In the event that an easement is required
for the extension of the public sewer or the making of connections, the
applicant shall procure and have accepted by the Elko County Commissioners a
proper easement or the grant of right of way sufficient in law to allow the
laying and maintenance of such extension or connection.
   (D)   Persons Authorized to Perform Work: Only properly licensed contractors
shall be authorized to perform the work of public sewer construction within
Mountain City. All terms and conditions of the permit issued by the Board to
the applicant shall be binding on the contractor. The requirements of this
Section shall apply to side sewers installed concurrently with public sewer
construction.
   (E)   Grade Stakes: Grade and line stakes shall be set by a registered
professional engineer or registered land surveyor in the State, prior to the
start of work on any public sewer construction. The contractor shall be
responsible for accurately transferring grades to grade bars and sewer inverts.
   (F)   Compliance with Local Regulations: Any person constructing a sewer
within a street shall comply with all State and County laws, resolutions, rules
and regulations pertaining to the cutting of pavement, opening, barricading,
lighting and protecting of trenches, backfilling and repaving thereof and shall
obtain all permits and pay all fees required by the department having
jurisdiction prior to the issuance of a permit by the MCW&SU.
   (G)   Protection of Excavation: The applicant shall maintain such barriers,
lights and signs as are necessary to give warning to the public at all times
that a sewer is under construction and of each dangerous condition to be
encountered as a result thereof. He shall also likewise protect the public in
the use of a sidewalk against any such conditions in connection with the
construction of the sewer. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other property
disturbed in the course of the work shall be reinstalled in a manner
satisfactory to the County and/or any person having jurisdiction thereover.
   (H)   Design and Construction Standards: The MCW&SU will insure that all new
services and connections to the treatment works are properly designed and
constructed. Minimum standards for the design and construction of sewers with
Mountain City shall be in accordance with the "Standard Specifications for
Public Works Construction", 1978 Edition. The Board may permit modifications or
may require higher standards where unusual conditions are encountered.
   (I)   Record Drawings: "record drawings" or "as-built" drawings showing the
actual location of all mains, structures, wyes, tees, laterals and cleanouts
shall be filed with the County Engineer and Sanitary Superintendent before
final acceptance of the work.
9-9-8: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
9-9-8-1: DRAINAGE INTO SANITARY SEWERS PROHIBITED:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged from any new connection any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer. Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the Board. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted
process waters may be discharged, on approval of the outlet.
9-9-8-2: TYPES OF WASTES PROHIBITED:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant, including but not limited
to cyanides in excess of two (2) mg/l as CN in the wastes as discharged to the
public sewer.
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and five- tenths
(5.5) or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works.
   (D)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastic, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
9-9-8-3: OBJECTIONABLE WASTES:
No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
substances, materials, waters or wastes, if it appears likely in the opinion of
the Town that such wastes contain toxics or other pollutants in an amount or
concentration that can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or
equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, such that those
wastes may cause violation of effluent or water quality limitations or can
otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. In
forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, then give
consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other
pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred fifty
degrees (150°) Fahrenheit, (sixty five degrees [65°] centigrade).
   (B)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between thirty two and one
hundred fifty degrees (32° and 150°) Fahrenheit (zero and sixty five degrees
[0° and 65°] centigrade).
   (C)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/4)
horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the Town.
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid from iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
   (E)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable toxic substances; or wastes exerting any excessive
chlorine requirement to such material received in the composite sewage at the
sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established by the Board for such
materials.
   (F)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Board as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
   (G)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Board in compliance with applicable
State or Federal regulations.
   (H)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and five- tenths
(9.5).
   (I)   Materials which exert or cause:
      1.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate).
      2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and
vegetable tanning solutions).
      3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in such
quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment works.
      4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
   (J)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
9-9-8-4: CONTROL OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTES:
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possesses the characteristics enumerated in Section
9-9-8-3 of this Chapter, and which in the judgment of the Board, may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Board may:
      1.   Reject the waste;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions of
Section
9-9-3 of this Chapter.
   (B)   If the Board permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Board and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
9-9-8-5: INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED:
Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of the
Board, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters of dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Board and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. These interceptors shall be adequately
maintained and are subject to periodic inspection by the Board.
9-9-8-6: MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT FACILITIES:
Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense.
9-9-8-7: CONTROL MANHOLES:
When required by the Board, the owner of any property served by a side sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole in the side
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes. Such
manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Board. The manhole shall
be installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by him so as
to be safe and accessible at all times.
9-9-8-8: MEASUREMENTS AND TESTS:
All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this Chapter shall be determined in
accordance with Standard Methods and shall be determined at the control manhole
provided for or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the
event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the side sewer is connected.
9-9-8-9: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this Article shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the Board and any industrial concern
whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the Board for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern
and subject to the terms and conditions as might be required by the Board.
9-9-8-10: SWIMMING POOLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the contents of a swimming
pool into a sanitary sewer, without first giving notice to and receiving
written permission from the Sanitary Superintendent and paying the appropriate
fee hereunder.
9-9-9: SEWER LINE EXTENSIONS:
   (A)   Extensions: All proposed extensions of the Municipal sewerage system
to serve undeveloped areas within the existing Town limits, newly annexed areas
or areas outside the Town limits shall comply with the overall master plan for
Mountain City Municipal sewerage system. Costs for all extensions which lie out
side the boundary limits of the property for which the extension is requested
shall be the responsibility of that property owner or his agent. Cost for sewer
extensions within the property for which the extension is requested shall also
be the responsibility of the owner or his agent. The Board may, if it has
uncommitted funds in its sewer construction account, participate in a portion
of the cost of any oversized sewer lines. When it is necessary to install
oversized lines as part of an extension, the cost of all oversized lines will
normally be the responsibility of the owner or his agent.
   (B)   Installation Prior to Street Construction: Unless a special permit is
granted by the Board, all Municipal sewerage system extensions into newly
developing areas shall be installed prior to the construction of any new
streets.
   (C)   Standards: All design and construction of any extensions to the
Municipal sewerage system shall comply with the official specifications for
sewerage system extensions as adopted by the Board.
   (D)   Registered Engineer: The plans for all extensions to the sewerage
system shall be prepared and signed by a registered professional engineer in
the State. In approving a plan for extension to the Municipal sewerage system,
the Board reserves the right to stipulate other requirements such as a special
permit fee, right-of-way limits, sequence of construction, time limits for
having existing service disrupted, the filing of a performance bond and other
similar measures as may be required to protect the public. No work shall
commence on any such extension of the Municipal sewerage system until the
extension project has been approved by the Board.
   (E)   Certifications: After the construction of any Municipal sewer system
extensions, it shall be the obligation of the owner or his agent, to have a
registered professional engineer certify to the Board and to the State Division
of Health that the said system extensions are installed in accordance with the
approved plans and specifications on file with the respective agencies.
Following certification by the registered professional engineer and acceptance
by the Board, the entire extension of the Municipal sewerage system, including
the Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board sewer service lines, shall become
the property of the County and it shall be the County's responsibility to
maintain and operate the system thereafter.
   (F)   Connections: If it is necessary for the Board to permit a sewer
service connection and/or service line at any time after the extension has been
originally accepted by the Board, the owner or his agent, shall be required to
pay the sewer hookup fees as well as the standard permit and inspection fees as
may be established by the Board for such purposes.
9-9-10: PERMITS AND FEES:
9-9-10-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance or perform any
work of any sewer or drainage system without first obtaining a written permit
from the Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board.
9-9-10-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   (A)   Any person, legally entitled to apply for and receive a permit shall
make such application on forms provided by the Mountain City Water and Sewer
Users Board for that purpose. He shall give a description of the character of
the work proposed to be done and the location, ownership, occupancy and use of
the premises in connection therewith. The Board may require plans,
specifications or drawings and such other information as may be deemed
necessary.
   (B)   If the Board determines that the plans, specifications, drawings,
descriptions or information furnished by the applicant is in compliance with
the ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the County and Mountain
City Water and Sewer Users Board, it shall issue the permit applied for upon
payment of the required fees as hereinafter fixed.
9-9-10-3: COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT:
After approval of the application, evidenced by the issuance of a permit, no
change shall be made in the location of the sewer, the grade, materials or
other details from those described in the permit or as shown on the plans and
specifications for which the permit was issued except with written permission
from the Board, the Sanitary Superintendent or other authorized representative.
9-9-10-4: AGREEMENT:
The applicant's signature on an application for a permit as set forth in
Section
9-9-10-2 hereof, shall constitute an agreement to comply with all of the
provisions, terms and requirements of ordinances, resolutions, rules and
regulations of the County and/or Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board with
the plans and specifications he has filed with his application, if any,
together with such corrections or modifications as may be made or permitted by
the Board, if any. Such agreement shall be binding upon the applicant and may
be altered only by the Board upon the written request for the alteration from
the applicant.
9-9-10-5: FEES; CONNECTION CHARGES:
All connection charges, fees and other charges in Mountain City and in areas
outside the Mountain City Town limits thereto, rules and regulations set forth
in resolutions, rules and regulations of the Mountain City Water and Sewer
Users Board as heretofore or hereafter fixed shall be paid and complied with in
the manner provided in said resolutions, rules and regulations. The charges
shall be as shown in Section
9-9-3 hereof.
9-9-10-6: PERFORMANCE BOND:
Prior to the issuance of a permit for public sewer construction, the applicant
shall furnish to the County through the Mountain City Water and Sewer Users
Board a faithful performance bond or cash in the amount of one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the total estimated cost of the work, or other approved
surety at the option of the County and/or Board. Said bond to be secured by a
surety or sureties satisfactory to the County and Board. The cash deposit or
faithful performance bond shall be conditioned upon the performance of the
terms and conditions of the permit and shall guarantee the correction of faulty
workmanship and the replacement of defective materials for a period of one year
after the date of acceptance of the work. Cost of plans and engineering shall
be the responsibility of the applicant or owner.
9-9-10-7: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All fees collected on behalf of the Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board
shall be deposited with the treasurer of the Mountain City Water and Sewer
Users Board.
9-9-10-8: ALL WORK TO BE INSPECTED:
All sewer construction work shall be inspected by Sanitary Superintendent to
insure compliance with all requirements of the Mountain City Water and Sewer
Users Board. No sewer shall be covered at any point until it has been inspected
and passed for acceptance. No sewer shall be connected to the Mountain City
public sewer until the work covered by the permit has been completed, inspected
and approved by the Sanitary Superintendent. If the tests prove satisfactory,
the Board shall issue a certificate of satisfactory completion.
9-9-10-9: NOTIFICATION:
It shall be the duty of the person doing the work authorized by permit, to
notify the Sanitary Superintendent in writing that said work is ready for
inspection. Such notification shall be given not less than twenty four (24)
hours before the work is to be inspected. It shall be the duty of the person
doing the work to make sure that the work will stand the tests required by the
Board before giving the above notification.
9-9-10-10: CONDEMNED WORK:
When any work has been inspected and the work condemned and no certification of
satisfactory completion given, a written notice to that effect shall be given
instructing the owner of the premises, or the agent of such owner, to repair
the sewer or other work authorized by the permit in accordance with the
resolutions, rules and regulations of the MCW&SU.
9-9-10-11: ALL COSTS PAID BY OWNER:
All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of any sewer
or other work for which a permit has been issued shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the MCW&SU from any loss or damage that may directly
or indirectly be occasioned by the work.
9-9-10-12: PERMITS FOR OUTSIDE SEWERS:
Permission shall not be granted to connect any lot or parcel of land outside
Mountain City to any public sewer in or under the jurisdiction of the County
unless a permit therefor is obtained. The applicant shall first enter into a
contract in writing whereby he shall bind himself, his heirs, successors and
assigns to abide by all ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations in
regard to the manner in which such sewer shall be used, the manner of
connecting therewith and drainage in connection therewith, and also shall agree
to pay in advance all fees required for securing the permit and a monthly or
annual fee in the amount set by the Board for the privilege of using such
sewer.
9-9-10-13: PERMIT OPTIONAL:
The granting of such permission in any event shall be optional with the Board.
9-9-10-14: SPECIAL OUTSIDE AGREEMENTS:
Where special conditions exist relating to an outside sewer, they shall be the
subject of a special contract between the applicant and the Board.
9-9-10-15: STREET EXCAVATION PERMIT:
A separate permit must be secured from the State, County or any other person
having jurisdiction thereover by owners or contractors intending to excavate in
a public street for the purpose of installing sewers or making sewer
connections.
9-9-10-16: LIABILITY:
The MCW&SU and its officers, agents and employees shall not be answerable for
any liability or injury or death to any person or damage to any property
arising during or growing out of the performance of any work by any such
applicant. The applicant shall be answerable for, and shall save the MCW&SU and
its officers, agents and employees harmless from any liability imposed by law
upon the MCW&SU or its officers, agents or employees, including all costs,
expenses, fees and interest incurred in defending same or in seeking to enforce
this provision. Applicant shall be solely liable for any defects in the
performance of his work or any failure which may develop therein.
9-9-10-17: TIME LIMIT ON PERMITS:
If work under a permit be not commenced within six (6) months from the date of
issuance or if after partial completion the work be discontinued for a period
of one year, the permit shall thereupon become void and no further work shall
be done until a new permit shall have been secured. A new fee shall be paid
upon the issuance of said new permit.
9-9-11: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Violation: Any person found to be violating any provision of this or
any other ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of the County or the
Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board shall be served by the Sanitary
Superintendent or other authorized person with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. Said time limit shall not be less than two (2)
nor more than seven (7) working days. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. All persons shall
be held strictly responsible for any and all acts of agents or employees done
under the provisions of this or any other resolution, rule or regulation of the
County and/or Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board. Upon being notified by
the Sanitary Superintendent of any defect arising in any sewer or of any
violation of the resolutions, rules or regulations of the person or person
having charge of said work shall immediately correct the same.
   (B)   Public Nuisance: Continued habitation of any building or continued
operation of any industrial facility in violation of the provisions of this or
any other ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of the County and/or
Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. The Board may cause proceedings to be brought for the abatement of
the occupancy of the building or industrial facility during the period of such
violation, by bringing the matter before the Board of County Commissioners for
official action.
   (C)   Disconnection: As an alternative method of enforcing the provisions of
this or any other resolution, rule or regulation of the Mountain City Water and
Sewer Users Board, the Sanitary Superintendent shall have the power to
disconnect the user of the sewer system from the public sewer of Mountain City.
Upon disconnection the Sanitary Superintendent shall estimate the cost of
disconnection from and reconnection to the system, and such user shall deposit
the cost, as estimated, of disconnection and reconnection before such user is
reconnected to the system. The Sanitary Superintendent shall refund any part of
the deposit remaining after payment of all costs of disconnection and
reconnection.
   (D)   Public Nuisance; Abatement: During the period of such disconnection,
habitation of such premises by human beings shall constitute a public nuisance,
whereupon the Board shall cause proceedings to be brought for the abatement of
the occupancy of said premises by human beings during the period of such
disconnection.
   (E)   Enforcement Not Penalty: The County hereby declares that the foregoing
procedures are established as a means of enforcement of the terms and
conditions of its ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations and the
resolutions, regulations and rules of the County and the Mountain City Water
and Sewer Users Board and not as a penalty.
   (F)   Liability for Violation: Any person violating any of the provisions of
the resolutions, rules and regulations of the Mountain City Water and Sewer
Users Board shall become liable to the County and/or Mountain City Water and
Sewer Users Board for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the County and/
or Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board by reason of such violation.
9-9-12: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Protection From Damage: No unauthorized person shall maliciously,
wilfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with
any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the Town's sewage
works. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to the penalties
provided by law.
   (B)   Powers and Authorities of Inspectors: The officers, inspectors and any
duly authorized employees of the Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board
shall wear or carry an official badge of office or other evidence establishing
his position as such and upon exhibiting the proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter in and upon any and all buildings,
industrial facilities and properties for the purposes of inspection,
reinspection, observation, measurement, sampling, testing or otherwise
performing such duties as may be necessary in the enforcement of the provisions
of the ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the County and/or
Mountain City Water and Sewer Users Board.
   (C)   Severability: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Chapter or the
application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances. The County
hereby declares that it would have passed this Chapter or any section,
subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that
any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clause or phrases be declared
to be unconstitutional.
   (D)   This Chapter Controlling: With respect to the matters herein
contained, this Chapter shall supersede and control over all ordinances,
resolutions, rules and regulations heretofore adopted with respect to the
sewers within Mountain City. (Ord. 1984-C, 8-23-84, eff. 9-5-84)
CHAPTER 10
ELKO COUNTY CABLE TELEVISION ORDINANCE
SECTION:
9-10-1: Title
9-10-2: Purpose and Authority
9-10-3: Definitions
9-10-4: Application for Franchise; Contents
9-10-5: Granting of Franchise; Procedure
9-10-6: Period of Franchise; Renewal
9-10-7: Expansion of Franchise Area
9-10-8: Franchise Fees
9-10-9: Rates
9-10-10: Bond
9-10-11: Compliance With Laws, Regulations; Payment of Cost of Repairs;
Insurance
9-10-12: Authority for Use of Streets
9-10-13: Conditions of Street Occupancy
9-10-14: Erection of Poles
9-10-15: Undergrounding
9-10-16: Condition of Plant
9-10-17: Removal, Relocation of Facilities
9-10-18: Notice of Sale, Transfer, Assignment, Lease
9-10-19: Forfeiture
9-10-20: Procedure Upon Termination
9-10-21: Complaints; Reports and Procedures
9-10-22: Indemnification by Grantee
9-10-23: Alternative Remedies
9-10-24: Auditing and Financial Records
9-10-25: Nonenforcement
9-10-26: Applicability, Compliance With Laws and Requirements
9-10-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Elko County Cable
Television Ordinance.
9-10-2: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
The Board of Elko County Commissioners finds that the development of cable
television and communications systems has the potential of having great benefit
and impact upon the residents of Elko County, Nevada. Because of the complex
and rapidly changing technology associated with cable television, the Board
further finds that the public convenience, safety and general welfare can be
best served by establishing regulatory powers which should be vested in the
County or such persons as the County shall designate. It is the intent of this
Chapter and subsequent amendments to provide for and specify the means to
attain the best possible public interest and public purpose in these matters
and any franchise issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be deemed to include
this finding as an integral part thereof.
Pursuant to the power granted the Board by chapter 711 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes, nonexclusive franchises are hereby created for the purpose of
operating a cable television system and the right and privilege to use County
property or that portion of the County dedicated for public use for the
installation and maintenance of cables, wires, poles or any other underground
or overhead devices for the transmission of television signals in any area of
the County which may be designated for such cable television service by the
Board.
9-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section, and when not inconsistent with the context,
words used in the present tense include the future, words used in the plural
include the singular, and words in the singular include the plural:
BASIC SUBSCRIBER REVENUES: All remuneration received directly by the franchisee
from subscribers in payment for regularly furnished cable television service,
but shall not include any taxes on services furnished by the franchisee imposed
on any subscriber or user by any government, governmental unit, political
subdivision, agency, or instrumentality, and collected by the franchisee.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of Elko County.
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM, SYSTEM: A facility consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service, which includes producing,
receiving, transmitting, amplifying and distributing audio, video, and other
forms of electronic or electrical signals, to multiple subscribers within the
unincorporated areas of the County.
COUNTY: The County of Elko, State of Nevada, and all of the unincorporated area
within its boundaries over which the County exercises jurisdiction.
FRANCHISE: The right granted through a contractual agreement between the County
and a person by which the County authorizes such person to erect, construct,
reconstruct, operate, dismantle, test, use or maintain a cable television
system within the unincorporated areas of the County. Prior to January 1, 1987,
the term "franchise" shall mean a combination of the authorization to operate a
cable television system by the State of Nevada and authorization by the County
to use public rights of way for that purpose.
STREET: The surface of and the space above and below any public street, way,
place, right of way, road, highway, freeway, bridge, tunnel, lane, path, bike
path, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, drive, communications or utility
easement, by whatever name called, now or hereafter existing as such.
9-10-4: APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE; CONTENTS:
   (A)   Any person desiring to apply for a franchise shall submit an
application in writing to the County Manager. The application must include at a
minimum:
      1.   A clear description of the identity of the applicant, including but
not limited to the name of the applicant, the address of the applicant, the
nature of the business entity, and evidence of compliance by the business
entity with all applicable law;
      2.   The applicant's background, business references and financial
statements for the last two (2) years;
      3.   The proposed rates, service charges, or other fees to be charged
subscribers;
      4.   An estimate of the cost for installation of the system, and how the
cost will be financed;
      5.   The number and description of television channels the applicant will
distribute in the County immediately after the service is in operation and the
channels contemplated for future distribution;
      6.   Detailed plans and specifications for the proposed system, including
the physical location of cables, wires, poles and other equipment, as well as
their relationship to public property and/or rights of way;
      7.   The precise boundaries of the geographic area in the County for
which the franchise is sought and must have attached to the application a map
or maps which clearly depict that geographic area; and
      8.   A schedule of construction and a timetable for completion of the
proposed system, which shall be reflected on the map(s) required by Section
9-10-4(A)7.
   (B)   The Board, or the County Manager or his designee, may demand that the
applicant submit any additional relevant information deemed helpful to the
consideration of the application.
9-10-5: GRANTING OF FRANCHISE; PROCEDURE:
   (A)   The Board may grant a franchise for all or any defined portion of the
County. The service area shall be the entire area defined in the franchise
agreement.
   (B)   In the event that the Board shall grant a nonexclusive, revocable
franchise to construct, operate, maintain, and reconstruct, a cable television
system within the County, or a renewal of an existing franchise, said franchise
shall constitute both a right and an obligation to provide the services of a
cable television system as required by the provisions of this Chapter and the
franchise agreement.
   (C)   Any franchise granted under the terms and conditions of this Chapter
shall be consistent with Federal laws and regulations, and State general laws
and regulations. In the event of conflict between the terms and conditions on
which the Board may grant a franchise, the general law and/or statutory
requirements shall, without exception, control.
   (D)   Nothing in the franchise shall be deemed to waive the requirements of
all other applicable codes, ordinances, regulations or laws regarding permits,
fees to be paid, or manner of construction.
   (E)   No cable television system shall be allowed to occupy or use the
streets in the County or be allowed to operate without having entered into a
franchise agreement in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
   (F)   The Board may establish by resolution appropriate requirements for new
franchises or franchise renewals, and may modify these requirements from time
to time to reflect changing conditions and state of art in the cable industry.
Such requirements shall not be retroactive to franchises then in effect, but
shall become applicable when the franchise is renewed.
   (G)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter shall be nonexclusive.
The Board specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such
additional franchises for a cable television system as it deems appropriate.
   (H)   After an application is received, the County Manager or his designee
shall conduct an investigation of the applicant and the feasibility of its
proposal.
   (I)   After the investigation is completed, the County Manager shall
schedule one or more public hearings on the application at regularly-held or
special meetings of the Board. The Board may consider competing franchise
applications at the hearing. The hearing must be noticed in accordance with
Nevada's Open Meeting Law, and, additionally, by publication of one notice in a
newspaper of general circulation which serves the area of the County to be
included in the proposed franchise.
   (J)   At the time of the hearing, the Board shall consider all relevant
evidence and hear comments from the public. At the hearing the applicant must
insure that:
      1.   The safety, functioning and appearance of property and the
convenience and safety of other persons will not be adversely affected by the
installation or construction of facilities necessary for the system.
      2.   The cost of the installation, construction, operation or removal of
the facilities will be borne by the applicant or subscribers, or a combination
of both.
      3.   The owners of any property affected by the installation, operation,
maintenance or removal of the system will be justly compensated for any damages
caused by the installation, operation, maintenance or removal of the system.
      4.   Access to cable service will not be denied to any group of potential
residential cable subscribers based upon their income level.
      5.   The applicant will be able to provide adequate service to the
potential subscribers.
   (K)   A decision shall be made by the Board not later than ninety (90) days
after the conclusion of all such public hearings, and based upon the evaluation
of the application(s), the hearings and any other information the Board deems
relevant, the Board may grant one or more franchises for any service area, or
may decline to grant any franchise.
   (L)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter shall not become
effective until a written franchise agreement is entered into between the
successful applicant and the County, and the performance bond and certificates
of insurance required by Sections
9-10-10 and
9-10-11 have been filed. The written franchise agreement must be executed
within ninety (90) days of the granting of the franchise and shall contain such
provisions and conditions which are deemed by the Board to be reasonable and
necessary to insure quality service and compliance with all applicable laws,
rules, and regulations. If agreement cannot be reached on the terms and
conditions of a written franchise agreement as required by this Section, the
franchise may be declared by the County to be void.
9-10-6: PERIOD OF FRANCHISE; RENEWAL:
   (A)   A franchise granted pursuant to this Chapter is a franchise for the
maintenance and operation of a cable television system within the County for a
period of up to fifteen (15) years after the date the franchise becomes
effective.
   (B)   During the three (3) year period immediately preceding the expiration
of a franchise, the Board may commence proceedings which afford the public in
the franchise area appropriate notice and participation for the purpose of:
      1.   Identifying the future cable-related community needs and interests;
and
      2.   Reviewing the performance of the franchisee under the franchise
during the then current franchise term.
   (C)   During the three (3) year period immediately preceding the expiration
of a franchise, a franchisee seeking renewal of a franchise may on its own
initiative or at the request of the Board, submit a proposal for renewal.
Subject to applicable Federal law, any such proposal shall address such issues
as the Board may direct, including proposals for an upgrade of the cable
system. The Board may establish a date by which such proposal shall be
submitted.
   (D)   Upon submittal by a franchisee of a proposal to the Board for the
renewal of a franchise, the Board may commence an administrative proceeding,
after providing notice to the franchisee and the public of such proceeding, to
consider whether:
      1.   The franchisee has substantially complied with the material terms of
the existing franchise and with applicable law;
      2.   The quality of the franchisee's service, including signal quality,
response to consumer complaints, and billing practices, has been reasonable in
light of community needs;
      3.   The franchisee has the financial, legal, and technical ability to
provide the services, facilities, and equipment as set forth in the
franchisee's proposal; and
      4.   The franchisee's proposal is reasonable to meet the future cable-
related community needs and interests, taking into account the cost of meeting
such needs and interests.
   (E)   In any proceeding under subsection (D) above, the franchisee, the
public, and the Board or its designee, shall be afforded fair opportunity for
participation, including the right to offer testimony and introduce evidence,
including testimony and evidence related to issues raised in a proceeding under
subsection (B) above and any other matters relevant to the issue of franchise
renewal.
   (F)   At the completion of a proceeding under subsection (D) above, the
Board shall issue a written decision granting or denying the proposal for
renewal based upon the record of such proceeding, and transmit a copy of such
decision to the franchisee. Such decision shall state the reasons therefor.
9-10-7: EXPANSION OF FRANCHISE AREA:
   (A)   Due to the development of new areas within the County, expansion of
franchise areas may be necessary to provide service to such newly developed
areas. Application for expansion of existing franchise areas shall be made as
follows:
      1.   Any person desiring to provide service to an area not previously
covered by a franchise agreement shall submit an application to the County
Manager. The application shall contain all relevant details required by Section
9-10-4 of this Chapter.
      2.   The Board shall schedule a public hearing at which public comment on
the proposal will be received and considered. The Board may also consider
proposals submitted prior to the hearing by other persons to service the
unfranchised area.
      3.   Within a reasonable time after the hearing the Board may grant one
or more franchises for the previously unfranchised area. If the franchise is
granted to an existing franchisee, the boundaries of the existing franchise
will be automatically expanded to include the newly franchised area.
9-10-8: FRANCHISE FEES:
   (A)   The franchisee shall pay the County a franchise fee of not more than
five percent (5%) of basic subscriber revenues received for cable television
operations. Sales tax or other taxes levied on a per subscription basis and
collected by the franchisee shall be deducted from the gross annual basic
subscriber revenues in computing any sums due the County. The franchisee shall
provide the County with quarterly and annual reports showing gross basic
subscriber revenues received during the applicable period.
   (B)   The franchisee shall pay in quarterly installments. All payments are
due thirty (30) days after the end of a quarter. Any franchise fees which
remain unpaid after the date specified in this Section shall be delinquent and
shall thereafter accrue interest at the maximum legal rate until paid.
   (C)   The fee requirements under this Section shall apply to new franchises
granted or existing franchises which are renewed after the effective date of
this Chapter.
   (D)   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as an accord that the
amount paid is, in fact, the correct amount, nor shall acceptance be construed
as a release of any claim which the County may have for additional sums payable
under the provisions of this Section.
9-10-9: RATES:
The franchisee shall maintain on file with the County Manager a schedule
setting forth all rates and charges to subscribers for cable television
service, including connection and services charges. Notice of changes in rates
and charges shall be filed with the County Manager at least thirty (30) days in
advance of the effective date thereof.
9-10-10: BOND:
   (A)   Franchisee shall, within twenty (20) days after the date of the
granting of a franchise, file with the County Manager, and at all times
thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the entire term of the
franchise, at its expense, a faithful performance bond executed by a surety
company approved by the Board, and in form satisfactory to the Board, in the
amount of fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) renewable annually, and
conditioned on the faithful performance by the franchisee of all the terms,
conditions, and covenants contained in the franchise. If the franchisee fails
to comply with any one or more of the provisions of the franchise, there shall
be recoverable jointly and severally from the principal and surety of such bond
any damages or losses suffered by the County as a result thereof.
   (B)   Neither the provisions of any bond accepted by County pursuant hereto,
nor any damages recovered by County thereunder, shall be construed to excuse
faithful performance by franchisee or limit the liability of franchisee under
the franchise or for damages, or preclude the exercise of any other right or
remedy given to County by law.
9-10-11: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, REGULATIONS; PAYMENT OF COST OF REPAIRS;
INSURANCE:
Every franchisee shall:
   (A)   Construct, install and maintain or cause to be constructed, installed
and maintained all lines, wires, cables, and appurtenances in accordance with
any and all of the ordinances, rules and regulations heretofore or hereafter
adopted by the Board in the exercise of its police powers and in accordance
with the general laws and regulations relating to the location and maintenance
of such facilities.
   (B)   Pay to County, on demand, the reasonable cost of all repairs to public
property made necessary by any operations under the franchise.
   (C)   Maintain in full force and effect throughout the term of the franchise
the following insurance in a form and with insurer(s) satisfactory to the
County:
      1.   Worker's compensation insurance in compliance with the laws of the
State of Nevada;
      2.   Bodily injury liability insurance with limits of five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per person, and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence; and
      3.   Property damage liability insurance with limits of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per occurrence.
   (D)   The County must be named as an additional insured on each policy of
insurance set forth in subparagraphs (C)2 and 3 above.
   (E)   File and maintain with the County Manager a current certificate of
insurance evidencing the insurance coverage required by subparagraphs (C)2 and
3 above.
9-10-12: AUTHORITY FOR USE OF STREETS:
   (A)   For the purposes of operating and maintaining a cable television
system in the County, the franchisee may erect, install, construct, repair,
replace, reconstruct and retain in, on, over, under, upon, across and along the
streets within the County such lines, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits,
vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances, pedestals, attachments and other
property and equipment as are necessary and appurtenant to the operation of the
system, provided that all applicable permits are applied for and granted, all
fees paid, and all other County Code provisions otherwise complied with.
   (B)   Prior to construction or alteration of the system, the franchisee
shall in each case file plans with all appropriate County agencies and utility
companies and receive written approval of such plans, which approval shall not
be unreasonably withheld. Franchisee shall provide a monthly progress report to
County through the completion of construction or alteration.
   (C)   Franchisee shall construct and maintain the system so as not to
interfere with other uses of streets. Franchisee shall make use of existing
poles and other facilities available to it. Franchisee shall individually
notify all residents affected by proposed construction prior to the
commencement of that work.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the above grant to use streets, no street shall be
used by franchisee if County, in its sole opinion, determines that such use is
inconsistent with the terms, conditions or provisions by which such street was
created or dedicated, or presently used.
9-10-13: CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY:
   (A)   All structures, lines, and equipment erected or maintained by the
franchisee within the County shall be so located as to cause minimum
interference with the proper use of streets, alleys, and other public ways and
places, and to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners who abut any of the said streets, alleys or
other public ways and places.
   (B)   In case of disturbance of any street, sidewalk, alley, public way, or
paved area, the franchisee shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner
approved by the Elko County Engineering Department, replace and restore such
street, sidewalk, alley, public way, or paved area in as good a condition as
before the work causing such disturbance was done.
9-10-14: ERECTION OF POLES:
No franchise shall be deemed to expressly or impliedly authorize the franchisee
to construct or install poles or wire-holding structures within streets for the
purpose of placing cables, wires or lines without the written consent of the
Board. Such consent shall be given upon such terms and conditions as the Board
in its sole discretion may prescribe, and which shall include a requirement
that the franchisee perform, at its sole expense, all acts required to maintain
the poles clear of obstructions.
9-10-15: UNDERGROUNDING:
Unless permission of the Board to do otherwise is obtained, in all areas of the
County where the cables, wires, and other like facilities of a public utility
or public utility district are placed underground, each franchisee shall
construct and install its cables, wires, and other facilities underground.
9-10-16: CONDITION OF PLANT:
All structures and all lines, equipment and connections, in, over, under, and
upon all streets of the franchise area shall be kept and maintained in a safe
and suitable condition and in good order and repair by the franchisee.
9-10-17: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   (A)   The franchisee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the same street or other public place, or remove from
the street or other public place any property of the franchisee when required
by the Board by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street vacation,
freeway and street construction, change or establishment of street grade,
installation of sewers, drains, gas, or water pipes, or any other type of
alteration or improvement by the Board.
   (B)   The franchisee shall, upon request, temporarily raise or lower its
wires to permit the moving of buildings, provided:
      1.   The expense of such temporary raising or lowering of wires is paid
by the person moving such building, including, if required by the franchisee,
making such payment in advance; and
      2.   The franchisee is given not less than seven (7) business days
advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
9-10-18: NOTICE OF SALE, TRANSFER, ASSIGNMENT, LEASE:
The person receiving each franchise shall, thirty (30) days before the
transaction is to become effective, file with the County Clerk written notice
of any contemplated sale, transfer, assignment or lease of the franchise or any
part thereof, or of any of the rights or privileges granted thereby. No such
sale, transfer, assignment or lease of the franchise, or any part thereof,
shall be effective until first approved by the Board.
9-10-19: FORFEITURE:
If any person securing a franchise fails, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions or conditions of this Chapter, and does not within ten
(10) days after written demand for compliance begin the work of compliance, or
after such beginning does not prosecute the work of compliance with due
diligence to completion, then the Board may declare such franchise forfeited.
9-10-20: PROCEDURE UPON TERMINATION:
Upon expiration of the franchise, or upon termination as otherwise provided
herein, if the franchisee shall not have perfected a renewal thereof, it may
have, and it is hereby granted, the right to enter upon the streets or other
property of the County for the purpose of removing therefrom any or all of its
property. In so removing said property, the franchisee shall refill, at its
expense, any excavation that it shall make, and shall leave said streets in as
good condition as that prevailing prior to the franchisee's removal of its
property.
9-10-21: COMPLAINTS: REPORTS AND PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Each franchise agreement shall contain a procedure for hearing and
resolution of subscriber complaints.
   (B)   The franchisee shall submit a monthly report to the County Manager
describing in general categories the types and numbers of complaints received
from subscribers. If requested by the County Manager or his designee, the
franchisee will supply names and addresses of the complainants.
   (C)   The complaints will be listed in two (2) categories:
      1.   Those involving reception or service; and
      2.   Others such as billing disputes.
   (D)   The report shall state which complaints were resolved and how and when
they were resolved.
   (E)   Each franchise agreement will contain provisions allowing reduction of
bills for periods of service failure.
   (F)   All customer complaints shall be promptly resolved by the franchisee.
9-10-22: INDEMNIFICATION BY GRANTEE:
   (A)   Each franchisee shall, at its sole expense, fully indemnify, defend
and hold harmless the County, and in their capacity as such, the officers,
agents and employees thereof, from and against any and all claims, suits,
actions, liability and judgments for damages or otherwise:
      1.   For actual or alleged injury to persons or property, including loss
of use of property due to an occurrence, whether or not such property is
physically damaged or destroyed, in any way arising out of or through or
alleged to arise out of or through the acts or omissions of the franchisee or
its officers, agents, employees, or contractors or to which the franchisee's or
its officer's, agent's employees' or contractor's acts or omissions in any way
contribute;
      2.   Arising out of or alleged to arise out of any claim for damages for
invasion of the right of privacy, defamation of any person, firm or
corporation, or the violation or infringement of any copyright, trademark,
trade name, service mark or patent, or of any other right of any person, firm
or corporation; and
      3.   Arising out of or alleged to arise out of franchisee's failure to
comply with the provisions of any statute, regulation, or ordinance of the
United States, State of Nevada, or any local agency applicable to the
franchisee in its business.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the parties indemnified and
held harmless herein from participating in the defense of any litigation by
their own counsel at the franchisee's sole expense. Such participation shall
not under any circumstances relieve the franchisee from its duty of defense
against liability or of paying any judgment entered against such party.
9-10-23: ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES:
No provision of this Chapter shall be deemed to bar the right of the County to
seek or obtain judicial relief from a violation of any provision of the
franchise or any rule, regulation, requirement or directive promulgated
thereunder. Neither the existence of other remedies identified in this Chapter
nor the exercise thereof shall be deemed to bar or otherwise limit the right of
the County to recover monetary damages for such violation by the franchisee, or
judicial enforcement of the franchisee's obligations by means of specific
performance, injunction relief or mandate, or any other judicial remedy at law
or in equity.
9-10-24: AUDITING AND FINANCIAL RECORDS:
   (A)   The auditor of the County may, from time to time during the term of a
franchise prescribe standards governing the nature, extent and type of
accounting system and accounting procedures utilized by a franchisee and
require changes in accounting standards or procedures utilized by a franchisee,
for the purpose of promoting the efficient administration of the franchise fee
requirements of this Chapter. Any such standards shall be in writing, shall be
filed with the County Manager and shall be mailed to the franchisee to whom
directed. A franchisee shall promptly comply with all such standards.
   (B)   During the term of each franchise, the County may, not more frequently
than once each year, conduct an audit of the books, records, and accounts of
the franchisee for the purpose of determining whether the franchisee has paid
the appropriate franchise fee. The audit may be conducted by the auditor of the
County or by an independent certified public accounting firm retained by the
County and shall be conducted at the sole expense of the County. The party
conducting the audit shall prepare a written report containing its findings,
and the report shall be filed with the County Manager and mailed to the
franchisee.
   (C)   Each franchisee shall make available for inspection by authorized
representatives of the County, its books, accounts, and all other financial
records at reasonable times and upon reasonable advance notice for the purpose
of permitting exercise of the authorities conferred by this Section.
9-10-25: NONENFORCEMENT:
A franchisee shall not be relieved of any obligation to comply with any of the
provisions of the franchise or any rule, regulation, requirement or directive
promulgated thereunder by reason of any failure of the County or its officers,
agents or employees to enforce prompt compliance.
9-10-26: APPLICABILITY, COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   In Public Law 98-549, known as the Cable Communications Policy Act of
1984, the United States Congress began the process of deregulation of cable
television systems by states and local governments. By amendment to chapter 711
of NRS effective July 1, 1985, the Nevada Public Service Commission was removed
from the field of cable television regulation and the regulatory responsibility
was shifted to counties and cities. The effect of such legislation was not
immediate, and a number of existing laws and regulations were left in effect
for varying periods of time. To the extent that such laws and regulations
allow, the State laws and Public Service Commission rules and regulations in
effect on July 1, 1985, shall be applicable to any franchise granted under the
provisions of this Chapter.
   (B)   A franchise issued by the County prior to July 1, 1985, and any
extensions thereof allowing the use of public property for the installation of
cable television facilities will remain effective for the term of such
franchise to the extent of the authority granted by such franchise. Provided,
however, that in order to continue operation of an existing franchise after the
expiration of the term thereof, the franchisee shall be required to secure a
new or supplemental franchise subject to the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
1988-B, 4-7-88, eff. 4-25-88)
CHAPTER 11
MIDAS WATER DISTRICT
SECTION:
9-11-1: District Created; Boundaries; Name
9-11-2: Basic Purpose and Power of District
9-11-3: Public Convenience and Necessity; Economic Feasibility
9-11-4: Designation of Trustees
9-11-5: Adoption of Provisions
9-11-6: Incorporation by Reference
9-11-7: Recital of Protests filed
9-11-1: DISTRICT CREATED; BOUNDARIES; NAME:
This Chapter is enacted pursuant to the terms and provisions of chapters 308
and 318 of the Nevada Revised Statutes in order to create the Midas Water
District for the purpose of supplying, storing, and distributing water for
public and private purposes.
The boundaries of the Midas Water District are as follows:
The East half (E1/2) of the East half (E1/2) of Section 20 of T. 39 N., R. 46
E., M.D.B. & M.; and
The Southwest quarter (SW1/4) of the Northwest quarter (NW1/4), and the
Northwest quarter (NW1/4) of the Southwest quarter (SW1/4) of Section 21 of T.
39 N., R. 46 E., M.D.B. & M.
The specific contiguous unincorporated area described above shall include the
original townsite of Gold Circle as described in the "Map of Gold Circle" filed
for record in the office of the Elko County Recorder, official records of Elko
County, on November 5, 1907, and the original Moffat Addition to the town of
Gold Circle as described in the "Map of the Moffat Addition to the Town of Gold
Circle" filed for record in the office of the Elko County Recorder, on April
22, 1908.
Total area of approximately 202 acres.
The District hereby created shall be known as the Midas Water District.
9-11-2: BASIC PURPOSE AND POWER OF DISTRICT:
   (A)   The basic purpose for which the District is created is to supply,
store, and distribute water for public and private purposes and the District
shall have the power to acquire, construct, reconstruct, improve, extend or
better a works, system, or facilities to that end.
   (B)   The District shall have and is authorized to utilize, without
limitation, all the powers necessary to achieve the stated purpose as given by
chapters 308 and 318 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
9-11-3: PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY; ECONOMIC FEASIBILITY:
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners finds as follows:
      1.   That there is an existing need for water supply, storage, and
distribution facilities for public and private purposes within the District and
that the public convenience and necessity require its creation;
      2.   That the creation of the District is economically sound and
feasible;
      3.   That the service plan for the District conforms to subsection 1 of
the Nevada Revised Statutes 308.030; and
      4.   That the service plan for the District does not contravene any of
the criteria enumerated in subsection 1 of the Nevada Revised Statutes 308.060.
9-11-4: DESIGNATION OF TRUSTEES:
The Board of County Commissioners does hereby elect to serve, pursuant to the
Nevada Revised Statutes 318.0953(2), ex officio, as the Board of Trustees of
the District.
9-11-5: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS:
All terms and provisions of chapters 308 and 318 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes, pertinent, relevant and applicable to the operation of the District
are hereby ratified, confirmed and made a part hereof and nothing herein
contained shall be construed to be in derogation of said terms and provisions,
any and all such conflicts to be construed in harmony with statutory terms and
provisions.
9-11-6: INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE:
Elko County Commission Resolution No. 80-88, entitled "Resolution Approving
Service Plan for Midas Water General Improvement District", and the "Service
Plan for Special Water District, Community of Midas, Elko County, Nevada",
dated October 17, 1988, and prepared for the Board of Elko County Commissioners
by Galen D. Denio, P.E., pursuant to the Special District Control Law, Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 308, are incorporated by reference as if fully set
forth herein.
9-11-7: RECITAL OF PROTESTS FILED:
Of a total of one hundred forty four (144) property owners within the District
who were notified by mail of the proceedings to organize and create the
District, eight (8) written protests against the formation of the District were
filed with the Elko County Clerk. (Ord. 1989-H, 5-17-89; eff. 5-30-89)
TITLE 10
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
10-1-1: Livestock Running at Large
10-1-2: Dump Restrictions
10-1-1: LIVESTOCK RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow his sheep, cattle,
goats, horses, mules or other livestock to be in and upon the streets, alleys
or roads of the Town of Mountain City. Any person violating any provisions
hereof shall be punished with a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars
($300.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed three (3) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. (Ord. dated 7-6-55)
10-1-2: DUMP RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to dump or deposit the dead
carcass or carcasses of any animal or fowl in the public dumps of the County,
and any person violating these provisions shall, on conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than three
hundred dollars ($300.00), or by imprisonment in the County jail not exceeding
three (3) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (Ord. 1965-E, 7-7-65)
CHAPTER 2
ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-2-1: Nuisance Declared
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-3: Application of Chapter
10-2-4: Chapter Not Exclusive
10-2-5: Enforcement of Regulations
10-2-6: Removal of Vehicles
10-2-7: Notice of Nuisance; Hearing
10-2-8: Information Forwarded to Department of Motor Vehicles
10-2-9: Cost of Removal a Lien
10-2-10: Abatement of Nuisance; Violations
10-2-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
The accumulation and storage of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicles, or parts thereof, creates a condition tending to reduce the value of
property, promotes a blight and deterioration, invites plundering, constitutes
a nuisance attractive to and hazardous to the safety of minors, creates a
harborage for rodents and insects, is deleterious and injurious to the health
and welfare of the residents of the County, and is hereby declared a public
nuisance and a crime against the order and economy of the County.
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The term "vehicle" means a device by which any person or property may be
propelled, moved or drawn upon a highway, stationary rails or cross-country,
except a device moved by human power; the term "vehicle" includes, but is not
limited to: Automobile, truck, trailer, tractor, railway car, motorcycle, self-
propelled van, dune buggy, snowmobile and all terrain vehicles.
10-2-3: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER:
This Chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property.
   (B)   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner
on private property in connection with the business of a licensed dismantles,
licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer or when such storage or parking is
necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or commercial
enterprise.
10-2-4: CHAPTER NOT EXCLUSIVE:
This Chapter is not the exclusive regulation of abandoned, wrecked, dismantled
or inoperative vehicles within the County, or any other legal entity or agency
having jurisdiction.
10-2-5: ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the provisions of this Chapter shall be
administered and enforced by the Planning Advisor. In the enforcement of this
Chapter, such officer and his deputies, assistants and employees may enter upon
private or public property to examine a vehicle or parts thereof, or obtain
information as to the identity of a vehicle and to remove or cause the removal
of a vehicle or part thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to this
Chapter.
10-2-6: REMOVAL OF VEHICLES:
When the Board of County Commissioners has contracted with or granted a
franchise to any person or persons, such person or persons shall be authorized
to enter upon private property or public property to remove or cause the
removal of a vehicle or parts thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant to
this Chapter.
10-2-7: NOTICE OF NUISANCE; HEARING:
   (A)   Upon it being determined by the Planning Advisor that a nuisance
exists pursuant to this Chapter, a notice describing said nuisance shall be
sent via certified mail to the owner or person in custody of the real property
upon which the nuisance exists and to the last registered and legal owner of
record of the vehicle(s) unless the vehicle(s) is in such a condition that
identification numbers are not available to determine ownership. Said notice
shall require that within fifteen (15) days of receipt of notice, the vehicle
(s) or parts thereof shall be either:
      1.   Enclosed in a building in a lawful manner where it is not visible
from the street or other public or private property; or
      2.   Moved to a location upon the owner's property where it is not
visible from the street or other public or private property; or
      3.   Removed to the place of business of a licensed vehicle dismantles or
junk dealer; or
      4.   Removed to a designated County or City dumpsite; or
      5.   Legally released to the County with the assessment of the cost of
removal of the vehicle or part thereof against the property on which it is
located; or
      6.   Disclaimed by written disclaimer of ownership or responsibility
filed with the Planning Advisor, requesting a hearing on the issue.
   (B)   The hearing provided by subsection (A) 6 above shall be held within a
reasonable time before the Board of County Commissioners which shall hear all
facts and testimony on the condition of the vehicle, or parts thereof, and the
circumstances concerning its location and ownership. The Board of County
Commissioners shall not be limited by the technical rules of evidence.
Written notice of the hearing shall be given the person requesting said hearing
by certified mail posted at least seven (7) days prior to the hearing.
The Board of County Commissioners may impose such conditions and take such
other action as it deems appropriate under the circumstances to carry out the
purpose of this Chapter. It may delay the time for removal of the vehicle or
part thereof if, in its opinion, the circumstances justify. At the conclusion
of the public hearing, the Board of County Commissioners may find that a
vehicle or part thereof has been abandoned, wrecked, dismantled or is
inoperative on private or public property and order the same removed from the
property as a public nuisance and disposed of as hereinafter provided and
determine the administrative costs and the costs of removal to be charged
against the owner of the parcel of land on which the vehicle or part thereof is
located. The order requiring removal shall include a description of the vehicle
or part thereof and the correct identification number and license number of the
vehicle, if available at the site.
If it is determined at the hearing that the vehicle was placed on the land
without the consent of the landowner and that he has not subsequently
acquiesced in its presence, the Board of County Commissioners shall not assess
costs of administration or removal of the vehicle against the property upon
which the vehicle is located or otherwise attempt to collect such costs from
such landowner.
10-2-8: INFORMATION FORWARDED TO DEPARTMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
Within five (5) days after the date of removal of the vehicle or part thereof,
notice shall be given to the Department of Motor Vehicles identifying the
vehicle or part thereof removed. At the same time there shall be transmitted to
the Department of Motor Vehicles any evidence of registration available,
including registration certificates, certificates of title and license plates.
10-2-9: COST OF REMOVAL A LIEN:
The cost of removal, which shall include administrative costs, shall be a lien
upon the land where the nuisance was situate.
10-2-10: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE; VIOLATIONS:
Every person who shall commit or maintain a public nuisance as hereinabove
defined or who shall wilfully omit or refuse to perform any legal duty relating
to the removal of such nuisance shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
Any court or magistrate before whom there may be pending any proceeding for a
violation of this Chapter shall, in addition to any fine or other punishment
which it may impose for such violation, order such nuisance abated and all
property unlawfully used in the maintenance thereof destroyed by the Sheriff at
the cost of the defendant. (Ord. 1971-A; 5-5-71)
CHAPTER 3
WILDHORSE RESERVOIR SEWAGE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Definitions
10-3-2: Criteria
10-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
HIGHWATER LINE: On Wildhorse Reservoir, the highwater line shall be a line
connecting all points around the perimeter of the lake that are at the 6206.5
feet elevation (1.5 feet above spillway crest). On tributaries, it shall be the
highest readily discernable point displaying evidence of inundation.
MAJOR TRIBUTARIES: Those streams which normally flow at their point of junction
with the highwater line for one month or more during the annual spring run-off.
SEWER SYSTEM COMPONENT: Any pipe, conduit, pump, tank, vault, leach pit, leach
field or any other structure, or device used for the collection, conveyance,
treatment or accumulation of effluent or products formed by its decomposition.
All other terms used in this Chapter shall have the meaning customarily
associated with such term.
10-3-2: CRITERIA:
   (A)   1. All components of every sewerage system shall maintain not less
than four feet (4') vertical separation between the lowest point to which earth
is disturbed during installation and the highwater line.
      2.   The vertical separation as required by (A) 1 above shall prevail for
all installations installed between one hundred fifty feet (150') and five
hundred feet (500') (horizontal distance) from the highwater line of Wildhorse
Reservoir and for one mile (straight line distance) upstream from the highwater
line of said reservoir along any of its major tributaries. No component shall
be installed less than one hundred fifty feet (150') from the highwater line.
   (B)   Nothing contained in subsection (A) shall relieve the developer from
full compliance with all other standards established by the current applicable
County Plumbing Codes for the area governed by the terms of this Chapter.
   (C)   All current County Plumbing Code requirements shall prevail for all
installations beyond five hundred feet (500'). (Ord. 1972-A; 12-9-71)
CHAPTER 4
WILDHORSE RESERVOIR GARBAGE COLLECTION FRANCHISE
(Rep. by Ord. 1997-M, 12-4-1997, eff. 12-22-1997)
CHAPTER 5
CORONERS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Certificate of Cause of Death
10-5-1: CERTIFICATE OF CAUSE OF DEATH:
   (A)   The ex-officio coroner or his duly appointed deputy may certify the
cause of death in the case of any death occurring without medical attendance.
Where there is no qualified physician in attendance, and in such cases only,
the coroner or his deputy is authorized to make the certificate and return from
the statements of relatives or other persons having adequate knowledge of the
facts. If the death was caused by unlawful or suspicious means, the coroner
shall conduct an investigation.
   (B)   In those cases in which an autopsy is performed upon the deceased, the
medical certificate of the death may be signed by the pathologist who performed
the autopsy.
   (C)   All ex-officio coroners and deputy coroners will complete a course of
instruction approved by the County Health Officer prior to ever certifying the
cause of death of any person. (Ord. 1978-E, 4-6-78, eff. 4-20-78)
CHAPTER 6
OVERNIGHT CAMPING WITHIN JARBIDGE
SECTION:
10-6-1: Overnight Camping Unlawful
10-6-2: Definition
10-8-3: Exemptions
10-6-1: OVERNIGHT CAMPING UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to camp overnight within the townsite of
Jarbidge, Nevada.
10-6-2: DEFINITION:
"Overnight camping" shall include but shall not necessarily be limited to the
following:
   (A)   Staying overnight in motor vehicles of any type.
   (B)   Staying overnight in tents, trailers, mobile homes or similar means of
shelter.
   (C)   Sleeping overnight without being in any form of shelter and
protection.
10-6-3: EXEMPTIONS:
"Overnight camping" shall not include the following:
   (A)   Staying overnight in a residence within the townsite of Jarbidge,
Nevada.
   (B)   Staying overnight by a resident of Jarbidge on his own property. (Ord.
1978-K, 6-16-78, eff. 7-4-78)
CHAPTER 7
CLEARING ARID AND SEMI-ARID LANDS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Conditions Precedent to Development
10-7-2: Violation
10-7-1: CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO DEVELOPMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, combination of persons, association,
partnership or corporation to intentionally clear native brush or top soil from
land, the possession of which has been obtained through the Desert Land Entry
Act (43 C.F.R. 2520, et seq.) or the Carey Act (Nevada Revised Statutes 324.010
et seq.) for the purpose of preparing the said land for agricultural use in
accordance with the aforementioned acts without first having an established and
immediately usable water source, including established and installed pumping
equipment, sufficient to beneficially irrigate the land to be cleared and
without first acquiring legal access to the land to be cleared. (Ord. 1984-G,
8-9-84, eff. 9-1-84)
10-7-2: VIOLATION:
Any violation of the aforementioned Section shall constitute a misdemeanor
offense. (Ord. 1979-D, 4-4-79, eff. 5-1-79)
CHAPTER 8
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Definitions
10-8-2: Department Created
10-8-3: Director; Appointment; Salary; Duties
10-8-4: Policies and Procedures
10-8-5: Appeals
10-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
COMMISSIONERS: The Board of Elko County Commissioners.
DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES: The County Department of Social Services.
DIRECTOR: The director of the County Department of Social Services. (Ord. 1990-
P, 6-20-90, eff. 7-3-90; amd. Ord. 1993-B, 3-17-93, eff. 4-1-93)
10-8-2: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is created a County Department of Social Services which shall consist of
a director and such other officers and employees as are authorized in this
Chapter. The Department of Social Services is expressly authorized to exercise
and perform those duties granted to the Board of County Commissioners under
chapter 428 of the Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 1990-P, 6-20-90, eff. 7-3-90;
amd. Ord. 1993-B, 3-17-93, eff. 4-1-93)
10-8-3: DIRECTOR; APPOINTMENT; SALARY; DUTIES:
   (A)   The Director shall be appointed by the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   The Director shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of County
Commissioners and may be removed from office by the Board at any time. The
salary shall be determined by the Board of County Commissioners. The County
shall bond the Director for a minimum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00).
   (C)   The Director shall discharge all duties and administer all programs as
the Commissioners may delegate to the Director. Such duties and administrative
responsibilities shall be restricted to those which the various State laws
pertaining to welfare matters are the responsibility of the County and can be
lawfully delegated by the Board of County Commissioners to appointed or elected
officials of the County.
   (D)   The Director shall have the authority to:
      1.   Make decisions regarding disposition of grants and funds budgeted
for the County Department of Social Services.
      2.   Develop policy and procedures for the County Department of Social
Services, subject to approval by the Board of County Commissioners.
      3.   Make decisions and act in emergency situations without the prior
approval of the Board of County Commissioners.
      4.   Employ staff members, determine salaries and other expenses
necessary for the proper functioning of the Department; with approval of the
Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 1990-P, 6-20-90, eff. 7-3-90; amd. Ord.
1993-B, 3-17-93, eff. 4-1-93)
10-8-4: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES:
   (A)   The Department of Social Services will be operated in accordance with
the Department's policy and procedure manual. The manual will be established to
depict:
      1.   Organization;
      2.   Case management;
      3.   Eligibility standards;
      4.   Program management;
      5.   Eligibility determination;
      6.   Services provided;
      7.   Grants.
   (B)   The policy and procedures may be modified to comply with the County
Code and the Nevada Revised Statutes. The policies and procedures of Nevada
Rural County Welfare Departments will remain uniform. Amendments should be done
uniformly to preserve consistency in benefits and service delivery. (Ord. 1990-
P, 6-20-90, eff. 7-3-90; Ord. 1993-B, 3-17-93, eff. 4-1-93)
10-8-5: APPEALS:
   (A)   A person who is denied County medical or financial assistance by the
Department of Social Services may take an appeal of such decision to the
Commissioners. The appellant must deliver to the Department of Social Services
a written notice of appeal specifying the decision or action appealed and the
grounds for the appeal. The notice of appeal must be delivered to the
Department of Social Services within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the
written notice of the Department of Social Services' decision denying a request
for assistance. (Ord. 1991-A, 2-7-91; amd. Ord. 1993-B, 3-17-93, eff. 4-1-93)
   (B)   Upon receipt of a written notice of appeal, the Director shall
forthwith cause the appeal to be placed upon the Commissioners' agenda for an
appeal hearing. Notice of the appeal hearing shall be given the appellant by
mailing a copy of a notice thereof to the appellant's last known address, at
least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (C)   At the appeal hearing, the Department of Social Services shall make
available to the Commissioners all documents constituting the record upon which
the appealed decision was based. The Commissioners may, if it appears necessary
for a clear understanding of the case, take additional evidence at the appeal
hearing.
   (D)   At the appeal hearing, the appellant shall be heard first and shall
present the reasons for the appeal. The Department of Social Services may then
present any rebuttal argument.
   (E)   The Commissioners, at the conclusion of the hearing on appeal, or
within a reasonable time thereafter, may sustain, modify, or overrule the
decision of the Department of Social Services, or may refer the matter back to
the Department of Social Services for further action in accordance with the
order of the Commissioners.
   (F)   A final decision by the Commissioners on appeal that is adverse to the
appellant must be in writing, set forth the factual basis for the decision and
the applicable laws, rules and regulations on which the decision is based. A
copy of the final decision must be personally served upon each party to the
appeal and the party's representative, if any, or served by certified mail by
mailing a copy of the final decision to the party and the party's
representative's last known address. (Ord. 1990-P, 6-20-90, eff. 7-3-90; amd.
Ord. 1993-B, 3-17-93, eff. 4-1-93)
   (G)   The appellant may petition District Court for review of the Board of
County Commissioner's decision on appeal within thirty (30) days from the
mailing of a certified, written notice of the Board's final decision to the
appellant at the appellant's last known address. (Ord. 1995-F, 5-17-95, eff. 6-
1-95)
CHAPTER 9
JACKPOT SANITARY LANDFILL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Mandatory Fees
10-9-2: Use Of Funds
10-9-3: Regulations
10-9-1: MANDATORY FEES:
Any persons connected to the Jackpot Municipal Sewer System shall pay,
regardless of use or nonuse, in addition to the fees required by the Jackpot
Town Board for connection to said sewer system, a sanitary landfill fee in the
amount of ten dollars fifty cents ($10.50) for commercial users and seven
dollars ($7.00) for residential users per unit of sewer use as scheduled in
Title 9, Chapter 2 of this Code. Said fee shall be assessed and paid, together
with the sewer fee, in the manner prescribed in the Jackpot Municipal Sewer
Regulations 1 .
Exception: A commercial user of the sanitary landfill may exercise the option
to not participate in the Town of Jackpot Sanitary Landfill by providing the
following:
   (A)   Provide thirty (30) days' written notice to the Elko County Manager of
their intent to not participate in the Town of Jackpot Sanitary Landfill.
   (B)   Provide thirty (30) days' written notice to Elko County Community
Development of alternative solid waste management plan.
   (C)   Obtain approval from the Board of County Commissioners sitting as the
Town Board of the Unincorporated Town of Jackpot at the next regularly
scheduled meeting after the thirty (30) days' notice. (Ord. 1997-K, 1-7-1998,
eff. 3-1-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-2-16 of this Code.
10-9-2: USE OF FUNDS:
All funds received pursuant to this Chapter shall be used to maintain and
operate, in accordance with applicable County, State and Federal laws, a
sanitary landfill facility for and on behalf of the Unincorporated Town of
Jackpot, Nevada. (Ord. 1979-X, 12-6-1979, eff. 1-1-1980)
10-9-3: REGULATIONS:
The Town Board is authorized to make any and all necessary or proper
regulations to carry out and enforce the provisions of this Chapter, including
all matters as to notices, procedures, regulations of the disposal site and
similarly related matters. (Ord. 1979-X, 12-6-1979, eff. 1-1-1980)
CHAPTER 10
LOST OR ABANDONED PROPERTY
SECTION:
10-10-1: Custody of Lost or Abandoned Property
10-10-2: Notification of Owner
10-10-3: Claim Procedure
10-10-4: Payment of Costs
10-10-5: Sale of Lost or Abandoned Property
10-10-6: Proceeds of Sale
10-10-7: Public Use of Lost or Abandoned Property
10-10-8: Hazardous Property
10-10-9: Burning, Scavenging, and Salvaging Prohibited
10-10-10: Definitions
10-10-11: Public Nuisance Declared
10-10-12: Unlawful Dumping of Garbage, Rubbish, Waste Material and Sewage
10-10-13: Presumption, Liability for Removal
10-10-14: Placement of Garbage, Rubbish and Waste Materials in Receptacles so
as to Prevent Scattering
10-10-15: Truck Loads Causing Litter
10-10-16: Owner to Maintain Premises Free of Litter
10-10-17: Penalties
10-10-1: CUSTODY OF LOST OR ABANDONED PROPERTY:
All lost or abandoned property found upon property belonging to Elko County
shall be deposited and transferred to the custodial possession of the County
Sheriff's Department. All other lost or abandoned property turned into the
County Sheriff's Department shall become the property of the County until the
true owner is ascertained and claims the property or the procedure for disposal
of such property set forth in this Chapter has been followed.
10-10-2: NOTIFICATION OF OWNER:
The Sheriff's Department shall notify by first class mail the owner of the
property, if his or her identity and address are reasonably ascertainable, that
it possesses the property and where and when it may be claimed, and of the
provisions of Sections
10-10-4 and
10-10-5.
10-10-3: CLAIM PROCEDURE:
If the owner appears to claim the property, he or she must establish ownership
of the property to the satisfaction of the County Sheriff's Department, and in
addition to any other proof of ownership, shall sign a declaration of ownership
under penalty of perjury.
10-10-4: PAYMENT OF COSTS:
Before releasing the property to its owner, the owner shall pay to the County
Sheriff's Department the sum of one dollar ($1.00) per day for each day the
property was in possession of the County Sheriff's Department, beginning ten
(10) days after notification required by Section
10-10-2, to defray costs of storage and care of the property. Refusal to pay
such costs shall constitute a waiver of any claims to ownership.
10-10-5: SALE OF LOST OR ABANDONED PROPERTY:
Any lost or abandoned property which has been in the possession of the County
Sheriff's Department for more than six (6) months shall be subject to sale by
the Sheriff at public auction for cash on not less than five (5) nor more than
ten (10) days' notice; provided, however, that whenever the Sheriff's
Department has knowledge of the name and address of the owner or one entitled
to possession or can reasonably ascertain such, a copy of such notice of sale
shall be mailed to such owner or one entitled to possession, with postage
prepaid, at least five (5) days prior to such sale; as many items of personal
property may be noticed for sale and sold at the same sale as the Sheriff's
Department may deem advisable, and said property may be sold singly or in lots
or as a whole as the Sheriff's Department may determine. The Sheriff shall give
a bill of sale to the highest bidder upon payment of the amount bid or upon
payment of bid price.
10-10-6: PROCEEDS OF SALE:
The proceeds of said sale shall be applied first to all costs assessed or
incurred against the personal property so sold including any storage charges as
keepers' fee and expenses of sale incurred by the Sheriff's Department and the
balance of such proceeds, if any, shall be kept by the Sheriff's Department in
a separate fund for a period of one year from the date of sale. Any person
claiming title to, or ownership, of such proceeds by reason of ownership of
such personal property at the time of sale by the Sheriff's Department shall
make written application therefor to the Sheriff's Department. If satisfactory
proof of such title or ownership is furnished within one year of the receipt of
such proceeds, then the said proceeds shall be delivered to the claimant.
If no claim and proof is made before the expiration of one year from the
receipt of the proceeds, the same shall be paid by the Sheriff to the County
Treasurer, who shall credit the same to the general fund of the County, and no
claims therefor shall be thereafter considered.
10-10-7: PUBLIC USE OF LOST OR ABANDONED PROPERTY:
Any lost or abandoned property which has come into the possession of the
Sheriff's Department and has been held for a minimum period of six (6) months,
may be put to a public use, rather than be sold at public auction. Prior to
such public use, however, the County Commissioners must, by resolution,
describe the property to be subject to public use, and specifically authorize
the utilization of such property for such public use.
10-10-8: HAZARDOUS PROPERTY:
Any property which comes into possession of the Sheriff's Department and which,
in the judgment of the person in charge of the property control section of the
Sheriff's Department, is dangerous to person or property and cannot reasonably
be safely stored by the Sheriff's Department shall be destroyed or rendered
safe upon their coming into possession of the Sheriff's Department. (Ord. 1982-
C, 4-8-82, eff. 5-1-82)
10-10-9: BURNING, SCAVENGING AND SALVAGING PROHIBITED:
   (A)   As used in this Section the words "disposal site" and "solid waste"
have the following meanings:
DISPOSAL SITE: Any place operated by the County or by an unincorporated town
within the County at which solid waste is dumped, abandoned, accepted or
disposed of by incineration, land filling, composting or any other method.
SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible refuse in solid or semisolid
form, including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, junk vehicles, ashes or
incinerator residue, street refuse, dead animals, demolition waste,
construction waste, solid or semisolid commercial and industrial waste. The
term does not include hazardous waste managed pursuant to NRS 459.400 to
459.600 inclusive.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn, scavenge or salvage at a
disposal site.
   (C)   All solid waste dumped or otherwise disposed of at a disposal site for
any length of time, no matter how short, is deemed abandoned and becomes the
property of the operator of the site.
   (D)   The governing body of the disposal site operator may by resolution
adopt such rules and regulations as may be desirable and appropriate for the
management of the site.
   (E)   Disposal sites shall be posted with a sign identifying them as such
and bearing the words "No burning, scavenging or salvaging."
   (F)   A violation of this Section shall be punished as a misdemeanor under
Section
7-1-25 of this Code. (Ord. 1988-F, 7-20-88, eff. 8-1-88)
10-10-10: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in Sections
10-10-11,
10-10-12 and
10-10-13 of this Code, unless the context otherwise requires or specifies, the
definitions contained in this Section shall apply:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle, or part thereof, which is either:
      1.   A vehicle over which the registered owner has relinquished all
further dominion and control; or
      2.   A vehicle which is inoperative under conditions indicating the owner
has no intention of restoring the vehicle to operating condition. A vehicle
without a valid registration currently in effect will be presumed to be an
abandoned vehicle. (Ord. 1988-K, 10-6-88, eff. 10-24-88)
GARBAGE: Includes kitchen and table refuse, offal, swill and other
accumulations of animal, vegetable and other matter that accompanies the
preparation and consumption, decay, or dealing in, or storage of meats, fish,
fowl, birds, fruits and vegetables, or the carcass or remains of any dead
animal. (Ord. 1989-F, 3-6-89, eff. 4-24-89)
RUBBISH: Includes wood, leaves, dead trees, branches of trees, chips, shavings,
sawdust, wooden ware, printed matter, paper, boxes, grass, rags, straw, rubber
and rubber tires, plastic and synthetic items of all types, and all other
combustible matter not included under the term "garbage".
SEWAGE: Includes sewage, sludge and cesspool, septic or holding tank effluent,
or accumulations of human or animal excreta.
WASTE MATERIAL: Includes natural soil earth, sand, clay, gravel, loam, manure,
stones, building material, bricks, plaster, cement, crockery, glass, glassware,
ashes, metals, metal containers and all other noncombustible materials.
10-10-11: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
The existence of garbage, rubbish, waste material, abandoned vehicles, auto
bodies or waste matter of any kind, upon any public or private highway, street,
alley or road, or any lot or parcel of land, whether public or private is a
public nuisance and the removal thereof is necessary to protect the health and
safety of the inhabitants of Elko County. (Ord. 1988-K, 10-6-88, eff. 10-24-88)
10-10-12: UNLAWFUL DUMPING OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, WASTE MATERIAL AND SEWAGE:
It is unlawful for any person to dump, spill, throw, place or bury, or cause
the same to be done, any garbage, rubbish, waste material, sewage or abandoned
vehicle on any public or private property, parcel of land, lot, street,
highway, gutter, alley, body of water, stream, canal or ditch within Elko
County, except at an appropriate waste disposal site operated or authorized by
the County or by an unincorporated town within the County. (Ord. 1993-G, 9-2-
93, eff. 9-16-93)
10-10-13: PRESUMPTION; LIABILITY FOR REMOVAL:
When any unlawful deposit of garbage, rubbish, waste material, or sewage as set
forth in Section
10-10-12, includes any evidence which identifies any person, firm, or
corporation, such identification will establish a presumption in any civil
action and/or criminal prosecution under Section
10-10-12 of this Code that such person, firm, or corporation is civilly and/or
criminally responsible for such deposit and such person, firm, or corporation
shall be liable for the cost of removal and disposition of the unlawful
material in addition to the penalty provided for in Section
10-10-12 of this Code. (Ord. 1988-K, 10-6-88, eff. 10-24-88)
10-10-14: PLACEMENT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH AND WASTE MATERIALS IN RECEPTACLES SO
AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING:
Persons placing garbage, rubbish, and/or waste materials in public or private
receptacles for collection purposes shall do so in such a manner as to prevent
it from scattering, or from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private property. (Ord. 1993-G,
9-2-93, eff. 9-16-93)
10-10-15: TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER:
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the County
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent the load or any
portion thereof, or any garbage, rubbish, or waste material from being blown or
deposited upon any street, alley or other public or private place. (Ord. 1993-
G, 9-2-93, eff. 9-16-93)
10-10-16: OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER:
The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of garbage, rubbish, and/or waste material.
Provided, however, that this section does not prohibit the placing of such
materials in private receptacles for collection purposes. (Ord. 1993-G, 9-2-93,
eff. 9-16-93)
10-10-17: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any Person violating any of the provisions of Sections
10-10-9,
10-10-12,
10-10-14,
10-10-15 or
10-10-16 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to punishment by imprisonment in the County jail for a period
not to exceed six (6) months, or by a fine of not less than two hundred ninety
nine dollars ($299.00) but not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or
by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such. (Ord. 1993-G, 9-
2-93, eff. 9-16-93)
CHAPTER 11
SPRING CREEK SANITARY LANDFILL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Fees Established
10-11-1: FEES ESTABLISHED:
Fees shall be as follows for use of the Spring Creek Sanitary Landfill:
Car                        $ 2.50
Pickup                     2.50
Trailer, single axle       2.50
Trailer, double axle       4.00
Trailer, 3 or more axles   5.00
One ton truck              4.00
3 yard dump                4.00
5 yard dump                5.00
10 yard dump               9.00
Greater than 10 yards      16.00
 
Residential rate pass      62.00 per year
Commercial rate pass
One to four times a week   195.00 per year
Five to seven times a week 390.00 per year
Contractors and construction companies per load,
according to above fee schedule.
A special handling charge may be imposed (i.e.,
large concrete, or bulky material ($100.00 minimum).
 
(Ord. 1990-U, 9-2-90; eff. 10-6-90)
CHAPTER 12
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
10-12-1: Definitions
10-12-2: Permits And Franchises
10-12-3: Sanitation Districts
10-12-4: Solid Waste Removal Responsibilities
10-12-5: Prohibitions
10-12-6: Right Of Further Regulation Reserved
10-12-7: Violations
10-12-8: Public Nuisance Declaration
10-12-9: Recycling And Household Waste Reduction
10-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle or part thereof which is either:
   (A)   A vehicle over which the registered owner has relinquished all further
dominion and control; or
   (B)   A vehicle which is inoperative under conditions indicating the owner
has no intention of restoring the vehicle to operating condition. A vehicle
without a valid registration currently in effect will be presumed to be an
abandoned vehicle.
BULKY WASTE: Large, heavy or otherwise difficult to handle items, including,
but not limited to, stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, water heaters, washing
machines, furniture, large concrete and asphalt chunks, tree stumps, dead
animals greater than ten (10) pounds, or other waste materials with weights or
volumes greater than those allowed for containers.
COMMERCIAL UNITS: Commercial, industrial or institutional facilities. These
include, but are not limited to, hotels, motels, casinos, service marts, retail
stores, restaurants, bars, laundries, markets, etc.
COUNTY: The County of Elko, State of Nevada.
DEAD ANIMALS: Animals or portions thereof equal to or less than ten (10) pounds
which have died from any noninfectious cause (except those slaughtered or
killed for human use). Dead animals may be included as part of the normal
garbage and refuse collection only in the event that such collection is allowed
and authorized by the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection, solid waste
division.
DISPOSAL SITE: A solid waste facility including, but not limited to, sanitary
landfills, or transfer stations that are licensed, permitted or approved by all
governmental bodies and agencies having jurisdiction, pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes 444.460.
EXTREMELY HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any hazardous waste or mixture of hazardous waste
which, if human exposure should occur, may likely result in death, disabling
personal injury or illness, during or as a proximate result of, any disposal of
such waste or mixture of wastes because of its quality, concentrations, or
chemical characteristics.
FRANCHISE: A written contract or agreement entered into between the County of
Elko and a solid waste collector in which the County grants to the collector
the right to collect and haul solid waste and/or recyclables as permitted by
law from residential and/or commercial customers in a sanitation district. A
franchise may be nonexclusive.
FRANCHISEE: Any person who has been issued a franchise by the County of Elko to
collect, transfer, or remove solid waste in a sanitation district.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any waste material or mixture of wastes which is toxic,
corrosive, flammable, an irritant, or a strong sensitizer, which generates
pressure through decomposition, heat or other means, if such waste or mixture
of wastes may cause substantial personal injury, serious illness or harm to
wildlife, during or as proximate result of any disposal of such wastes or
mixtures of wastes. Hazardous waste is managed per Nevada Revised Statutes
459.400 to 459.600, inclusive.
MULTI-RESIDENTIAL UNITS: Permanent buildings or a commercial compound
containing three (3) or more residential units including, but not limited to,
condominiums, apartment houses, motels, hotels, mobile home parks, travel
trailer parks, and recreational vehicle parks. Ranching operations are exempt.
PERMIT DOCUMENTS: The permit requirements, permit specifications, and the
actual permit.
PERMITTEE: Any person or solid waste collector that has been issued a permit to
collect, transfer, or remove solid waste in the Owyhee, Elko or Ruby Valley
Sanitation Districts under the provisions of this Chapter. A permit is not
required for self-hauling in these districts.
PERSON: Any person, firm, business, sole proprietorship, partnership, joint
venture, trust, association, or corporation whether for profit or nonprofit.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Material which has been segregated from other solid waste
material for the purpose of reuse or recycling, including, but not limited to,
discarded paper, glass, cardboard, plastic, ferrous materials, yard waste or
aluminum, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 444A.013 and Nevada
Administrative Code 444A.100.
RESIDENTIAL UNIT: A dwelling within the unincorporated area of the County
occupied by a person or group of persons comprising not more than two (2)
families. A residential unit to which solid waste collection service must be
rendered under the provisions of this Chapter shall be either a single-family
residential unit or a duplex residential. A residential unit shall be deemed
occupied when either water or residential light and power services are being
supplied thereto. A duplex is considered to be two (2) attached residential
units. This definition shall apply also to mobile home subdivisions where the
mobile home lot is individually owned.
SANITATION DISTRICTS: Areas of Elko County that have been delineated on a map
on file with the Elko County Department of Community Development and the Nevada
Division of Environmental Protection, solid waste division. These areas are
based roughly on drainage basins in the County. The districts are Salmon Falls
District, Salt Lake Basin District, Owyhee District, Midas District, Ruby
Valley District, and Elko District.
SEWAGE: Includes sewage, sludge and cesspool, septic or holding tank effluent
or accumulations of human or animal excreta.
SOLID WASTE: For the purposes of this Chapter, shall mean garbage, rubbish or
construction waste as hereinafter defined pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
444.490.
   (A)   Garbage: Includes all kitchen and table food waste, animal waste,
vegetable waste and all household waste or residue resulting from the
preparation, storage, cooking, handling, or treatment of food and shall also
include putrescible waste as defined in Nevada Administrative Code 444.578.
   (B)   Rubbish: All nonputrescible waste matter or debris, manure, including
combustible and noncombustible materials that result from normal household,
community, and business activities including grass clippings, tree trimmings,
litter, wood, glass, cans, bedding, crockery, plastics and similar materials,
as defined in Nevada Administrative Code 444.612, but not including bulky
wastes, construction or demolition wastes.
   (C)   Construction Waste: All nonhazardous waste material and rubble
resulting from the construction, alteration, repair, removal or demolition of
buildings or from the production or development of real property which is
customarily handled and transported by means of roll-off boxes, trucks or
containers.
SOLID WASTE AUTHORITY: An official from the Nevada Division of Environmental
Protection, solid waste division.
SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR: Any person who operates collection routes for the
removal of solid waste from residential, multi-residential, commercial or
industrial premises.
STORAGE BIN: A portable waste container which is used for the collection of
solid waste for transport to a solid waste disposal site.
TRANSFER VEHICLE: A vehicle or roll-off unit used to transport solid waste from
a collection point to a permitted landfill or processing facility. (Ord. 2000-
B, 2-2-2000, eff. 3-1-2000)
10-12-2: PERMITS AND FRANCHISES:
   (A)   Permits: Permits to collect and haul solid waste and/or recyclables as
permitted by law in the unincorporated areas of Elko County may be issued to
qualified parties as provided in subsection (C) of this Section.
   (B)   Franchises: At its discretion, the Board of Commissioners may grant
franchises to qualified parties to collect and haul solid waste and/or
recyclables as permitted by law in the unincorporated areas of Elko County on
such terms and conditions as may be agreed to by the County and by the party or
parties receiving the franchise or franchises. Franchises will be applied to
the Salmon Falls Sanitation District, the Salt Lake Basin District and the
Midas Sanitation District. Franchises as granted by the Board may be
nonexclusive, exclusive, or partly exclusive and partly nonexclusive, pursuant
to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 709.
   (C)   Issuance Of Permits:
      1.   The Board of Commissioners hereby establishes a system of permits in
the Owyhee, Elko and Ruby Valley Sanitation Districts to regulate the
collection, transfer, and removal of solid waste by granting permits to
qualified applicants who meet the standards set forth in this Chapter, and to
revoke permits where the permittee has failed to meet those standards or has
violated the laws or ordinances applicable to solid waste, collection,
transfer, and removal. No permit is required for self-haulers.
      2.   Any permit issued under this Chapter may be revoked or suspended by
the Board of Commissioners following written recommendation from the Community
Development Department or the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection.
   (D)   Applications For Permits And Franchises:
      1.   The franchises for the Salmon Falls, Salt Lake Basin and Midas
Sanitation Districts may be by competitive bid and the contract for service in
this area shall be for a period of five (5) years.
      2.   Solid waste collectors who are lawfully providing waste collection,
transfer or removal services in the Sanitation Districts of Midas and Salmon
Falls, shall be granted a new franchise by the County Commissioners to continue
such services for those Districts provided that such collectors are furnishing
adequate service or are under an existing contract for services with the
County.
   (E)   Revocation Of Permit: A permit may be revoked or suspended by the
Board of Commissioners whenever the permittee has violated a material provision
of this Chapter, or State rules or regulations. In such instance, a written
notice of intended revocation or suspension as proposed shall first be
delivered in person or by certified mail to the business address of the
permittee. The written notice shall state the grounds for the proposed
revocation or suspension.
   (F)   Appeals: The applicant or permittee may appeal such proposed denial,
suspension or revocation by filing a written request for a hearing before the
board of commissioners not more than fifteen (15) calendar days after notice of
the proposed denial, suspension or revocation has been given. Upon receipt of a
written request for a hearing, the chairman shall set the matter for public
hearing on a date not more than sixty (60) calendar days following receipt of
such written request and shall give the applicant or permittee and the board
fifteen (15) working days after the close of the hearing to comply with the
decision. Such decision shall be final. Where the permit is suspended or
revoked, the permittee shall terminate its operations as determined by the
board of commissioners. (Ord. 2000-B, 2-2-2000, eff. 3-1-2000)
10-12-3: SANITATION DISTRICTS:
   (A)   The board of commissioners hereby declares that the unincorporated
area of the county is divided into sanitation districts as shown on the map
entitled "Sanitation Districts Of Elko County" and is on file in the office of
community development and Nevada division of environmental protection, solid
waste division.
      1.   The county commissioners hereby find that it is necessary in the
interests of public health, safety, welfare and convenience of the residents of
the county, to establish and maintain such sanitation districts.
      2.   The boundaries of the sanitation districts shall be subject to
modification by the board of county commissioners, by resolution, whenever the
board finds that such modifications are necessary and are in the public
interest pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244.188.
      3.   All permittees or a franchisee in any district where a modification
in boundaries is proposed shall first be provided notice prior to the
consideration of any such modification pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
244.188(5).
   (B)   The board of commissioners hereby reserves the right to establish, by
resolution or ordinance, sanitation districts, the right to set fees and
charges in such areas and the right to include or exclude territory from such
areas.
   (C)   Persons in the Salmon Falls sanitation district shall be assessed a
fee divided equally to all users for solid waste disposal. This applies to any
persons connected to the Jarbidge water supply system or is included in the
definition of residential, multi or commercial unit. This fee shall be set by
resolution of the county board.
   (D)   Persons in the Midas sanitation district shall be assessed a fee
divided equally to all Midas water system users for the total cost of waste
disposal service presently available.
   (E)   All parcels within the Salt Lake Basin shall be assessed a fee set by
resolution of the County Board. The fee shall be added to the real property tax
roll and collected as part of the real property tax bill for every parcel
located within the Salt Lake Basin Sanitation District.
      1.   Resolution Setting Fees and Penalties: The Board shall set the fee
and penalties for non-payment of the fees by resolution.
      2.   Notice: Prior to a resolution setting the fees and penalties is
adopted, the resolution shall be published at least one time in a newspaper of
general circulation in the County.
      3.   Application for Waiver of Fees: An application for a waiver of fees
may be submitted to the Elko County Public Works Department.
         (a)   Application Processing Fee: Each applicant for waiver shall pay
a one hundred fifty dollar ($150.00) processing fee at the time the application
is submitted.
      4.   Waiver of Fees: The Public Works Department may grant to a property
owner a partial or full waiver of the fees assessed to the property owner, if
one of the following applies:
         (a)   Patented Mining Claims: For parcels where the surface rights are
severed or are not being used by the mining claim owner;
         (b)   Agricultural Uses: Where separate parcels are used for active
agricultural purposes;
            (1)   "Agricultural purposes" for this Section means, but is not
limited to, grazing, raising or cultivation of agricultural products, such as
vegetables, sod crops, grains, feed crops, trees, fruits, nursery floral and
ornamental stock and other products of the soil.
            (2)   The "agricultural purposes" waiver is not available if a
residence is located on any portion of the parcel.
         (c)   Horse Corrals: Where properties are being used as horse corrals
only, where no residential dwelling unit exists;
         (d)   Residential Lots Under a Common Use: Where separate, adjoining
residential properties are under the same residential use, a waiver may be
approved for all but one of the subject properties. For waiver to apply, one of
the properties must have residence and all other properties must be contiguous
to that parcel and contain structures related to the residential parcel.
Vacant, undeveloped lots having no buildings constructed thereon shall not
qualify for approval of a waiver;
         (e)   Commercial Lots Under a Common Use: For commercial uses,
approval may be granted when adjacent and contiguous parcels are under a
related business use;
      5.   Waiver will not be granted in any of the following:
         (a)   Multiple parcels: Waivers shall not be granted for any multiple
parcels owned by the same owner within an area where the parcels were created
either through parcel map or subdivision map, if the parcels are not under one
common business or residential use.
         (a)   Vacant Parcels: Waivers shall not be granted for vacant or
undeveloped properties. For purposes of this section, parcels having only a
perimeter fence or other minor improvements, with no buildings constructed
thereon, shall be considered a vacant parcel.
      6.   Appeal: If a person is aggrieved by a decision of the Public Works
Department, the person may appeal the decision to the Board of County
Commissioners.
         (a)   An appeal under this Section must be filed within ten (10) days
of notice of the decision of the Public Works Department.
         (b)   An appeal may be filed by filing a written notice specifying the
grounds for the appeal with the Public Works Department.
         (c)   Notice of Hearing: The Board of County Commissioners shall give
notice of the time and place at which the hearing will be held on any appeal
filed under this Subsection to the Public Works Department and the aggrieved
party by deposit with the County Clerk a self-addressed, stamped envelope for
that purpose.
   (F)   In the Owyhee, Ruby Valley and Elko districts, persons are required to
contract separately with an approved permitted collector, form cooperative
efforts for a common storage bin facility or self-haul their solid waste. When
a storage bin facility is desired, all requirements of Nevada administrative
code 444.66647 shall be observed for a public storage bin facility. (Ord. 2003-
E, 11-5-2003; amd. Ord. 08-2020, 10-7-2020)
10-12-4: SOLID WASTE REMOVAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
   (A)   Every tenant, occupier, operator or owner of a residence, commercial,
industrial or multi-family residence or construction or demolition site shall
not less than once a week cause to be removed all putrescible solid waste
created or nonputrescible in combination with such, as per Nevada
administrative code 444.662, #4, produced or brought upon the property to an
approved disposal site. This may be a single resident pick up site or a common
receptacle site as established by the permittee, franchisee or self-hauled to
an approved disposal site. Should conditions warrant at any commercial,
industrial or multi-residential unit, the community development department in
conjunction with the Nevada division of environmental protection may require
increased frequency of collection.
      1.   All solid waste in or about any residential, commercial or
industrial building shall be deposited in commercial public storage waste bins
or suitable containers as approved by the community development department and
the permittee. All public storage waste bins and other suitable containers
shall be leakproof. Public storage bins shall be covered if any garbage is
placed therein.
         (a)   No container shall exceed thirty six (36) gallons in size or
have a loaded weight in excess of fifty five (55) pounds, except where
mechanical loading systems are utilized.
         (b)   Where bins are utilized, arrangements shall be made by the users
and the permittee for placement of the containers so as to minimize traffic,
aesthetic and other problems both on the property and for the general public.
The Community Development Department may designate a placement.
   (B)   Dead animals greater than ten (10) pounds and bulky waste shall not be
set out for collection. Bulky waste shall be collected only during annual
cleanups or by contractual arrangement between the resident or business and the
permittee.
   (C)   Following pickup, the permittee or franchisee and its employees shall
set the cans in a properly upright position. Permittee shall pick up any
spillage caused during collection. Permittee is not responsible, however, for
spillage caused by dogs, animals, vandals, the wind or other natural causes.
   (D)   No person or permittee shall place in service any container found to
be in a deteriorated condition.
   (E)   Tree trimmings and brush shall be cut into four foot (4') lengths and
tied into bundles not larger than twenty four inches (24") in diameter for ease
of pickup. (Ord. 2000-B, 2-2-2000, eff. 3-1-2000)
10-12-5: PROHIBITIONS:
   (A)   No person shall collect, transfer or remove putrescible solid waste or
a mixture of putrescible and nonputrescible in the unincorporated area of the
County without a valid permit or franchise issued by the County. This in no way
prohibits any resident from self-hauling any solid waste to a disposal site.
   (B)   A permittee or franchisee shall not collect, transfer or remove solid
waste in any area for which it does not hold a current and valid permit or
franchise.
   (C)   Exempted from the foregoing prohibitions are the following:
      1.   A person may haul their own solid waste.
      2.   Construction contractors or their subcontractors, building
remodeling contractors and demolition contractors, may haul their own
construction debris and waste provided they utilize only their own employees
and equipment.
      3.   The County.
   (D)   No person shall accept solid waste at any place, location, tract of
land, area or premises that is not a disposal site permitted in accordance with
Nevada Revised Statutes 444.553, or other facility for the management of solid
waste which is approved for operation in accordance with Nevada Administrative
Code 444.570 to 444.7499. (Ord. 2000-B, 2-2-2000, eff. 3-1-2000)
10-12-6: RIGHT OF FURTHER REGULATION RESERVED:
The County hereby reserves its right to regulate or further regulate aspects of
solid waste handling. This includes, but not limited to, frequency of
collections, means of collection and transportation, level of service, fees,
nature, location, extent of providing solid waste handling services, whether
such services are to be by means of nonexclusive franchise, contract, license,
or permit. If, in the opinion of the Board of Commissioners, the public health,
safety, and well-being so require by partially exclusive or wholly exclusive
franchise, contract, license, permit or otherwise, authority to provide such
solid waste handling services may be granted under such terms and conditions as
are prescribed by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to resolution or
ordinance. (Ord. 2000-B, 2-2-2000, eff. 3-1-2000)
10-12-7: VIOLATIONS:
Violations of any of the provisions of this Chapter, are misdemeanors as
hereinafter specified. Such person or entity shall be deemed guilty of a
separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during which any
violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter is not corrected. Any person
so convicted shall be: a) punished by a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars
($100.00) for a first violation; b) punished by a fine not exceeding two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second violation. The third and any additional
violations perpetrated by the same person shall be punishable by a fine up to
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or six (6) months in jail, or both. Payment of
any penalty herein shall not relieve a person from the responsibility for
correcting the violation. (Ord. 2000-B, 2-2-2000, eff. 3-1-2000)
10-12-8: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARATION:
The existence of garbage, rubbish, construction waste materials, abandoned
vehicles, auto bodies or waste matter of any kind, upon any public or private
highway, street, alley or road, or any lot or parcel of land, whether public or
private is a public nuisance and the removal thereof is necessary to protect
the health and safety of the inhabitants of Elko County. In addition, any
violation of this Chapter is hereby deemed to be a public nuisance, and may be
abated by the Code Enforcement Officer or his designee, irrespective of any
other remedy hereinabove provided. (Ord. 2000-B, 2-2-2000, eff. 3-1-2000)
10-12-9: RECYCLING AND HOUSEHOLD WASTE REDUCTION:
It is the intention of the County to encourage its citizens to recycle some
waste materials and to bring them to a recycling center. Currently the Elko
Regional Landfill accepts all household hazardous waste such as waste tires,
car batteries, used oil and paints. Residents should take all household
hazardous waste to this facility. Used oil and batteries may also be accepted
for recycling at participating automotive retail stores and service centers.
(Ord. 2000-B, 2-2-2000, eff. 3-1-2000)
CHAPTER 13
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
10-13-1: Public Administrator
10-13-1: PUBLIC ADMINISTRATOR:
   (A)   Abolishment Of Public Office: The publicly elected office of Public
Administrator is hereby abolished in the County of Elko.
   (B)   Appointment Of Public Administrator: The Elko County Commission shall
appoint or contract a Public Administrator that meets the requirements set
forth in subsection 1 of this subsection:
      1.   Requirements Of The Public Administrator:
         (a)   Be at least 21 years of age;
         (b)   Not have been convicted of any felony for which his or her civil
rights have not been restored by a court of competent jurisdiction or been
convicted of any crime of fraud, misrepresentation, misappropriation,
conversion, forgery, embezzlement and/or other financial crime; and
         (c)   Not have been found liable in a civil action involving a finding
of fraud, misrepresentation, material omission, misappropriation, theft or
conversion.
   (C)   Security Bond:
      1.   Every person appointed or contracted as the Public Administrator
must give an official bond in an amount set by the County Commission, but no
less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). The bond must be conditioned,
secured, approved and recorded as the bonds of other county officers, and must
be so conditioned as to hold the principal and sureties liable for any breach
thereof made by the Public Administrator while acting, or illegally refusing to
act, in his or her official capacity.
      2.   The Board of County Commissioners may, upon reasonable cause shown,
require a new bond or additional bonds at any time, to be given upon ten (10)
days' notice in writing. If the new or additional bond is not given, the Board
may declare the position vacant or the contract void. (Ord. 08-2019, 11-6-2019)
TITLE 11
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TELEVISION DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose of Chapter
11-1-2: Basic Powers of District
11-1-3: Public Convenience and Necessity; Economic Feasibility
11-1-4: Appointment of Trustees
11-1-5: Adoption of Provisions
11-1-1: PURPOSE OF CHAPTER:
This Chapter is enacted pursuant to the terms and provisions of Chapters 308,
318, Nevada Revised Statutes, in order to create a Television District
furnishing television signals and programming within that portion of Elko
County hereinafter described:
From a point where the North latitude 40°15' intersects West longitude 116°9'
North along said longitudinal line to a point where said longitudinal line
intersects the Adobe Range, then in a Northeasterly direction along the
Southeast slope of the Adobe Range to a point where said range intersects North
latitude 41°10', then in an Easterly direction along said line of latitude to a
point where said line of latitude intersections West longitude 115°5', then
South along said line of longitude to a point where said line is intersected by
the Northwestern slope of the Ruby Mountains, and then along said Northwest
slope of the Ruby Mountains until the same intersects North latitude line
40°15', then West along said line of latitude to the point of beginning.
The District hereby created shall be known as the Elko Television District.
11-1-2: BASIC POWERS OF DISTRICT:
   (A)   The basic purpose for which the District is to be created is to
acquire and maintain television facilities which will provide television
signals to residents of the District.
   (B)   The District shall have and is authorized to utilize all the powers
necessary to achieve the stated purpose as given by Chapters 308 and 318,
Nevada Revised Statutes and, more specifically, but without limiting other
powers, those powers enunciated in Section 318.1192 of Chapter 318, N.R.S.
11-1-3: PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY; ECONOMIC FEASIBILITY:
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners has found that there is an existing
need for television facilities within the District and that the public
convenience and necessity require its creation.
   (B)   The Board also finds that the creation of the District is economically
sound and feasible.
11-1-4: APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEES:
   (A)   The Board of County Commissioners does hereby appoint five (5)
taxpaying electors of the District to serve as the first Board of Trustees of
the District, to serve at the pleasure of the Board of County Commissioners.
   (B)   Successors of the original members of the Board of Trustees shall be
elected and appointed pursuant to the terms and provisions of N.R.S. Chapter
318, the same to ratified and included herein as though fully set forth.
   (C)   The members of the Board of Trustees shall qualify by filing with the
County Clerk their oaths of office and corporate surety bonds, cost of the same
to be borne by the District, in an amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
The Board of County Commissioners may from time to time upon good causes shown
increase or decrease the amount of such bond.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees shall meet regularly at least once a year at the
office or principal place of the District, and at such other time or times at
the same place as provided by District by-laws.
11-1-5: ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS:
All terms and provisions of Chapter 318, Nevada Revised Statutes, material
pertinent, relevant and applicable to the operation of the District are hereby
ratified, confirmed and made a part hereof and nothing herein contained shall
be construed to be in derogation of said terms and provisions, any and all such
conflicts to be construed in harmony with statutory terms and provisions. (Ord.
1967-D, 11-7-1967)
CHAPTER 2
SPECIAL FUNDS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Medical Scholarship Fund
11-2-2: County Law Library Fund
11-2-3: Fund For Forensic Services
11-2-4: Reserved
11-2-5: Acquisition And Improvement Of Technology In County Assessor's Office
11-2-6: Funding For Legal Aid
11-2-7: School District Capital Project Tax
11-2-1: MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIP FUND:
   (A)   Creation Of Fund: There is hereby created a perpetual medical
scholarship fund under the jurisdiction of Elko County to be known as the Dr.
L.A. Moren medical scholarship fund to assist medical students who have
completed all undergraduate work or if there is insufficient demand by medical
students for such assistance, to assist premedical students in the junior and
senior years of undergraduate schooling who have a grade point average of at
least 3.3 on a 4.00 grading system or its equivalent or to assist those
studying to become nurses or physician's assistants whether at the
undergraduate or graduate level and who express a desire to return or come to
the county to practice the chosen medical profession; private donations may be
accepted by the county treasurer and distributed directly to the medical
scholarship fund by the treasurer. (Ord. 1973-D, 12-6-1973, eff. 1-15-1974;
amd. Ord., 5-9-1974, eff. 5-13-1974)
   (B)   Eligibility: Each applicant must meet the following conditions and in
the event of more than one applicant for one scholarship, the scholarship will
be awarded to the person with the greatest weighted average, said average to be
arrived at as follows:
 
1. Residence and personal ties to Elko County, indicating return to 51 percent
Elko County to practice for at least 5 years
                                                                    
2. Undergraduate scholastic average                                 13 percent
                                                                    
3. Financial need (ability of applicant to attend without           13 percent
assistance)
                                                                    
4. Recommendation of the Elko County Medical Society                13 percent
 
Elko County shall have the right to set priorities of need as to area within
the county and as to particular medical fields and to give determinative weight
to those factors and to the consideration of nearness of completion of studies
of an applicant.
It is hereby announced as the policy of this section that the passage and
existence hereof is not a guarantee to any applicant of the existence of funds
for a scholarship or scholarships in any given year but is rather a
manifestation of intent on the part of the county to provide such scholarships
if the funds are available.
   (C)   Contract: Each applicant must be willing to enter into a contract
wherein such applicant shall agree to return to the county for a number of
years equal to the number of years applicant seeks assistance and said contract
shall contain the following provisions:
      1.   To repay to the county an amount to be agreed upon over a period of
time to be no longer than the number of years assistance was received; said
repayments may be in the form of services; that is, a period of time of medical
practice at a place agreed upon within the county may be agreed to amount to a
repayment of an agreed portion of the debt.
      2.   To agree to repay all assistance granted in the event the applicant
should fail to practice his or her medical profession within Elko County, such
payment to be made within five (5) years after due credit is given for length
of time profession has in fact been practiced in Elko County, together with
interest thereon at the rate of not less than eight percent (8%) per annum to
be computed from the date assistance was received. Such agreement may also
include a penalty clause for failure to return and/or failure to comply with
length of stay as agreed.
      3.   To agree that if an applicant completes the medical training agreed
to be pursued and is certified to practice the same in the state of Nevada and
returns to Elko County and there remains in the practice of said profession,
such person shall have ten (10) years to make any monetary repayment required
after due credit is given for length of time profession has been practiced in
Elko County.
      4.   To agree to repay all assistance granted in the event the applicant
should fail to become licensed as required by law, such payment to be made
within five (5) years from the first known time of such inability.
      5.   To pursue studies diligently and continuously if physically able.
      6.   To secure and maintain a policy of life insurance in an amount equal
to all assistance furnished, naming the county as beneficiary, such policy to
remain in full force and effect until such time as any and all amounts due have
been fully paid, either by money or time of practice in the county as
hereinbefore set out.
      7.   The contract may include such other matters as the board of county
commissioners shall deem necessary. (Ord. 1973-D, 12-6-1973, eff. 1-15-1974)
   (D)   Fields Available: Scholarship assistance will only be granted in the
following fields of medical training:
      1.   Physicians.
      2.   Dentists.
      3.   Nurses.
      4.   Physician's assistants.
      5.   Premedical training of those who meet the standards mentioned in
subsection (A) of this section. (Ord. 1973-D, 12-6-1973, eff. 1-15-1974; amd.
Ord., 5-9-1974, eff. 5-13-1974)
   (E)   Applications: Each applicant shall submit a personal resume to the
Elko County Medical Society and after approval by said society, applicant may
apply for assistance to the board of county commissioners by letter setting
forth the amount requested, need, personal ties to Elko County, scholastic
record, marital status, number of children, age, evidence of acceptance for
school and conditions of repayment if assistance is granted. (Ord. 1973-D, 12-
6-1973, eff. 1-15-1974)
11-2-2: COUNTY LAW LIBRARY FUND:
Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 380.010, as amended, the board of county
commissioners established a law library to be located in the Elko County
courthouse, city and county of Elko, state of Nevada, which shall be governed
and managed by a board of law library trustees in accordance with statute
provisions, Nevada Revised Statutes 380.010 through 380.190, inclusive, which
said provisions are hereby adopted and made a part hereof.
Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 380.110, as amended, funds for the support
and maintenance of Elko County law library shall be allocated from fees
collected by the county clerk pursuant to chapter 19 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes, for filing pleadings or petitions in civil proceedings in the fourth
judicial district court, as follows:
   (A)   Thirty dollars ($30.00) from each and every filing fee on the
commencement of any civil action, except probate proceedings, in the district
court of Elko County, but including cases appealed from lower courts.
   (B)   Ten dollars ($10.00) from each and every filing fee on the
commencement of any probate proceeding.
The county clerk as ex officio clerk of the district court of the fourth
judicial district of the state of Nevada, shall collect the fees as provided
above and pay them to the county treasurer, who shall keep the same separate
and apart in the special county law library fund. (Ord. 1983-O, 9-8-1983, eff.
10-1-1983)
11-2-3: FUND FOR FORENSIC SERVICES:
Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 453.575, the board of Elko County
commissioners hereby establishes a fund entitled the "fund for forensic
services" into which the county treasurer shall deposit such fees and monies as
are designated by statute. The money from such deposits must be accounted for
as provided by statute, and accounted for separately within the fund. (Ord.
1992-D, 5-7-1992, eff. 5-21-1992)
11-2-4: RESERVED:
11-2-5: ACQUISITION AND IMPROVEMENT OF TECHNOLOGY IN COUNTY ASSESSOR'S OFFICE:
Effective July 1, 2005, a special revenue fund entitled acquisition and
improvement of technology in the office of the county assessor shall exist
under the following conditions:
   (A)   The fund shall receive one-fourth (1/4) of the assessor's commission
defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 361.530.
   (B)   In addition, the fund shall receive a two percent (2%) commission on
the receipts of net proceeds of mines pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
362.170.
   (C)   The resources of this fund must be expended to acquire technology for
or improve the technology used in the office of the county assessor, including,
without limitation, the payment of costs associated with acquiring or improving
technology for converting and archiving records, purchasing hardware and
software, maintaining the technology, training employees in the operation of
the technology and contracting for professional services relating to the
technology. At the discretion of the county assessor, the money may be used by
other county offices that do business with the county assessor.
   (D)   The fund shall be subject to an annual independent audit at the same
time all other county funds are examined. (Ord. 02-2005, 8-4-2005)
11-2-6: FUNDING FOR LEGAL AID:
   (A)   Purpose: In addition to any other fee required by law, a filing fee is
imposed on certain civil actions in district court and certain actions in
justices' courts to offset a portion of the costs of providing pro bono
programs and of providing legal services without a charge to abused or
neglected children and victims of domestic violence. The fees collected shall
be remitted to the organization operating the program for legal services that
receives the fees charged pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 19.031.
   (B)   Filing Fees On Civil Actions In District Court: In addition to any
other fee required by law:
      1.   A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) on the commencement of any civil
action or proceeding in district court for which a filing fee is required and
on the filing of any answer or appearance in any such action or proceeding for
which a filing fee is required.
      2.   A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) on the filing of any motion or
other paper that seeks to modify or adjust the final order that was issued
pursuant to chapter 125, 125B or 125C of Nevada Revised Statutes and on the
filing of any answer or response to such a motion or other paper, except for
the following:
         (a)   A motion filed solely to adjust the amount of support for a
child set forth in a final order; or
         (b)   A motion for reconsideration or for a new trial that is filed
within ten (10) days after final judgment or decree has been issued.
      3.   On or before the first Monday of each month, the Elko County clerk
shall account for and pay over to the Elko County treasurer any such fees
collected during the preceding month.
   (C)   Filing Fees On Actions In Justices' Courts: In addition to any other
fee required by law:
      1.   A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) on the commencement of any action or
proceeding in any Elko County justice court for which a filing fee is required
and on the filing of any answer or appearance in any such action or proceeding,
except on filings for small claims actions.
      2.   On or before the first Monday of each month, the justice of the
peace of each Elko County township shall account for and pay over to the Elko
County treasurer any such fees collected during the preceding month.
   (D)   Collection And Uses Of Fees: The Elko County treasurer shall pay all
money received from the justices' and district courts on a quarterly basis to
the organization authorized by subsection (A) of this section to receive the
money.
(Ord. 03-2006, 10-5-2006, eff. 11-27-2006)
11-2-7: SCHOOL DISTRICT CAPITAL PROJECT TAX:
   A.   Levy: The Board of County Commissioners shall levy a tax at a rate of
not less than 1 cent and not more than 25 cents on each $100 of assessed
valuation of taxable property within the county for the capital projects of the
Elko County School District, including, without limitation, capital projects
for schools located on qualified tribal land.
   B.   Fund: All money collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited
in the Elko County School District Capital project fund established pursuant to
NRS 387.328 to be held and expended in the same manner as other money deposited
in that fund.
   C.   Resolution: The amount of levy for the tax rate established under this
section shall be set by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
   D.   Adjustment To Rate: The Board of County Commissioners may adjust the
tax rate established under this section at any time. All adjustments to the tax
rate will be effective on July 1 of the preceding year.
(Ord. 2023-14, 1-3-2024)
CHAPTER 3
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Purpose
11-3-2: Definitions
11-3-3: Declaration Of A Disaster Emergency
11-3-4: Director, Office Of Emergency Operations
11-3-5: Powers And Duties Of Director
11-3-6: Emergency Power Of Director
11-3-7: Advisory Council For Emergency Operations
11-3-8: Adoption Of Statute Provisions
11-3-9: Development Of Fallout Shelters
11-3-10: Punishment Of Violations
11-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for the safety and welfare of the
people and the protection of their property within this County in a disaster
situation through organized emergency operations; to provide for the
coordination of such operations with appropriate public authorities, private
persons, business associations and organizations. (Ord. 1968-B, 4-8-1968)
11-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, whenever used or referred to in this Chapter shall have
the following meanings:
DISASTER: A flood, fire of extraordinary proportion, earthquake, storm,
epidemic, actual or threatened riot, serious domestic violence, insurrection,
general war or other major calamity.
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS: The planning, preparation for, and carrying out of all
emergency functions necessary to prevent, minimize and recover from the effects
of a disaster. (Ord. 1968-B, 4-8-1968)
11-3-3: DECLARATION OF A DISASTER EMERGENCY:
The Board shall proclaim the existence of a disaster emergency whenever in its
judgment one is deemed to have occurred or is imminent.
11-3-4: DIRECTOR, OFFICE OF EMERGENCY OPERATIONS:
There is hereby created the Office of Emergency Operations with a Director as
its executive head, hereinafter called the "Director". Such officer shall be
appointed by the Board.
11-3-5: POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR:
The Director is hereby empowered and directed:
   (A)   To establish an organization for emergency operations, utilizing for
this purpose County, public and private resources.
   (B)   With the approval of the Board, to designate and prepare standing
operating procedures for the emergency operations center from which centralized
direction and control of the emergency operations organization may be
exercised.
   (C)   To exercise the emergency operations organization at drills, and to
otherwise train and prepare the organization to effect the purpose of this
Chapter.
   (D)   To represent the emergency operations organization of this County in
all dealings with public or private agencies pertaining to emergency
operations; excepting, that the Sheriff will provide such representation in all
matters dealing exclusively with law and order.
   (E)   To direct County civil defense and emergency resources planning and
preparedness activities.
   (F)   To prepare an emergency operations plan and an emergency resources
management plan for the County in, support of and in consonance with Federal
and State emergency plans and guidance.
   (G)   The Director may employ technical, clerical stenographic and other
personnel as may be required, and may make such expenditures therefor and for
other expenses of his office within the appropriation therefor, or from other
funds made available to him for the purposes of emergency operations, as may be
necessary to carry out the purpose of this Chapter.
11-3-6: EMERGENCY POWER OF DIRECTOR:
Upon proclamation by the Board of a disaster emergency, the Director is further
empowered, under the direction of the Board, to execute the emergency
operations plan, and resources management plan if appropriate, and coordinate
the overall effort of the emergency operations organization of this County for
the accomplishment of the purpose of this Chapter; excepting, that in a
disaster arising from civil disobedience, coordination of the emergency
operations organization will be exercised by the Sheriff, assisted by the
Director as required.
11-3-7: ADVISORY COUNCIL FOR EMERGENCY OPERATIONS:
   (A)   The Board shall act as an advisory council for emergency operations
and may appoint as members such additional persons as are deemed appropriate.
   (B)   The Council shall, as a specific function, provide technical and
policy guidance to the Director on civil defense and matters relating to
community shelter planning, fallout shelter development and, public relations
and information.
11-3-8: ADOPTION OF STATUTE PROVISIONS:
So much of the provisions of N.R.S. Section 414.110 (Immunity and Exemption)
and 414.120 (Limitation of Private Liability) as pertain to political
subdivisions of the State, are hereby adopted and incorporated in this Chapter.
11-3-9: DEVELOPMENT OF FALLOUT SHELTERS:
   (A)   Every officer, board, department, commission or commissions of Elko
County charged with the duty of preparing specifications or awarding or
entering into contracts for the design, erection or construction of buildings
or other structures, including additions to existing structures for the County,
shall incorporate or cause to be incorporated in such buildings or other
structures where little or no additional cost is involved, fallout protection
for at least its normal anticipated population which shall meet or exceed the
minimum space and fallout protection criteria recommended by the Office of
Civil Defense, U.S. Department of Defense.
   (B)   It shall be the policy of the County that fallout shelters be
incorporated in all public buildings of the County to the fullest extent
practicable, in order to provide protection against radiation for the greatest
number of people in the event of nuclear attack.
   (C)   The Director shall establish contact with appropriate private
industrial marketing, architectural and engineering firms, business
associations and planning organizations for the purpose of encouraging the
incorporation of fallout shelters in privately owned buildings, structures,
mines, etc., and upon request will make available to such firms and
organizations without charge through the State Civil Defense and Disaster
Agency, a professional shelter analyst who will render advice as to the most
practicable and economical method of applying shelter slanting techniques to
the building or structural design under consideration.
11-3-10: PUNISHMENT OF VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not to exceed six (6) months, or both,
for any person during a disaster emergency;
   (A)   To wilfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency
operations organization in the enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation
imposed upon him by virtue of this Chapter.
   (B)   To do any act forbidden by any lawful rule or regulation issued
pursuant to this Chapter, if such act is of such a nature as to imperil the
lives or property of inhabitants of this County, or to prevent, hinder or delay
the protection thereof, or to give or be likely to give assistance to the
enemy.
   (C)   To wear, carry or display without authority any means of
identification specified by the State Civil Defense and Disaster Agency or the
County Office of Emergency Operations. (Ord. 1968-B; 4-8-68)
CHAPTER 4
ABUSED AND NEGLECTED CHILDRENS' PROGRAM
SECTION:
11-4-1: Abused and Neglected Childrens' Program
11-4-1: ABUSED AND NEGLECTED CHILDRENS' PROGRAM:
   (A)   Creation of Program: Pursuant to NRS 6.155 there is hereby created a
program whereby persons may donate the fees to which they are otherwise
entitled to receive as grand juror fees or trial juror fees pursuant to NRS
6.150(1) and 6.150(2) to the Abused and Neglected Childrens' Program.
   (B)   Administration: The program hereby established will be administered
and maintained in accordance with the provisions of NRS 6.155 and as the same
may be from time to time amended.
   (C)   Use of Donation: The money donated to the program will be given to an
agency in Elko County providing protective services as defined in NRS 432B.030,
and must be used only for a program or activity which is designed to prevent
the abuse or neglect of a child (as defined in NRS 432B.020) or to benefit an
abused or neglected child. (Ord. 1994-S, 11-2-94, eff. 11-21-94)
CHAPTER 5
PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES
SECTION:
11-5-1: Collection Of Personal Property Taxes By The Elko County Treasurer
11-5-1: COLLECTION OF PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES BY THE ELKO COUNTY TREASURER:
The Elko County treasurer is designated to collect personal property taxes
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 361.5605. The Elko County treasurer shall
exercise the same statutory authority for personal property tax collection as
the Elko County assessor. (Ord. 03-2005, 8-4-2005, eff. 9-22-2005)
CHAPTER 6
TELEPHONE SYSTEM USED FOR REPORTING EMERGENCY
SECTION:
11-6-1: Authority And Purpose
11-6-2: Definitions
11-6-3: Establishment Of An Advisory Committee
11-6-4: Chairman, Election And Duties
11-6-5: Rules And Regulations
11-6-6: Quorum
11-6-7: Meetings
11-6-8: Creation Of Special Revenue Fund; Use Of Money In Fund
11-6-9: Imposition Of Telephone Surcharge
11-6-10: Penalty For Failure To Remit Surcharges
11-6-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244A.7641 through
244A.7647 for the following purposes:
   (A)   To establish an advisory committee to develop a five (5) year master
plan for the enhancement or improvement of the telephone system for reporting
emergencies in Elko County and to oversee any money allocated for that purpose.
   (B)   To impose a surcharge for the enhancement or improvement of the
telephone system for reporting an emergency in Elko County on:
      1.   Each access line or trunk line of each customer to the local
exchange of any telecommunications provider providing those lines in Elko
County; and
      2.   The mobile telephone services provided to each customer of that
service whose place of primary use is in Elko County. (Ord. 2016-03, 9-7-2016,
eff. 11-18-2016)
11-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the words and terms defined in this section have the
meanings ascribed to them unless the context requires otherwise.
INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER: Has the meaning ascribed to it in 47 USC 251
(h)(1), as that section existed on October 1, 1995, and includes a local
exchange carrier that is treated as an incumbent exchange carrier pursuant to
that section.
MOBILE TELEPHONE SERVICE: Cellular or other service to a telephone installed in
a vehicle or which is otherwise portable.
PLACE OF PRIMARY USE: Has the meaning ascribed to it in 4 USC 124(8), as that
existed on August 1, 2002.
SUPPLIER: A person authorized by the federal communications commission to
provide mobile telephone service.
TELEPHONE SYSTEM: A system for transmitting information between or among points
specified by the user that does not change the form or content of the
information regardless of the technology, facilities or equipment used. A
telephone system may include, without limitation:
   (A)   Wireless or internet technology, facilities or equipment; and
   (B)   Technology, facilities or equipment used for transmitting information
from an emergency responder to the user or from the user to an emergency
responder.
TRUNK LINE: A line that provides a channel between a switchboard owned by a
customer of a telecommunications provider and the local exchange of the
telecommunications provider. (Ord. 2016-03, 9-7-2016, eff. 11-18-2016)
11-6-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
The board of county commissioners creates a nine (9) member advisory board to
develop a five (5) year master plan to enhance or improve the telephone system
for reporting an emergency in Elko County and to oversee any money allocated
for that purpose (the committee). The master plan must include an estimate of
the cost of the enhancement or improvement of the telephone system and all
proposed sources of money for funding the enhancement or improvement.
   (A)   Members shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   A member appointed to the committee shall:
      1.   Be a resident of Elko County;
      2.   Possess knowledge concerning telephone systems for reporting
emergencies; and
      3.   Not be an elected public officer.
   (C)   Members of the Elko County Advisory Committee must include:
      1.   One representative of an incumbent local exchange carrier which
provides services to persons in Elko County;
      2.   The chief law enforcement officer or his/her designee from the
following law enforcement agencies: the Elko County Sheriff, Elko Police
Department, Carlin Police Department, and West Wendover Police Department and
any other police department of an incorporated city within Elko County;
      3.   The Elko Fire District shall select one (1) representative;
      4.   Elko County Ambulance shall select one (1) representative;
      5.   The fire departments of the incorporated cities collectively shall
select one (1) representative, unless the fire departments of the incorporated
cities are unable to collectively agree upon one (1) representative, the Board
of County Commissioners shall select one (1) person to represent the fire
departments of the incorporated cities collectively; and
      6.   The Board of County Commissioners shall select one (1) person at
large at its discretion.
   (D)   Members shall be selected at large by the board of county
commissioners at its discretion.
   (E)   The board of county commissioners shall appoint members for a term of
two (2) years, except for the initial term, and may reappoint any member to
subsequent terms of two (2) years. Any vacancy occurring during a member's term
will be filled by the board of county commissioners. A person appointed to fill
a vacancy occurring during a term must serve out the unexpired term of the
member replaced. On the effective date hereof, the board of county
commissioners must set the initial appointed members' terms to provide for the
terms of four (4) of the appointed members to end on June 30, 2017, and for the
terms of three (3) of the appointed members to end on June 30, 2019. (Ord.
2017-01, 2-1-2017, eff. 2-17-2017; amd. Ord. 04-2019, 7-17-2019)
11-6-4: CHAIRMAN, ELECTION AND DUTIES:
   (A)   The committee shall elect from its membership a chairman and vice
chairman.
   (B)   The chairman will preside at meetings and be the signatory of any
correspondence necessitated by operation of the committee. (Ord. 2016-03, 9-7-
2016, eff. 11-18-2016)
11-6-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The committee may adopt rules and regulations regarding its meetings and
procedures. (Ord. 2016-03, 9-7-2016, eff. 11-18-2016)
11-6-6: QUORUM:
Three (3) members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. The approval of a
majority of all members present to vote is necessary on any action the
committee desires to take. (Ord. 2016-03, 9-7-2016, eff. 11-18-2016)
11-6-7: MEETINGS:
The committee shall hold a public meeting on a regular day each calendar
quarter. The committee is subject to Nevada's open meeting law, Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 241. (Ord. 2016-03, 9-7-2016, eff. 11-18-2016)
11-6-8: CREATION OF SPECIAL REVENUE FUND; USE OF MONEY IN FUND:
   (A)   The board of county commissioners creates a special revenue fund for
the deposit of any money collected pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
244A.7643. The money in the fund must be used only for the following purposes:
      1.   To enhance the telephone system for reporting an emergency so that
the number and address from which a call received by the system is made may be
determined, including only:
         (a)   Paying recurring and nonrecurring charges for telecommunication
services necessary for the operation of the enhanced telephone system;
         (b)   Paying costs for personnel and training associated with the
routine maintenance and updating the database for the system;
         (c)   Purchasing, leasing or renting equipment and software necessary
to operate the enhanced telephone system; and
         (d)   Paying costs associated with any maintenance, upgrade and
replacement of equipment and software necessary for the operation of the
enhanced telephone system.
      2.   To improve the telephone system for reporting emergencies in the
county.
   (B)   If the balance of the fund created pursuant to subsection (A) of this
section which has not been committed for expenditure exceeds one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) at the end of any fiscal year, the board of county
commissioners shall reduce the amount of the surcharge imposed during the next
fiscal year by the amount necessary to ensure that the unencumbered balance in
the fund at the end of the next fiscal year does not exceed one million dollars
($1,000,000.00). (Ord. 2016-03, 9-7-2016, eff. 11-18-2016)
11-6-9: IMPOSITION OF TELEPHONE SURCHARGE:
   (A)   The board of county commissioners imposes a surcharge for the
enhancement of the telephone system for reporting an emergency in Elko County
on:
      1.   Each access line or trunk line of each customer to the local
exchange of any telecommunications provider providing those lines are located
within Elko County; and
      2.   The mobile telephone service provided to each customer of that
service whose place of primary use is in Elko County as determined.
   (B)   The surcharge on access lines to the local exchange of a
telecommunications provider will be determined by resolution of the County
Commission. The surcharge shall not exceed the statutory amount set forth in
N.R.S. 244A.7643(3)(a).
   (C)   The surcharge on trunk lines shall equal ten (10) times the amount of
the surcharge imposed on each access line to the local exchange of a
telecommunications provider.
   (D)   The surcharge for each telephone number assigned to a customer by a
supplier of mobile telephone services will be equal to the surcharge on the
access lines to the local exchange of a telecommunications provider.
   (E)   A telecommunications provider that provides access or trunk lines in
Elko County and a supplier that provides mobile telephone service to customers
in Elko County must collect the surcharge from its customers each month.
Except as otherwise provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 244A.7647, each
telecommunications provider and supplier must remit the surcharge it collects
to the treasurer of the county in which the surcharge is imposed no later than
the fifteenth day of the month after the month it receives payment of the
surcharge from its customer. In accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes
244A.7647, a telecommunications provider or supplier which collects the
surcharge imposed pursuant to this section is entitled to retain an amount of
the surcharge collected which is equal to the cost to collect the surcharge.
   (F)   Telecommunications providers and mobile telephone service suppliers
affected by this chapter must begin imposing the surcharge described in this
section within sixty (60) days after the board of county commissioners approves
the five (5) year master plan for the enhancement or improvement of the
telephone system for reporting emergencies in the county commencing with a full
monthly billing cycle.
   (G)   The county manager may adopt procedures as necessary to effectuate the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 2016-03, 9-7-2016, eff. 11-18-2016; amd. Ord.
04-2019, 7-17-2019)
11-6-10: PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO REMIT SURCHARGES:
Any telecommunications provider or mobile telephone service supplier that fails
to remit surcharges due within ninety (90) days after the date on which the
telecommunications provider or supplier must otherwise remit the surcharges to
the county treasurer will be subject to a penalty of five percent (5%) of the
cumulative amount of surcharges owed by the telecommunications provider or
supplier. (Ord. 2016-03, 9-7-2016, eff. 11-18-2016)
TITLE 12
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 1
NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Created
12-1-2: Composition And Qualifications
12-1-3: Duties; Advisory Capacity; Restrictions
12-1-4: Vacancies
12-1-1: CREATED:
Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244.1945, the Elko County board of
commissioners has determined that it can best be served by the creation of a
natural resource management advisory commission, to be known as the "natural
resource management advisory commission", which shall act in an advisory
capacity to the Elko County board of commissioners with respect to issues
concerning natural resource use within Elko County. Accordingly, the natural
resource management advisory commission is hereby created. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-
2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-1-2: COMPOSITION AND QUALIFICATIONS:
   (A)   The natural resource management advisory commission shall consist of
seven (7) members.
   (B)   Each member shall be a resident of Elko County, state of Nevada.
   (C)   The members of the natural resource management advisory commission
shall be appointed by the Elko County board of commissioners from a list of
qualified and interested persons.
      1.   The natural resource management advisory commission may be comprised
of members representing specific specialties or disciplines as follows:
         (a)   Federally managed public lands.
         (b)   Surface/ground water resources.
         (c)   Recreation.
         (d)   Ranching/agriculture.
         (e)   Mining/milling.
         (f)   Private land use development.
         (g)   Wildlife management.
         (h)   "Nonvoting" staff as needed and determined.
      2.   Any qualified and interested person seeking appointment to the
natural resource management advisory commission shall submit his/her name
together with a statement of interest and his/her specific specialties or
discipline to the Elko County board of commissioners. The Elko County board of
commissioners shall appoint members of the natural resource management advisory
commission at its first meeting in December preceding the year of appointment.
      3.   The persons appointed to the natural resource management advisory
commission shall serve at the will and pleasure of the Elko County board of
commissioners.
   (D)   The term of each member appointed after the date of passage of this
title shall be four (4) years, or until his/her successor takes office, except
that the term of two (2) of the members of the first commission shall be three
(3) years and the respective terms of two (2) members of the first commission
shall be one and two (2) years. The natural resource management advisory
commission shall elect its chairman and vice chairman from among the appointed
members. The term of chairman and vice chairman shall be one year with
eligibility for reelection of one year. One person may not be chairman or vice
chairman for more than two (2) consecutive appointments to the position.
   (E)   The natural resource management advisory commission shall elect
officers from within its membership, fix the time and place of meetings, adopt
such rules and procedures as are appropriate for the conduct of business, and
keep such minutes and records as may be required by law, and as it shall
determine consistent with the purposes of this chapter.
   (F)   A majority of the members of the natural resource management advisory
commission shall constitute a quorum, and a vote of the majority of those
members present shall be necessary to carry any question. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-
2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-1-3: DUTIES; ADVISORY CAPACITY; RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   The natural resource management advisory commission shall assist the
Elko County board of commissioners in an advisory capacity with respect to all
natural resource management issues, and in such capacity bring to bear on the
problems of natural resource management the knowledge of its members. The
natural resource management advisory commission shall report its conclusions
and recommendations to the Elko County board of commissioners. The natural
resource management advisory commission and the Elko County board of
commissioners shall cooperate to inform each other of all natural resource
management matters of interest to the county and its residents. The existence
and activities of the natural resource management advisory commission shall not
diminish the responsibility of the Elko County board of commissioners in
performing its duties.
   (B)   The natural resource management advisory commission shall not expend
nor contract to expend any money for any purpose.
   (C)   All members of the commission shall serve as such without
compensation, except traveling expenses approved by the board of county
commissioners and made necessary in the fulfillment of their duties.
   (D)   The meetings of the natural resource management advisory commission
shall be subject to the requirements of the open meeting law, Nevada Revised
Statutes 241.010 et seq. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-1-4: VACANCIES:
If a vacancy occurs in the membership of the natural resource management
advisory commission due to the removal of a member by the Elko County board of
commissioners, resignation of a member, death of a member, or other cause, the
Elko County board of commissioners shall appoint a qualified resident of the
county to fill the vacancy and become a regular member for the unexpired term.
(Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
CHAPTER 2
ELKO COUNTY NATURAL RESOURCE PLANNING AND REVIEW PROCESS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Intent, Policy And Objectives
12-2-2: Joint Natural Resource Management Planning; Elko County As Cooperating
Agency
12-2-3: Joint Natural Resource Management And Environmental Impact Analyses;
Elko County As Joint Lead Agency
12-2-4: Implementation Of The Natural Resource Planning And Review Process
12-2-1: INTENT, POLICY AND OBJECTIVES:
   (A)   Purpose: This natural resource management planning and review process
is hereby established to protect the natural resources of Elko County for
future generations as well as to protect the economic and cultural stability of
Elko County for present and future generations.
The intent of the Elko County board of commissioners, in adopting this chapter,
is to promote the stated purposes and philosophy, "to declare a policy which
will encourage the productive and agreeable harmony between man and his
environment; to promote efforts which will eliminate damage to the environment
and biosphere and stimulate the health and welfare of man..." (see 42 USC
4321).
The natural resources management advisory commission will promote natural
resource management and planning of private and public lands, to maximize
social and economic contributions to the nation's well being, in an
environmentally sound manner. Therefore, the purpose of this chapter is to
create an Elko County environmental planning process which will:
      1.   Protect the customs, culture, and economic stability of Elko County.
      2.   Ensure that Elko County participates with local, state and federal
government agencies and organizations to the full extent allowed by existing
laws in joint planning for proposals on private and public lands within the
county.
      3.   Ensure full mitigation of adverse effects of environmental decisions
to Elko County and its citizens.
   (B)   Joint Natural Resource Management Research: The Elko County board of
commissioners intends to enter into joint research and studies with the local,
state and federal agencies. The purpose of joint research and studies will be
to develop a coordinated approach to natural resource management through:
      1.   Promoting understanding of "like values" or the customs and culture
of Elko County.
      2.   Identifying outputs/products requirements for improving natural
resource conditions and trends, and for protecting the community and enhancing
the economic stability of the county.
      3.   Coordinating the development of natural resource management
approaches for preferred management alternatives in the planning process.
   (C)   Policy And Objectives: It is the policy of the Elko County board of
commissioners that all proposals regarding natural resources of private and
public lands which will adversely affect the quality of both the physical and
socioeconomic environment in Elko County, should henceforth comply with the
requirements of local, state, federal laws and regulations.
The Elko County board of commissioners has identified the following primary
objectives for environmental planning and review within Elko County:
      1.   To disclose to the public and to local, state and federal
authorities the significant environmental effects of proposed private and
government actions on the physical environment and the customs, culture,
property rights, and economic stability of Elko County.
      2.   To identify means to mitigate or eliminate adverse impacts to the
above.
      3.   To minimize injury to the physical and socioeconomic environment by
promoting feasible alternatives or mitigation measures.
      4.   To encourage intergovernmental coordination and joint participation
in the environmental planning and review process in Elko County.
      5.   To encourage public education and participation in the environmental
review process.
      6.   To plan and manage natural resources consistent with environmental
and community standards. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-2-2: JOINT NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLANNING; ELKO COUNTY AS COOPERATING
AGENCY:
Elko County's economy is dependent upon natural resources to a major extent. It
is therefore advantageous that local, state, and federal agencies work closely
together to jointly determine the benefits, impacts, and costs of resource
plans and decisions. By pooling local, state, and federal resources, the
general public will be better informed about resource decisions. Joint planning
and coordination will also provide a unique opportunity to cooperatively
develop realistic mitigation alternatives for redressing negative
environmental, social and economic impacts. Elko County has and shall continue
to implement coordination agency status on a permanent basis and may implement
cooperating agency and/or lead agency status on a selective determined basis on
federal land use actions. The natural resource management advisory commission
should refer extensively to the 2008 Elko County public lands policy plan, or
updates thereof, for Elko County board of county commissioners' policy
statements regarding public land guiding principles relating to Elko County.
The Elko County, Nevada general open space plan, 2003, Elko County planning and
zoning, or future updates, should also be used broadly for policy reference.
The procedures and guidelines of this Elko County natural resource management
planning and review process ordinance shall be consistent with the requirements
of local, state and federal laws and implementing regulations. Furthermore, in
the event that an environmental assessment and/or an environmental impact
statement is required by both the Elko County ordinance and NEPA, such
documents may be coordinated and jointly prepared by the Elko County board of
commissioners and the state or federal agency.
The legal authority for this chapter is derived from state and federal
statutes. The joint intergovernmental planning and coordination requirements of
this chapter are consistent with the requirements of NEPA and CEQ regulations
(see 40 CFR 1506.2(b)) as follows:
Joint environmental planning.
Joint environmental research.
Joint public hearings.
Joint preparation of environmental documents.
   (A)   Joint Natural Resource Management Planning: Upon invoking the joint
impact assessment process, the Elko County board of commissioners may, as it
deems necessary, enter into a memorandum of agreement (MOA) for joint planning
and preparation of joint impact assessment documents, including procedures for
designating Elko County as a joint lead agency in the state and federal natural
resource assessment process and in the development of environmental impact
statements.
The MOAs shall be in full conformance with the requirement of this chapter. All
government agencies and organizations shall notify the Elko County board of
commissioners immediately upon initiation of any proposal or planning activity
that may affect natural resource and human environment in Elko County. In Elko
County, joint natural resource management planning should be conducted in the
following sequence to ensure that all planning and proposals are formulated
and/or evaluated against appropriate and realistic objectives:
      1.   Establish management objectives in terms of the natural resource and
human environment for the site impacted. These will be determined through
review of local, state, federal and county land use plans for consistency. This
definition of objectives should include the commodity and amenity outputs or
production thresholds needed to achieve the values the citizens of the county
have determined to be important or necessary to their well being.
      2.   Design "desired future conditions" to best meet the above determined
management objectives within the physical capabilities of the natural resources
and environment.
      3.   Utilize an ecosystem management approach to evaluate any single
proposal. That is, all uses, management objectives, socioeconomic effects,
customs and culture, and environmental capabilities will be considered. (Ord.
01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-2-3: JOINT NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ANALYSES;
ELKO COUNTY AS JOINT LEAD AGENCY:
In accordance with NEPA (see 42 USC 4331(b)(2)-(4), 4332(2), 40 CFR 1502.14,
1506.2), Elko County may seek active participation in the management of public
lands as a joint lead agency when the Elko County board of commissioners
determine that the proposed agency action may affect the county's interests as
a whole. Once Elko County is designated as a joint lead agency regarding a
specific land use proposal, the local, state and federal agencies should work
jointly with Elko County to conduct natural resource impact analyses of the
proposals and reasonable alternatives for both the physical and the
socioeconomic environment.
The following methods should be followed in a coordinated manner to conduct
intergovernmental joint environmental assessments and joint environmental
impact statements. There are three (3) classes of environmental analyses which
Elko County may wish to participate in and/or respond to: informal letters
(sometimes referred to as decision memos), environmental assessments and
environmental impact statements.
   (A)   Preliminary Review; Informal Letters: Informal letters should be used
to document preliminary discussions and decisions of proposals categorically
excluded from NEPA assessments, and for planning activities establishing or
refining management objectives, desired future conditions, or identifying or
rejecting future management needs or proposals. The activities appropriate to
informal letters are usually those preceding formal proposals requiring NEPA
analyses.
   (B)   Environment Assessment (EA): An EA should be prepared at the request
of the Elko County board of commissioners when there is an indication that the
environment (physical, social, cultural, property rights, and/or economic
factors) will be affected by proposed federal agency(ies) actions. The EA is
found in the CEQ regulations of NEPA (see 40 CFR 1501.3). There is no standard
format required, but the EA should include the following information:
      1.   Proposal description.
      2.   Environmental setting.
      3.   Local citizens' values and management objectives.
      4.   Production norms for the area(s) involved.
      5.   Potential natural resource and environmental impacts.
      6.   Alternatives (if appropriate).
      7.   Mitigation measures.
      8.   Consistency of the proposal with the Elko County federal land use
plan.
   (C)   Environmental Impact Statement (EIS): (See 40 CFR 1502-1508.2.) Based
on findings documented in an EA, the Elko County board of commissioners shall
make its determination whether to request a more formal and detailed EIS. The
EIS should be developed jointly by the federal agency(ies) and by Elko County,
as a joint lead agency, as provided by NEPA and CEQ regulations. The "affected
environment" encompasses the human environment as described in the NEPA and CEQ
regulations.
"Human environment" should be interpreted comprehensively to include the
natural resources and natural physical environment and the relationship of
people with that environment. When an environmental impact statement is
prepared and economic or social and natural or physical environmental effects
are interrelated, then the environmental impact statement should discuss all of
these effects on the human environment.
Since the majority of the land in Elko County is public land, and the county's
natural resources including, but not limited to, industries, agriculture,
mining, recreation and wildlife are tied to public lands, all "economic or
social and natural or physical environmental effects" are interrelated.
   (D)   Purpose Of Analysis: The purpose of joint natural resource management
and environmental impact analysis is to:
      1.   Identify the significant effects of a proposal on the natural
resources and environment (natural, social, cultural, property rights, and
economic factors).
      2.   Identify reasonable alternatives to the proposal when there is a
negative effect, especially on the natural resources, health, safety, welfare
and livelihood (economic welfare) of county citizens.
      3.   Indicate the manner in which those significant effects can be
mitigated or avoided. The EIS will assess cumulative impacts along with the
direct effects and their significance and indirect effects and their
significance of proposed actions in accordance with NEPA and CEQ regulations.
Also, in accordance with NEPA requirements, the EIS should consider all
reasonable alternatives to the proposed action with the goal of finding the
alternative with the least adverse environmental impact in relation to its
benefits.
   (E)   Information Incorporated In Database: Information developed in an
individual EIS should be incorporated into a database, which can be used to
reduce delay in preparation of subsequent environmental impact reports as
follows:
      1.   Purpose And Need For Action: A brief statement of the underlying
purpose and need which has brought about the proposal and the alternatives.
      2.   Description Of The Proposal: A summary description of the proposal.
Where an EIS is required for allotment management plans, the proposal and
alternatives will be grazing management concepts and application of best
management practices.
      3.   Affected Physical And Socioeconomic Environment: The environmental
setting, both physical and socioeconomic, which will be affected or created by
the proposed alternatives.
      4.   Management Objectives For The Affected Area: The management
objectives for the planning process which take into account the human
environment, socioeconomic needs, and production thresholds necessary for
realization of such values which are important to people of the county. These
management objectives and production levels will then become the goals and
evaluation criteria against which all proposals and alternatives shall be
evaluated. The management objectives shall be drawn from reviews of Elko County
and various local, state and federal land management plans. Since most of these
land plans are programmatic and broad in scope, the management objectives may
have to be refined specific to the affected area or site.
      5.   Natural Resource And Environmental Impacts: A concise description
showing the effects of the proposal on both the physical and socioeconomic
environment, including current and desired future conditions of the area.
         (a)   Assessment Of Impacts On The Natural Resource And Physical
Environment: A description of any effects on the county's natural resource
assets and environmental quality to include effects on:
            (1)   Mining resources.
            (2)   Range resources.
            (3)   Dry land crops.
            (4)   Watershed resources.
            (5)   Public and private recreation resources.
            (6)   Wildlife.
            (7)   Private surface and ground water rights and irrigated
cropland.
            (8)   Environmental quality: air, water (including surface and
ground water), energy, soils, etc.
            (9)   Integrated resource planning and management in which county
private parties and/or public interest are involved.
            (10)   Multiple use, sustained yield, and range resource laws.
            (11)   Private investments and costs into public land resources.
         (b)   Assessment Of Impacts On The Social Environment: A description
of any effects on Elko County's natural resources, culture, governance,
schools, and other local programs including effects on:
            (1)   The culture of Elko County due to population loss.
            (2)   The culture of Elko County from possible limitations and
restrictions on cultural beliefs and practices, and maintenance of cultural and
community cohesion and kinships.
            (3)   Cultural and community aesthetics, including historical
sites, natural resource vistas, river ways, and landscapes.
            (4)   The county's ability to protect the health, safety, and
social and cultural well being of its citizens.
            (5)   The county's ability to promote environmental value and
resource protection and development.
            (6)   The county's ability to finance public programs and services
through bonding, lending, and other financing mechanisms.
            (7)   Local governments (e.g., cities, towns, and county) and
schools from identified tax revenue losses.
            (8)   Local emergency medical services, law enforcement, fire
protection and nuisance abatement.
            (9)   The local government infrastructure, including
transportation, community water systems (including those provided through
irrigation and reclamation districts), and landfill services.
            (10)   Local community well being, stability of governance, and the
education of children from cumulative and long term impacts.
         (c)   Assessment Of Impacts On The Economic Environment: A description
of any effects on the county's economy, customs, services, and businesses to
include effects on:
            (1)   Private investment backed expectations.
            (2)   The economic value of private water rights and real property.
            (3)   Direct, indirect and cumulative employment.
            (4)   The base industries of livestock and mining, specifying unit
cost effects (e.g., economic value of AUMs, mining activities, etc.).
            (5)   Local businesses directly and indirectly related to the
resource decisions or plans.
            (6)   Housing, real estate values, and residential energy needs.
            (7)   Thresholds for business demand and markets.
            (8)   Local community well being, stability, and ability to
maintain current and future debt service by long term and cumulative impacts.
         (d)   Assessment Of Cumulative Effects: An analysis of the effects of
planning decisions should be conducted to ensure that there are no cumulative,
long term effects on the county's natural resources, economy, customs, culture,
services, and businesses, as well as the environment.
One of the primary reasons for enacting the procedures contained in this
chapter and the commitment of county natural resources for the development of
accurate data is to assist state and federal agencies to systematically
identify both present and cumulative impacts associated with their actions and
to develop effective and feasible mitigation measures and alternatives so that
these adverse impacts may be eliminated or substantially reduced or
compensated.
      6.   Alternatives: A description should be made of the natural resources
and environmental impacts of the proposal and the reasonable alternatives in
comparative form which will provide a clear basis for choice among the options
by the decision makers and the public, in accordance with NEPA and CEQ
regulations (see 40 CFR 1502.14). This section will:
         (a)   Provide an objective evaluation of all reasonable alternatives
and a decision of why any alternatives were eliminated.
         (b)   Provide a detailed description of each alternative, including
the proposal, so that reviewers may evaluate their comparative merits.
         (c)   Include reasonable alternatives not within the jurisdiction of
the lead agency.
         (d)   Include the alternative of no action.
         (e)   Identify the preferred alternative or alternatives.
         (f)   Include appropriate mitigation measures not already included in
the mitigation plan.
      7.   Natural Resources Mitigation Plan: A mitigation plan is needed which
will provide detailed and realistic alternatives. The mitigation plan should:
         (a)   Identify each impact which the mitigation measure is intended to
address.
         (b)   Identify the party or agency responsible for the implementation
and monitoring of the proposed mitigation measure.
         (c)   Specify the following for each mitigation alternative:
            (1)   How impacts may be avoided altogether by not taking certain
actions.
            (2)   How impacts may be minimized by limiting the degree or
magnitude of the proposed action.
            (3)   How impacts may be rectified through repair, rehabilitation,
or restoration of the affected environment.
            (4)   How impacts may be reduced or eliminated over time through
preservation and maintenance action during the life of the action.
            (5)   How the agency could compensate for the impact by providing
substitute resources of equal economic value.
         (d)   Specify, for each mitigation measure, its:
            (1)   Legal authority.
            (2)   Technical feasibility.
            (3)   Fiscal and economic feasibility.
            (4)   Social, cultural and political feasibility.
         (e)   Provide a mitigation monitoring plan, which is based on specific
objectives and performance standards, to ensure implementation of mitigation
measures during the life of the proposal.
         (f)   Provide all pertinent information to the natural resource
management advisory commission and Elko County board of commissioners from the
mitigation monitoring process.
      8.   Public Involvement Requirements: During the preparation of an
analysis for a decision document, or amendment to a proposal, Elko County,
local, state and the federal agencies should jointly provide opportunities for
the involvement of Elko County citizens, local governments, schools, utility
companies, civic or other community groups, and all economic segments within
Elko County. This shall be done through public hearings and other means the
Elko County board of commissioners deems appropriate. The joint public
involvement program should have the following elements:
         (a)   Local, state and federal agencies should be encouraged to
coordinate joint public involvement planning, programs, and processes with the
natural resource management advisory commission and Elko County board of
commissioners, pursuant to this section.
         (b)   The public involvement program shall include objectives to:
            (1)   Identify the management objectives, affected parties, and
opportunities of the proposed action.
            (2)   Apprise landowners of regulations and decisions that may
affect their property rights.
            (3)   Provide public opportunities to evaluate alternatives and to
participate in choosing the preferred alternative.
            (4)   Create an atmosphere in which conflicting demands for
resources and uses can be resolved without destabilizing community economic,
social, and/or cultural fabrics. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-2-4: IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NATURAL RESOURCE PLANNING AND REVIEW PROCESS:
In addition to the procedures contained in this chapter, the Elko County board
of commissioners may:
   (A)   Adopt such administrative rules and oversight guidelines deemed
necessary to carry out this chapter.
   (B)   Develop such natural resource best management practices, related
cooperative agreements, memorandums of understanding, joint policy statements,
and joint letters of intent with appropriate state and federal agencies, so
that the goals and objectives of this chapter may be carried out. (Ord. 01-
2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
CHAPTER 3
NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AREAS OF CONCERN
SECTION:
12-3-1: Purpose
12-3-2: Custom And Culture
12-3-3: Community Stability
12-3-4: Tax Base
12-3-5: Water Rights
12-3-6: Mining
12-3-7: Agriculture
12-3-8: Wildlife
12-3-9: Recreation
12-3-10: Public And Private Utility Access
12-3-11: Public Land Disposition
12-3-12: Predator Control
12-3-13: Commensurability
12-3-14: Riparian Areas And Habitat
12-3-15: Wilderness; Wilderness Study Areas, Wild And Scenic Rivers, Etc.
12-3-16: Wild (Feral) Horses
12-3-17: Commercial/Recreation Hunting And Trapping
12-3-18: Parks And Refuges
12-3-19: Public Roads And Access
12-3-20: Noxious/Invasive Weeds And Plants
12-3-21: Endangered Species; Wetlands And Other Federal Land Regulations Acts
12-3-22: Fire Management
12-3-1: PURPOSE:
The Elko County board of commissioners has established the issues of natural
resource management. The management of the natural resources is imperative to
the success and sustained lifestyle historically and currently enjoyed by the
general public and visitors of Elko County.
As each area of concern is addressed the content will serve as the primary
guide for future local, state and federal natural resource management planning
within Elko County. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-2: CUSTOM AND CULTURE:
The county recognizes that private ownership leads to the greatest natural
resource enhancement. Private ownership means individual responsibility and
stewardship. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-3: COMMUNITY STABILITY:
Federally managed lands make up the majority of Elko County land. Elko County's
economy is dependent on business and recreational activities on these federally
managed lands. Many of the activities on federally managed lands are
inseparably tied to the small fraction of private lands in Elko County. The
nature and intent of Elko County government natural resource management and
land use planning is to protect the custom and culture of county citizens
through protection of private property rights as well as the right to use
federally managed lands for recreational and economic purposes. (Ord. 01-2009,
6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-4: TAX BASE:
It is critical to the well being of the citizens of Elko County that the Elko
County board of commissioners remain vigilant over the federal government "in
lieu of" tax revenues, or PILT, coming to the state of Nevada and to Elko
County as well as interactive concerning the implementation of best management
practices of all natural resources. All factors of natural resource management
will potentially affect the Elko County economy and tax base. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-
17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-5: WATER RIGHTS:
In the arid west, it is recognized that of all of our natural resources, water
is the most important. Proper use and conservation of water is critically
important to the general health and well being of the people of Elko County.
   (A)   The Elko County board of commissioners identify and adopt the
guidelines, policies and objectives for the natural resource management of
surface and ground water in Elko County as per the Elko County water resources
management plan:
      1.   All water resources of Elko County belong to the public and are
managed by the state of Nevada division of water resources, the state engineer
and Nevada Revised Statutes chapters 533 and 534.
      2.   Water resource needs of the current and future of Elko County
residents must be managed with a balanced approach that provides for Elko
County's economic goals without detriment to the social, aesthetic, cultural,
recreational, individual and ecological values of Elko County.
      3.   The appropriation and beneficial use of Elko County's water
resources is administered by the Nevada state engineer in accordance with the
requirements and provisions of Nevada water law and by state and federal
decrees and regulations.
      4.   Public education and public input is imperative to the success of
water resource management planning and all units of local government.
      5.   Water rights in Nevada are private property and may be bought, sold
and traded under free market conditions.
      6.   Elko County, in filing for ground and surface rights within the Elko
County boundary is only interested in augmenting and enhancing the water
resources for Elko County citizens and the economic diversity.
      7.   All water resource development in Elko County should be conducted in
a manner that is technically, environmentally and economically sound and
consistent with state and federal laws.
      8.   Water conservation and reuse methods are important components of the
planning and management of Elko County water resources.
      9.   The Elko County water resource management plan must be based on
sound science and water resource evaluation and management principles.
      10.   Water rights applications, appropriations, transfers and amendments
are to be monitored and recorded in a county database.
   (B)   The Elko County board of commissioners reaffirms the prior
appropriation doctrine as recognized by Nevada state law, that the right to
appropriate water is a primary property right open to individuals and groups of
individuals, such as local government. That the key principles of the prior
appropriation doctrine (as represented in Nevada's water law) shall remain
first right, first use, beneficial use, and point of diversion. (Ord. 01-2009,
6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-6: MINING:
It is imperative to the well being of Elko County and the nation that mining on
private and federally managed lands remains open to the public. It is clear
that mining claims are property belonging to individuals or groups of
individuals, as has been traditionally established. Such as the analysis of
economic and occupational skill impacts of the hard rock mining sector on the
Elko micropolitan S.A. economy, 2008, by Dr. Thomas R. Harris of UNR, or future
updates, and an analysis of the economic impact of the hard rock mining sector
on the Elko County economy, 2007, or future updates, the Elko County public
land use policy plan and other existing and future studies and documents should
be requested for inclusion of all federal land use actions regarding the mining
industry. It should also be used as a reference for social, cultural and
economic impacts of the mining industry by the natural resource management
advisory commission.
Elko County supports:
   (A)   Retention of and compliance with the 1872 mining law.
   (B)   A review of new legislation and regulations that would place more
stringent controls upon the mining industry.
   (C)   Unreasonable legislation and regulation which burden our mining
industry will be vigorously opposed by Elko County. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009,
eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-7: AGRICULTURE:
Elko County recognizes the importance of agriculture, particularly the
traditional family farms and ranches that have played such an important part in
the social and economic well being of our nation. Elko County also recognizes
how increasing governmental regulations are gradually reducing and eliminating
farms and ranches. The natural resource management advisory commission should
broadly utilize studies and documents such as the analysis of impacts of public
land grazing on the Elko County economy and Mountain City management area,
2007, by Thomas R. Harris of UNR, or future updates, for reference of the
social, cultural and economic impacts of grazing to Elko County, Elko County
public land use policy plan, Elko County open space plan and any future studies
and documents or updates.
In order to reverse such trends, Elko County supports, encourages, and promotes
policies that will lead to strengthening and supporting family farming and
ranching. Elko County supports and encourages the right to:
   (A)   Private investment in range improvements. Public land permit holders
making investments in range betterment should be given increased grazing
capacity or allowed other benefits.
   (B)   Appropriate and fair fee schedules that reflect all nonfee costs of
running livestock on federally managed lands.
   (C)   Subleasing of grazing rights.
   (D)   Legislation at the state and federal levels should be reviewed and
changed to give incentives to the family based farming or ranching business.
(Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-8: WILDLIFE:
The Nevada board of wildlife commissioners is charged with the direct
responsibility under law to set policy and adopt regulations. The board of
wildlife commissioners has the responsibility to monitor and prevent NDOW
employees within the department from pursuing their own agenda.
   (A)   The board of wildlife commissioners through public hearings, input
from the Elko County advisory board to manage wildlife (ECABTMW) and the open
meeting process, may set policy after review and consideration of all pertinent
documentation impacting wildlife and wildlife resources.
   (B)   Elko County's ECABTMW and Elko County's natural resource management
advisory board will monitor all policies and regulations to ensure their
conformity to this plan and direction as set forth by the board of county
commissioners and the NDOW board of wildlife commissioners.
   (C)   Any management policy or NDOW regulation must be responsive to
recommendations of the ECABTMW, sportsmen and the board of Elko County
commissioners. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-9: RECREATION:
Recreation is critically important in our society. The open lands and outdoor
recreational opportunity found throughout the western states shall remain among
our greatest assets. We prize the opportunity and freedom these lands provide.
Elko County shall promote, actively monitor and be engaged in providing the
opportunity for the development of private and public lands based recreation
within the county through land use planning on private lands and the use of
recreation and public purpose leases on federally managed lands. The county
also promotes the continued use of passive, active, dispersed and multiple
recreation uses of federally managed lands.
Elko County shall promote and actively monitor and be engaged in providing the
opportunity for the development of water based recreation within the county,
such as those provided by the numerous manmade public reservoirs and natural
lakes in the county. It is the policy of Elko County that customary use, access
and enjoyment of the federally managed lands are to be protected.
Recreation is identified as a natural resource in Elko County. All aspects and
uses of recreation on private and public lands in Elko County are to be managed
using best management practices to conserve and protect the right of use of
recreation on such lands. All active private and public recreation is to be
identified and monitored by the natural resource management advisory
commission. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-10: PUBLIC AND PRIVATE UTILITY ACCESS:
Elko County supports individual citizens' acquisition of easements and rights
of way for roads, ditches, pipelines, canals, power lines, telephone lines and
stock driveways. Elko County also supports the protection of those rights over
federally managed lands or privately owned lands that are vested and accrued
through past usage and prescriptive uses prior to the passage of the federal
land policy and management act of 1976. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-
2009)
12-3-11: PUBLIC LAND DISPOSITION:
The Elko County board of commissioners formally requests that all local, state
and federal agencies notify the Elko County board of commissioners of any
planned action that might affect the natural resources and economic or
recreational uses on local, state or federal lands by the citizens of the
county.
Upon receipt of such notice, and after determination by the Elko County board
of commissioners that the activity may be adverse to the citizens of the
county, the Elko County board of commissioners may then request the local,
state or federal agency to complete an economic impact study, or the county may
institute its own study to review the potential impact before the regulation or
activity has begun.
Federal land transfers to local government and municipalities should be given
priority consideration. In the event the federal government acquires land or
water rights other than through exchange in Elko County, the federal government
should dispose of an equal value or amount of land or water rights to foster
private property ownership in Elko County. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-
2009)
12-3-12: PREDATOR CONTROL:
If future generations are to enjoy the abundance of wildlife, as did our
generation, and if livestock production is to remain a part of Nevada's
industry, it is imperative that sound predator control programs be implemented
throughout our state and county. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-13: COMMENSURABILITY:
It is critically important to the long term well being of Elko County, both
ecologically and economically, that base property and commensurability
requirements, as traditionally established, remain part of the eligibility
requirements necessary for holding grazing permits on federal lands. (Ord. 01-
2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-14: RIPARIAN AREAS AND HABITAT:
Riparian or wet areas as found throughout our state and federal lands are of
critical importance to well balanced and productive rangeland ecosystems.
Although riparian areas make up only a small portion of most allotments, they
often support vegetation critical to the survival of various species of
wildlife. Public overuse and/or overgrazing of riparian areas can, over time,
eliminate key plants, such as native rosebush, wild currant, willow, or quaking
aspen. Conversely public use or under grazing can quickly lead to congested
growth of these same plants, which in turn can greatly reduce or destroy wet
meadow areas.
For these reasons, it is important that the local, state and federal management
agencies, the general, public grazing permit holders and the natural resource
management advisory board work closely with one another in managing riparian
areas, utilizing consultation, cooperation and coordination as provided under
section 8 of the public rangelands improvement act of 1978.
Elko County natural resource management advisory commission is to take an
active role in the participation of management practices of riparian habitat
and areas. Key partnerships with agencies such as the USGS, U.S. forest service
and BLM are required to actively monitor and manage the riparian areas.
Memorandums of understandings are to be developed between Elko County and all
agencies involved in the best management practices and establishment of
riparian areas. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-15: WILDERNESS; WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS, WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS, ETC.:
Elko County is opposed to the designation of any further wilderness areas,
wilderness study areas, wild and scenic rivers, or other single use
designations by the federal government.
It takes an act of congress to designate an area as wilderness. However,
congress must take the opinions of all American citizens into consideration
when debating whether or not to designate an area as wilderness. Elko County
must actively monitor and participate in the public review of the designations
to protect the public right to utilize the proposed for multiple use.
If the presently designated wilderness areas and wildlife refuges are to remain
healthy and productive, it is imperative that grazing, hunting, predator
control, and noxious weed control be a part of the management plan.
Key partnerships with agencies such as the USGS, U.S. forest service and BLM
are required to actively monitor and manage the wilderness, wilderness study
areas and wild and scenic river areas. Memorandums of understandings are to be
developed between Elko County and all agencies involved in the best management
practices and establishment of such areas. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-
2009)
12-3-16: WILD (FERAL) HORSES:
Elko County encourages new legislation that will effectively manage wild
(feral) horses. Wild horses should be managed by federal agencies to maintain
established HMLs in all areas of Elko County. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-
24-2009)
12-3-17: COMMERCIAL/RECREATION HUNTING AND TRAPPING:
Commercial/recreational hunting and trapping is recognized as an economic
component in Elko County. The natural resource management advisory board will
assist the ECABTMW in monitoring activities and decisions of the Nevada board
of wildlife commissioners as it governs hunting and trapping resources in Elko
County. The natural resource management advisory board and/or the Elko County
advisory board to manage wildlife is charged with the responsibility to notify,
in writing, any concerns/decisions not in the best interest of wildlife
resources or sportsmen of Elko County to the board of county commissioners.
Hunting and trapping are recognized as effective tools to manage wildlife and
viable economic factors in Elko County. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-
2009)
12-3-18: PARKS AND REFUGES:
Elko County supports the institution of local input in the management of
federal and state parks and refuges within the county. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-
2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-19: PUBLIC ROADS AND ACCESS:
Elko County supports the rights of the people to travel over and through, state
and federally managed lands, for the lawful purposes of economic propriety,
private necessity, recreation including, but not limited to, hunting, fishing,
rock hounding, wood gathering, post cutting, and other activities such as
snowmobiling.
   (A)   Trustee Of Public Roads: Except for state and federal highways, Elko
County, a political subdivision of the state of Nevada, holds title as trustee
for the public to all public roads situated in Elko County, of every kind
whatsoever and however such roads may have come into being.
   (B)   Closure; Maintenance: Elko County will:
      1.   Oppose closure of any public road except as authorized by this
chapter or Nevada Revised Statutes.
      2.   Maintain the public roads by conventional or other appropriate
means, as from time to time authorized by the Elko County board of
commissioners, or designate certain public roads as roads to be maintained only
by passage and use without liability to the county, as permitted by the Nevada
Revised Statutes. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
   (C)   Map: The division of planning and zoning shall prepare and maintain a
map or series of maps showing the location of all publicly maintained county
roads as hereinabove described.
   (D)   Map Amendments: The map of county roads prepared by the Elko County
division of planning and zoning, as the same may from time to time be amended,
is made a part of this chapter by reference. The map of county roads may be
revised by action of the Elko County board of commissioners. (Ord. 2015-13, 7-
8-2015, eff. 2-20-2016)
   (E)   Closures; Restrictions: No person or persons shall interfere with the
right of the public to travel upon the public roads, except:
      1.   Public roads temporarily closed by the Elko County board of
commissioners for reasons of public safety. The Elko County sheriff may effect
temporary closures for reasons of public safety pending ratification of such
action by the Elko County board of commissioners.
      2.   Public roads may be closed permanently or abandoned by the Elko
County board of commissioners only after complying with state law.
      3.   The Elko County board of commissioners may grant temporary exclusive
licenses to use, or place lesser restrictions on the public use of a public
road to accommodate mining activity, provided: a) an alternate access route if
reasonably available and at the licensee's expense is provided to the areas
served by the public road; b) the licensee maintains the public road and
returns it to the county at the conclusion of the mining activity in as good or
better condition than at the time of the licensing; and c) thirty (30) days'
notice is given of the intent to temporarily limit use of the public road for
mining activity and holding a public hearing on the proposed limitation(s).
   (F)   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms have the
meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CONSTRUCTION: The establishment of a road by mechanical or other means,
including repeated use.
   COUNTY ROAD: Any public road situated within Elko County, except for
designated state and federal highways.
   HIGHWAY: 1. Modern Usage: Any state or federally designated road, usually
paved or graveled.
      2.   Traditional (R.S. 2477) Use: Any road, trace, trail, canal,
navigable waterway, or other route used by humans for travel by wheeled
vehicle, horseback, foot, boat or otherwise. This definition includes all
highways established across public land pursuant to the mining law of 1866,
which was repealed by enactment of the federal lands policy management act
(FLPMA) in 1976.
   MAINTENANCE: Includes maintenance, construction, reconstruction and repair
of a road by mechanical or other means, including repeated use.
   PUBLIC ROAD: Any roads open to travel by the general public. The term
includes, without limitation, roads: 1) on land held in fee simple by the
county; 2) easements across land held or claimed by others; 3) pursuant to
express or implied permit, license or easement on lands held or claimed by
others; 4) canals or navigable waterways. Roads established pursuant to the
grant of right of way by the mining law of 1866 (R.S. 2477 roads) are public
roads.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The entire fee, easement, licensed or permitted area for a
road; the traveled way, together with such adjoining lands as may be required
for construction or maintenance of a road.
   ROAD: Any highway (traditional definition), road, trail, trace, footpath,
canal, navigable waterway, or other route, whether constructed or created by
repeated use, whether maintained by mechanical means or repeated use, or used
by humans for transportation by wheeled vehicle, horseback, foot, boat or
otherwise. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-20: NOXIOUS/INVASIVE WEEDS AND PLANTS:
Elko County supports and encourages a better understanding of the destructive
nature of noxious and invasive plants and weeds encroachment, and encourages
legislation addressing the problem. The Elko County cooperative weed management
area coalition, established as a collaborative diverse membership within Elko
County, shall serve as an advisory board for this commission and also the Elko
County board of commissioners, if requested. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-
24-2009)
12-3-21: ENDANGERED SPECIES; WETLANDS AND OTHER FEDERAL LAND REGULATIONS ACTS:
The endangered species act and the wetlands regulations under the clean water
act are proving unworkable in many areas of the nation and are beginning to
have a major impact on both private and federally managed lands within Elko
County. It is the goal of Elko County to establish local management plans to
lessen the impact of these acts and to closely monitor the effects of these and
similar acts on the citizens of Elko County. Elko County will pursue the
modification of these acts so as to make them less cumbersome and restrictive
to private property owners/developers and public land managers. (Ord. 01-2009,
6-17-2009, eff. 7-24-2009)
12-3-22: FIRE MANAGEMENT:
Elko County supports and encourages a coordinated, collaborative, multiagency
approach to mitigation of the effects of fire management and wildfire use. The
Nevada community wildfire risk/hazard assessment project for Elko County, 2005,
and subsequent updates identify all communities in Elko County and associated
risk assessments. These reports should be used for reference regarding
priorities and needs for each community, and further for prioritization of
communities at risk for mitigation purposes. (Ord. 01-2009, 6-17-2009, eff. 7-
24-2009)
CHAPTER 4
RIGHT TO RANCH AND FARM
SECTION:
12-4-1: Short Title
12-4-2: Purpose And Intent
12-4-3: Policy
12-4-4: Definitions
12-4-5: Agricultural Operation, Facility Or Expansion Thereof Not A Nuisance;
Exception
12-4-6: Disclosure Notice Statements
12-4-7: Severability
12-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the ELKO COUNTY RIGHT TO RANCH AND FARM
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2014-01, 2-5-2014, eff. 2-19-2014)
12-4-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Nationally at urban/rural interfaces, nuisance suits have disrupted traditional
ranch and farm operations and/or have suppressed investments in farm
improvements. Some nuisance suits have prevailed even though the ranch/farm
business had been established prior to the encroaching nonagricultural
activities and even if the rancher/farmer had followed good, generally accepted
agricultural practices. Lands lost from long standing agricultural uses erode
the viability of the county's agricultural industry, decrease the general food
supply and diminish the overall community economic diversity and cultural
heritage. (Ord. 2014-01, 2-5-2014, eff. 2-19-2014)
12-4-3: POLICY:
It is the public policy of Elko County to conserve, protect, enhance and
encourage agricultural operations throughout the county. This chapter does not
in any way modify other laws, ordinances or regulations relative to nuisances,
zoning, and/or the division of land. The intent is to promote a good neighbor
policy between ranchers, farmers and residents through education, communication
and understanding of good, generally accepted agricultural practices. (Ord.
2014-01, 2-5-2014, eff. 2-19-2014)
12-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms shall be defined as:
AGRICULTURAL FACILITY: Includes, under proper zoning and permitted use, any
land, building, structure, ditch, drain, pond, impoundment, appurtenance,
machinery, equipment or implements of husbandry that are used in an
agricultural operation.
AGRICULTURAL OPERATION: A properly zoned and permitted activity or condition
taking place in connection with the production of agricultural products for
food, fiber, cellulose based fuels and other lawful uses, where good, generally
accepted agricultural practices occur and includes, without limitation:
   (A)   Construction, expansion, use, maintenance and repair of an
agricultural facility;
   (B)   Preparation of land, ditches and other landscape for agricultural
production, including seasonal burning as permitted by the fire marshal;
   (C)   Aerial and ground application of natural or manufactured crop
protection, weed/pest abatement, fumigants and/or crop enhancement products
labeled for agricultural use where the operator has received training and
carries proper permits and licensure;
   (D)   Planting, fertilizing, irrigating, growing, and harvesting of pasture,
hay, straw, field grains, and seeds; agricultural field and truck crops and
vegetables; viticulture crops, orchards, fruits, wood, and trees; sod and
nursery stock, and other legal plants and/or plant byproducts, or crops. Such
activities may use crop or aerial mechanized equipment;
   (E)   Livestock ranching activities including feeding, breeding, raising,
grazing, husbandry practices and aerial surveillance associated with keeping
livestock, as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes 587.670(4); legally permitted
furbearing animals; aviaries; hatcheries; poultry and egg production legally
permitted aquaculture; apiaries as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes chapter
552; other animals, animal products and byproducts as legally permitted; and
other husbandry practices including livestock protection and predator control
as permitted in the Nevada Revised Statutes;
   (F)   Production of animal feeds including mixing, distributing, storing and
all processing related to feeding;
   (G)   Recreation including arenas, roping facilities, equestrian centers,
riding academies, and stables, as properly zoned under title 4 of this code;
   (H)   Participation in government or university sponsored agricultural
education and/or research programs;
   (I)   Storing, processing and packaging of agricultural products into food
and other agricultural commodities if permitted under appropriate zoning or
with a valid conditional use permit;
   (J)   Producing, storing, transporting, distributing and selling
agricultural products at properly permitted retail or farmers' markets;
   (K)   Transportation and distribution of agricultural products, including
movement and herding of livestock, and movement of equipment and/or implements
of husbandry to or from agricultural facilities;
   (L)   Housing for ranch and farm workers as properly permitted under titles
3 and 4 of this code;
   (M)   Unexpected, unfamiliar and/or unusual traffic, sounds, aromas,
particulate matter, emissions, illumination, equipment operation and/or other
kinds of disturbances not commonly associated with urban and/or residential
conditions;
   (N)   Agricultural activities of any kind occurring twenty four (24) hours a
day, three hundred sixty five (365) days a year.
FENCING AND GATES: Nevada is an "open range" state. Nevada property owners
should fence out unwanted livestock, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
569.440. Persons using any gate on or near agricultural property shall leave
that gate in the condition found or as directed.
NEVADA WATER LAW: Property owners and/or other assigns and successors are
subject to Nevada water law pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes chapters 533
and 534.
NONAGRICULTURAL ACTIVITIES: Residential, commercial or industrial property
development and use not associated with agriculture, agricultural activities
and operations or the production of agricultural products. (Ord. 2014-01, 2-5-
2014, eff. 2-19-2014)
12-4-5: AGRICULTURAL OPERATION, FACILITY OR EXPANSION THEREOF NOT A NUISANCE;
EXCEPTION:
   (A)   An agricultural activity which does not violate a federal, state or
local law, ordinance or regulation, and is not negligent or improper,
constitutes good, generally accepted agricultural practice, pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes 40.140(2) and 202.450(5).
   (B)   Agricultural activities established before nonagricultural activities
are reasonable, and do not constitute a nuisance unless there are substantial
adverse effects on public health, safety or welfare.
   (C)   No agricultural operation, facility or expansion shall be or become a
nuisance by any changed conditions in or about the surrounding nonagricultural
activities after the agricultural entity has been in operation for more than
one year, when the operation, facility or expansion of the facility was not a
nuisance at the time it began or was constructed, unless there are substantial
adverse effects on public health, safety, or welfare. (Ord. 2014-01, 2-5-2014,
eff. 2-19-2014)
12-4-6: DISCLOSURE NOTICE STATEMENTS:
   (A)   Where real property is adjacent to or within line of sight of
agricultural properties and activities, the seller, either directly or through
his/her agent, shall advise the buyer that Elko County is a right to ranch and
farm county through a written disclosure notice statement approved by Elko
County.
   (B)   The buyer shall sign the disclosure notice and deliver it to the
seller/agent. The seller/agent shall retain the signed disclosure notice
statement through the escrow process.
   (C)   The signed disclosure notice shall be recorded with the deed.
   (D)   This disclosure notice requirement does not apply to property sold for
delinquent taxes by the Elko County treasurer.
   (E)   The Elko County assessor shall include the following statement on the
annual property tax bills:
Elko County is a Right to Ranch and Farm County pursuant to Elko County Code
Title 12, Chapter 4.
(Ord. 2014-01, 2-5-2014, eff. 2-19-2014)
12-4-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or its application to any person or
circumstance is held invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
invalidity does not affect other provisions or applications of the chapter that
can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this
end the provisions of this chapter are severable. (Ord. 2014-01, 2-5-2014, eff.
2-19-2014)
TITLE 13
SPECIAL DISTRICTS
CHAPTER 1
STOFFER CREEK IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-1-1: Declaration Of Policy And Intent
13-1-2: Stoffer Creek Improvement District
13-1-3: Assessment Roll; Stoffer Creek Improvement District (Levy Of
Assessments)
13-1-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY AND INTENT:
   (A)   Chapter 271 of the Nevada Revised Statutes allows for the creation of
local improvement districts. A local improvement district allows groups of
residents in defined geographical areas to obtain financing for needed local
projects and improvements without creating a disproportionate impact on scarce
County monies available for County-wide capital projects and improvements. The
formation of a local improvement district allows those property owners and
residents primarily benefited by the project and improvements to contribute and
participate in the funding responsibility, while ensuring that a quality
project will result from the residents' contributions.
   (B)   A local improvement district may be formed to complete the following
types of projects, as well as any others that may from time to time be
authorized by the State Legislature:
      1.   Curb and gutter projects
      2.   Drainage projects
      3.   Electrical projects
      4.   Off-street parking projects
      5.   Overpass projects
      6.   Park projects
      7.   Sanitary sewer projects
      8.   Security wall projects
      9.   Sidewalk projects
      10.   Storm sewer projects
      11.   Street projects
      12.   Transportation projects
      13.   Water projects
      14.   Any combination of the above projects. (Ord. 1995-J, 8-3-1995)
13-1-2: STOFFER CREEK IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT:
The Stoffer Creek Improvement District is hereby created under and by virtue of
the provisions of chapter 271 of the Nevada Revised Statutes. The purpose of
the District is to acquire and construct a road project as outlined and
delineated by the plans and specifications thereof as prepared by the
Department of Planning and Public Works.
   (A)   The boundaries of the District includes the Lipparelli Estates
Subdivision located in Section 30, Township 33 North, Range 57 East, M.D.B. &
M., and specifically consists of the area which includes the parcels identified
by the following assessor's parcel numbers:
06-52C-01-3 06-52C-02-1 06-52C-04-7
06-52C-05-4 06-52C-06-2 06-52C-11-2
06-52C-12-0 06-52C-13-8 06-52C-14-6
06-52C-15-3 06-52C-16-1 06-52C-17-9
06-52C-18-7 06-52C-20-3 06-52C-22-9
06-52C-23-7 06-52C-24-5 06-52C-27-8
06-52C-28-6 06-52C-29-4 06-52C-30-2
06-52C-31-0 06-52C-32-8 06-52C-33-6
 
   (B)   The project includes upgrades to the roads and streets in the
improvement district. The project is designed and intended to provide improved
access and streets to all parcels in the District.
   (C)   The total cost of the project has been determined to be forty four
thousand seven hundred five dollars ($44,705.00). Each parcel in the project
area shall be subject to an annual assessment of one hundred twenty six dollars
ninety five cents ($126.95) for a ten (10) year period. The annual assessment
will be divided into four (4) installments and will be added to the annual real
property tax bills. The installments will be collected by the Elko County
Treasurer at the same time as other taxes.
   (D)   The project is designed and intended to provide street and road access
to all parcels within the project area. Should a parcel be divided, each
resulting parcel shall be assessed its pro rata share of the total assessment
and the remaining parcels' assessments shall be adjusted accordingly.
   (E)   The project is ordered to be accomplished by independent contract,
County resources, or a combination of both, and in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 271 of the Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 1995-J, 8-3-
1995)
13-1-3: ASSESSMENT ROLL; STOFFER CREEK IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT (LEVY OF
ASSESSMENTS):
   (A)   The assessment roll for the Stoffer Creek Local Improvement District
is confirmed as follows and the parcels listed shall be assessed the annual
amount indicated:
APN 06-52C-01-3 $126.95  APN 06-52C-02-1 $126.95
APN 06-52C-04-7 126.95   APN 06-52C-05-4 126.95
APN 06-52C-06-2 126.95   APN 06-52C-11-2 126.95
APN 06-52C-12-0 126.95   APN 06-52C-13-8 126.95
APN 06-52C-14-6 126.95   APN 06-52C-15-3 126.95
APN 06-52C-16-1 126.95   APN 06-52C-17-9 126.95
APN 06-52C-18-7 126.95   APN 06-52C-20-3 126.95
APN 06-52C-22-9 126.95   APN 06-52C-23-7 126.95
APN 06-52C-24-5 126.95   APN 06-52C-27-8 126.95
APN 06-52C-28-6 126.95   APN 06-52C-29-4 126.95
APN 06-52C-30-2 126.95   APN 06-52C-31-0 126.95
APN 06-52C-32-8 126.95   APN 06-52C-33-6 126.95
 
   (B)   In the event that a parcel is divided, each resulting parcel shall be
assessed its pro rata share of the total improvement district assessment at the
time of division, and the remaining parcels' assessments shall be adjusted
accordingly.
   (C)   The special benefit received by each parcel in the assessment plan is
equal among all of the separate parcels in the local improvement district.
(Ord. 1996-E, 4-17-1996)
