CITY CODE
of
ELKO, NEVADA
1964
Code current through:
Ord. 903, passed July 22, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Elko, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 903, passed July 22, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
ORDINANCE NO. 904
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 9, CHAPTER 2, SECTION 12, SUBSECTION 2 OF THE ELKO
CITY CODE ADOPTING EXCEPTIONS TO THE REQUIREMENT THAT PERSONS UTILITIZE THE
CITY’S FRANCHISEE FOR THE COLLECTION, TRANSPORTATION AND DISPOSAL OF MUNICIPAL
SOLID WASTE, AND MATTERS RELATED THERETO.
 
WHEREAS, the City Council adopted Ordinance No. Ord. 900 on June 24, 2025,
amending the Elko Municipal Solid Waste and Recyclable Material Code at Title
9, Chapter 2;
 
WHEREAS, the foregoing amendments included the exceptions to the requirement
that persons use the City’s franchisee for the collection, transportation and
disposal of municipal solid waste; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council has determined that the exception applicable to
owners and occupants of buildings, structures and other real property requires
further clarification.
 
NOW THEREFORE, IT BE ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ELKO, NEVADA.
 
For amendment purposes, words which are bold and underlined are additions to
the Ordinance, and words which are lined through and bold are deleted from the
Ordinance.
 
SECTION 1. Title 9, Chapter 2, Section 12, Subsection 2 is hereby amended to
read as follows:
 
2. Owners and Occupants:  
   A. An owner of a building, structure or other real property may collect,
transport and dispose of MSW generated at that building, structure or other
real property by the owner or by persons who share the building, structure or
other real property with the owner, to include MSW generated by family members
residing with the owner of the building, structure or other real property, but
not including MSW generated by the owner’s lessees, tenants or licensees, or by
other owners of the building, structure or other real property who do not
reside with the owner.
        B. An occupant of a building, structure or other real property may
collect, transport and dispose of MSW generated at that building, structure or
other real property by the occupant or by persons who share the building,
structure or other real property with the occupant, to include MSW generated by
family members residing with the occupant of the building, structure or other
real property, but not including MSW generated by the owner, if different than
the occupant, or by the occupant’s sublessees, subtenants or licensees, or by
other lessees, tenants or licensees of the building, structure or other real
property who do not reside with the occupant.
        C. In no event shall an owner or occupant of a building, structure or
other real property collect, transport or dispose of MSW generated at the
building, structure or other real property pursuant to the exceptions set forth
in this subsection through the use of a third person or separate legal entity,
such as a contractor, or a partnership, limited-liability company or
corporation in which the owner or occupant owns an interest.
        D. It is the intent of this subsection to grant a limited exception
from the requirement that persons utilize the franchisee for the collection,
transportation and disposal of MSW in the City in order to allow persons to
collect, transport and dispose of their own MSW if generated in that person’s
own residence or place of business. This exception shall not be interpreted to
permit a contractor, lessee, tenant, licensee or other person to collect,
transport or dispose of MSW generated by a third person.
   An owner or occupant of a building, structure or other real property may
collect, transport and dispose of MSW generated by the owner or occupant at
that building, structure or real property.
 
SECTION 2. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are
hereby repealed, but only to the extent of such conflict.
 
SECTION 3. If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance
shall for any reason be held to be invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional
by any court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity, unenforceability of
such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any remaining
provision of this Ordinance.
 
SECTION 4. Upon adoption, the City Clerk of the City of Elko is hereby directed
to have this Ordinance published by title only, together with the Council
members voting for or against its passage in a newspaper of general circulation
within the time established by law, for at least one publication.
 
SECTION 5. This Ordinance shall be effective upon the publication mentioned in
Section 4, unless otherwise stated.
 
   PASSED AND ADOPTED this 23rd day of September 2025, by the following vote of
the Elko Council.
 
AYES:    Mayor Reece Keener, Councilman Chip Stone, Councilman Clair Morris,
Councilwoman Marissa Lostra, Councilman Giovanni Puccinelli   
 
NAYS:
   
ABSENT:
   
ABSTAIN:    
 
   
APPROVED this 1st day of October, 2025.
                                                            CITY OF ELKO
 
 
                                                                                                                 By:
______________________________
                         REECE KEENER, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
 
 
 
_______________________________
ANNETTE ROBINSON, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO.
   AN ORDINANCE FOR CODIFYING AND COMPILING THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY
OF ELKO; REPEALING CERTAIN GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF ELKO; PROVIDING
FOR PERPETUAL CODIFICATION, DISTRIBUTION OF CODIFICATION, DEFINITIONS AND
CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS, INCORPORATION OF A COPY OF THE CITY CHARTER PENALTIES
WITH WORK REQUIREMENTS, AND REPEALING AND SAVINGS CLAUSES; AND PROVIDING OTHER
MATTERS PROPERLY RELATING THERETO:
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF SUPERVISORS OF THE CITY OF ELKO:
Section 1. Enactment Of Elko City Code. The Elko City code, prepared by
Sterling Codifiers, Inc., and hereby approved and accepted in its published
form on the date hereof is hereby adopted and enacted as the law of the city of
Elko.
Section 2. Upon passage of the ordinance two (2) copies of the Elko City code
adopted and enacted hereby shall be filed with the librarian of the Nevada
state library, and there after the same shall be received in all courts of this
state as an authorized compilation of the general municipal ordinances of the
city of Elko. These copies shall be supplemented as hereinafter provided.
Section 3. One copy of this Elko City code shall be filed in the office of the
city clerk of the city of Elko as part of this ordinance and shall be
perpetually retained in the city clerk's office without supplementation or
alteration as the original Elko City code adopted and enacted by the ordinance.
Such official copy shall be received as prima facie evidence in all courts and
places without further proof as the original Elko City code adopted by this
board.
One further copy of this Elko City code shall be filed in the office of the
city clerk of the city of Elko which the city clerk shall keep currently
supplemented as provided in this ordinance, and which shall be available for
inspection by the public in the office of the city clerk, and which shall be
received as prima facie evidence in all courts and places without further proof
as the Elko City code as supplemented.
Section 4. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification and
supplementation, the loose leaf type of binding for the Elko City code and to
supply continuous supplement service each newly adopted ordinance of the
provisions of this Elko City code shall, within thirty (30) days following the
date of passage and adoption be printed with proper code title, chapter and
section number, excluding from the ordinances the titles, enacting clauses,
signatures, attestations and other formal parts, and such supplement to this
code so prepared shall be inserted in its proper place in the Elko City Code by
the city clerk of the city of Elko. Two (2) copies of the supplements as
prepared shall be submitted to the librarian of the Nevada state library for
insertion in the copies of the Elko City code on file. Copies of such
supplements shall be made available to the public on such terms and at such
price or charge as the city manager shall determine from time to time.
Section 5. The Elko City code shall have incorporated therein as a part thereof
a copy of the city charter of the city of Elko as amended and extended,
together with all further amendments, extensions, supplements and changes
thereto.
This ordinance passed and adopted this ninth day of June, 1964, by the
unanimous vote of the board of supervisors of the city of Elko.
APPROVED: June 9, 1964
                         
Mayor
ATTEST:
                         
Clerk
 
TITLE CHARTER
Article I Incorporation Of City; General Powers; Boundaries; Wards And
Annexations; City Offices   1
Article II Legislative Department   2
Article III Executive Department   3
Article IV Judicial Department   4
Article V Elections   5
Article VI Local Improvements   6
Article VII Local Bonds And Franchises   7
Article VIII Revenue   8
Article IX Miscellaneous Provisions   9
ELKO CITY CHARTER
AN ACT incorporating the city of Elko, in Elko County, Nevada, and defining the
boundaries thereof, under a new charter; and providing other matters properly
relating thereto.
(Approved April 15, 1971)
THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEVADA, REPRESENTED IN SENATE AND ASSEMBLY, DO ENACT
AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. The charter of the city of Elko is as follows: Each section of the
charter shall be deemed to be a section of this act for the purpose of any
subsequent amendment.
ARTICLE I
INCORPORATION OF CITY; GENERAL POWERS; BOUNDARIES; WARDS AND ANNEXATIONS; CITY
OFFICES
Section 1.010 Preamble; Legislative Intent.
1. In order to provide for the orderly government of the city of Elko and the
general welfare of its citizens the legislature hereby establishes this charter
for the government of the city of Elko. It is expressly declared as the intent
of the legislature that all provisions of this charter be liberally construed
to carry out the express purposes of the charter and that the specific mention
of particular powers shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general
powers necessary to carry out the purposes of the charter.
2. Any powers expressly granted by this charter are in addition to any powers
granted to a city by the general law of this state. All provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes which are applicable generally to cities (not including,
unless otherwise expressly mentioned in this charter, chapter 265, 266 or 267
of NRS) which are not in conflict with the provisions of this charter apply to
the city of Elko.
Section 1.020 Incorporation Of City.
1. All persons who are inhabitants of that portion of the state of Nevada
embraced within the limits set forth in section 1.030 shall constitute a
political and corporate body by the name of "city of Elko" and by that name
they and their successors shall be known in law, have perpetual succession and
may sue and be sued in all courts.
2. Whenever used throughout this charter, "city" means the city of Elko.
Section 1.030 Description Of Territory.
The territory embraced in the city is that certain land described in the
official plat required by NRS 234.250 to be filed with the county recorder and
county assessor of Elko County, as such plat is revised from time to time.
Section 1.050 Elective Offices.
1. The elective officers of the city consist of:
(a) A mayor.
(b) Four members of the city council.
2. Such officers must be elected as provided by this charter.
Section 1.060 Elective Offices: Vacancies.
Except as otherwise provided in NRS 268.325:
1. A vacancy in the city council must be filled by a majority vote of the
members of the city council within 30 days after the occurrence of the vacancy.
A person may be selected to fill a prospective vacancy in the city council
before the vacancy occurs. In such a case, each member of the city council,
except any member whose term of office expires before the occurrence of the
vacancy, may participate in any action taken by the city council pursuant to
this section. The appointee must have the same qualifications as are required
of the elective official.
2. No such appointment extends beyond the first Monday in:
(a) If the appointee is filling a vacancy occurring in an office for which an
election is held pursuant to subsection 2 of section 5.010, July after the next
municipal election, at which election the office must be filled.
(b) If the appointee is filling a vacancy occurring in an office for which an
election is held pursuant to subsection 1, 3 or 4 of section 5.010, January
after the next municipal election, at which election the office must be filled.
Section 1.070 Appointive Offices.
1. The city council of the city shall appoint the following officers:
(a) City clerk.
(b) City attorney.
(c) Chief of police.
   (d) Municipal judge.
   (e) Fire chief.
   (f) City manager.
   (g) City engineer, who may be the city manager.
2. The city council may establish such other offices and appoint such other
officers as it may deem necessary.
Section 1.080 Appointive Officers: Duties; Salary.
1. All appointive officers of the city shall perform such duties under the
direction of the city manager as may be designated by the city council.
2. All appointive officers of the city shall receive such salary as may be
designated by the city council.
Section 1.090 Officers' Performance Bonds.
The city council may require from all officers and employees of the city
constituted or appointed under this charter, other than members of the city
council, sufficient security for the faithful and honest performance of their
respective duties.
Section 1.100 Mayor And Members Of City Council Not To Hold Other Office.
1. The mayor and the members of the city council:
(a) Shall not hold any other elective office with Elko County or the city,
except as otherwise provided by law or as a member of a board or commission for
which no compensation is received.
(b) Must not be elected or appointed to any office created by or the
compensation for which was increased or fixed by the city council until 1 year
after the expiration of the term for which such person was elected.
2. Any person holding any office proscribed by subsection 1 automatically
forfeits his office as mayor or as member of the city council.
Section 1.110 Oath Of Office.
Every person elected or appointed to fill any office shall subscribe to the
official oath as provided by the city council. Every such person shall swear or
affirm that he is not under any direct or indirect obligation to vote for,
appoint or elect any person to any office, position or employment in the city
government. (SB 134, eff. 6-2-2011; Ord. AB11, amended, 10-2-2001; Legislative
Updates, amended, 11-13-2000)
ARTICLE II
LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT
Section 2.010 City Council: Qualifications; Election; Term Of Office; Salary.
1. The legislative power of the city is vested in a city council consisting of
four members and the mayor.
2. The members of the city council must be:
(a) Bona fide residents of the city for at least 2 years before their election.
(b) Qualified electors within the city.
3. All members of the city council must be voted upon by the registered voters
of the city at large and, except as otherwise provided in section 5.010, shall
serve for terms of 4 years.
4. The members of the city council must receive a salary in an amount fixed by
the city council.
Section 2.020 City Council: Contracts.
Members of the city council may vote on any lease, contract or other agreement,
which extends beyond their terms of office.
Section 2.030 City Council: Duties Concerning Departments.
1. The city council shall establish a finance department of the city, and may
establish such other departments as it determines are necessary. The city
council shall control and supervise the departments of the city and may
establish such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the administration
of the departments.
2. The mayor shall designate from among the members of the city council members
to act as liaison for the different departments and functions of the city.
3. Reserved.
4. The duties of each department must be designated by the city council.
Section 2.040 City Council: Discipline Of Members, Other Persons; Subpoena
Power.
1. The city council may:
(a) Provide for the punishment of any member of the city council for disorderly
conduct committed in its presence.
(b) Order the attendance of witnesses and the production of all papers relating
to any business before the city council.
2. If any person ordered to appear before the city council fails to obey the
order:
(a) The city council or any member thereof may apply to the clerk of the
district court for a subpoena commanding the attendance of the person before
the city council.
(b) The clerk may issue the subpoena, and any peace officer may serve it.
(c) If the person upon whom the subpoena is served fails to obey it, the court
may issue an order to show cause why the person should not be held in contempt
of court and upon hearing of the matter may adjudge the person guilty of
contempt and punish him accordingly.
Section 2.050 Meetings: Quorum.
1. The city council shall hold at least one regular meeting each month and, by
ordinance, may provide for additional regular meetings.
2. A majority of all members of the city council constitutes a quorum to do
business, but a lesser number of the members of the city council may meet and
recess from time to time, and compel the attendance of the absent members.
3. Except as otherwise provided by law, all sessions and all proceedings of the
city council must be public.
Section 2.060 Meetings: Special And Emergency.
1. In addition to its regularly scheduled meetings, the city council may hold
special and emergency meetings. Special and emergency meetings may be held on
call of the mayor or by a majority of the city council in a manner that
complies with the provisions of chapter 241 of NRS.
2. At a special meeting:
(a) No business may be transacted except such as has been stated in the call of
the meeting.
(b) No ordinance may be passed except an emergency.
Section 2.070 Meetings: Time And Place; Rules.
The city council may:
1. Fix the time and place of its meetings and judge the qualifications and
election of its own members.
2. Adopt rules for the government of its members and proceedings.
Section 2.080 Oaths And Affirmations.
The mayor, each member of the city council and the city clerk may administer
oaths and affirmations relating to any business pertaining to the city before
the city council or to be considered by the city council.
Section 2.090 Powers Of City Council: Ordinances, Resolutions And Orders.
1. The city council may make and pass all ordinances, resolutions and orders
not repugnant to the constitution of the United States or the state of Nevada,
or to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes or of this charter, necessary
for the municipal government and the management of the affairs of the city, and
for the execution of all the powers vested in the city.
2. When power is conferred upon the city council to do and perform anything,
and the manner of exercising the power is not specifically provided for, the
city council may provide by ordinance the manner and details necessary for the
full exercise of the power.
3. The city council may enforce ordinances by providing penalties not to exceed
those established by the legislature for misdemeanors.
4. The city council has such powers, not in conflict with the express or
implied provisions of this charter, as are conferred generally by statute upon
the governing bodies of cities organized under a special charter.
5. The city council shall not pass any ordinance increasing or diminishing the
salary of any elective officer during the term for which he is elected or
appointed.
Section 2.100 Ordinances: Passage By Bill; Amendments; Subject Matter; Title
Requirements.
1. No ordinance may be passed except by bill and by a majority vote of the
whole city council. The style of all ordinances must be as follows: "The city
council of the city of Elko does ordain:"
2. An ordinance must not contain more than one subject, which must be briefly
indicated in the title. Where the subject of the ordinance is not so expressed
in the title, the ordinance is void as to the matter not expressed in the
title.
3. Any ordinance which amends an existing ordinance must set out in full the
ordinance or sections thereof to be amended, and must indicate matter to be
omitted.
Section 2.110 Ordinances: Enactment Procedure; Emergency Ordinances.
1. All proposed ordinances when first proposed shall be read to the city
council by title and may be referred to a committee for consideration, after
which an adequate number of copies of the proposed ordinance must be filed with
the city clerk for public distribution. Except as otherwise provided in
subsection 3, notice of the filing must be published once in a newspaper
qualified pursuant to the provisions of chapter 238 of NRS, as amended from
time to time, and published in the city at least 10 days before the adoption of
the ordinance. The city council shall adopt or reject the ordinance or an
amendment thereto, within 30 days from the date of such publication.
2. At the next regular meeting or adjourned meeting of the city council
following the proposal of an ordinance, the ordinance must be considered again
with the report of the committee, if any. Thereafter, it must be read as first
introduced, or as amended, and thereupon the proposed ordinance must be finally
voted upon or action thereon postponed.
3. In cases of emergency or where the ordinance is of a kind specified in
section 7.020, by unanimous consent of the city council, final action may be
taken immediately or at a special meeting called for that purpose, and no
notice of the filing of the copies of the proposed ordinance with the city
clerk need be published.
4. All ordinances must be signed by the mayor, attested by the city clerk, and
published by title, together with the names of the members of the city council
voting for or against passage, in a newspaper qualified pursuant to the
provisions of chapter 238 of NRS, as amended from time to time, and published
in the city for at least one publication, before the ordinance shall become
effective. The city council may, by majority vote, order the publication of the
ordinance in full in lieu of publication by title only.
5. The city clerk shall keep on file all ordinances, including the affidavits
of publication by the publisher.
Section 2.120 Codification Of Ordinances; Publication Of Code.
1. The city council may codify and publish a code of its municipal ordinances
in the form of a municipal code. The city council may incorporate into the
municipal code a copy of this charter and such additional data as the city
council may prescribe. When the municipal code is published, two copies of the
code must be filed with the librarian at the supreme court law library.
2. The ordinances in the code must be arranged in appropriate chapters,
articles, and sections excluding the titles, enacting clauses, signature of the
mayor, attestations and other formal parts.
3. The codification must be adopted by an ordinance and must not contain any
substantive changes, modifications or alterations of existing ordinances. The
only title necessary for the ordinance is "An ordinance for codifying and
compiling the general ordinances of the city of Elko".
4. The codification may be amended or extended by ordinance.
Section 2.130 Powers Of City Council: Public Property, Buildings.
1. The city council may:
(a) Control the property of the corporation.
(b) Erect and maintain all buildings necessary for the use of the city.
(c) Purchase, receive, hold, sell, lease, convey and dispose of property,
wherever situated, for the benefit of the city, improve and protect such
property, and do all other things in relation thereto which natural persons
might do.
2. The city council may not, except as otherwise specifically provided by this
charter or any other law, mortgage, hypothecate or pledge any property of the
city for any purpose.
Section 2.140 Powers Of City Council: Eminent Domain.
The city council may condemn property for the public use in the manner
prescribed by chapter 37 of NRS, as amended from time to time.
Section 2.150 Powers Of City Council: Licensing, Regulation And Prohibition Of
Businesses, Trades And Professions.
1. The city council may:
(a) Regulate all businesses, trades and professions.
(b) Fix, impose and collect a license tax for revenue upon all businesses,
trades and professions.
2. The city council may establish any equitable standard to be used in fixing
license taxes collected pursuant to this section.
Section 2.160 Powers Of City Council: Recreational Facilities; Definition.
1. The legislature finds and declares that recreation facilities for the use
and enjoyment of all the inhabitants of the city are public uses and municipal
purposes, and that the acquisition, construction and operation thereof by the
city council will promote the morals, amusement, entertainment, health, welfare
and safety of the inhabitants of the city.
2. As used in sections 2.160, 2.170 and 2.180, "recreation facility" or
"recreation facilities" means a place, structure, area or other facility used
for community recreation, such as playgrounds, playing fields or courts,
beaches, lakes, rivers, swimming pools, dams constructed across streams or
rivers for the creation of swimming pools and recreational reservoirs,
gymnasiums, auditoriums, camps, parks, ski facilities, golf courses, natural
reservations, recreation grounds, fairgrounds, exposition buildings, convention
halls, field houses, amusement halls and recreation centers.
Section 2.170 Powers Of City Council: Recreational Facilities; Financing.
The city council may:
1. Establish, construct, purchase, lease, rent, acquire by gift, grant,
bequest, devise, or otherwise acquire, reconstruct, improve, extend, better,
alter, repair, equip, furnish, regulate, maintain, operate and manage
recreation facilities within or without the city, including personal or real
property, improvements and fixtures thereon, property of any nature appurtenant
thereto or used in connection therewith, and every estate interest and right,
legal or equitable, therein, including terms for years.
2. Deposit the proceeds of any of the license taxes collected pursuant to
section 2.150 in a special fund in the city treasury for the purpose of:
(a) Operating and maintaining recreation facilities under the jurisdiction of
the city council.
(b) Improving, extending and bettering such recreation facilities.
(c) Constructing, purchasing or otherwise acquiring such recreation facilities.
3. Accept contributions, grants or other financial assistance from the federal
government or any agency or instrumentality thereof, corporate or otherwise,
the state of Nevada or any of its political subdivisions or from any other
source, for or in aid of any recreation facility within the area of operation
of the city council, and comply with such conditions, trust indentures, leases
or agreements as may be necessary, convenient or desirable.
Section 2.180 Powers Of City Council: Recreational Facilities; Flood Control
Projects.
Whenever any recreation facility is affected by or will be affected by any
flood control project being constructed or to be constructed under the
provisions of any federal law, if the city council finds that the flood control
project will improve, better and protect the recreation facility, the city
council may give assurances to and perform any other acts required by and
satisfactory to the secretary of the army that the local cooperation required
for the flood control project by federal law will be furnished by the city.
Section 2.190 Powers Of City Council: Police Ordinances.
The city council may enact and enforce such local police ordinances as are not
in conflict with the general laws of the state of Nevada.
Section 2.200 Powers Of City Council: Fire Protection; Regulation Of
Explosives, Inflammable Materials; Fire Codes And Regulations.
The city council may:
1. Organize, regulate and maintain a fire department.
2. Provide for the appointment of a fire chief and prescribe his duties.
3. Regulate or prohibit the storage of any explosive, combustible or
inflammable material in or transported through the city, and prescribe the
distance from any residential or commercial area where it may be kept. Any
ordinance adopted pursuant to this subsection that regulates places of
employment where explosives are stored must be at least as stringent as the
standards and procedures adopted by the division of industrial relations of the
department of business and industry pursuant to NRS 618.890.
4. Establish, by ordinance, a fire code and other regulations necessary to
carry out the purposes of this section, and to provide for the prevention,
suppression and extinguishment of fires and conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire, explosion or combustion, and to provide for the enforcement
of all such codes and regulations by imposing adequate penalties for violations
thereof.
Section 2.210 Powers Of City Council: Public Health; Board Of Health;
Regulations.
The city council may:
1. Provide for safeguarding public health in the city.
2. Create a board of health and prescribe the powers and duties of the board.
3. Provide for the enforcement of all regulations and quarantines established
by the board of health by imposing adequate penalties for violations thereof.
Section 2.220 Powers Of City Council: Buildings; Construction And Maintenance
Regulations; Building And Safety Codes.
The city council may:
1. Regulate all matters relating to the construction, maintenance and safety of
buildings, structures and property within the city.
2. Adopt any building or safety code necessary to carry out the provisions of
this section and establish such fees as may be necessary.
Section 2.230 Powers Of City Council: Zoning And Planning.
The city council may:
1. Divide the city into districts and regulate and restrict the erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings,
structures or land within the districts.
2. Establish and adopt ordinances and regulations relating to the subdivision
of land.
Section 2.240 Powers Of City Council: Subdivision; Payment For Installation Of
Utilities.
The city council may require the owners of land who lay out and plat the land
into lots, streets and alleys to guarantee the payment for the installation of
sewers, water mains and lines, drains, curbs and gutters, and the grading and
paving of streets within the division or subdivision defined by the plat.
Section 2.250 Powers Of City Council: Rights Of Way, Parks, Public Buildings
And Grounds And Other Public Places.
The city council may:
1. Lay out, maintain, alter, improve or vacate all public rights of way in the
city.
2. Regulate the use of public parks, buildings, grounds and rights of way and
prevent the unlawful use thereof.
3. Require landowners to keep the adjacent streets, sidewalks and public parks,
buildings and grounds free from encroachments or obstructions.
4. To the extent permissible under the Nevada constitution and the constitution
of the United States, regulate and prevent in all public places:
(a) The distribution and exhibition of handbills or signs.
(b) Any practice tending to annoy persons passing in such public places.
(c) Public demonstrations and processions.
5. Prevent riots or any act tending to promote riots in any public place.
Section 2.260 Powers Of City Council: Traffic Control.
The city council may, by ordinance, regulate:
1. All vehicular, pedestrian and other traffic within the city and provide
generally for the public safety on public streets and rights of way.
2. The length of time for which vehicles may be parked upon the public streets
and publicly owned parking lots.
Section 2.270 Powers Of City Council: Parking Meters; Off Street Public Parking
Facilities.
1. The city council may acquire, install, maintain, operate and regulate
parking meters at the curbs of the streets or upon publicly owned property made
available for public parking. The parking fees to be charged for the use of the
parking facilities regulated by parking meters must be fixed by the city
council.
2. Except as otherwise provided by this charter, the city council may acquire
property within the city by any lawful means, including eminent domain, for the
purpose of establishing off street public parking facilities for vehicles. The
city council may, in bonds issued to acquire property for this purpose pledge
the on street parking revenues, the general credit of the city, or both, to
secure the payment of the principal and interest thereon.
Section 2.280 Powers Of City Council: Railroads.
The city council may:
1. License, regulate or prohibit the location, construction or laying of tracks
of any railroad or streetcar in any public right of way.
2. Grant franchises to any person or corporation to operate a railroad or
streetcar upon public rights of way and adjacent property.
3. Declare a nuisance and require the removal of the tracks of any railroad or
streetcar in any public right of way.
4. Condemn rights of way for any public purpose across any railroad right of
way.
5. Prescribe the length of time any public right of way may be obstructed by
trains standing thereon.
6. Require railroad companies to fence their tracks and to construct cattle
guards and crossings and to keep them in repair.
7. Require railroad companies to provide protection against injury to persons
or property.
8. Compel railroad companies to raise or lower their tracks to conform to any
grade established by the city.
9. Compel railroad companies to provide that drainage from property adjacent to
their tracks not be impaired.
Section 2.290 Powers Of City Council: Nuisances.
The city council may:
1. Determine by ordinance what shall be deemed nuisances.
2. Provide for the abatement, prevention and removal of those nuisances at the
expense of the person creating, causing or committing the nuisance.
3. Provide that the expense of removal is a lien upon the property upon which
the nuisance is located. Such a lien must:
(a) Be perfected by filing with the county recorder a statement by the city
clerk of the amount of expenses due and unpaid and describing the property
subject to the lien.
(b) Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of general
taxes.
(c) Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on account of
the nonpayment of general taxes.
(d) Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles other
than the liens of assessments and general taxes.
4. Provide any other penalty or punishment of persons responsible for such
nuisances.
Section 2.300 Powers Of City Council: Animals And Poultry.
The city council may:
1. Fix, impose and collect an annual per capita tax on all animals and provide
for the capture and disposal of all animals on which the tax is not paid.
2. Regulate or prohibit the running at large and disposal of all kinds of
animals and poultry.
3. Establish a facility for animal control and may appoint or hire such
personnel as may be necessary to operate the facility.
4. Prohibit cruelty to animals.
Section 2.310 Powers Of City Council: Abatement Of Noxious Insects, Rats And
Disease Bearing Organisms.
The city council may take all steps necessary and proper for the extermination
of noxious insects, rats and other disease bearing organisms, either in the
city or in territory outside the city but so situated that such insects, rats
and disease bearing organisms migrate or are carried into the city.
Section 2.320 Powers Of City Council: Sanitary Sewer Facilities.
The city council may:
1. Provide for a sanitary sewer system or any part thereof, and obtain property
therefor either within or without the city.
2. Sell any product or byproduct thereof and acquire the appropriate outlets
within or without the city and extend the sewer lines thereto.
3. Establish sewer fees and provide for the enforcement and collection thereof.
Section 2.330 Powers Of City Council: Provisions Of Utilities.
The city council may:
1. Provide, by contract, franchise or public enterprise, for any utility to be
furnished to the city for the residents thereof.
2. Provide for the construction of any facility necessary for the provision of
the utilities.
3. Fix the rate to be paid for any utility provided by public enterprise. Any
charges due for services, facilities or commodities furnished by any utility
owned by the city is a lien upon the property to which the service is rendered
and may be perfected by filing with the county recorder of Elko County a
statement by the city clerk of the amount due and unpaid and describing the
property subject to the lien. Each such lien must:
(a) Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of general
taxes.
(b) Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on account of
the nonpayment of general taxes.
(c) Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles other
than the liens of assessments and general taxes.
Section 2.340 Powers Of City Council: Cemeteries; Acquisition And Maintenance.
The city council may, by any lawful means:
1. Acquire and maintain property for public use as a cemetery.
2. Survey, plat, map, fence, ornament, and otherwise improve all public
cemetery grounds.
3. Convey cemetery lots owned by the city, and pass rules and ordinances for
the protection and government of cemetery grounds.
4. Vacate public burial and cemetery grounds.
5. Prohibit subsequent burials therein.
6. Provide for the removal therefrom of all bodies, which may have been
interred therein.
Section 2.350 Powers Of City Council: Television Franchises.
1. The city council may contract with, authorize or grant a franchise to, any
person, company or association to construct, maintain and operate a television
installation system which requires the use of city property or that portion of
the city dedicated to public use for the maintenance of cables or wires
underground, on the surface or on poles for the transmission of the television
picture.
2. Any franchise granted must require a time within which actual construction
must be commenced, a time within which distribution of television must be
completed, and the posting of a bond in an amount to be set by the city council
to assure compliance therewith.
Section 2.360 Powers Of City Council: Flood Control.
The city council may:
1. Construct, within or without the city limits, works designed to protect the
city from floods.
2. Acquire by purchase or condemnation any property or water right necessary or
appropriate for that purpose.
3. Enact all ordinances and regulations necessary to carry the power conferred
in this section into effect. (SB 134, eff. 6-2-2011; Ord. AB11, amended, 10-2-
2001; Legislative Updates, amended, 11-13-2000; Article II, amended, 10-23-
2000)
ARTICLE III
EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT
Section 3.010 Mayor: Qualifications; Duties; Mayor Pro Tempore.
1. The mayor must be:
(a) A bona fide resident of the city for at least 2 years before his election.
(b) A qualified elector within the city.
2. The mayor shall:
(a) Serve as ex officio president of the city council and preside over its
meetings.
(b) Serve as the chief executive officer of the city.
(c) Be recognized as the head of the city government for all ceremonial
purposes.
(d) Perform such emergency duties as may be necessary for the health, welfare
and safety of the city.
(e) Perform such other duties, except administrative duties assigned by the
city council to the city manager, as may be prescribed by ordinance or by the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes which apply to a mayor of a city
organized under the provisions of a special charter.
3. The city council shall elect one of its members to be the mayor pro tempore
who:
(a) Holds such office and title, without additional compensation, during the
term for which he was elected.
(b) Must perform the duties of mayor during the absence or disability of the
mayor.
(c) Must act as mayor until the next municipal election if the office of mayor
becomes vacant.
Section 3.020 City Manager: Duties.
1. The city manager shall perform such administrative duties as the city
council may designate. The city council shall fix the duties and salary of the
city manager.
2. The city manager may appoint such personnel as he may deem necessary,
subject to the approval of the city council.
Section 3.030 City Clerk: Duties.
The city clerk shall:
1. Keep the corporate seal and all books and papers belonging to the city.
2. Attend all meetings of the city council and keep an accurate journal of its
proceedings, including a record of all ordinances, bylaws and resolutions
passed or adopted by it. After approval at each meeting of the city council,
the city clerk shall attest the journal after it has been signed by the mayor.
3. Sign all warrants issued.
4. Number and countersign all licenses issued by the city. All licenses must be
in a form devised by the city clerk and approved by the city council.
5. Enter upon the journal the result of the vote of the city council upon the
passage of ordinances, or of any resolution appropriating money, abolishing
licenses or increasing or decreasing the rates of licenses.
6. Act as ex officio city treasurer, registry agent and license collector.
7. Perform such other duties as may be required by the city council.
Section 3.040 City Clerk's Bond.
The city clerk is liable and accountable on his official bond for the
performance of his duties under the provisions of this charter, and the city
council may require from him such additional security as may be necessary from
time to time.
Section 3.050 City Attorney: Qualifications; Duties.
The city attorney shall be:
1. A duly licensed member of the state bar of Nevada but he need not be a
resident of the city.
2. The legal officer of the city.
Section 3.070 Chief Of Police: Police Officers.
The chief of police may, subject to approval of the city council, appoint and
supervise such police officers as may be deemed necessary.
Section 3.080 City Officers: Duties Restricted And Altered.
The city council may prescribe by ordinance the powers and duties of all city
officers and may add to, alter or restrict such powers and duties.
Section 3.090 City Officers: Absence From Office.
If any appointive officer removes his office from the city, or absents himself
therefrom for more than 30 days without leave of the city council, his office
must be declared vacant by the city council, and the vacancy filled by
appointment as provided in this charter.
Section 3.100 City Officers: Collection And Disposition Of Money.
1. All taxes, fines, forfeitures or other money collected or recovered by any
officer or person pursuant to the provisions of this charter or any valid
ordinance of the city must be paid by the officer or person collecting or
receiving the money to the finance department of the city, which shall dispose
of the money in accordance with the ordinances, regulations and procedures
established by the city council.
2. The city council may, by proper legal action, collect all money that is due
and unpaid to the city or any officer thereof, and the city council may pay
from the general fund all fees and expenses necessarily incurred by it in
connection with the collection of that money.
Section 3.110 Removal Of Officers:
If any officer is adjudged guilty of nonfeasance, misfeasance or malfeasance in
office, by any court of competent jurisdiction, the city council may declare
the office vacant and fill the vacancy so caused as provided by law. (Ord.
AB11, Amended, 10-2-2001; Article III, Amended, 10-23-2000)
 
ARTICLE IV
JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT
Section 4.020 Municipal Court: Municipal Judge.
The salary of the municipal judge must be fixed by the city council.
Section 4.030 Disposition Of Fines.
All fines and forfeitures for the violation of ordinances shall be paid into
the treasury of the city in the manner to be prescribed by ordinance. (Ord.
AB11, Amended, 10-2-2001; Article IV, Amended, 10-23-2000)
ARTICLE V
ELECTIONS
Section 5.010 Municipal Elections.
1. On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in June 2011, there must be
elected by the qualified voters of the city, at a general election to be held
for that purpose, a mayor and two members of the city council, all of whom hold
office until their successors have been elected and qualified pursuant to
subsection 4.
2. On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in June 2009, there must be
elected by the qualified voters of the city, at a general election to be held
for that purpose, two members of the city council, both of whom hold office
until their successors have been elected and qualified pursuant to subsection
3.
3. On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November 2012, and at each
successive interval of 4 years thereafter; there must be elected by the
qualified voters of the city, at a general election to be held for that
purpose, two members of the city council, both of whom hold office for a period
of 4 years and until their successors have been elected and qualified.
4. On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November 2014, and at each
successive interval of 4 years thereafter, there must be elected by the
qualified voters of the city, at a general election to be held for that
purpose, a mayor and two members of the city council, all of whom hold office
for a period of 4 years and until their successors have been elected and
qualified.
Section 5.020 Applicability Of State Election Laws; Elections Under Control Of
City Council.
1. All elections held under this charter are governed by the provisions of the
election laws of this state, so for as such laws can be made applicable and are
not inconsistent herewith.
2. The conduct of all municipal elections is under the control of the city
council. For the conduct of municipal elections, for the prevention of fraud in
such elections, and for the recount of ballots in cases of doubt or fraud, the
city council shall adopt by ordinance all regulations which it considers
desirable and consistent with law and this charter.
Section 5.030 Qualifications, Registration Of Voters.
1. Every person who resides within the city at the time of holding a municipal
election, and whose name appears upon the official register of voters in and
for the city, is entitled to vote at the municipal election and for all
officers to be voted for and on all questions that may be submitted to the
people at the election, except as otherwise provided in this article.
2. Nothing in this charter denies or abridges the power of the city council to
provide for supplemental registration.
Section 5.040 Names On Ballots.
The full names of all candidates, except those who have withdrawn, died or
become ineligible, shall be printed on the official ballots without party
designation or symbol. The use of nicknames in conjunction with the candidates'
legal names is allowed and the nicknames may be printed on the official
ballots. If two or more candidates have the same surname or surnames so similar
as to be likely to cause confusion, their residence addresses shall be printed
with their names on the ballot.
Section 5.050 Ballots For Ordinances And Charter Amendments.
An ordinance or charter amendment to be voted on in the city shall be presented
for voting by ballot title. The ballot title of a measure may differ from its
legal title and shall be a clear, concise statement describing the substance of
the measure without argument or prejudice. Below the ballot title shall appear
the following question: "Shall the above described (ordinance) (amendment) be
adopted". The ballot or voting machine or device shall be so marked as to
indicate clearly in what manner the voter may cast his vote, either for or
against the ordinance or amendment.
Section 5.060 Availability Of Lists Of Registered Voters.
If, for any purpose relating to a municipal election or to candidates or issues
involved in such an election, any organization, group or person requests a list
of registered voters of the city, the department, office or agency which has
custody of the official register of voters shall either permit the
organization, group or person to copy the voters' names and addresses from the
official register of voters or furnish such a list.
Section 5.070 Watchers And Challengers.
A candidate is entitled upon written application to the election authorities at
least 5 days before the election to appoint two persons to represent him as
watchers and challengers at each polling place where voters may cost their
ballots for him. A person so appointed has all the rights and privileges
prescribed by watchers and challengers under the election laws of this state.
The watchers and challengers may exercise their rights throughout the voting or
until the ballots have been counted.
Section 5.080 Voting Machines.
The city council may provide for the use of mechanical or other devices for
voting or counting votes that is not inconsistent with law or the regulations
of the secretary of state.
Section 5.090 Election Returns; Canvass; Certificates Of Election; Entry Of
Officers Upon Duties; Tie Vote Procedure.
1. The election returns from a municipal election must be filed with the city
clerk, who shall immediately place the returns in a safe or vault. No person
may handle, inspect or in any manner interfere with the returns until the
returns are canvassed by the city council.
2. The city council shall meet within 6 working days after an election and
canvass the returns and declare the result. The election returns must be sealed
and kept by the city clerk for 2 years, and no person may have access thereto
except on order of a court of competent jurisdiction or by order of the city
council.
3. The city clerk, under his hand and official seal, shall issue to each person
declared to be elected a certificate of election. The officers so elected shall
qualify and enter upon the discharge of their respective duties on the first
Monday in:
(a) If the officer is elected pursuant to subsection 1 or 2 of section 5.010,
July next following his or her election.
(b) If the officer is elected pursuant to subsection 3 or 4 of section 5.010,
January next following his or her election.
4. If any election should result in a tie, the city council shall summon the
candidates who received the tie vote and determine the tie by lot. The clerk
shall then issue to the winner a certificate of election.
Section 5.100 Contest Of Election.
A contested election for any municipal office shall be determined according to
the law of the state regulating proceedings in contested elections in political
subdivisions. (SB 134, eff. 6-2-2011; Ord. AB11, amended, 10-2-2001;
Legislative Updates, amended, 11-13-2000; Article V, amended, 10-23-2000)
ARTICLE VI
LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
Section 6.010 Local Improvement Law.
The city council, on behalf of the city and in its name, without any election,
may from time to time acquire, improve, equip, operate and maintain, convert to
or authorize:
1. Curb and gutter projects;
2. Drainage projects;
3. Off street parking projects;
4. Overpass projects;
5. Park projects;
6. Sanitary sewer projects;
7. Security walls;
8. Sidewalk projects;
9. Storm sewer projects;
10. Street projects;
11. Underground electric and communication facilities;
12. Underpass projects; and
13. Water projects.
Section 6.020 Local Improvement Law: Collateral Powers.
The city council on behalf of the city for the purpose of defraying all the
costs of acquiring, improving or converting to any project authorized by
section 6.010, or any portion of the cost thereof not to be defrayed with money
otherwise available therefor, is vested with the powers granted to
municipalities by chapters 271 and 704A of NRS, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. AB11, amended, 10-2-2001; Article VI, amended, 10-23-2000)
ARTICLE VII
LOCAL BONDS AND FRANCHISES
Section 7.010 Acquisition, Operation Of Municipal Utilities.
The city may, in the manner and for the purposes provided in this charter and
Nevada Revised Statutes as they apply to cities, grant franchises and acquire
in any manner any public utility, and hold, manage and operate it, either alone
or jointly, with any level of government or instrumentality or subdivision
thereof.
Section 7.020 Borrowing Money.
1. Subject to the limitations imposed by this article, the city may, for any
corporate purpose, including without limitation any purpose expressly
authorized by this charter or by Nevada Revised Statutes for a city:
(a) Borrow money; and
(b) Issue bonds or other securities. The local government securities law, as
amended from time to time, applies to all securities so issued, except for
securities issued pursuant to section 6.020.
2. Any property tax levied to pay the principal of or interest on such
indebtedness must be levied upon all taxable property within the city as
provided in NRS 350.590 to 350.602, inclusive. (Ord. AB11, amended, 10-2-2001;
Legislative Updates, amended, 11-13-2000; Article VII, amended, 10-23-2000)
ARTICLE VIII
REVENUE
Section 8.010 Municipal Taxes.
1. The city council shall annually, at the time prescribed by law for levying
taxes for state and county purposes, levy a tax not exceeding 3 percent upon
the assessed value of all real and personal property within the city, except as
provided in the local government securities law and the consolidated local
improvements law, as amended from time to time. The taxes so levied must be
collected at the same time and in the same manner and by the same officers,
exercising the same functions, as prescribed in the laws of the state of Nevada
for collection of state and county taxes. The revenue laws of the state must,
in every respect not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter be
applicable to the levying, assessing and collecting of the municipal taxes.
2. In the matter of the equalization of assessments, the rights of the city and
the inhabitants thereof must be protected in the same manner and to the same
extent by the action of the county board of equalization, as are the state and
county.
3. All forms and blanks used in levying, assessing and collecting the revenues
of the state and counties must, with such alterations or additions as may be
necessary, be used in levying, assessing and collecting the revenues of the
city. The city council shall enact all such ordinances as it may deem necessary
and not inconsistent with this charter and the laws of the state for the
prompt, convenient and economical collecting of the revenue.
Section 8.020 Revenue Ordinances.
The city council may pass and enact all ordinances necessary to carry into
effect the revenue laws in the city and to enlarge, fix and determine the
powers and duties of all officers in relation thereto. (Ord. AB11, amended, 10-
2-2001; Legislative Updates, amended, 11-13-2000; Article VIII, amended, 10-23-
2000)
ARTICLE IX
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section 9.010 Severability Of Provisions.
If any portion of this charter is held to be unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason by the decision of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this
charter. The legislature hereby declares that it would have passed the charter
and each portion thereof, irrespective of the portion which may be deemed
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid.
Section 9.020 Effect Of Enactment Of Charter.
1. All rights and property of every kind and description which were vested in
the city prior to the enactment of this charter shall be vested in the same
municipal corporation on the effective date of this charter. No right or
liability, either in favor of or against such corporation existing at the time
of becoming incorporated under this charter, and no action or prosecution shall
be affected by such change, but it shall stand and progress as if no change has
been made.
2. Whenever a different remedy is given by this charter, which may properly be
made applicable to any right existing at the time of such city so becoming
incorporated under this charter, such remedy shall be cumulative to the remedy
before provided, and used accordingly.
3. All ordinances and resolutions in effect in the city prior to the effective
date of this charter shall, unless in conflict with the provisions of this
charter, continue in full force and effect until amended or repealed.
4. The enactment of this charter shall not effect any change in the legal
identity of the city.
5. The enactment of this charter shall not be construed to repeal or in any way
affect or modify:
(a) Any special, local or temporary law.
(b) Any law or ordinance making an appropriation.
(c) An ordinance affecting any bond issue or by which any bond issue may have
been authorized.
(d) The running of the statute of limitations in force at the time this charter
becomes effective.
(e) Any bond of any public officer. (Ord. AB11, amended, 10-2-2001)
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
Elko City Code   1
Saving Clause   2
Fines And Penalties, Commitment; Recovery By Exception, Required Work, Chain
Gang; Work Credit; And Late Charges   3
Definitions   4
Election Regulations   5
Rules Of Procedure Of The City Council   6
City Finances   7
Records Management   8
City Sexton   9
Reserved   10
Court Facilities Administrative Fee   11
Assistant City Manager   12
Fingerprint Submission   13
Whistle Blower Protection   14
Court Of Record   15
Enforcement Code   16
CHAPTER 1
ELKO CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Code Designated And Cited
1-1-3: Catchlines Of Sections
1-1-4: Severability Of Parts Of Code
1-1-1: TITLE:
This compilation and codification of the general ordinances of the city of
Elko, Nevada, is declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official
city code of the city of Elko, Nevada. Any reference to the number of any
section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the
same under its appropriate title heading, its chapter heading, and its section
heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the
section itself. (1964 Code)
1-1-2: CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED:
The ordinances embraced in the following titles and chapters shall be
designated and shall constitute the ELKO CITY CODE, and may be so cited. (1964
Code)
1-1-3: CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS:
The catchlines of the sections of this code are intended as mere catchwords to
indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed or taken to be
titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor, unless expressly
so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections, including
catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (1964 Code)
1-1-4: SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any
of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this
code, since the same would have been enacted by the city council without the
incorporation in this code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph or section. (1964 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Effect Of Repeal Of Ordinances
1-2-3: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-4: Pending Suits
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
Except as provided in section
1-1-2 of this chapter, and unless expressly continued by specific provisions of
this code, all ordinances of the city of a general, public and permanent nature
enacted prior to the date of passage of this ordinance, are hereby repealed,
effective coincidentally with the effective date of this ordinance. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following ordinances of the city
are expressly repealed, effective coincidentally with the effective date of
this ordinance: City ordinance nos. 3, 5, 16, 23, 24, 30, 31, 37, 42, 45, 47,
55, 60, 62, 63, 70, 71, 73, 76, 78, 79, 80, 81, 85, 88, 89, 94, 95, 105, 106,
107, 108, 110, 115, 122, 123, 124, 125, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131, 134, 135, 136,
139, 140, 141, 142, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 152, 153 and 154. (1964 Code)
1-2-2: EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES:
   A.   The adoption and enactment of this code shall not be construed to
repeal or in any way affect or modify:
      1.   Any special or temporary ordinance.
      2.   Any ordinance making an appropriation.
      3.   Any ordinance affecting any bond issue or by which any bond issue
may have been authorized.
      4.   The continued existence and operation of any agency, department or
office heretofore legally established or held.
      5.   Any bond of any public officer.
      6.   Any taxes, fees, assessments or other charges incurred or imposed.
      7.   Tax levy ordinances.
      8.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations.
      9.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations.
      10.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants.
      11.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places.
      12.   Improvement ordinances.
      13.   Ordinances relating to elections.
      14.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the city.
      15.   All special ordinances.
   B.   All ordinances, rights and obligations set forth in subsection A of
this section shall continue and exist in all respects as if this code had not
been adopted and enacted.
   C.   The repeal of prior ordinances provided in section
1-2-1 of this chapter shall not affect any act done, or any cause of action
accrued or established, or any plea, defense, bar or matter subsisting before
the time when such repeal takes effect.
   D.   All the provisions of the ordinances repealed by section
 1-2-1 of this chapter shall be deemed to have remained in force from the time
they became effective so for as they may apply to any department, agency,
office or trust, or to any transaction, event, limitation, right or obligation,
or to the construction of any contract already affected by such ordinances,
notwithstanding the repeal of such provisions.
   E.   No fine, forfeiture or penalty incurred under ordinances existing prior
to the time this code takes effect shall be affected by repeal of such existing
ordinances, and the recovery of such fines and forfeitures and the enforcement
of such penalties shall be effected as if the ordinance repealed had remained
in effect.
   F.   Where an offense was committed prior to the time this code takes
effect, the offender shall be punished under the ordinance in effect when the
offense was committed.
   G.   No ordinance which heretofore has been repealed shall be revived by the
repeals provided in section
1-2-1 of this chapter.
   H.   The repeal by section
1-2-1 of this chapter of any ordinance validating previous acts, contracts of
transaction shall not affect the validity of such acts, contracts or
transactions, but the same shall remain as valid as if there had been no such
repeal.
   I.   If any provision of this code enacted by this ordinance and derived
from an ordinance which amended or repealed a preexisting ordinance is held
unconstitutional, the provision of section
 1-2-1 of this chapter shall not prevent the preexisting ordinance from being
law if that appears to have been the intention of the city council or the
people. (1964 Code)
1-2-3: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect of such provisions only. (1964 Code)
1-2-4: PENDING SUITS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the
party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this or the preceding section shall be construed
as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance
of the city herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or
altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any
person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the city under any
ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of adoption of this code.
(1964 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FINES AND PENALTIES, COMMITMENT; RECOVERY BY EXCEPTION, REQUIRED WORK, CHAIN
GANG; WORK CREDIT; AND LATE CHARGES
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Penalty
1-3-2: Incarceration
1-3-3: Prisoners Required To Work
1-3-4: Recovery Of Fines And Jail Credit
1-3-5: Chain Gang
1-3-6: Corporations
1-3-7: Public Works
1-3-8: Commitment For Nonpayment Of Fine
1-3-9: Late Charges
1-3-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Except as provided in ECC Title 7, Chapter 2, every person convicted of a
violation of this code or of committing an act which is prohibited or made or
declared unlawful, or made or declared an offense by this code, or any city
ordinance, shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail or city jail,
or in such other place as may be provided by the city for the incarceration of
offenders, for not more than six (6) months, or by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by both fine and imprisonment, unless this
code or ordinance violated at the time of commission of such offense prescribes
a different specific fine or penalty. (Ord. 321, 12-8-1981; amd. Ord. 877, 11-
2-2022, eff. 1-1-2023)
1-3-2: INCARCERATION:
Except as provided in ECC Title 7, Chapter 2, the municipal court, before whom
any conviction is had, may order any person upon whom any fine or penalty shall
be imposed to be committed to the county jail or the city jail, or to such
other place as may be provided by the city for the incarceration of offenders,
until such fine or penalty shall be fully paid. (Ord. 233, 8-10-1976; amd. Ord.
877, 11-2-2022, eff. 1-1-2023)
1-3-3: PRISONERS REQUIRED TO WORK:
Reserved. (Ord. 233, 8-10-1976; amd. Ord. 877, 11-2-2022, eff. 1-1-2023)
1-3-4: RECOVERY OF FINES AND JAIL CREDIT:
Reserved. (Ord. 233, 8-10-1976; amd. Ord. 877, 11-2-2022, eff. 1-1-2023)
1-3-5: CHAIN GANG:
Reserved. (Ord. 233, 8-10-1976; amd. Ord. 877, 11-2-2022, eff. 1-1-2023)
1-3-6: CORPORATIONS:
Except as provided in ECC Title 7, Chapter 2, in all cases where a corporation
is convicted of a violation of this code or a city ordinance for the commission
of which the natural person would be punishable, and there is no other
punishment prescribed by this code or ordinance violated, such corporation
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Ord. 321, 12-8-1981; amd. Ord. 877, 11-2-2022, eff. 1-1-2023)
1-3-7: PUBLIC WORKS:
Reserved. (Ord. 233, 8-10-1976; amd. Ord. 877, 11-2-2022, eff. 1-1-2023)
1-3-8: COMMITMENT FOR NONPAYMENT OF FINE:
Reserved. (Ord. 233, 8-10-1976; amd. Ord. 877, 11-2-2022, eff. 1-1-2023)
1-3-9: LATE CHARGES:
The city council members may set by resolution a late charge for overdue
payment for any services provided by the city to the public. Any such late
charge must accompany the overdue payment to defray the expenses incurred by
the city in handling and processing such delinquent payments and to compensate
the city for the loss of use of such revenue. Services provided by the city
which may be subject to a late charge include, but are not limited to, the
following: water, sewer, street light services, landfill charges, and land
lease payments. (Ord. 582, 5-14-2002)
CHAPTER 4
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-4-1: Definitions
1-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
In the construction of this code, and of all ordinances, the following rules
shall be observed, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   ADOPTING AUTHORITY: When used herein as to rules and regulations, it shall
mean any officer, employee, agent or agency of the city of Elko, including
councils or commissions of members thereof, authorized by ordinance to make
rules and regulations.
   CITY: The city of Elko, Elko County, Nevada.
   CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Elko.
   CITY TREASURER: The city treasurer of the city of Elko.
   CODE OR THIS CODE: This Elko city code.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day, unless it is a
Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday, in which event the period runs until
the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday.
   COUNCIL OR CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Elko.
   COUNTY: The county of Elko, Nevada.
   GENDER: A word importing the masculine gender shall extend and be applied to
females and to firms, partnerships and corporations, as well as to males.
   INTERPRETATION: In the interpretation and application of any provision of
this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare. Where any provision of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the
subject matter than the general provisions imposed by this code, the provision
imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be
controlling.
   NUMBER: Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural
includes the singular number.
   OATH: Shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words
"swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OR/AND: "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it.
   OWNER: When applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant, or owner of
a community property interest therein, or the owner of the whole thereof.
   PERSON: Shall include a corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, and any other group acting as a unit, including the officers
thereof, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every species of property, except real property.
   PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY: Shall include land, tenements and hereditaments, and all
buildings thereon and permanent improvements thereto.
   SIDEWALK: Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STREET: Shall mean and include any public way, road, highway, street,
avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches
thereto within the city. (1964 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Conducting Of City Elections
1-5-2: Reserved
1-5-3: Reserved
1-5-4: Candidates
1-5-5: Precincts
1-5-6: Ballots
1-5-7: Absent And Early Voting Ballots
1-5-8: Registration
1-5-9: Sample Ballots And Voters Lists
1-5-10: Election Boards
1-5-11: Reserved
1-5-12: Notices
1-5-1: CONDUCTING OF CITY ELECTIONS:
All city elections and the manner of holding the same shall be governed and
conducted in accordance with the city charter, this chapter, and the laws of
the state governing general elections, so far as the same can be made
applicable to such city elections, and except as herein provided, and the rules
and regulations for the conduct of primary and general elections in all
counties of the state, issued by the department of state, the state of Nevada,
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes title 24, so far as the same can be made
applicable to city elections, and except as herein provided. In those elections
held at the time of state elections as provided hereafter, the city clerk may
work in cooperation with the county clerk of the county of Elko to ensure
compliance with the city clerk's duties and responsibilities hereunder and to
avoid unnecessary expense and use of resources by the city. Only those minimum
requirements of state law in conducting city elections shall be required of any
city election and any variance therefrom shall not invalidate any city
election. (Ord. 778, 1-14-2014)
1-5-2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 778, 1-14-2014)
1-5-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 778, 1-14-2014)
1-5-4: CANDIDATES:
   A.   A candidate for any office to be voted for at a general city election
shall file an affidavit of candidacy with the city clerk during regular
business hours of the city clerk. The city clerk shall charge and collect from
each candidate and each candidate shall pay to the city clerk, at the time of
filing of the affidavit of candidacy, a filing fee as set by resolution of the
city council. All filing fees so collected by the city clerk shall be deposited
to the credit of the general fund of the city. No person shall be deemed a
candidate for office at such election or be entitled to have his name placed
upon the official ballot unless such person has filed such affidavit of
candidacy and paid the filing fee as set by the city council.
   B.   A candidate for any office to be voted for at the general city election
must file a declaration of candidacy with the city clerk not later than five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. on any business day not earlier than the first Monday in
March of the year in which the election is to be held nor later than the second
Friday after the first Monday in March. The secretary of state shall prescribe
the form for the declaration of candidacy. (Ord. 778, 1-14-2014)
1-5-5: PRECINCTS:
The city will be divided into precincts designated by the Elko County election
officials in accordance with the applicable provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes. (Ord. 778, 1-14-2014)
1-5-6: BALLOTS:
Official general city election ballots shall contain the names of candidates
grouped alphabetically under the title of the office for which such candidates
file. In years in which the mayor will be elected, the candidates for mayor
shall be listed first followed by the candidates for council members. At the
top of the general election ballots shall be printed "Official Ballot", under
that shall be printed "Elko City General Election", and under that shall be
printed the date of the election. All other details relating to ballots shall
be controlled and governed by the laws of the state governing general election
laws, so far as the same may be applicable, and the rules and regulations, for
the conduct of primary and general elections, as amended from time to time,
issued by the secretary of state, so far as the same may be applicable. (Ord.
778, 1-14-2014)
1-5-7: ABSENT AND EARLY VOTING BALLOTS:
Voting by absent ballot or early voting by personal appearance shall be
conducted as prescribed by the laws of the state in effect at the time of such
voting as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 293C, so far as such
laws are applicable to city elections. (Ord. 778, 1-14-2014)
1-5-8: REGISTRATION:
   A.   Every person who resides within the exterior boundaries of the city at
the time of holding any city election, and whose name appears upon the official
register of voters in and for the city, shall have the right to vote at each
city election, whether special, primary or general, and for all officers to be
voted for and on all questions that may be submitted to the people at any such
primary, general or special city election.
   B.   Registration of the electors or voters in the city shall be
accomplished in the manner provided in the election laws of the state, so far
as the same can be made applicable and which are not inconsistent herewith.
Registration shall close at the time specified in Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 293C for the close of registration for a general election. (Ord. 778,
1-14-2014)
1-5-9: SAMPLE BALLOTS AND VOTERS LISTS:
Unless otherwise ordered by the city council, no list of electors registered to
vote at any city election need be published. The city clerk shall, at least ten
(10) days before any election, cause to be mailed to each registered voter in
the city a sample ballot for his precinct with a notice informing the voter of
the location of his polling place. If the location of the polling place has
changed since the last election:
   A.   The city clerk shall mail a notice of the change to each registered
voter in the city not sooner than ten (10) days before mailing the sample
ballots; or
   B.   The sample ballot must also include a notice in at least 10-point bold
type immediately above the location which states:
NOTICE:   THE LOCATION OF YOUR POLLING PLACE HAS CHANGED SINCE THE LAST
ELECTION.
   (Ord. 778, 1-14-2014)
1-5-10: ELECTION BOARDS:
Election boards shall be appointed as prescribed by the laws of the state in
effect at the time of such election as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 293C. (Ord. 778, 1-14-2014)
1-5-11: RESERVED:
(Ord. 778, 1-14-2014)
1-5-12: NOTICES:
Notice of close of registration shall be given by the city clerk at the time
and in the manner provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 293C and
Nevada administrative code chapter 293C. The city clerk shall include in the
notice of close of registration a statement indicating the last date and time
on which persons may file affidavits of candidacy and pay the filing fee for
such election in the manner specified in section
1-5-4 of this chapter. The city council shall, by resolution, enact a
proclamation and order containing the information required by NAC 293C.060
pertaining to the publication of notices designating the offices for which
candidates are to be elected. The city clerk shall thereafter publish in a
newspaper having a general circulation in the city, a copy of the proclamation,
resolution and order described in this section. The proclamation, resolution
and order shall be published once a week for four (4) consecutive weeks, the
first publication thereof to be made within one week from the date of enactment
of such proclamation, resolution and order. The city clerk shall also post a
copy of the proclamation, resolution and order in the office of the city clerk
within one week from the date of its enactment and shall further post a copy of
the notice of close of registration to be given pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 293C in the office of the city clerk within one week of the
date of first publication of such notice of close of registration. (Ord. 799,
1-12-2016)
CHAPTER 6
RULES OF PROCEDURE OF THE CITY COUNCIL 1
SECTION:
1-6-1: Regular Meetings
1-6-2: Special Meetings
1-6-3: Meetings; Assent To Action
1-6-4: Public Meetings
1-6-5: Quorum
1-6-6: Agenda And Notice Of Agenda
1-6-7: Presiding Officer
1-6-8: Call To Order
1-6-9: Roll Call
1-6-10: Order Of Business (Rep. by Ord. 575, 10-9-2001)
1-6-11: Reading Or Approval Of Minutes
1-6-12: Rules Of Debate
1-6-13: Addressing Council
1-6-14: Addressing Council After Motion Made
1-6-15: Manner Of Addressing Council; Time Limit
1-6-16: Disturbing Meetings; Penalties
1-6-17: Minute Entry Of Dissent
1-6-18: Filing Of Reports And Resolutions
1-6-19: Adjournment
1-6-20: Emergency Meetings
1-6-21: Working Day
 
Notes
1 1. Assembly bill 11, passed effective 10-1-2001, changed board of supervisors
  to city council.
1-6-1: REGULAR MEETINGS:
   A.   Time: The city council shall hold regular meetings on the second and
fourth Tuesdays of each calendar month, commencing at four o'clock (4:00) P.M.;
provided, however, that when the day fixed for any regular meeting of the city
council falls upon a date designated by law as a legal or national holiday,
such meetings shall be held at the same hours on the next succeeding day not a
holiday.
   B.   Place: All regular meetings of the city council shall be held at the
city hall of the city, or at such place as may be designated by the unanimous
consent of the city council. If the meeting is not held at the city hall,
notice of such meeting shall be given to each member of the city council by
certified mail, with the postage and certification charges prepaid, and mailed
to each member of said council at least three (3) working days prior to the
time for such meeting.
   C.   Meeting Cancellation: A regular meeting of the city council may be
cancelled by majority vote of the city council. Notice of such cancellation
shall be posted in the same manner as a meeting agenda pursuant to section
1-6-6 of this chapter, and published in a newspaper of local circulation. (Ord.
578, 12-12-2001)
1-6-2: SPECIAL MEETINGS:
   A.   Time: Special meetings may be held at the city hall on call of the
mayor or by a majority of the city council, by giving a minimum of three (3)
working days' written notice of such special meeting to each member of the city
council prior to the meetings, and notice as required by the Nevada open
meeting law, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 241.
   B.   Place: All special meetings of the city council shall be held at the
city hall, or at such other place within the city as may be designated by the
mayor or a majority of the city council upon giving proper notice of the time
and location of the meeting as required by the Nevada open meeting law.
   C.   Business Transacted: No business may be transacted unless the
requirements of section
1-6-6 of this chapter have been complied with. (Ord. 423, 6-23-1992)
1-6-3: MEETINGS; ASSENT TO ACTION:
No action shall be taken by a majority of the city council at any regular or
special meeting, unless such meeting is properly noticed or called, and the
record thereof, is assented to in writing by all of the members of the city
council. (Ord. 254, 9-19-1977)
1-6-4: PUBLIC MEETINGS:
   A.   Except as provided by law, or herein, all meetings of the city council,
whether regular or special or called, shall be open and public, and all persons
shall be permitted to attend any meeting of the city council subject to their
removal for violation of section
1-6-16 of this chapter; provided, however, nothing contained herein shall be
construed to prevent the city council from holding:
      1.   A closed meeting to consider the character, alleged misconduct,
professional competency or physical or mental health of a person.
      2.   A closed meeting for the discussion of the appointment of any person
to public office or as a member of a public body.
   B.   The city council may exclude from any such public or private meetings,
during the examination of a witness, any or all other witnesses in the matter
being investigated by the city council. (Ord. 254, 9-19-1977)
1-6-5: QUORUM:
A simple majority of all members of the city council, consisting of four (4)
council members and the mayor, will constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. In the absence of a quorum, the city council may meet and recess from
time to time, and may compel the attendance of the absent members. (Ord. 254,
9-19-1977)
1-6-6: AGENDA AND NOTICE OF AGENDA:
   A.   Agenda: Any person desiring to present any matter to the city council,
shall, at least four (4) working days prior to the meeting of the city council
at which such person wishes to present such matter, notify the city manager, or
in his absence the assistant city manager, or in his absence the city clerk,
and request time for the meeting, and supply the name, address and telephone
number of the person or persons who shall appear before the city council, a
summary of the matter or matters to be presented and a copy of any written
material to be submitted to the city council, if the material is such that
copies can be supplied without unnecessary expense, also an estimate of the
length of time required for the presentation. If the agenda for the meeting
requested is full, the mayor or city council, or the city manager may set the
matter for presentation at the next meeting of the council, special or regular,
at which there is time available in the agenda. The city council shall refuse
to hear any matter not placed on the agenda at least four (4) working days
prior to such meeting, as herein provided, and the matter must be set for
presentation at a later date. The city manager, or in his absence the assistant
city manager, or in his absence the city clerk, shall prepare an agenda
according to the order of business for each meeting, and furnish the mayor and
each member of the city council with a copy of the same prior to the council
meeting and as far in advance of the meeting as time for preparation will
permit, but not less than three (3) working days prior to said meetings.
   B.   Notice Of Agenda: Except in an emergency, as set forth in section
1-6-20 of this chapter, written notice of the agenda to be discussed at all
meetings shall be given at least three (3) working days before the meeting. The
notice shall include the time, place, location and agenda of the meeting. A
copy of the notice shall be posted at the Elko city office, the Elko County
courthouse, the city police office in Elko, and the Elko County library. If a
regular or special meeting of the city council is held at a place other than
the city offices, then the notice shall be posted in such meeting place, the
Elko County courthouse, the city police office and the Elko County library. A
copy of said notice shall be mailed to any person who requested notice of the
meetings of the city council in the same manner in which notice is mailed to a
member of the city council. A request for the notice shall lapse six (6) months
after it is made and this fact shall be made by enclosure with or notation upon
the first notice sent to a requesting person. It shall be the responsibility of
the city manager, or in his absence the assistant city manager, or in his
absence the city clerk, to see that the proper posting and mailing of the
notice of said meetings has been carried out. In that the regular meetings of
the city council are held on the second and fourth Tuesdays of each calendar
month, the city manager shall see that the notice of meetings is posted no
later than four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. on the Wednesday preceding the
meeting. In the event a legal holiday falls on a working day between the
Tuesday meeting and the preceding Wednesday, then the posting shall be moved
back one working day for each day recognized as a legal holiday. (Ord. 254, 9-
19-1977)
1-6-7: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The presiding officer of the city council shall be the mayor, or if the mayor
is absent from the city, sick or unable or refuses to perform the duties of his
office, the vice president. In case of the absence of both the mayor and vice
president, the remaining council members shall elect one of their members to
act instead of the mayor or vice president. The presiding officer shall
preserve strict order and a decorum at all regular and special meetings of the
council. He shall state every question coming before the council, announce the
decision of the council on all subjects and decide all questions of order,
subject, however, to an appeal to the council, in which event a majority vote
of the city council shall govern conclusively to determine such question of
order. The presiding officer shall vote on all questions the same as other
council members, his name being called last. The mayor shall sign all
ordinances and resolutions adopted by the city council during his presence. In
the event of the absence of the mayor, the presiding officer shall sign
ordinances, or resolutions as then adopted. (Ord. 254, 9-19-1977)
1-6-8: CALL TO ORDER:
The mayor, or in his absence, the vice president, shall take the chair at the
hour appointed for the meeting and shall immediately call the council to order.
In the absence of the mayor and vice president, the city clerk shall call the
council to order, whereupon a temporary chairperson shall be elected by the
members of the council present. Upon arrival of the mayor or vice president,
the temporary chairperson shall immediately relinquish the chair upon
conclusion of the business immediately before the council. (Ord. 254, 9-19-
1977)
1-6-9: ROLL CALL:
Before proceeding with the business of the city council, the city clerk, or the
clerk's deputy, shall take the roll of the members, and the names of those
present shall be entered in the minutes. (Ord. 254, 9-19-1977)
1-6-10: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
(Rep. by Ord. 575, 10-9-2001)
1-6-11: READING OR APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Unless the reading of the minutes of the city council meeting is requested by a
member of the council, such minutes may be approved without reading if the city
clerk has previously furnished each member with a synopsis thereof. (Ord. 254,
9-19-1977)
1-6-12: RULES OF DEBATE:
   A.   Presiding Officer May Debate And Vote, Etc.: The mayor or vice
president, or such other member of the city council as may be presiding, may
move, second and debate from the chair, subject only to such limitations of
debate as are by these rules imposed on all members and shall not be deprived
of any of the rights and privileges of a council member by reason of his acting
as the presiding officer.
   B.   Getting The Floor; Improper References To Be Avoided: Every member
desiring to speak shall address the chair, and, upon recognition by the
presiding officer, shall confine himself to the question under debate, avoiding
all personalities and indecorous language.
   C.   Interruptions: A member, once recognized, shall not be interrupted when
speaking unless it be to call him to order, or as herein otherwise provided. If
a member, while speaking, be called to order, he shall cease speaking until the
question of order be determined, and, if in order, he shall be permitted to
proceed.
   D.   Privilege Of Closing Debate: The council member moving the adoption of
an ordinance or resolution shall have the privilege of closing the debate.
   E.   Motion To Reconsider: A motion to reconsider any action taken by the
city council, may be made only on the day such action was taken. It may be made
either immediately, during the same session, or at a recessed or adjourned
session thereof. Such motion must be made by one of the prevailing sides, but
may be seconded by any member, and may be made at any time and have precedence
over all other motions or while a member has the floor; it shall be debatable.
Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent any member of the city council
from making or remaking the same or any other motion at a subsequent meeting of
the city council.
   F.   Remarks Of Council Members; When Entered In Minutes: A council member
may request, through the presiding officer, the privilege of having an abstract
of his statement on any subject under consideration by the city council entered
in the minutes. If the city council consents thereto, such statement shall be
entered in the minutes.
   G.   Synopsis Of Debate; When Entered In Minutes: The city clerk may be
directed by the presiding officer, with consent of the city council to enter in
the minutes a synopsis of the discussion on any questions coming regularly
before the city council. (Ord. 254, 9-19-1977)
1-6-13: ADDRESSING COUNCIL:
Any person desiring to address the council shall first secure the permission of
the presiding officer so to do; provided, however, that under the following
headings of business, unless the presiding officer rules otherwise, any
qualified person may address the council without securing such prior
permission:
   A.   Written Communications: Interested parties or their authorized attorney
or representative may address the council by written communications in regard
to matters then under discussion.
   B.   Oral Communications: Taxpayers or residents of the city, or their
authorized attorney or representative, may address the council by oral
communications on any matter that appears on the agenda; provided, however,
that preference shall be given to those persons who may have notified the city
manager, or in his absence the city clerk, in advance of their desire to speak.
   C.   Reading Of Protests, Etc.: Interested persons or their authorized
attorney or representative may address the council by reading of protests,
petitions or communications relating to zoning, sewer and street proceedings,
hearings on protests, appeals and petitions, or similar matters in regard to
matters then under consideration. (Ord. 254, 9-19-1977)
1-6-14: ADDRESSING COUNCIL AFTER MOTION MADE:
After a motion is made for consideration by the council of a matter set forth
in the agenda, no person shall address the council without first securing the
permission or the presiding officer so to do. (Ord. 254, 9-19-1977)
1-6-15: MANNER OF ADDRESSING COUNCIL; TIME LIMIT:
Each person addressing the council shall first give his name and address for
the records, and unless further time is granted by the presiding officer, shall
limit his address to five (5) minutes. All remarks shall be concise and direct,
based on the facts of the case, and addressed to the council as a body and not
to any member thereof. No person other than the mayor, the members of the
council and the person having the floor, shall be permitted to enter into any
discussion, either directly or through a member of the council, without the
permission of the presiding officer. No question shall be asked a council
member except through the presiding officer. (Ord. 254, 9-19-1977)
1-6-16: DISTURBING MEETINGS; PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to do any of the
following at any meeting of the city council:
      1.   Disturb the meeting or the peace of the city council;
      2.   Behave in a disorderly manner;
      3.   Use profane, vulgar or obscene language;
      4.   Use threatening, offensive, abusive, impertinent or slanderous
remarks;
      5.   Disrupt the meeting by act, comment, demonstration or noise;
      6.   Refuse to obey the orders of the presiding officer;
      7.   Violate the order and decorum of the meeting.
   B.   Any person or persons violating any provisions of this section shall be
punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3, of this code and may be removed
from the meeting, except for a council member, and denied further attendance at
such meeting.
   C.   The chief of police, or such member or members of the police department
as he may designate, shall be sergeant at arms of the council meeting. He or
they shall carry out all orders and instructions given by the presiding officer
for the purpose of maintaining order and decorum at the city council meeting.
Upon instructions of the presiding officer, it shall be the duty of the
sergeant at arms to place any person who violates any provision of this section
under arrest, remove such person from the meeting and cause such person to be
prosecuted under the provisions of this code. The complaint to be signed by the
presiding officer.
   D.   By a majority vote of the council, any council member may be punished
or reprimanded for disorderly conduct during a meeting, and, with the
concurrence of four (4) of the council members, may expel a member from a
meeting for violations of any provision of this section. (Ord. 254, 9-19-1977)
1-6-17: MINUTE ENTRY OF DISSENT:
Any member shall have the right to have the reasons for his dissent from, or
protest against, any action of the council entered on the minutes. (Ord. 254,
9-19-1977)
1-6-18: FILING OF REPORTS AND RESOLUTIONS:
All reports submitted to the city council and resolutions passed by the city
council, shall be filed with the city clerk and entered on the minutes. (Ord.
254, 9-19-1977)
1-6-19: ADJOURNMENT:
A motion to adjourn shall always be in order and decided without debate. (Ord.
254, 9-19-1977)
1-6-20: EMERGENCY MEETINGS:
An emergency meeting may be held when unforeseen circumstances which require
immediate action occur. Such circumstances include, but are not limited to,
disasters caused by fire, flood, earthquake or other natural causes, or any
impairment of the health and safety of the public. (Ord. 254, 9-19-1977)
1-6-21: WORKING DAY:
Those days during which the governmental offices in the city are normally open
for full time business, being Monday through Friday, and excepting legal
holidays. (Ord. 254, 9-19-1977)
CHAPTER 7
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Compliance With State Law
1-7-2: General Fund Budgeting
1-7-3: Property Tax Rates
1-7-4: Capital Equipment Financing
1-7-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
All financial operations of the city shall be accomplished in compliance with
Nevada Revised Statutes. These operations include, but are not limited to,
budgeting, accounting, auditing and financial reporting. (Ord. 568, 6-26-2001)
1-7-2: GENERAL FUND BUDGETING:
   A.   General Fund: The general fund shall be used to account for all general
purpose services provided to the citizens of the city and general tax revenues
used to provide those services.
      1.   General Fund Revenues:
         a.   Establishment Of "Base" General Fund Revenues: The tentative
budget for each fiscal year shall include total general fund revenues
calculated by estimating current year revenues and factoring the total up by an
inflation factor.
         b.   Estimated General Fund Revenues: All general fund revenues will
be estimated using historic data, trend analysis and information provided by
other agencies.
The estimate for sales taxes each year shall be reduced by a factor equal to
that percentage of the total sales tax collections attributable to
construction, as reported by the department of taxation.
         c.   "Base" Revenues Exceed Estimated Revenues: When the "base"
general fund revenues exceed estimated general fund revenues, the city council
shall take one of the following actions:
            (1)   Reduce specific service levels resulting in a budget savings
equal to the difference between "base" and estimated general fund revenues.
            (2)   Increase the property tax rate, where allowable, to a tax
rate that will produce an amount equal to the difference between "base" and
estimated general fund revenues.
            (3)   Increase other fees or taxes to generate revenue equal to the
difference between "base" and estimated general fund revenues.
         d.   Estimated Revenues Exceed "Base" Revenues: When estimated general
fund revenues exceed "base" general fund revenues, the city council shall take
one of the following actions:
            (1)   Enhance specific service levels resulting in increased
expenditures equal to the difference between "base" and estimated general fund
revenues.
            (2)   Lower the property tax rate that will reduce estimated
property tax revenue in an amount equal to the difference between "base" and
estimated general fund revenues.
            (3)   Allocate that amount equal to the difference between "base"
and estimated general fund revenues to a specific capital project.
            (4)   Allocate that amount equal to the difference between "base"
and estimated general fund revenues to the capital equipment fund.
            (5)   Reduce other fees or taxes to reduce estimated revenues to
equal "base" revenues.
      2.   General Fund Expenditures:
         a.   Every effort shall be made to increase efficiency of city
operations in order to reduce expenditure levels.
         b.   An appropriation equal to one and five-tenths percent (1.5%) of
general fund operating expenditures shall be budgeted in a "contingency"
account each year.
      3.   General Fund Ending Fund Balances:
         a.   Disposition Of Excess Fund Balances:
            (1)   Excess fund balance shall be calculated by subtracting the
estimated ending fund balance from the audited, or actual, fund balance.
            (2)   Any excess fund balance shall be allocated as follows:
   (A) Twenty five percent (25%) to a revenue stabilization fund, established
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 354.6115, up to the maximum amount
allowed.
   (B) Thirty seven and five-tenths percent (37.5%) to a capital equipment
reserve fund.
   (C) Thirty seven and five-tenths percent (37.5%) to a facility reserve fund.
         b.   Ending Fund Balance: An ending fund balance equal to eight and
three-tenths percent (8.3%) of operating expenditures shall be budgeted each
year.
   B.   Capital Equipment Fund: The capital equipment fund shall be used to
accumulate resources and make purchases of capital equipment for general
purpose, nonenterprise, operations.
      1.   Resources: Annual resources shall consist of:
         a.   That amount of sales tax revenues attributable to "construction"
as reported by the department of taxation.
         b.   Transfers from the general fund of any excess ending fund
balances.
         c.   Transfers from the general fund of available resources.
         d.   Property taxes.
      2.   Expenditures:
         a.   Each year, the city council shall adopt a five (5) year capital
equipment plan.
         b.   Single capital equipment purchases in excess of one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00), with an expected life of ten (10) years or
more, may be considered for medium term financing.
         c.   Prior to giving approval for specific capital equipment
purchases, the following factors shall be considered:
            (1)   Frequency of use for the proposed equipment.
            (2)   Availability and costs associated with renting the equipment.
(Ord. 568, 6-26-2001)
1-7-3: PROPERTY TAX RATES:
   A.   Establishment Of Rates: The city council shall determine the property
tax rate each year after compilation of a tentative budget, and approval of the
final budget after the appropriate public hearings.
   B.   Adoption Of Rate By Resolution: The city council shall adopt the
property tax rate each year by resolution. (Ord. 568, 6-26-2001)
1-7-4: CAPITAL EQUIPMENT FINANCING:
The capital equipment fund shall be used to accumulate resources and make
purchases of capital equipment for general purpose, nonenterprise, operations.
   A.   Resources: Annual resources shall consist of:
      1.   That amount of sales tax revenues attributable to "construction", as
reported by the department of taxation.
      2.   Transfers from the general fund of any excess ending fund balances.
      3.   Transfers from the general fund of available resources.
      4.   Property taxes.
   B.   Expenditures:
      1.   Each year, the city council shall adopt a five (5) year capital
equipment plan.
      2.   Single capital equipment purchases in excess of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00), with an expected life of ten (10) years or more, may be
considered for medium term financing.
      3.   Prior to giving approval for specific capital equipment purchases,
the following factors shall be considered:
         a.   Frequency of use for the proposed equipment.
         b.   Availability and costs associated with renting the equipment.
(Ord. 568, 6-26-2001)
CHAPTER 8
RECORDS MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Definitions
1-8-2: Records Management Program
1-8-3: Duties Of City Clerk
1-8-4: Records Committee
1-8-5: Records Committee Functions
1-8-6: Custody And Control Of Records
1-8-7: Disposal Of Records
1-8-8: Shredding Of Records
1-8-9: Retention Schedule
1-8-10: Severability
1-8-11: Conflicting Ordinances Repealed
1-8-12: Confidential Employee Records
1-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the words and
terms defined in this chapter have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section:
   DIVISION: The division of records management to the city clerk's office.
   DUPLICATE: Any accurate and unabridged copy of a record or series of records
which is not an original.
   NONRECORD MATERIAL: Published books and pamphlets, books and pamphlets
printed by a governmental printer, worksheets used to collect or compile data
after the data has been included in a record, answer pads for a telephone or
other informal notes, stenographers' notes after the information contained
therein has been transcribed, unused forms except ballots, brochures,
newsletters, magazines or newspapers, except those portions of newspapers
retained as evidence of publication, scrapbooks and property left or deposited
with an office which would otherwise be defined as a record, except that the
ownership of that property does not reside with the city of Elko.
   OFFICE: An office, department, council, commission, committee, agency, or
any other subdivision of the city of Elko.
   ORIGINAL: An "original", as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes section
52.205, a reproduction made pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes section 239.051, or any record designated by the records committee to
be an original. An original made pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes section 239.051 consists of both the stored copy, and the copy
maintained for the use of authorized persons.
   RECORD: All documents, papers, letters, pamphlets, books, maps, charts,
blueprints, drawings, photographs, films, sound recordings, magnetic or other
tapes, hardware and software used to process electronic data, punched cards,
computer generated printouts, audio or video discs or other discs used to store
and retrieve information, portions of newspapers received as evidence of
publication, artifacts entered as exhibits in a proceeding in any court, and
any other documentary evidence, regardless of physical form or characteristics,
and including all duplicates thereof, made or received pursuant to a law or
ordinance, or in connection with the transaction of the official business of
any office of the city of Elko.
   RECORDS COMMITTEE: The records committee established in section
1-8-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 378, 12-22-1987)
1-8-2: RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM:
   A.   Created: Pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes section
239.125(1), the records management program is hereby created in the office of
the city clerk. The division is administered by the city clerk.
   B.   Intent: It is the intent of the city council that the records
management program, follow accepted:
      1.   Procedures for the management of records to increase the efficiency
of the records keeping system and reduce the administrative costs associated
with the creation, maintenance, use, retention and disposition of records; and
      2.   Standards of archival practice to ensure the preservation of records
with permanent value and maximum accessibility to records for the general
public. (Ord. 378, 12-22-1987)
1-8-3: DUTIES OF CITY CLERK:
The city clerk shall:
   A.   Establish standards, procedure and techniques for the effective
management of records;
   B.   Make continuing surveys of current practices for the management of
records and recommend improvements in those practices, including the use of
space, equipment and supplies to create, maintain and store records;
   C.   Establish standards for the preparation of schedules providing for the
retention of records of continuing value and for the prompt and orderly
disposition of records which no longer possess sufficient administrative,
fiscal, legal or research value to warrant their further retention;
   D.   Establish, maintain and operate a center for storing and receiving
records of the several city offices pending their disposition in a manner
prescribed by law;
   E.   Establish a unit to provide micrographics services to the several
offices of the city;
   F.   Establish a program for the management of forms and files;
   G.   Establish a program for the protection of records essential for the
continuation or reestablishment of governmental operations in the event of
natural or other disaster; and
   H.   Establish a program for the preservation and conservation of records
designated by the state librarian or the division as having a permanent value.
(Ord. 378, 12-22-1987)
1-8-4: RECORDS COMMITTEE:
   A.   Established: A records committee is hereby established to be known as
the city records committee.
   B.   Composition: The city records committee shall be composed of:
      1.   The city attorney or city auditor;
      2.   The city clerk;
      3.   The city manager or assistant manager;
      4.   Accounts payable clerk;
      5.   Public works director. (Ord. 378, 12-22-1987)
1-8-5: RECORDS COMMITTEE FUNCTIONS:
The records committee shall:
   A.   Approve all records retention and disposition schedules, requests for
the purchase of filing equipment or the creation of a new form, or an
application for conversion to micrographics, word processing or data
processing;
   B.   Review any request for access to information which was denied by an
official to determine whether the denial was in keeping with prevailing law;
and
   C.   Review all proposals for the expansion or modification of the records
management program and make recommendations to the city council. (Ord. 378, 12-
22-1987)
1-8-6: CUSTODY AND CONTROL OF RECORDS:
   A.   Transferred Records: The right of custody and control of records
transferred to the city records center shall remain with the transferring
office.
   B.   Accessions: The rights of custody and control of accessions to the City
archives transfer to the city clerk at the time the records are accepted as an
accession. (Ord. 378, 12-22-1987)
1-8-7: DISPOSAL OF RECORDS:
Records may be disposed of only in accordance with the schedules for the
retention and disposition of records prepared by the city clerk and approved by
the records committee. (Ord. 378, 12-22-1987)
1-8-8: SHREDDING OF RECORDS:
   A.   Authorized; Exception: Records to be destroyed must be shredded or
burned (unless prohibited by local ordinance).
   B.   Supervision Of Destruction: The records administrator or a
representative of the office must supervise the destruction of all records in
their care and attest that such destruction was carried out in a method
provided by law. (Ord. 378, 12-22-1987)
1-8-9: RETENTION SCHEDULE:
   A.   Established: The retention periods established by the retention
schedule developed under the authority of Nevada Revised Statutes section
239.125 by the Nevada state library division of archives and records shall be
the minimum retention schedule for records of the city and may be changed from
time to time as new schedules are provided by the division of archives and
records.
   B.   Handbook: The Nevada local government records manual shall be the
records management handbook for the records management program of the city.
   C.   Schedules Superseded: The retention periods established in the
regulations of the state library division of archives and records shall
supersede all record retention schedules adopted by the city council pursuant
to Nevada Revised Statutes section 239.125, except those schedules which are
more stringent than the periods provided for in this regulation. (Ord. 378, 12-
22-1987)
1-8-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, clause or provision of this chapter
shall for any reason be held invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or
unenforceability of such section or subsection, paragraph, clause or provision
shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 378,
12-22-1987)
1-8-11: CONFLICTING ORDINANCES REPEALED:
All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, sections, subsections, phrases,
sentences, clauses or paragraphs contained in this code in conflict herewith
are repealed. (Ord. 378, 12-22-1987)
1-8-12: CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE RECORDS:
   A.   Specified: The following types of information, which are maintained by
the city, are confidential:
      1.   Information relating to salaries paid in other than governmental
employment which is furnished to the city on the condition that the source
remain confidential;
      2.   Any document which is used by the city in negotiations with
employees or their representatives which has not been made public by mutual
agreement;
      3.   All information in the employee's application for employment,
including, but not limited to, letters of reference and resumes, or his/her
status as an applicant for employment;
      4.   All information that the city receives or compiles concerning the
qualifications of an applicant or an employee, including, but not limited to,
reports by employers, law enforcement officials, or other individuals
concerning the hiring, promotion, performance, conduct or background of
applicants or employees;
      5.   The rating and remarks concerning an applicant by any city employees
in relation to the decision to hire the employee, to include the results of any
testing or screening process for employment, or in relation to any personnel
action by the city affecting the employee;
      6.   Materials used in examinations, including answers on any written
examination or suggested answers for oral examinations;
      7.   Reports by employers, appointing authorities or law enforcement
officials concerning the hiring, promotion or background of applicants or
employees;
      8.   Information in an employee's file or record of employment which
relates to his/her:
         a.   Performance;
         b.   Conduct, including any disciplinary actions taken against him/
her;
         c.   Race, ethnic identity or affiliation, religious preference, sex,
disability or date of birth;
         d.   Home telephone number, home facsimile number or personal
electronic mail address;
         e.   All information concerning the voluntary or involuntary
termination of an employee, excluding the dates of employment; or
         f.   Social security number or any other identifying numbers.
      9.   If the employee has requested that his personal mailing address be
listed as confidential, his/her file must be so designated and his/her business
address must be indicated.
      10.   The name of any beneficiary of an employee contained in the payroll
document must not be released to anyone unless:
         a.   The employee dies; or
         b.   The employee signs a release.
      11.   Medical information concerning an employee or applicant, including,
but not limited to, preemployment and postemployment medical and psychological
examinations, and information concerning a disability and a resulting
reasonable accommodation, drug testing, pregnancy, a medical excuse, and any
other medical information that an employee or applicant voluntarily provides or
the city requests.
      12.   The names or other identifying information pertaining to employees
who are in sensitive law enforcement positions where public access to the
employee identities could jeopardize their personal safety or job performance.
      13.   Information contained in an investigative file that has been
determined to be confidential by the city.
   B.   Access: Access to confidential information is limited as follows:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this code, access to information
relating to an applicant which is relevant to the city's decision to hire that
person, is limited to those persons, acting on behalf of the city, who are
involved in the hiring decision.
      2.   Except as provided in subsection B3 of this section, access to an
employee's file of employment containing those items listed in subsection A of
this section as confidential is limited to:
         a.   The employee;
         b.   The employee's representative when a signed authorization from
the employee is presented or is in his employment file;
         c.   The city attorney and deputy city attorneys;
         d.   City human resources department employees;
         e.   Appointed officials, department heads, and council members within
the employee's chain of command; and
         f.   Persons who are authorized pursuant to any applicable state or
federal law, or an order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
      3.   Upon request, the city will provide the personal mailing address of
any employee on file with the city to the internal revenue service.
      4.   The city, or its designated representative, shall authorize the
release of any confidential records under the control of the city which are
requested by a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 573, 8-29-2001)
CHAPTER 9
CITY SEXTON
SECTION:
1-9-1: Office Created
1-9-2: Qualifications And Duties
1-9-3: Terms Of Office; Method Of Removal
1-9-4: Salary
1-9-1: OFFICE CREATED:
Pursuant to the authority granted to the city council in the city charter,
there is hereby established the appointive office of city sexton. The
appointive office of city sexton is in addition to the existing appointive
office of city clerk, city attorney, chief of police, municipal judge, fire
chief, city manager and city engineer. (Ord. 399, 4-10-1990)
1-9-2: QUALIFICATIONS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Qualifications: The city sexton shall be chosen by the mayor and city
council on the basis of experience and qualifications to act as a city sexton
for the purpose of keeping records required by Nevada Revised Statutes. At the
time of the appointment, the city sexton need not be a resident of the city,
but may reside outside the city while in office with the approval of the city
council. One or more persons may be appointed as sexton or cosextons.
   B.   Duties: The city sexton shall perform such administrative and record
keeping duties as are required by Nevada Revised Statutes and any other duties
required by the city council. (Ord. 399, 4-10-1990)
1-9-3: TERMS OF OFFICE; METHOD OF REMOVAL:
The city council shall appoint the city sexton for an indefinite term or
definite term to serve at the pleasure of the city council. The city sexton may
be removed from office by a majority vote of the members of the city council,
with the mayor having a vote. In removing a city sexton, the city council shall
comply with all applicable state and city laws and ordinances. (Ord. 399, 4-10-
1990)
1-9-4: SALARY:
The salary of the city sexton shall be fixed by the city council by resolution.
(Ord. 399, 4-10-1990)
CHAPTER 10
RESERVED
CHAPTER 11
MISSING INFORMATION
CHAPTER 12
ASSISTANT CITY MANAGER
SECTION:
1-12-1: Office Created
1-12-2: Qualifications And Duties
1-12-3: Term Of Office And Method Of Removal
1-12-4: Salary
1-12-1: OFFICE CREATED:
Pursuant to the authority granted to the city council in the city charter,
there is hereby established the appointive office of assistant city manager.
The appointive office of the assistant city manager is in addition to the
existing appointive offices of the city clerk, city attorney, chief of police,
municipal judge, fire chief, city manager, city engineer, public works director
and city sexton. (Ord. 500, 3-24-1998)
1-12-2: QUALIFICATIONS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Qualifications: The assistant city manager shall be chosen by the mayor
and city council on the basis of experience and qualifications to act as the
assistant city manager. At the time of the appointment, the assistant city
manager need not be a resident of the city and may reside outside the city
while in office with the approval of the city council.
   B.   Duties: The assistant city manager shall perform such duties as the
city council or city manager may designate from time to time, including, but
not limited to, the following duties:
      1.   Perform complex supervisory, administrative and professional work in
planning, organizing, directing and supervising the public works department,
including environmental, street, traffic control, storm water facilities
maintenance, parks, golf, recreation/latchkey, cemetery, swimming pool,
landfill and fleet maintenance.
      2.   Perform supervisory and administrative work in connection with
airport maintenance, including runways, taxiways and airport terminal and other
public works projects and programs.
      3.   Act as city manager during the absence of the city manager.
      4.   Provide leadership and direction in the development of short and
long range plans.
      5.   Gather, interpret and coordinate operations activities of the city
with other departments and agencies as needed.
      6.   Assure that assigned areas of responsibility are performed within
budget, including performing cost control functions; monitoring revenues and
expenditures in assigned area to assure sound fiscal control; preparing annual
budget requests and assuring effective and efficient use of budgeted funds,
personnel, materials, facilities and time. (Ord. 500, 3-24-1998)
1-12-3: TERM OF OFFICE AND METHOD OF REMOVAL:
The city council shall appoint the assistant city manager for an indefinite
term or definite term to serve at the pleasure of the city council. The
assistant city manager may be removed from office at the discretion of the
council with or without cause by a majority vote of the members of the city
council, with the mayor having a vote. In removing the assistant city manager,
the city council shall comply with all applicable state and city laws and
ordinances. (Ord. 500, 3-24-1998)
1-12-4: SALARY:
The salary of the assistant city manager shall be fixed by the city council.
(Ord. 500, 3-24-1998)
CHAPTER 13
FINGERPRINT SUBMISSION
SECTION:
1-13-1: Title
1-13-2: Investigations Required
1-13-3: National Background Check Authorized
1-13-4: Enabling State Law
1-13-5: Sets Of Prints
1-13-6: Transmission Of Prints
1-13-7: Private And Public Entity Investigations
1-13-8: Fitness Determinations
1-13-9: Subject Copy
1-13-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as FINGERPRINT SUBMISSION CODE.
(Ord. 692, 3-11-2008)
1-13-2: INVESTIGATIONS REQUIRED:
The city council shall set forth by its policies in its employee handbook and/
or by separate resolution the positions of employment which require employment
background investigations that include a fingerprint based background
investigation. As to such positions, the fingerprint based background
investigation is a mandatory portion of the background investigation. The
council may further set forth in the appropriate portion of this code or by
resolution any other nonemployment required fingerprint based background
investigation requirements as may be permissible under applicable law. Without
limitation, specific categories for federal fingerprint based investigations
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010(1)(a) include brothel licensing
and armed security licensing. Wherever investigation requirements are found
they are deemed to be mandatory unless specifically waived by the council or,
if so authorized, the city manager. (Ord. 697, 6-24-2008)
1-13-3: NATIONAL BACKGROUND CHECK AUTHORIZED:
In those instances of required fingerprint based investigations authorized by
this chapter, a national criminal fingerprint based background check by the
federal bureau of investigation (FBI) is authorized hereby. In addition, the
subject of the fingerprint based check shall comply with any authorization or
release required by the FBI in furtherance of any continued application for
employment with the city or other ground for such investigation. (Ord. 692, 3-
11-2008)
1-13-4: ENABLING STATE LAW:
Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010(1)(a) authorizes the city of Elko to request
and receive from the federal bureau of investigation information on the
background and personal history of any person with whom it intends to enter a
relationship of employment, a contract for personal services or as may be
required by local government law or regulation. (Ord. 697, 6-24-2008)
1-13-5: SETS OF PRINTS:
An applicant, employee, volunteer or other person seeking to engage in an
activity or status requiring a fingerprint based background investigation by
any city code or resolution of the city council shall submit, if required, two
(2) sets of his/her fingerprints taken by the Elko police department or the
Elko County sheriff's department to be delivered to the requesting officer of
the city or the Elko police department. (Ord. 692, 3-11-2008; amd. Ord. 697, 6-
24-2008)
1-13-6: TRANSMISSION OF PRINTS:
Upon receipt of the fingerprints and the appropriate fees, the police
department will transmit both sets of fingerprints and appropriate fees to the
department of public safety of the state of Nevada. The department of public
safety of the state of Nevada will compare the subject's fingerprints against
its criminal file for disqualifying conduct and, if necessary, submit the
fingerprints to the federal bureau of investigation for a comparison with
nationwide records. The results of the federal bureau of investigation check
will be returned to the department of public safety of the state of Nevada,
which will disseminate the state and national results to the police department
which shall then disseminate it to the city. (Ord. 692, 3-11-2008; amd. Ord.
697, 6-24-2008)
1-13-7: PRIVATE AND PUBLIC ENTITY INVESTIGATIONS:
If an employer or organization is a private entity and this code or the city
council permits or requires the police department determinations, the police
department will render a fitness determination based upon the results of the
criminal background check and communicate its fitness determination to such
private employer or organization. If an employer or organization is a public
entity, the police department will: a) render a fitness determination based
upon the results of the criminal background check and communicate its fitness
determination to such public entity or b) disseminate the results of the
criminal background check to the proper city department or entity for a fitness
determination. (Ord. 692, 3-11-2008; amd. Ord. 697, 6-24-2008)
1-13-8: FITNESS DETERMINATIONS:
In rendering a fitness determination, the police department or appropriate city
department will decide whether the record subject has been convicted of: a) a
crime which bears upon his/her ability or fitness to serve in that capacity; b)
any felony or misdemeanor which involved force or the threat of force,
controlled substances, or was a sex related offense; or c) enumerated
disqualifiers. (Ord. 692, 3-11-2008; amd. Ord. 697, 6-24-2008)
1-13-9: SUBJECT COPY:
A record investigation subject may request and receive a copy of his/her
criminal history record information from the police department or appropriate
city department. Should the record subject seek to amend or correct his/her
record, he/she must contact the department of public safety for a Nevada state
record or the federal bureau of investigation for records from other
jurisdictions maintained in its file. (Ord. 692, 3-11-2008; amd. Ord. 697, 6-
24-2008)
CHAPTER 14
WHISTLE BLOWER PROTECTION
SECTION:
1-14-1: Definitions
1-14-2: Appointment And Authority Of Hearing Officer
1-14-3: Written Appeals
1-14-4: Procedures For Conduct Of Hearing On Written Appeal
1-14-5: Prohibitions And Applications
1-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings:
   IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION: Any action taken by a city of Elko officer or
employee in the performance of his official duties, whether or not the action
is within the scope of his employment, which is:
   A.   In violation of any city, state law or regulation;
   B.   If the officer or employee is a local governmental officer or employee,
in violation of an ordinance of the local government;
   C.   An abuse of authority;
   D.   Of substantial and specific danger to the public health or safety; or
   E.   A gross waste of public money.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT: City of Elko.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL EMPLOYEE: Any person who performs public duties under the
direction and control of the local governmental officer for compensation paid
by or through the local government.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL OFFICER: A person elected or appointed to a position with
the local government that involves the exercise of a local governmental power,
trust or duty, including:
   A.   Actions taken in an official capacity which involve a substantial and
material exercise of administrative discretion in the formulation of local
governmental policy;
   B.   The expenditure of money of a local government; and
   C.   The enforcement of laws and regulations of the state or a local
government.
   REPRISAL OR RETALIATORY ACTION: Includes, but is not limited to:
   A.   The denial of adequate personnel to perform duties;
   B.   Frequent replacement of members of the staff;
   C.   Frequent and undesirable change in the location of an office;
   D.   The refusal to assign meaningful work;
   E.   The wrongful issuance of letters of reprimand or evaluations of poor
performance;
   F.   A wrongful demotion;
   G.   A wrongful reduction in pay;
   H.   The wrongful denial of a promotion;
   I.   A wrongful suspension;
   J.   A wrongful dismissal;
   K.   A wrongful transfer; or
   L.   Frequent changes in working hours or workdays. (Ord. 706, 5-26-2009)
1-14-2: APPOINTMENT AND AUTHORITY OF HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   The city council will periodically appoint a hearing officer or a panel
of hearing officers from recommendations made by the city manager.
   B.   If the hearing officer determines that the action taken was a reprisal
or retaliatory action, the hearing officer may issue an order directing the
proper person to desist and refrain from engaging in such action. (Ord. 706, 5-
26-2009)
1-14-3: WRITTEN APPEALS:
   A.   A local government officer or employee who claims a reprisal or
retaliatory action was taken against him for disclosing information concerning
improper governmental action may file a written appeal pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 281 with the city clerk. The appeal must be:
      1.   Filed within sixty (60) calendar days after the date the alleged
reprisal or retaliatory action took place;
      2.   Filed within two (2) years of the disclosure of improper
governmental action; and
      3.   Submitted on a form provided by the city clerk.
   B.   The hearing officer may reject a form that is incomplete or otherwise
deficient as insufficient to commence the appeal. (Ord. 706, 5-26-2009)
1-14-4: PROCEDURES FOR CONDUCT OF HEARING ON WRITTEN APPEAL:
   A.   The provisions of this section govern the procedure for conducting a
hearing for a written appeal filed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter
281 and this chapter.
   B.   A party may appear in person and may be represented by an attorney or
another person of his choice, if the party chooses not to represent himself.
   C.   All testimony must be under oath administered by the hearing officer.
   D.   The appeal must be heard in the following manner:
      1.   The opening statement for the officer or employee.
      2.   The opening statement for the employer, unless reserved.
      3.   Presentation of the officer's or employee's case, followed by cross
examination. The city officer or employee must establish that:
         a.   He was an officer or employee on the date of the alleged reprisal
or retaliatory action;
         b.   He disclosed information concerning improper governmental action;
and
         c.   The alleged reprisal or retaliatory action was taken against him
within two (2) years after the date he disclosed the information concerning
improper governmental action.
         d.   If the officer or employee establishes the facts set forth in
subsections D3a, D3b and D3c of this section, presentation of the employer's
case, followed by cross examination, to establish that the employer did not
engage in the alleged reprisal or retaliatory action or that the action was
taken for a legitimate business purpose and was not the result of the
disclosure of information concerning improper governmental action by the
officer or employee.
         e.   If the employer establishes a legitimate business purpose for the
alleged reprisal or retaliatory action, the officer or employee may introduce
evidence, followed by cross examination, to demonstrate that the stated
business purpose is a pretext for the reprisal or retaliatory action.
      4.   The parties may respectively offer rebutting testimony only, unless
the hearing officer permits additional evidence upon the original cause.
      5.   The closing argument for the city officer or employee.
      6.   The closing argument for the employer.
      7.   Submission of the appeal for a decision.
   E.   The hearing officer shall convene the hearing at the time and place
specified for the purpose of hearing the appeal.
   F.   Written notice of the time and place of the hearing must be given to
the parties at least ten (10) days in advance. The notice must contain the
information required for a party to request reasonable accommodation.
   G.   The hearing officer shall provide reasonable accommodation to a party
with a disability who requests such accommodation within the time sufficient to
make the accommodation.
   H.   Hearings may be continued beyond the period originally scheduled or
recessed until a future date which is agreeable to the hearing officer and the
parties if good cause is shown.
   I.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection J of this section, all
hearings on appeals must be open to the public.
   J.   On the motion of either party, the hearing officer shall exclude from
the hearing room witnesses in the matter not at the time under examination
except the parties to the proceeding. No hearing may be closed to the public
except on motion of either party for good cause shown.
   K.   A document or piece of physical evidence sought to be introduced during
the hearing must first be identified for the record and the hearing officer may
request the production of such records and the appearance of such persons as he
requires.
   L.   The hearing officer shall determine the evidence upon the charges and
specifications as set forth by the appeal document only, and shall not consider
any additional evidence beyond the scope of the charges.
   M.   An employer's or employee's past performance by way of an act or a
failure to act may be shown by competent evidence.
   N.   All testimony and exhibits offered at the hearing must be relevant and
bear upon the matter in contention. Any testimony or exhibits which are
considered by the hearing officer as not meeting this criterion may properly be
excluded. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply and the hearing officer has
full discretion to admit or preclude evidence.
   O.   The hearing officer shall also consider the objection of either side to
the introduction of evidence. Competence and relevance must be the primary test
in ruling on objections.
   P.   Decision must be based on evidence presented. The hearing officer shall
be guided in his decision by the weight of the evidence as it appears to him at
the hearing.
   Q.   Any letter, paper or object offered in evidence must be properly
authenticated. The representative for the opposing party is entitled to examine
the exhibit when it is offered. (Ord. 706, 5-26-2009)
1-14-5: PROHIBITIONS AND APPLICATIONS:
   A.   An officer or employee shall not directly or indirectly use or attempt
to use the officers or employees official authority or influence to intimidate,
threaten, coerce, command, influence or attempt to intimidate, threaten,
coerce, command or influence another city officer or employee or another local
governmental officer or employee, as applicable, in an effort to interfere with
or prevent the disclosure of information concerning improper governmental
action.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, use of "official authority or
influence" including taking, directing others to take, recommending, processing
or approving any personnel action such as an appointment, promotion, transfer,
assignment, reassignment, reinstatement, restoration, reemployment, evaluation
or other disciplinary action.
   C.   A city officer or employee shall not use these provisions to harass
another city officer or employee.
   D.   These provisions do not prohibit an officer or employee from initiating
proper disciplinary procedures against another city officer or employee or
another local governmental officer or employee, as applicable, who disclosed
untruthful information concerning improper governmental action.
   E.   These provisions are intended to be directory and preventive rather
than punitive, and do not abrogate or decrease the effect of any of the
provisions of state statutes or city code which define or prescribe punishments
with respect to the conduct of officers or employees. (Ord. 706, 5-26-2009)
CHAPTER 15
COURT OF RECORD
SECTION:
1-15-1: Court Of Record Designated
1-15-2: Practice And Proceedings
1-15-1: COURT OF RECORD DESIGNATED:
The municipal court of the city of Elko, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
5.010, is hereby designated as a court of record and shall comply with the laws
of the state of Nevada pertaining to such designation. (Ord. 719, 7-27-2010)
1-15-2: PRACTICE AND PROCEEDINGS:
The practice and proceedings in the municipal court, including appellate
practice and proceedings, must conform, as nearly as practicable, to the
practice and proceedings of justice courts in similar cases, except as
expressly provided for by law. The municipal court must be treated and
considered as a justice court whenever the proceedings thereof are called into
question. (Ord. 719, 7-27-2010)
CHAPTER 16
ENFORCEMENT CODE
1-16-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: This Chapter shall be known as the ENFORCEMENT CODE OF THE CITY
OF ELKO, may be cited as such, and will be referred to herein as the
"Enforcement Code."
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to establish the scope of
authority and requirements applicable to the enforcement of the Elko Municipal
Code by designated Enforcement Officials in accordance with NRS 171.17751 and
NRS 268.019. (Ord. 903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall be construed to
have the following meanings:
ABATE: To correct, mitigate, remedy or remove a violation of the Code.
BUSINESS DAY: Any day in which normal business operations of the City are
conducted.
CALENDAR DAY: Each day of the calendar. If a deadline falls on a day when City
offices are not open for business, then the deadline runs until the next day
the offices are open.
CITATION: A written directive, issued by an Enforcement Official pursuant to
NRS Chapter 171 and this Chapter, requiring that a person appear in court and
answer a misdemeanor charge or, in the alternative, to pay a civil liability to
the City.
CITY: The City of Elko, Nevada.
CODE: The Elko Municipal Code, not including those titles and chapters exempted
by Section 1-16-4(B), unless otherwise specifically stated in this Chapter.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: A City official specifically charged with the
enforcement of the Code pursuant to NRS 171.17751 and this Chapter. For
purposes of NRS 171.17751(5)(a), the Code Enforcement Officer's field of work
shall include, without limitation, the enforcement of each provision of the
Code the violation of which constitutes a misdemeanor, unless otherwise
excluded pursuant to this Chapter. The Code Enforcement Officer may be
designated to enforce any provision of the Code by resolution of the City
Council, to include provisions excluded pursuant to this Chapter.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: The Code Enforcement Officer and, if so designated by
subsequent ordinance or resolution of the City Council, the following persons,
each of whom has the authority to prepare, sign and serve Citations and take
other enforcement actions pursuant to NRS 171.17751 and this Chapter:
   A.   The Fire Chief or any Fire Department employees designated by the Fire
Chief;
   B.   The Building Official;
   C.   Any solid waste management inspector;
   D.   Any housing inspector;
   E.   Any licensing inspector;
   F.   Any zoning enforcement officer;
   G.   Any parking enforcement officer; and
   H.   Any animal control officer.
NRS: The Nevada Revised Statutes, as may be amended.
RESPONDENT: A person or persons to whom a Verbal or Written Warning, Citation,
Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation, or Abatement Order has been issued
pursuant to this Chapter.
SERVICE: Notice tendered in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
Unless otherwise stated in this Chapter, service shall be made in accordance
with Section 1-16-16.
STRUCTURE: Something built or constructed that may be placed upon or affixed to
real property for a purpose, such as storage or protection from the elements.
The term "structure" includes, without limitation, a building, a non-
permanentized mobile home or an unattached shed placed on skids.
VIOLATION: A failure to comply with a mandate or requirement contained in the
Code. (Ord. 903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-3: AUTHORITY OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
   A.   Enforcement Officials; Authority: An Enforcement Official is hereby
authorized to enforce the herein-specified parts of the Code within the
Enforcement Official's assigned areas of responsibility. Enforcement Officials
may only enforce Code provisions within the field of enforcement in which they
work, as set forth herein or as determined by ordinance or resolution of the
City Council. Within the Enforcement Official's scope of authority, and subject
to any specific provisions in the Code, an Enforcement Official shall have the
power to issue and serve citations in accordance with NRS 171.17751, and to
issue and serve notices and carry out the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Violations, Generally: Except as otherwise provided in this Section
1-16-3, any person who violates or assists in a violation of the Code; or in
the violation of a permit or license issued pursuant to the Code; or in the
violation of an order issued by an Enforcement Official, the City Manager, or
the City Council pursuant to the provisions of the Code made enforceable under
this Chapter; or any person who knowingly makes or submits a false statement,
document, or material omission in connection with an application or procedure
required by the Code and made enforceable under this Chapter, shall be in
violation of this Chapter.
   C.   Right Of Entry: Without limitation, the Enforcement Official may enter
buildings, structures or other property with the building official in the
manner set forth in Elko City Code Section
2-1-8(C)(Right of Entry) for the purpose of investigating violations of this
Chapter.
   D.   Entry; Administrative Search Warrants: In the event the Enforcement
Official has a reasonable suspicion that physical conditions exist which do not
comply with minimum standards prescribed in the Code on property not accessible
to the public, the Enforcement Official may seek permission to enter upon and
inspect the property from the property owner or a person with the right to
occupy the property. If entry to the property is refused, or if there is a
compelling reason to obtain immediate entry to the property before permission
can reasonably be given, the Enforcement Official may apply to a magistrate for
an administrative search warrant for the purpose of investigating the suspected
violation; provided, the administrative search warrant shall be based on a
declaration or affidavit signed by the Enforcement Official under oath
identifying specific evidence of a violation and stating that upon the
reasonable belief of the Enforcement Official a violation of this Chapter has
been or is being committed. An administrative search warrant shall only be
issued by a magistrate upon a showing of administrative probable cause.
   E.   No Restriction On Authority: Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed
as limiting the authority of a peace officer or the Elko Police Department, nor
the authority of other City officials and employees established under other
chapters of the Elko Municipal Code, except as otherwise provided in a
subsequent ordinance or resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-4: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   Conflicting Provisions: In cases where two (2) or more provisions of
this Chapter conflict, the most stringent or restrictive shall prevail.
   B.   Excluded Titles: Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein,
unless otherwise designated by subsequent ordinance or resolution of the City
Council, the provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to the following Elko
City Code titles, which titles and chapters are hereby excluded from the
definition of the term "Code" as used in this Chapter:
      1.   Title 2 (Building Regulations);
      2.   Title 4 (Business Regulations);
      3.   Title 5 (Police Regulations) (except Chapter 1 and 3, which shall be
subject to this Chapter);
      4.   Title 6 (Fire Regulations);
      5.   Title 7 (Traffic) (except Chapter 3, which shall be subject to this
Chapter); and
      6.   Title 9 (Health and Sanitation). (Ord. 903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Measures, Generally: Without limitation, any one or
combination of the following measures may be used to enforce the provisions of
this Chapter:
      1.   Verbal or Written Warnings;
      2.   Stop Work Orders;
      3.   Notices of Violation;
      4.   Abatement Orders;
      5.   Criminal Penalties, Civil Liability and Injunctive Relief; and
      6.   Liens.
      The enforcement measures set forth in this Chapter may be used singly or
in combination, except as otherwise provided herein.
   B.   Verbal And Written Warnings:
      1.   Basis Of Issuance, Time For Compliance And Effect: Whenever the
Enforcement Official observes a violation of the Code or receives a complaint
stating that a violation of the Code exists, if the violation does not present
an immediate or imminent threat to public health, safety, or welfare, the
Enforcement Official may issue to the Respondent a Verbal or Written Warning
identifying the violation and requesting abatement of the violation within a
specified period of time not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days from the date
the Verbal or Written Warning was issued. A Verbal or Written Warning is not
enforceable and has no punitive effect, but may lead to a Citation, Stop Work
Order, Notice of Violation or Abatement Order.
      2.   Extensions: Upon the request of the Respondent and upon a showing of
good cause, the Enforcement Official may grant the Respondent additional time
to satisfy the request(s) for abatement stated in a Verbal or Written Warning,
so long as the Respondent has made reasonable progress toward abating the
violation or if the Respondent demonstrates that conditions beyond the
Respondent's reasonable control prevent the abatement of the violation(s);
provided, no extension shall be granted by the Enforcement Official unless the
Respondent provides the Enforcement Official with a written plan of action with
dates by which the alleged violation(s) will be abated.
      3.   Contents Of Verbal Warning: A Verbal Warning issued by an
Enforcement Official pursuant to this Chapter need only identify the alleged
violation(s) and otherwise satisfy the requirements of Subsection 1-166-5(B)
(1).
      4.   Contents Of Written Warning: A Written Warning shall contain the
following information and statements:
         a.   The name of the Respondent;
         b.   The location of the activity resulting in the alleged violation;
         c.   A description of the nature of the alleged violation(s);
         d.   A citation to the applicable Code section(s);
         e.   A description of the correction, mitigation and/or remedial
action(s) needed to abate the alleged violation(s);
         f.   A calendar date by which the alleged violation(s) must be abated;
         g.   A statement that a written request for an extension of time to
abate the violation may be submitted to the Enforcement Official subject to the
requirements of this Section;
         h.   A statement that a Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation and/or
Abatement Order will be issued if the violation is not abated as provided in
the Written Warning;
         i.   A statement that the failure of the Respondent to abate the
violation may ultimately result in criminal penalties, civil liability and/or
injunctive relief; and
         j   The Enforcement Official's contact information.
   C.   Stop Work Orders:
      1.   Grounds For Issuance: An Enforcement Official may issue a Stop Work
Order to:
         a.   Any person who is observed by the Enforcement Official committing
an ongoing violation of this Chapter that creates an unsafe condition;
         b.   Any person who is observed by the Enforcement Official committing
an act that reasonably appears to be causing irreparable harm or damage, or
creating an imminent risk of irreparable harm or damage, to persons or
property; or
         c.   Any person who is observed by the Enforcement Official conducting
an activity on or engaged in a use of land without a permit or approval
required by the Code.
      2.   Effect Of Issuance: All acts, activities and/or uses of land
described in the Stop Work Order must cease immediately upon issuance and
service upon the Respondent.
      3.   Contents Of Stop Work Order: The Stop Work Order shall contain the
following information and statements:
         a.   The name of the Respondent;
         b.   The location where the violation is occurring;
         c.   A description of the violation;
         d.   A citation to the applicable Code section(s);
         e.   The action(s) needed to abate the violation;
         f.   A calendar date by which the violation must be abated;
         g.   A statement that a Notice of Violation and/or Abatement Order
will be issued if the violation is not abated as provided in the Stop Work
Order;
         h.   A statement that the failure of the Respondent to abate the
violation may result in criminal penalties, civil liability and/or injunctive
relief; and
         i.   The Enforcement Official's contact information; and
         j.   A description of the Respondent's right to an administrative
hearing and appeal rights or, alternatively, a citation to the provisions of
this Chapter setting forth the Respondent's right to an administrative hearing
and appeal rights.
      4.   Service: The Stop Work Order shall be served by certified mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to the Respondent and, if different, to the
owner of the property upon which the violation has been observed at the address
shown in the records of the Elko County Assessor. In addition to service in
accordance with the preceding sentence, a Stop Work Order may be personally
served on the Respondent if it is reasonably practicable to do so.
      5.   Effective Upon Service: The Stop Work Order shall be effective upon
personal service or upon receipt by certified mail, return receipt requested,
whichever is earlier. Each person who serves a Stop Work Order, regardless of
the method of service, shall prepare an affidavit or declaration specifying the
date, time, and manner of service.
      6.   Liability, Fines And Penalties: A Respondent who fails to comply
with a Stop Work Order shall be subject to criminal penalties, civil liability
and/or injunctive relief as set forth in Section
1-16-9 of this Chapter.
      7.   Request For Administrative Hearing: A Respondent who has been served
with a Stop Work Order may request an administrative hearing before the City
Manager in accordance with Section
1-16-12 of this Chapter.
      8.   Stop Work Order To Remain In Effect: A Stop Work Order shall remain
in effect pending an administrative hearing and any subsequent appeal or
judicial review, unless rescinded pursuant to Section
1-16-5(D) or unless otherwise ordered by the City Manager during the
administrative hearing process, the City Council during the appeal process, or
a court of competent jurisdiction during judicial review.
      9.   Rescission Of Stop Work Order: A Stop Work Order may be rescinded
for good cause at any time by either the issuing Enforcement Official or the
City Manager.
   D.   Notices Of Violation:
      1.   Issuance Of Notice Of Violation By The Enforcement Official:
Whenever the Enforcement Official observes a violation, the Enforcement
Official may issue a Notice of Violation to the Respondent; the Notice of
Violation may impose a criminal penalty or civil liability in accordance with
Section
1-16-9.
      2.   Contents Of The Notice Of Violation: The Notice of Violation shall
contain the following information and statements:
         a.   The name of the Respondent;
         b.   The location where the violation occurred;
         c.   A description of the nature of the violation;
         d.   A citation to the applicable Code section(s);
         e.   If applicable, the corrective, mitigating and/or remedial action
(s) needed to abate the violation;
         f.   The date(s) when the Enforcement Official observed the violation;
         g.   A statement of the criminal penalty or civil liability being
imposed upon the Respondent and the reasons therefor;
         h.   A statement that the failure of the Respondent to pay the
criminal penalty or civil liability within thirty (30) calendar days may result
in referral to the City Attorney for legal action;
         i.   The Enforcement Official's signature and contact information; and
         j.   A description of the Respondent's right to an administrative
hearing and appeal rights or, alternatively, a citation to the provisions of
this Chapter setting forth the Respondent's right to an administrative hearing
and appeal rights.
      3.   Service: The Notice of Violation shall be served by certified mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to the Respondent. In addition to service
in accordance with the preceding sentence, a Notice of Violation may be
personally served on the Respondent if it is reasonably practicable to do so.
      4.   Effective Upon Service: The Notice of Violation shall be effective
upon personal service or upon receipt by certified mail, return receipt
requested, whichever is earlier. Each person who serves a Notice of Violation,
regardless of the method of service, shall prepare a sworn affidavit specifying
the date, time, and method of service.
      5.   Criminal Penalties And Civil Liability: Neither criminal penalties
nor civil liability shall be imposed for a first Notice of Violation or a
Notice of Violation issued to a Respondent more than twelve (12) months after
the prior Notice of Violation; provided, a Respondent may be subject to an
administrative fine or penalty pursuant to Section
1-16-9 for a first Notice of Violation or a Notice of Violation issued more
than twelve (12) months after the prior Notice of Violation. A second or
subsequent Notice of Violation issued to a Respondent within twelve (12) months
of a prior Notice of Violation shall be subject to all penalties and/or
liabilities set forth in Section
1-16-9.
      6.   Request For Administrative Hearing: A Respondent who has been served
with a Notice of Violation may request an administrative hearing before the
City Manager in accordance with Section
1-16-12.
      7.   Stay Of Enforcement: Enforcement of a Notice of Violation shall be
stayed during the pendency of an administrative hearing, subsequent appeal or
judicial review.
      8.   Warnings And Abatement Orders: A Verbal or Written Warning may
precede, but is not requisite to, a Notice of Violation. A Notice of Violation
may include an Abatement Order.
   E.   Abatement Orders:
      1.   Issuance Of Abatement Order By Enforcement Official: If a violation
presents an immediate or imminent risk of harm to human health or safety, or to
property, including an immediate or imminent risk of harm to the environment,
the Enforcement Official may issue an Abatement Order directing the Respondent
to abate the condition causing the violation. An Abatement Order may be
included in or issued in conjunction with a Notice of Violation.
      2.   Contents Of Abatement Order: The Abatement Order shall contain the
following information and statements:
         a.   The name the Respondent and any other person who is believed to
be responsible for causing or permitting the violation;
         b.   The location of the violation;
         c.   A description of the nature of the violation;
         d.   A citation to the applicable Code section(s);
         e.   A statement that the violation requires abatement within a
specified period of time due to an immediate or imminent risk of harm to human
health and safety, or to property, including a risk of immediate or imminent
harm to the environment, if applicable;
         f.   A description of the corrective actions needed to abate the
condition causing the violation;
         g.   A date no more than fifteen (15) calendar days from the date on
which the Abatement Order is served by which the Respondent must abate the
condition causing the violation;
         h.   The following statement:
            Failure to comply with this Abatement Order may result in civil
liability, criminal penalties, injunctive relief, and/or abatement of the
violation by the City. In the event the City abates the condition causing the
violation specified in the Abatement Order, you may be required to pay
additional costs and, if applicable, a lien may be placed upon the property.
            You have the right to request an administrative hearing regarding
the Abatement Order with the City Manager no later than the following date:
________________. Procedures for seeking an administrative hearing regarding
the Abatement Order are contained in Section
1-16-12 of the Elko City Code.
         i.   The name, telephone number, and email address of the Enforcement
Official issuing the Abatement Order.
      3.   Service: The Abatement Order shall be served by certified mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to the Respondent and, if different, to the
owner of the property upon which the violation has been observed at the address
shown in the records of the Elko County Assessor. In addition to service in
accordance with the preceding sentence, an Abatement Order may be personally
served on the Respondent.
      4.   Effective Upon Service: The Abatement Order shall be effective upon
personal service or upon receipt by certified mail, return receipt requested,
whichever is earlier. Each person who serves an Abatement Order, regardless of
the method of service, shall prepare a sworn affidavit or declaration
specifying the date, time, and method of service.
      5.   Penalties For Noncompliance: A Respondent who fails to abate the
condition causing the violation by the deadline stated in the Abatement Order
shall be subject to liabilities and penalties as set forth in Sections
1-16-9.
      6.   Request For Administrative Hearing: A Respondent who has been served
with an Abatement Order may request an administrative hearing before the City
Manager in accordance with Section
1-16-12.
      7.   Stay Of Enforcement: Enforcement of an Abatement Order shall be
stayed during the pendency of an administrative hearing, subsequent appeal or
judicial review.
      8.   Rescission Of Abatement Order: An Abatement Order may be rescinded
for good cause at any time by either the issuing Enforcement Official or the
City Manager.
      9.   Recordation Of Abatement Order And/Or Notice Of Violation:
         a.   Recordation; Notice Of Intent To Record: In the event a violation
remains unabated on real property after the deadline stated in the Abatement
Order, the Enforcement Official may record the Abatement Order in the official
record of the Elko County Recorder; provided, before recording the Abatement
Order, the Enforcement Official shall serve the Respondent with a Notice of
Intent to Record stating that an Abatement Order will be recorded if the
violation is not abated within ten (10) business days from the date the Notice
of Intent to Record is served. In the event an Abatement Order is included in a
Notice of Violation, both the Notice of Violation and the included Abatement
Order shall be recorded.
         b.   The Notice of Intent to Record shall include the following
statements, each of which are hereby requirements and/or conditions of this
Section:
            (1)   That the Respondent may, within ten (10) business days after
the date the notice is served, request an administrative hearing pursuant to
Section
1-16-12; and
            (2)   That the Respondent will be liable for the fees and costs of
expungement or removal of the Abatement Order and, if applicable, the Notice of
Violation from the public record.
            c.   The failure of any Respondent named in an Abatement Order to
file a request for an administrative hearing before the City Manager in
accordance with the requirements of Section
1-16-12 shall constitute a waiver of the right to such a hearing and shall not
affect the validity of the Abatement Order.
      10.   Abatement By City: Should the Respondent fail to abate the
violation specified in the Abatement Order by the deadline stated therein, the
work required to abate the violation may be performed by the City or a
designated governmental agency or contractor and the expense thereof shall be
charged to the Respondent. In the event entry upon property to perform work in
accordance with this Section is refused or cannot be obtained after reasonable
efforts by the City, the Enforcement Official is hereby authorized to seek
appropriate injunctive and other relief from a court of competent jurisdiction
to the extent needed to enter upon the property to abate the violation.
   F.   Notices Of Compliance:
      1.   Request For Notice Of Compliance: In the event a violation described
in a Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation, or Abatement Order has been
corrected, the Respondent may submit a Request for Notice of Compliance to the
Enforcement Official on a form provided by the City.
      2.   Investigation By Enforcement Official: Upon receipt of a Request for
Notice of Compliance, the Enforcement Official shall investigate and determine
whether the violation has been abated. The foregoing investigation may include
re-inspection of the property upon which the violation occurred.
      3.   Issuance Of Notice Of Compliance: The Enforcement Official shall
issue a Notice of Compliance to the Respondent if the Enforcement Official
determines that:
         a.   All violations set forth in the Stop Work Order, Notice of
Violation or Abatement Order have been corrected;
         b.   If required to correct the violation, all necessary final permits
and licenses were issued;
         c.   All penalties, liabilities and other amounts required to be paid
under this Chapter have been paid; and
         d.   The Respondent has fully complied with and satisfied all
conditions and requirements imposed by the City Manager, City Council or court,
as appropriate, in relation to the violation.
      4.   Recordation Of Notice Of Compliance: In the event an Abatement Order
or Notice of Violation has been recorded, the Enforcement Official shall record
or cause to be recorded the Notice of Compliance in the official records of
Elko County. Recordation of the Notice of Compliance shall automatically
terminate the recorded Abatement Order and/or Notice of Violation.
      5.   Denial Of Request For Notice Of Compliance: If the Enforcement
Official denies a Request for Notice of Compliance, the Enforcement Official
shall serve upon the Respondent a written explanation setting forth the reasons
for the denial. The written explanation shall be served by certified mail,
return receipt requested.
      6.   Request For Administrative Hearing: A Respondent who has been denied
a Request for Notice of Compliance may request an administrative hearing before
the City Manager in accordance with Section
1-16-12. (Ord. 903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-6: INDEPENDENT ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY:
The authority of the City to enforce the provisions of this Chapter is
independent of and in addition to the authority of City officials to enforce
all other provisions of the Elko City Code. (Ord. 903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-7: CITATIONS:
   A.   Issuance By Enforcement Official: The Enforcement Official may, in
accordance with NRS 171.17751, prepare, sign and serve a Citation on a
Respondent who violates the Code.
   B.   Form And Content: A Citation issued pursuant to this section shall be
in the form of a complaint issued in the name of "The City of Elko," shall
state whether the City seeks to impose a criminal penalty or civil liability
for the violation, and shall contain the following:
      1.   A notice to appear in court;
      2.   The name and address of the Respondent;
      3.   The state registration number of the Respondent's vehicle, if any;
      4.   The offense charged, including a brief description of the offense
and the corresponding Code citation;
      5.   The time when and place where the person is required to appear in
court;
      6.   The amount of the civil penalty, if any;
      7.   The factors considered in determining the civil penalty, if
applicable; and
      8.   Such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
      The Enforcement Official must sign the Citation. A Citation may be
prepared and signed manually or electronically.
   C.   Time To Appear: The time specified in the notice to appear in the
Citation must be at least five (5) business days after the violation unless the
person charged with the violation demands an earlier hearing.
   D.   Place Of Appearance: The place specified in the notice to appear in the
Citation must be before a magistrate as designated pursuant to NRS 171.178 and
171.184.
   E.   Written Promise To Appear: The person charged with the violation may
give a written promise to appear in court by signing at least one copy of the
Citation prepared by the Enforcement Official, in which event the Enforcement
Official shall deliver a copy of the Citation to the person.
   F.   A person who violates a written promise to appear given to the
Enforcement Official shall be subject to the penalties set forth in NRS
171.17785, which provides in part that a warrant may issue upon a violation of
a written promise to appear. (Ord. 903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-8: ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS AND LIENS:
In the event the City or its contractor performs work upon property to correct
a violation, the City shall have a lien pursuant to NRS 108.222 on the property
upon which the work is performed. The lien shall be calculated, perfected and
enforced in accordance with NRS 108.221, et seq. (Mechanics' and Materialmen's
Liens). (Ord. 903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-9: CRIMINAL PENALTIES, CIVIL LIABILITY AND OTHER REMEDIES:
   A.   Criminal Penalties: Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, any
person who violates the Code shall be subject to the General Penalty provision
set forth in City Code Section
1-3-1. Each day that a violation is willfully permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. The imposition of any sentence or penalty shall
not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of this Chapter.
   B.   Civil Liability And Other Relief:
      1.   Civil Penalty In Lieu of Criminal Sanction: In the City's
discretion, a Respondent may be subject to civil liability to the City in an
amount not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) instead of a criminal
sanction for each violation of the Code, subject to the following schedule for
each violation constituting the same offense:
         a.   For the first violation more than thirty (30) calendar days after
the previous violation: not to exceed two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00);
         b.   For the second violation fifteen (15) or fewer calendar days
after the previous violation, not to exceed three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00); and
         c.   For the third or greater violation fifteen (15) or fewer calendar
days after the second violation, not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      Each day that a violation is willfully permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate violation subject to an additional civil penalty. The
payment of a civil penalty shall not exempt the offender from compliance with
the requirements of this Chapter.
      2.   Determination Of Civil Penalties; Accrual And Amount:
         a.   In determining the date when civil penalties start to accrue, the
Enforcement Official shall consider the date when the City first discovered the
violation as evidenced by the issuance of a Citation or any other written
notice or correspondence to the Respondent.
         b.   In determining the amount of civil penalties to be assessed on a
daily rate, the Enforcement Official shall consider the following factors:
            (1)   The duration of the violation.
            (2)   The frequency of recurrence of the violation.
            (3)   The seriousness of the violation.
            (4)   The history of the violation.
            (5)   The Respondent's conduct after issuance of a Verbal or
Written Warning, Citation, Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation, or Abatement
Order for the violation.
            (6)   The good faith effort by the Respondent to comply.
            (7)   The economic impact of the penalty on the Respondent.
            (8)   The impact of the violation upon the community.
            (9)   Any other factors that justice may require.
   C.   The City Manager shall have the authority, but not the obligation, to
establish a penalty schedule for the Enforcement Official to use as a guideline
in determining the amount of civil penalties in appropriate cases and to
establish procedures for the use of this penalty schedule.
   D.   The provisions of this Section
1-16-9 shall be subject to Section
1-16-5(D)(5)(Criminal Penalties and Civil Liability).
      1.   Civil Action For Failure To Abate Violation: Except as otherwise
provided in this Chapter, if a Respondent violates a Stop Work Order, or fails
to abate a violation by the date specified in a Notice of Violation or
Abatement Order, then the Enforcement Official shall submit the matter to the
City Attorney for possible legal action, in which event:
         a.   The City Attorney may file an action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to:
            (1)   Obtain the abatement of the violation;
            (2)   Obtain the closure of the property where the violation is
located or occurring;
            (3)   Obtain the repair, safeguarding or demolition of any building
or structure where the violation is located or occurring; and/or
            (4)   Obtain an order imposing civil liability and any other
appropriate legal or equitable relief against the Respondent and/or the owner
of the property where the violation is located or occurring.
         b.   A court of competent jurisdiction may enter any appropriate
orders necessary and appropriate for the enforcement of this Chapter.
   E.   Civil Liabilities And Criminal Penalties Due Within Thirty (30) Days:
All civil liabilities and criminal penalties imposed under this Chapter are due
and payable to the City within thirty (30) calendar days except as otherwise
specifically provided herein. (Ord. 903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-10: JUVENILES:
In the case of a juvenile violating any provision of the Code, the juvenile
court shall have jurisdiction over the juvenile for the purpose of imposing
sanctions in accordance with applicable provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes.
In addition to any punishment specified in this Section, the court may order
any violator of the Code to make restitution to the victim for damages or loss
caused directly or indirectly by the violator's offense in the amount or manner
determined by the court in accordance with Nevada law. Any restitution due as
the result of an act of a juvenile shall fall within the discretion of the
juvenile court. In no event shall the Enforcement Official issue a Citation,
Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation, or Abatement Order to a juvenile. (Ord.
903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-11: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT ORDERS:
   A.   Issuance By City Council: The City Council may issue an Emergency
Abatement Order consistent with the substantive requirements of Subsection 1-
16-5(E) (Abatement Orders) upon a determination that a violation of the Code
exists and that the public health or safety is in immediate or imminent danger
as a result. The Emergency Abatement Order may be issued at a regular or
special meeting of the City Council.
   B.   Special Meetings: A special meeting of the City Council may be held for
the purpose of considering an Emergency Abatement Order upon the request of the
City Manager or Enforcement Official.
   C.   Judicial Review: Any person who is aggrieved by the decision of the
City Council to issue an Emergency Abatement Order may appeal the decision to
the appropriate Court by filing a petition for judicial review within twenty-
five (25) calendar days from the date of the meeting at which the Emergency
Abatement Order is issued. The Emergency Abatement Order shall remain in effect
during judicial review unless and until otherwise ordered by the court.
   D.   Notice Of Decision: The City Clerk shall, within two (2) business days
following the issuance of an Emergency Abatement Order by the City Council,
send the decision to the Respondent and the owner of the property upon which
the violation exists by certified mail, return receipt requested. (Ord. 903, 7-
22-2025)
1-16-12: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   A.   Request For Administrative Hearing: Any Respondent who has been served
with a Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation or Abatement Order (to include an
Emergency Abatement Order), or whose Request for Notice of Compliance has been
denied, may request an administrative hearing before the City Manager by
submitting the request in writing to the Development Department within ten (10)
calendar days from the date the Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation, Abatement
Order, or denial of Request for Notice of Compliance was served, in which event
the administrative hearing will be conducted within thirty (30) calendar days
of receipt of the written appeal request by the Development Department.
   B.   Public Hearing: The administrative hearing shall be open to the public
and shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
section.
   C.   Evidence: At the administrative hearing, the City Manager shall
consider evidence on the following issues, without limitation:
      1.   Whether the alleged violations listed in the Stop Work Order, Notice
of Violation or Abatement Order exist or existed and whether they violate the
Code;
      2.   Whether the Respondent was afforded due process in accordance with
the applicable notification procedures and other requirements of this Chapter;
and
      3.   Whether the conditions listed in the Stop Work Order, Notice of
Violation or Abatement Order continue unabated.
   D   Hearing Procedures: The City Manager shall conduct an administrative
hearing pursuant to this Section subject to the following procedures and
requirements:
      1.   The Respondent shall first describe the decision being challenged,
state the grounds for requesting the administrative hearing and present a
summary of the Respondent's argument.
      2.   The Respondent may then testify, submit documents and/or call
witnesses in support of the Respondent's opposition to the Stop Work Order,
Notice of Violation, Abatement Order or denial of Request for Notice of
Compliance.
      3.   The City shall then state the grounds for the Stop Work Order,
Notice of Violation or Abatement Order.
      4.    The City may submit documents and/or call witnesses in support of
the Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation or Abatement Order.
      5.   The Respondent may then present a rebuttal argument, witnesses and/
or documents. The failure of the Respondent to provide argument, witnesses and/
or documents on rebuttal shall not be considered by the City Manager in
deciding whether to affirm, deny, condition, or modify the Stop Work Order,
Notice of Violation or Abatement Order, or approve the Request for Notice of
Compliance.
      6.   The Respondent and the City, respectively, may present closing
arguments.
      7.   Respondent and the City are entitled to be represented by counsel,
and present testimony, evidence and argument on all issues raised by the Stop
Work Order, Notice of Violation or Abatement Order, to include, where
appropriate, the grounds for the Request for Notice of Compliance.
      8.   The City Manager may, if it appears helpful to a clear understanding
of the issues, consider matters not raised at the administrative hearing.
      9.   All testimony by the Respondent and the parties' witnesses shall be
under oath.
      10.   The rules of evidence shall not apply at the administrative
hearing.
      11.   The City Manager may limit testimony or other proffered evidence
that is duplicative, unnecessarily argumentative, or not reasonably related to
the Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation, Abatement Order or Request for Notice
of Compliance.
   E.   Termination Of Administrative Hearing: The City Manager may terminate
the administrative hearing upon finding that sufficient testimony, documents,
and arguments have been presented to enable the City Manager to fully decide
whether to affirm, deny, condition, or modify the Stop Work Order, Notice of
Violation or Abatement Order, or to approve or deny the Request for Notice of
Compliance; provided, the City Manager shall first request from the Respondent
a summary of all remaining matters he or she intends to present at the
administrative hearing.
   F.   Decision By City Manager: At the conclusion of the administrative
hearing, the City Manager shall make a final decision to affirm, deny,
condition, or modify the Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation or Abatement
Order, or approve or deny the Request for Notice of Compliance, and shall
within thirty (30) calendar days thereafter file a Notice of Decision with the
City Clerk stating the decision. The City Clerk shall then promptly serve the
Notice of Decision upon the Respondent by certified mail, return receipt
request.
   G.   Enforcement: If an administrative hearing is held before the City
Manager as provided in this Chapter, then the Stop Work Order, Notice of
Violation or Abatement Order shall thereafter be enforced in accordance with
the City Manager's decision. If a request for an administrative hearing is not
filed in accordance with the requirements of this Section, the Enforcement
Official may thereafter proceed to enforce the Stop Work Order, Notice of
Violation or Abatement Order through any of the remedies provided in this
Chapter.
   H.   Duplicative Administrative Hearings Prohibited: A Respondent is not
entitled to an administrative hearing pursuant to this section if an
administrative hearing was previously held on the same matter and there has not
been a substantial change in the status of the violation. (Ord. 903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-13: APPEALS:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: Any Respondent aggrieved by a decision of the City
Manager at an administrative hearing conducted pursuant to Section 1-16-12 may
appeal the decision by filing a Notice of Appeal with the City Clerk within
thirty (30) calendar days of service of the Notice of Decision. The Notice of
Appeal shall contain the following information: the name of the Appellant/
Respondent, the address of the property to which the decision relates (if
applicable), the date on which the Appellant/Respondent was served with the
Notice of Decision, a summary of the decision being appealed and a statement of
the reason the decision is being appealed. The failure of the aggrieved person
to file a Notice of Appeal in the manner set forth in this section shall
constitute the waiver of the aggrieved Respondent's right to appeal.
   B.   Stay Of City Action: Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, the
filing of a Notice of Appeal shall not automatically stay an enforcement action
by the City pending the outcome of an appeal. Notwithstanding any other
provision contained in this Chapter, the City Manager may stay any enforcement
action of the City pending an appeal hearing before the City Council if the
City Manager determines that the alleged violation does not present an
immediate or imminent threat to public health or safety.
   C.   Investigation By City Council: Following the filing of a Notice of
Appeal, the City Council may, in its discretion, appoint a committee of the
City Council or an independent hearing officer to investigate any allegations
set forth in a Notice of Appeal, report findings of fact and make a
recommendation for disposition to the City Council.
   D.   Appeal Hearing Before City Council: The City Council shall conduct a
hearing on the appeal within forty-five (45) calendar days from the date the
Notice of Appeal is filed with the City Clerk. The appeal hearing shall be open
to the public and shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this Section.
   E.   Factors To Be Considered: The City Council shall consider evidence on
the following issues, without limitation, as appropriate:
      1.   Whether the conditions listed in the Order to Stop Work, Notice of
Violation, or Abatement Order exist or existed and whether they violate the
Code;
      2.   Whether the Enforcement Official afforded the Appellant/Respondent
due process by adhering to the notification procedures specified in this
Chapter;
      3.   Whether the conditions listed in the Order to Stop Work, Notice of
Violation, or Abatement Order continue unabated; and
      4.   In the case of the appeal of a denial of a Request for Notice of
Compliance, whether the basis for denying the Request for Notice of Compliance
was justified under the circumstances and whether the underlying violation
remains unabated.
   F.   Appeal Hearing Procedures: The procedures by which the City Council
shall conduct an appeal hearing pursuant to this section are as follows:
      1.   The Appellant/Respondent shall first describe the decision being
challenged, state the grounds for the appeal and present a summary of the
Appellant/Respondent's argument.
      2.   The Appellant/Respondent may then testify, submit documents and/or
call witnesses in support of the appeal.
      3.   The City shall then state the grounds for opposing the appeal.
      4.   The City may submit documents and/or call witnesses in opposition to
the appeal.
      5.   The Appellant/Respondent may then present a rebuttal argument,
witnesses and/or documents. The failure of an Appellant/Respondent to provide
argument, witnesses and/or documents on rebuttal shall not be considered by the
City Council in deciding the appeal.
      6.   The Appellant/Respondent and the City, respectively, may present
closing arguments.
      7.   Appellant/Respondent and the City are entitled to be represented by
counsel, and present testimony, evidence and argument on all issues raised on
appeal.
      8.   The City Council may, if it appears helpful to a clear understanding
of the issues, consider matters not raised at the hearing.
      9.   All testimony by the Appellant/Respondent and the parties' witnesses
shall be under oath.
      10.   The rules of evidence shall not apply.
      11.   The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem shall preside over the appeal hearing
and may limit testimony or other proffered evidence that is duplicative,
unnecessarily argumentative or not reasonably related to the matter being
appealed.
      12.   The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem may terminate the appeal hearing upon
finding that sufficient testimony, documents and arguments have been presented
to enable the City Council to fully deliberate and decide the appeal; provided,
the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem shall first request from the Appellant/Respondent a
summary of all remaining matters he or she intends to present at the hearing.
   G.   Decision by City Council: At the conclusion of the appeal hearing, the
City Council shall make a final decision that is consistent with the
requirements of this Chapter to affirm, reverse, condition or modify the
decision of the City Manager and shall within thirty (30) calendar days
thereafter file a Notice of Decision with the City Clerk stating the decision.
   H.   Judicial Review: Any person who has appealed a decision to the City
Council in accordance with this Section and is aggrieved by the decision of the
City Council may appeal that decision to the appropriate court by filing a
petition for judicial review within twenty-five (25) calendar days from the
date the City Council's Notice of Decision is filed with the City Clerk. (Ord.
903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-14: WITHHOLDING OF APPROVALS:
Unless the Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation or Abatement Order has been
stayed pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter, the City shall withhold
approval of an application submitted by a Respondent for a conditional use
permit, business license, or building permit pertaining to the property where
the violation occurred or is occurring, or the use thereof, until either (a)
the requirements of the Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation or Abatement Order
have been removed by a decision of the City Manager, City Council or a court of
competent jurisdiction; (b) a Notice of Compliance has been issued by the
Enforcement Official; or (c) the Stop Work Order, Notice of Violation or
Abatement Order has been reversed by an appellate authority or otherwise
rescinded in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, whichever occurs
first. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Respondent may obtain review of a
decision to withhold approval of an application pursuant to this section by
appealing the decision to the City Council, which may affirm, modify, condition
or reverse the rejection of the application for good cause shown. (Ord. 903, 7-
22-2025)
1-16-15: COMPLAINTS:
   A.   Complaints; To Whom Directed: Any person who observes a possible
violation of the Code may submit a complaint to any City official or employee.
Such a complaint is considered a public record under Chapter 239 of the Nevada
Revised Statutes. Any City official or employee other than a peace officer or
Code Enforcement Official who receives a complaint regarding Code violations
shall promptly forward the complaint to the City Police Department, the Code
Enforcement Officer, or any other appropriate Enforcement Official as
designated by subsequent ordinance or resolution of the City Council.
   B.   Form Of Complaint: Complaints may be submitted in writing, by
electronic mail, by telephone, or in person, and must include sufficient
details to assist with investigation and enforcement.
   C.   Action Upon Complaint: The City Police Department, the Code Enforcement
Officer and any other designated Enforcement Official shall have the authority
to investigate reported violations and take appropriate enforcement action in
accordance with this Chapter. After receipt of a complaint by the City, the
Enforcement Official shall investigate the complaint if the Enforcement
Official determines that an investigation is warranted under the circumstances,
except as otherwise provided in the Code. (Ord. 903, 7-22-2025)
1-16-16: SERVICE:
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, service of notices and other
documents pursuant to this Chapter shall be made in one of the following
manners:
   A.   By personal service;
   B.   By affixing the notice or other document to the intended recipient's
place of residence or business in a conspicuous place;
   C.   By United States Mail addressed to the last known address of the
intended recipient as shown in the records of the City Clerk or, if
unavailable, in the records of the County Assessor; or
   D.   If service is required by federal or state law, by the means set forth
in the appropriate federal or state statute or regulation. (Ord. 903, 7-22-
2025)
TITLE 2
BUILDING REGULATIONS
Building Regulations Administrative Code   1
Building Code   2
Residential Code   3
Mechanical Code   4
Plumbing Code   5
Electrical Code   6
Energy Conservation Code   7
Existing Building Code   8
Reserved   9
Reserved   10
Swimming Pool And Spa Code   11
Street Numbering Of Buildings   12
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING REGULATIONS ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
SECTION:
2-1-1: General Administrative Code Provisions
2-1-2: Applicability
2-1-3: Duties And Powers
2-1-4: Permits
2-1-5: Submittal Documents
2-1-6: Temporary Structures And Uses Of Structures
2-1-7: Fees
2-1-8: Inspections
2-1-9: Certificate Of Occupancy
2-1-10: Service Utilities
2-1-11: Appeals
2-1-12: Violations And Penalties
2-1-13: Stop Work Order
2-1-14: Unsafe Buildings, Structures, Natural Or Manmade Earthen Features, Or
Building Service Equipment Systems
2-1-1: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE CODE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.570, et seq., this
chapter shall be known as the BUILDING REGULATIONS ADMINISTRATIVE CODE OF THE
CITY OF ELKO.
All activities subject to regulation by this title shall be performed in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
Certain model building and construction codes, such as the International
Building Code, International Residential Code, or other similar model codes,
may be adopted by the City and incorporated by reference in the Elko City Code.
Those model codes may contain cross-references to other model codes, some of
which have been adopted by the City and some of which have not. However, only
those model codes which have been expressly adopted by the City contain
requirements incorporated into this title. No permit or certificate for matters
subject to regulation by this title shall be required by the City unless the
requirement is stated in this chapter.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to set forth the requirements
for the administration and enforcement of this title, to include the technical
codes adopted by the City. This Code contains design and construction
regulations intended to safeguard life, health, property, and public welfare by
regulating and controlling the permitting, design, construction, quality of
materials, use and occupancy, location, and maintenance of buildings,
structures, signs, building service equipment and other improvements to real
property within the City.
   C.   Scope: This chapter provides the mechanism used by the City to regulate
this title, to include the technical codes adopted by the City. This chapter
regulates such matters as site preparation, construction, alteration, moving,
enlargement, replacement, demolition, repair, use and occupancy of buildings,
structures, signs, building service equipment and other improvements to real
property. No permit or certificate for the performance or completion of work,
or for the use or occupancy of a building, structure or building service
equipment, shall be issued by the City except as provided in this chapter.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, whenever the technical
codes refer to an appendix, the appendix shall not apply unless specifically
adopted by the City.
   D.   Adoption Of Technical Codes: The following technical codes, together
with any model codes therein adopted, are subject to the requirements of this
chapter:
      1.   Building Code 1  Of The City Of Elko: The Building Code shall apply
to the construction of, or the enlarging, altering, repairing, moving,
demolishing, or changing the occupancy of a building or structure, and the
erection, installation, enlargement, alteration, repair, removal, conversion or
replacement of any component, element, or portion of a building or structure
within the City.
      2.   Residential Code 2  Of The City Of Elko: The International
Residential Code shall apply to the construction of or the enlarging, altering,
repairing, moving, demolishing, or changing the occupancy of all one- and two-
family dwellings of three (3) stories or less within the City.
      3.   Mechanical Code 3  Of The City Of Elko: The Mechanical Code of the
City of Elko shall apply to construction of or the enlarging, altering,
repairing, moving, demolishing, or changing the occupancy of a building or
structure, and to the erection, installation, enlargement, alteration, repair,
removal, conversion or replacement of any component, element or portion of a
mechanical system in any building or structure within the City.
      4.   Plumbing Code 4  Of The City Of Elko: The Plumbing Code of the City
of Elko shall apply to the construction of or the enlarging, altering,
repairing, moving, demolishing, or changing the occupancy of a building or
structure, and the erection, installation, enlargement, alteration, repair,
removal, conversion or replacement of any component, element or portion of a
plumbing system in a building or structure within the City.
      5.   Electrical Code 5  Of The City Of Elko: The Electrical Code of the
City of Elko applies to all new construction, relocated buildings, and to any
alterations, repairs, or reconstruction, except as otherwise provided in
chapter 6 of this title. The Electrical Code applies to all electrical
construction work, electrical alterations or repair, installation and
maintenance of overhead and underground electrical supply and communication
lines and the inspections thereof within the City.
      6.   Energy Conservation Code 6  Of The City Of Elko: The Energy
Conservation Code of the City of Elko applies to all construction of or the
enlarging, altering, repairing, moving, demolishing, or changing the occupancy
of a building or structure, and the erection, installation, enlargement,
alteration, repair, removal, conversion or replacement of any component,
element or portion of a building or structure within the City.
      7.   Swimming Pool And Spa Code 7  Of The City Of Elko: The Swimming Pool
and Spa Code of the City of Elko applies to all new construction, alterations,
or reconstruction of swimming pools and spas in the City.
   E.   Limitations On Temporary Certificates And Permits; Waivers: The City,
to include the City Council and the building official, shall not issue any
temporary or partial permit, temporary or partial Certificate of Occupancy, or
temporary or partial Certificate of Completion, or waive any requirement
contained in this title, unless specifically authorized by this Code. (Ord.
820, 7-11-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. Chapter 2 of this title.
2 2. Chapter 3 of this title.
3 3. Chapter 4 of this title.
4 4. Chapter 5 of this title.
5 1. Chapter 6 of this title.
6 2. Chapter 7 of this title.
7 3. Chapter 11 of this title.
2-1-2: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   General:
      1.   In the event of a conflict between any provision contained in a
technical code, and any other provision of this Code, or State or Federal law,
the other provision of this Code, or State or Federal law, shall prevail over
the conflicting provision in the technical code. Where model codes adopted by
reference in the technical codes conflict with this chapter, the provisions of
this chapter shall control. There is a presumption that any matter regulated by
this chapter is not regulated by a corresponding provision in a model code
adopted by reference in this title.
      2.   In the event any provision of this Code is held to be illegal or
void by a court of competent jurisdiction, all other provisions in this Code
not thereby rendered illegal or void shall remain in full force and effect.
      3.   In the event different sections of this title contain conflicting
requirements for the use of materials, methods of construction or other
requirements, the most restrictive requirement shall control.
      4.   In the event of a conflict between a general requirement and a
specific requirement, the specific requirement shall control.
      5.   The building official may consider manufacturer's instructions,
specifications and recommendations in interpreting and applying the
requirements of this title.
      6.   The context in which defined terms are used in this Code shall not
affect their defined meanings, nor shall the listing of defined terms with
overlapping meanings reduce the scope of or otherwise affect the defined
meanings of those listed terms.
   B.   Emergency Provisions: In the event of the declaration of a national,
State, or local emergency by a governmental entity with such authority, the
building official may waive or augment the provisions of this title during the
period of emergency to the extent needed to protect public safety.
   C.   Definitions: For purposes of this title, certain words, terms and
phrases are defined as follows:
APPLICANT:                          A person who submits an application to
                                    the building official.
APPLICATION:                        A written request for a permit on a form
                                    approved by the City.
                                    A properly licensed person or business
                                    regularly engaged in conducting tests or
                                    furnishing inspection services in
APPROVED INSPECTION AGENCY:         relation to one (1) or more aspects of
                                    work regulated by this chapter that has
                                    been approved to perform such tests or
                                    inspection services by the building
                                    official.
                                    Any structure, regardless of whether it
BUILDING:                           is affixed to real property that is used
                                    or intended for supporting or sheltering
                                    any human use or occupancy.
                                    A detached, subordinate building on the
                                    same lot with a principal building or
BUILDING, ACCESSORY:                use, the use of which is customarily
                                    accessory and incidental to the main use
                                    of the principal a building or use.
                                    A detached building that is not attached
                                    to or set upon a permanent foundation,
                                    such as a greenhouse, garden shed,
BUILDING, ACCESSORY, NON-PERMANENT: storage shed, or other building designed
                                    to store garden tools, bicycles, holiday
                                    decorations, or similar items and that
                                    is usually purchased at a retail
                                    establishment.
                                    A detached building attached to or set
                                    upon a permanent foundation and/or
                                    connected to utilities, such as a
BUILDING, ACCESSORY, PERMANENT:     greenhouse, pole barn, garage, or other
                                    building designed to store household
                                    items and/or vehicles and that is
                                    usually built on-site.
                                    The officer or other designed authority
                                    charged with the administration and
                                    enforcement of this title, or a duly
                                    authorized representative. The term
                                    "building official" is synonymous with
BUILDING OFFICIAL:                  the terms "administrative authority",
                                    "responsible official", "Director",
                                    "chief inspector" and "authority having
                                    jurisdiction" as those terms are used in
                                    the model codes adopted by the technical
                                    codes.
                                    Fuel-fired appliances and heating
                                    systems, emergency and standby power
                                    systems, electrical systems and
                                    equipment, mechanical refrigeration
BUILDING SERVICE EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS: systems, elevators, stationary storage
                                    battery systems and commercial kitchen
                                    equipment incorporated into, connected
                                    to and/or affixed to buildings and
                                    structures.
                                    A document issued by the building
                                    official upon completion of any work for
                                    which a permit is required certifying
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION:          that the completed work complies with
                                    the applicable provisions of this title.
                                    A Certificate of Completion does not
                                    authorize use or occupancy of a building
                                    or structure.
                                    A document issued by the building
                                    official certifying that work performed
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:           by a permittee is in compliance with
                                    this title and is in a condition
                                    suitable for the indicated use or
                                    occupancy.
CODE:                               The Elko City Code.
                                    A form provided by the building official
                                    that must be submitted with an
                                    application. The form requests the
                                    address where the work will be
                                    performed; the permit number; and the
                                    names of the design professional in
CONTRACTOR CONTACT LIST:            responsible charge, owner/developer,
                                    architect, structural engineer, civil
                                    engineer, general contractor, electrical
                                    contractor, mechanical contractor and
                                    plumbing contractor, together with
                                    corresponding contact and licensing
                                    information.
                                    One (1) or more portions of the
                                    submittal documents that are not
                                    submitted at the time of the
DEFERRED SUBMITTAL:                 application, but which must be submitted
                                    to the building official between the
                                    time the permit is issued and the work
                                    described in those portions of the
                                    submittal documents commences.
                                    Unless specifically provided otherwise,
                                    a person who holds a professional
                                    license or certificate issued pursuant
                                    to chapter 623, 623A or 625 of the
DESIGN PROFESSIONAL:                Nevada Revised Statutes, or a person
                                    primarily engaged in the practice of
                                    professional engineering, land
                                    surveying, architecture or landscape
                                    architecture.
                                    A person who holds a professional
                                    license or certificate issued pursuant
                                    to chapter 623, 623A or 625 of the
                                    Nevada Revised Statutes or a person
                                    primarily engaged in the practice of
                                    professional engineering, land
DESIGN PROFESSIONAL IN RESPONSIBLE  surveying, architecture or landscape
CHARGE:                             architecture who is responsible for
                                    reviewing and coordinating submittal
                                    documents prepared by others, including
                                    deferred submittal items, to ensure
                                    compatibility with the design of the
                                    building or structure and compliance
                                    with this title.
DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY:              A building that contains three (3) or
                                    more dwelling units.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY:               A building that consists solely of one
                                    (1) dwelling unit.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY:               A building that consists solely of two
                                    (2) dwelling units.
                                    A single unit providing complete and
                                    independent living facilities for one
DWELLING UNIT:                      (1) or more persons, including permanent
                                    provisions for living, sleeping, cooking
                                    and sanitation.
                                    Work that must be performed immediately
                                    for the protection of the health or
EMERGENCY WORK:                     safety of people, or for the prevention
                                    of imminent harm to property, before a
                                    permit can reasonably be issued by the
                                    City.
                                    A structure that supports a building or
FOUNDATION:                         structure from underneath, typically
                                    made of stone or concrete.
                                    A covered or enclosed outbuilding or
GARAGE:                             part of a building designed for housing
                                    motor vehicles, boats, or trailers.
                                    Any condition or practice within or in
                                    the vicinity of any building or
                                    structure or other real property
                                    creating a danger which could reasonably
                                    be expected to cause a health hazard,
                                    death or serious physical harm
                                    immediately or before the imminence of
                                    such danger can be eliminated through
                                    the enforcement procedures otherwise
                                    provided by this Code. The following
                                    conditions must be met before a danger
                                    becomes an imminent danger: 1) there
                                    must be a threat of death or serious
                                    physical harm, meaning that a part of
                                    the body is damaged so severely that it
IMMINENT DANGER OR IMMINENTLY       cannot be used or cannot be used very
DANGEROUS:                          well; or 2) there must be a health
                                    hazard such that there is a reasonable
                                    expectation that toxic substances or
                                    other health hazards are present and
                                    exposure to them will shorten life or
                                    cause substantial reduction in physical
                                    or mental efficiency; provided, the harm
                                    caused by the health hazard does not
                                    have to happen immediately. To
                                    constitute an imminent danger, the
                                    threat must be immediate or imminent,
                                    meaning that the building official has
                                    determined that death or serious
                                    physical harm could occur within a short
                                    time, for example before City employees
                                    or other governmental officials could
                                    investigate the problem.
                                    Improvements to real property not
                                    constituting buildings or structures
                                    that are created through the movement,
                                    installation, removal, compaction or
MANMADE EARTHEN FEATURES:           emplacement of soil, gravel, rock or
                                    other natural materials, to include
                                    ditches, levees, dams, impoundments,
                                    slopes, artificial rock outcrops or
                                    gravity retaining walls.
                                    A Building Code or other code that is
                                    developed and maintained by a standards
                                    organization independent of the City
                                    pertaining to the design, construction,
MODEL CODE:                         installation, demolition or modification
                                    of any improvement to a building,
                                    structure, building service equipment
                                    system, pool, spa, or other real
                                    property or improvement to real
                                    property.
                                    Repairs to buildings and structures
                                    caused by day-to-day wear and tear that
                                    are required to maintain the
ORDINARY REPAIRS:                   functionality of the building or
                                    structure. Ordinary repairs do not
                                    increase the value of capital assets,
                                    but merely preserve utility and/or
                                    value.
                                    An official document or certificate
PERMIT:                             issued by the City which authorizes
                                    performance of specific work.
                                    An amount of money charged by the City
                                    in connection with the issuance,
                                    renewal, modification or amendment of a
PERMIT FEE:                         permit, or any work performed by City
                                    personnel in connection with a permit,
                                    such as the review of submittal
                                    documents.
PERMITTEE:                          A person who has been issued a permit.
                                    A portion of the work that must be
PHASE:                              completed, inspected and approved before
                                    additional work may be performed by a
                                    permittee.
PLOT PLAN:                          A site plan.
                                    The total cost to perform work
                                    authorized by a permit, including
PROJECT VALUE:                      overhead and profit, but not to include
                                    the cost of real property, as determined
                                    by resolution of the City Council.
                                    Documents prepared by experts, academic
                                    institutions, professional associations
                                    or others with generally-recognized
RESEARCH REPORTS:                   credentials in the relevant field which
                                    explain or describe the requested
                                    alternative and which support the use of
                                    the alternative in lieu of the
                                    requirement contained in the Code.
                                    An architecture, engineering, and/or
                                    landscape architecture plan drawn to
                                    scale showing the physical layout of the
                                    site, including the size and location of
                                    new construction and existing structures
                                    on the site, distances from lot lines,
SITE PLAN:                          the established street grades, the
                                    proposed finished grades and, as
                                    applicable, flood hazard areas,
                                    floodways, design flood elevations, and
                                    any other information pertaining to the
                                    physical layout of the site required by
                                    the building official.
                                    A directive issued by the building
                                    official requiring a person or his or
                                    her contractors or agents to immediately
STOP WORK ORDER:                    suspend work. A stop work order may be
                                    issued to a permittee or other person
                                    performing work in violation of or
                                    without a permit.
                                    A structure composed of two (2) or more
STORAGE RACK:                       upright frames, beams, and connectors
                                    for supporting materials in storage.
                                    An accurate numeric determination of the
                                    amount of force that occur at specific
                                    locations of a structure, which are
STRUCTURAL CALCULATION:             dependent upon the type of material, the
                                    amount of material and the number of
                                    members in a structure, and which are
                                    used, in part, to make the structure
                                    design safer and/or more efficient.
                                    Something built or constructed that may
                                    be placed upon or affixed to real
                                    property for a purpose, such as storage
STRUCTURE:                          or protection from the elements. The
                                    term "structure" includes, without
                                    limitation, a building, a non-
                                    permanentized mobile home or an
                                    unattached shed placed on skids.
                                    All documents specifically describing or
                                    pertaining to the work that must be
                                    submitted to the City pursuant to this
SUBMITTAL DOCUMENTS:                title in order to obtain a permit, to
                                    include all documents listed on the
                                    applicable submittal requirement
                                    checklist.
                                    A form prepared by the City identifying
                                    documents or categories of documents
                                    that pertain to a particular type of
                                    work. Documents identified on a
                                    submittal requirement checklist may
                                    include civil, architectural,
                                    structural, electrical, plumbing and
SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS CHECKLIST:   mechanical drawings; plans;
                                    specifications; maps; site drawings;
                                    construction documents, statements of
                                    special inspection and geotechnical
                                    reports relating to technical aspects of
                                    the construction, demolition or other
                                    activity that must be permitted pursuant
                                    to this title.
                                    Those City of Elko and model codes
                                    adopted in this title. Technical codes
                                    currently subject to this chapter
                                    include the City of Elko Building Code,
TECHNICAL CODES:                    Residential Code, Mechanical Code,
                                    Plumbing Code, Electrical Code, Energy
                                    Conservation Code, and Swimming Pool and
                                    Spa Code, together with all model codes
                                    therein adopted.
                                    Technical operations or procedures that
                                    determine one (1) or more
                                    characteristics of a given material,
TESTS:                              design, method of construction or of a
                                    piece of equipment according to a
                                    specified procedure that complies with
                                    industry standards.
                                    An accurate numeric determination of the
                                    amounts of force that occur at specific
                                    locations of a truss design, which are
TRUSS CALCULATION:                  dependent upon the type of material, the
                                    amount of material and the number of
                                    members in a truss, and which are used,
                                    in part, to make a building or structure
                                    design safer and/or more efficient.
                                    A circumstance in which a building or
                                    structure, or any part thereof is
                                    structurally unsound, fails to provide
                                    adequate means of egress, creates a fire
                                    hazard, reduces fire resistance below
UNSAFE CONDITION:                   that which is required by this title,
                                    causes a building service equipment
                                    system to become overloaded or exceed
                                    its rated capacity, creates a health
                                    hazard, or otherwise creates an
                                    unreasonable risk of harm to human life
                                    and safety.
                                    The construction, erection,
                                    installation, production, activity,
                                    manufacture, labor or operation that
WORK:                               goes into the making of any improvement
                                    to or alteration of real property, to
                                    include buildings, structures and
                                    building service equipment systems.
                                    (Ord. 859, 5-25-2021)
 
2-1-3: DUTIES AND POWERS:
   A.   General: The building official shall have the following duties and
powers:
      1.   Maintain public office hours necessary to efficiently administer the
provisions of this title.
      2.   Enforce the provisions of this title, including the technical codes.
      3.   Prepare, sign and serve misdemeanor citations on persons accused of
violating this title in accordance with the authorities granted under Nevada
Revised Statutes 171.17751.
      4.   Render opinions concerning the interpretation and application of
specific requirements contained in this title, including the technical codes;
provided, in no event shall opinions expressed by the building official be
binding on the City.
      5.   Review and comment on proposed projects and associated documents (to
include plans, specifications, drawings and calculations) and provide general
information about this Code, including the technical codes, for the purpose of
facilitating compliance; provided, in no event shall the building official's
opinions about proposed projects or associated documents be binding on the
City, nor shall such opinions provide a basis for deviating from all applicable
requirements of this title, including requirements set forth in the technical
codes.
      6.   Examine submittal documents to determine whether they have the
appropriate official stamps, seals, signatures and/or dates affixed thereto. In
performing this examination, the building official may express an opinion as to
whether submittal documents subject to the owner/builder or contractor
exemption are properly attested to on the drawings and in the permit
application.
      7.   Notify appropriate State boards, commissions, agencies and other
authorities of suspected improper or illegal conduct by any person engaged in
an activity regulated by this title, to include any registered or licensed
professional, or other person performing professional services.
      8.   Notify licensing authorities of suspected professional incompetence,
to include indications of professional incompetence due to excessive errors in
submittal documents or incomplete, inaccurate or otherwise defective plans
which have been rejected by the City at least three (3) times.
      9.   Issue permits pursuant to this title for construction and other work
following approval of the submittal documents. The issuance of a permit shall
not prevent the building official from requiring the correction of errors in
the submittal documents.
      10.   Collect all applicable fees required by the City and issue receipts
for the payment thereof in duplicate; provided, the duplicate copy of the
receipt shall be retained by the City as a public record in accordance with
Nevada law.
      11.   Transfer all fees collected to the proper department, agency or
authority as required by law.
      12.   Conduct, require or direct any inspections provided for in this
title.
      13.   Issue notices of violation and/or order the correction of work
performed contrary to this Code, to include work performed without a valid
permit.
      14.   Issue appropriate orders directing the stoppage of work being
performed in violation of this Code.
      15.   Issue permanent Certificates of Occupancy for buildings or
structures (including new or remodeled buildings or structures, additions and
existing buildings or structures that have changed occupancy classification)
which have been inspected and found to be in compliance with this Code and all
conditions required by the City.
      16.   Order any person to cease and desist the use or occupancy of any
building or structure that is being used contrary to the provisions of this
Code, or which creates or constitutes an unsafe condition.
      17.   Initiate abatement proceedings to cause unsafe conditions to be
mitigated or remediated, to include causing unsafe buildings and structures to
be repaired, rehabilitated, demolished or otherwise removed in accordance with
the City of Elko Nuisance Code.
      18.   Retain official records of documents received pursuant to this
title in accordance with the Nevada Public Records Act, to include
applications, plans, submittal documents, permits, certificates, fees,
receipts, reports of inspections, notices and orders.
      19.   Delegate duties to other City employees within the City of Elko
Building Department.
   B.   Approved Materials And Equipment: Materials, equipment and devices
approved in a permit shall be utilized and installed in accordance with such
permit.
   C.   Used Materials, Equipment And Devices: Used materials may be used in
place of new materials if the used materials satisfy the requirements of the
technical codes. Used equipment or devices which have been affixed to buildings
or structures shall not be reused unless approved by the building official.
   D.   Waivers: Any applicant for a permit or approval under this title may
obtain a waiver from the City Council, with or without conditions, from any
requirement contained in the technical codes by demonstrating to the City
Council: 1) that compliance is physically impractical or impossible under
circumstances unique to that building, structure or property; 2) that by
granting the waiver, the intent and purpose of the requirement to be waived
will nonetheless be fulfilled; and 3) that the waiver will not adversely affect
the health or safety of the public or persons entering upon or occupying the
building, structure or property. Any request for a waiver pursuant to this
paragraph shall be in writing and signed by the owner of the building,
structure or property affected. Any waiver granted by the City Council pursuant
to this paragraph shall be in writing and placed in the official records of the
City, and shall state any conditions upon which the waiver is granted, together
with a deadline for satisfaction of each condition. The failure of the
applicant to satisfy the conditions stated in the waiver by the indicated
deadline(s) shall result in the automatic revocation of the waiver, together
with any previously-issued permit or other approval dependent upon the waiver.
Under no circumstances shall the building official waive any requirement
contained in this title unless expressly authorized by this Code.
   E.   Alternative Materials, Designs, Methods Of Construction And Equipment:
An applicant for a permit or other approval under this title may use a
material, design, method of construction or piece of equipment not specifically
allowed under this title, provided any such alternative shall first be approved
by the building official and, further provided, the building official shall
only approve the use of an alternative material, design or method of
construction upon a determination that the proposed alternative fulfills the
purpose of the applicable provision(s) of this Code, is consistent with
industry standards, and is at least equivalent in quality, strength,
effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety to the corresponding
requirement of this title. In evaluating a request from a person seeking the
building official's approval for an alternative material, design, method of
construction or piece of equipment, the building official may consider research
reports and tests.
   F.   Quality Of Design, Construction And Workmanship: The quality of the
design, construction and workmanship of any work or other matter subject to
regulation by this title shall conform to industry standards and shall meet or
exceed the requirements of this title. (Ord. 820, 7-11-2017)
2-1-4: PERMITS:
   A.   General Permit Requirements, Emergency Work and Temporary Permits:
      1.   General Permit Requirements: Except as otherwise specifically
exempted in this chapter, any person who performs work, to include any person
who constructs, enlarges, alters, repairs, moves, demolishes or changes the
occupancy capacity of a building or structure, or who erects, installs,
enlarges, alters, repairs, removes, converts or replaces any building service
equipment system, or who causes any such work to be done, shall first make
application to the building official and obtain the required permit.
      2.   Work Performed Without Permit, Increased Fee: If work on any
activity regulated by this title is commenced before the required permit has
been issued and obtained, the person must immediately, upon notice by the
building official, cease all work until the required permit has been issued and
obtained. In the event a person commences work without the required permit and
is ordered to cease work as a result, the person shall thereafter pay an amount
equal to two (2) times the fee for the required permit before the permit may be
issued.
   B.   Violations of Code not Authorized by Permit; Authorities Not Waived: In
no event shall the issuance of a permit constitute consent or authorization to
violate any provision of this Code, nor shall the issuance of a permit
constitute a waiver of any enforcement, regulatory or other authority held by a
governmental entity.
   C.   Expiration of Permit; Extensions:
      1.   Permit Expiration: Except as otherwise specifically provided herein,
every permit issued by the building official pursuant to this chapter shall
automatically expire if the work authorized by the permit is not commenced
within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of issuance. The failure of
a permittee to request an inspection from the date of the last inspection
requested by the permittee or, if no inspection has been requested, one hundred
eighty (180) days from the date the permit was issued, shall be deemed an
abandonment of the work, whereupon the permit shall automatically expire.
      2.   Permit Extensions: The building official may, on a case-by-case
basis, grant one (1) or more extensions of time to complete the work authorized
by a permit; provided, only a single extension may be granted if, after the
date the permit was issued, there have been any amendments to those portions of
the technical codes that are applicable to the proposed work. Each extension
shall be for a period of not more than one hundred eighty (180) days. To apply
for an extension, the permittee must submit a permit extension request on a
form supplied by the City prior to the expiration of the permit then in effect
containing an explanation of why an extension is needed, describing the
diligent efforts the permittee has made to complete the work prior to the
expiration of the permit and verifying that no changes have been made to the
work that was approved by the permit.
   D.   Suspension or Revocation: The building official may suspend work
through the issuance of a stop work order or may revoke a permit: 1) if the
permit was issued in error on the basis of false, misleading, incorrect,
inaccurate or incomplete information; 2) if the work authorized by the permit
is being conducted in an unsafe manner so as to create an unreasonable risk of
imminent harm to people; or 3) if the work authorized by the permit fails to
comply with applicable Federal laws, State laws, to include all licensing
requirements set forth in chapter 624 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, or this
Code.
   E.   Placement of Permit: The permit or a copy of the permit shall be kept
at the site of the work until completion of the work.
   F.   Persons to Whom Permits May Be Issued, Waivers, Penalties: A permit may
be issued to a contractor or homeowner performing work, provided the following
corresponding criteria are satisfied:
      1.   Permit Issued to Contractor: A permit may be issued to a contractor
who performs the work, provided the contractor holds an appropriate State
contractor's license with the correct classification and, if applicable, sub-
classification, and a City business license.
      2.   Permit Issued to Homeowner: A permit may be issued to a homeowner
for work on a single-family dwelling used exclusively by the homeowner for his
or her occupancy, provided:
         a.   The homeowner has been granted an exemption to State contractor
licensing requirements pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 624.031(4);
         b.   The homeowner is the owner of the real property on which the
building or structure is to be built or improved;
         c.   The homeowner applies for and obtains the required permits for
the installation of any equipment affixed to the building or structure;
         d.   The homeowner signs the application and the "owner/builder"
statement pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.573 acknowledging the
homeowner's responsibilities as the applicant to supervise the work and to
comply with all applicable laws, ordinances, building codes and zoning
regulations; and
         e.   The homeowner agrees, in writing, that the residential building
or structure will not be leased or sold within one (1) year after the issuance
of the Certificate of Occupancy or Certificate of Completion, whichever is
later.
      3.   Partial Work Waiver: Prior to the issuance of a permit by the
building official, the City Manager may, upon submission of a request for a
partial work waiver by a person proposing to perform work requiring a permit
under this title, issue a partial work waiver allowing the commencement of the
work. The application for partial work waiver shall describe the reason(s) why
a partial work waiver is needed prior to issuance of the applicable permit,
state the scope of work to be performed, state that the applicant has or will
immediately apply for the permit required under this title and confirm that the
applicant will, within ten (10) business days, correct any work performed under
the partial work waiver that is determined by the building official to be in
violation of this title or any approved plans. A partial work waiver issued
under this section will specify the work that may be performed prior to the
issuance of the required permit and will automatically expire within a
specified number of business days from the date of issuance. If the person who
is issued the partial work waiver fails to apply for a required permit or
correct work as required by the building official to comply with the partial
work waiver, the fee for the required permit shall automatically increase to an
amount equal to two (2) times the fee for the required permit before the permit
may be issued, together with any additional fees or penalties associated
therewith.
      4.   Correction Of Non-Permitted Work: In the event any work is performed
without a permit that was, at the time the work was performed, required by this
title, the building official may at any time thereafter issue a notice of
correction to the owner of the property describing the violation, stating any
conditions that must be satisfied prior to the issuance of the required permit,
listing any documents that must be submitted and stating the deadline for
correction of the non-permitted work. The foregoing notice of correction shall
be served on the owner of the property without regard to whether the owner
actually performed the work. The requirement to correct noncompliant work shall
apply to the present owner of the property upon which the work was performed
without regard to whether the violation existed at the time the owner acquired
the property or whether the work was performed by a contractor or other third
party.
   G.   Permit Exemptions: The following buildings, structures and other
improvements to property are exempt from any permit requirements contained in
this title:
      1.   Buildings and Structures: Except as otherwise provided in this
subsection, no permit shall be required for the construction or installation of
any of the following:
         a.   A single one-story non-permanentized accessory building used as a
small greenhouse, garden shed, or other building designed to store garden
tools, bicycles, holiday decorations, or similar items, so long as the floor
area does not exceed two hundred (200) square feet and the building is not
occupied as a dwelling unit, except as follows:
         (1)   Permits are required for the following:
            (A)   Any building or structure not in conformance with Section
G.1.a above; or
            (B)   Any one-story detached accessory building located on any
parcel used or zoned for any purpose other than residential.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing exceptions, all accessory buildings shall meet
the minimum setback requirements set forth in City Code Tile 3, Chapter 2
(General Zoning Code Ordinance).
         b.   Temporary storage sheds and offices for specific construction
projects, including construction trailers on active construction projects.
         c.   Any fence not over six feet six inches (6'6") in height.
         d.   Fences not over four feet (4') in height measured from the bottom
of the footing to the top of the fence constructed of block, brick, stone, rock
or similar materials.
         e.   Fences supported by a retaining wall (see subsection G1f of this
section) when the overall height is less than six feet six inches (6'6") from
the bottom of the retaining wall footing to the top of the fence.
         f.   Retaining walls not over four feet (4') in height measured from
the bottom of the footing to the top of the wall, unless supporting a surcharge
or tiered system, or impounding Class I, II or IIIA liquids.
         g.   Oil derricks.
         h.   Water tanks supported directly on grade if the capacity does not
exceed five thousand (5,000) gallons and the ratio of height to diameter or
width does not exceed two to one (2:1).
         i.   Platforms, decks and similar structures not more than thirty
inches (30") measured vertically to the grade below at any point within thirty
six inches (36") horizontally from any open edge and not permanently attached
to any other structure. This applies only when built in conjunction with a
structure that is classified as a Group R, Division 3 one-family or two-family
dwelling.
         j.   Walks and driveways located not more than thirty inches (30")
above grade, not over any basement or story below and not part of an accessible
route or means of egress.
         k.   Painting, papering, tiling, carpeting, cabinets, countertops and
similar finish work.
         l.   Temporary structures, booths, sets, and scenery used for
producing motion pictures, television shows, theater shows, stage shows and
special events. These temporary uses may require permits under other codes,
such as the International Fire Code or other adopted regulations or ordinances.
         m.   On-ground storable pools (as defined in the Swimming Pool and Spa
Code) which are accessory to a single-family dwelling and in which the pool
walls are entirely above the adjacent grade. Electrical and plumbing permits
are required when any pool is permanently attached to electrical or plumbing
services.
         n.   Portable spas that are accessory to a single-family dwelling if
all heating and circulating equipment is integral to the manufactured product.
         o.   Swings and other playground equipment accessory to detached one-
and two-family dwellings.
         p.   Window awnings in Group R-3 and U occupancies, if supported by an
exterior wall that does not project more than fifty four inches (54") from the
exterior wall and do not require additional support. Awnings shall meet all
setback requirements stated in the Zoning Code.
         q.   Non-fixed and movable fixtures, cases, racks, counters and
partitions not over five feet nine inches (5'9") in height and not containing
electrical branch circuits.
         Notwithstanding the foregoing exemptions, permits are required for the
following:
            (1)   Storage racks over five feet nine inches (5'9") in height.
            (2)   Storage racks over eight feet (8') in height. As a condition
precedent to the issuance of a permit, structural calculations shall be
provided for all such storage racks.
            (3)   Storage racks over twelve feet (12') in height measured to
the top of any materials placed on the storage racks. As a condition precedent
to the issuance of a permit, structural calculations shall be provided and a
Fire Department "high piled" permit shall be issued for the storage racks.
            (4)   Storage racks over six feet (6') in height which contain high
hazard commodities require a Fire Department "high piled" permit, including,
but not limited to, storage racks, storage pallet racks, movable shelf racks
and stacker racks in commercial and industrial buildings.
      r.   Construction directly relating to the delivery of a utility service,
built by a public utility company regulated by the Public Utilities Commission
of Nevada or another State agency, or operating pursuant to a franchise or
other agreement with the City. This exemption applies only to buildings,
structures, or building service equipment systems directly used in utility
generation or distribution and installed on recorded utility easements
belonging to gas, power, telephone or other utility companies. This exemption
does not apply to office buildings, grading, occupied support buildings or
general site development.
         s.   Construction work on property owned by any governmental entity to
the extent State law specifically prohibits the City from requiring a permit.
         t.   Improvements, such as traffic lights, streets, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, drainage facilities and bus stops, constructed on public property or
in a public easement or right-of-way.
         u.   Minor repairs of interior or exterior lath or drywall, provided:
            (1)   No framing needs replacement or repair;
            (2)   The repaired area of lath or drywall does not exceed thirty
(30) square feet in area; and
            (3)   The area of repair is not a fire-resistance-rated assembly
comprised of more than one (1) layer of wall board on each side or any special
material(s) necessary to maintain the required fire-resistance rating of the
assembly (i.e., fire-stopping of penetrations).
         v.   Replacement of exterior or interior doors, hinges, hardware or
decorative trim, provided the following conditions are met:
            (1)   The replacement door is of the same size and type;
            (2)   The replacement door does not require any modification to
existing wall framing;
            (3)   The existing door is not a component of a fire-resistive
rated construction element; and
            (4)   The existing door is not a required means of egress.
         w.   Replacement of exterior or interior window glazing, provided the
following conditions are met:
            (1)   The replacement window glazing is of the same size, type and
thickness;
            (2)   The replacement glazing does not require any modification to
existing wall framing or window frames;
            (3)   The existing glazing is not a component of a fire-resistive
rated construction element; and
            (4)   The existing glazing is not required to be safety-glazed.
         x.   Repair of less than thirty two (32) square feet of stone or brick
veneer if the damage is less than six feet (6') above the adjacent grade.
         y.   Work required to render a building or structure stable following
damage from fire, wind, water, vehicle impact, or other causes and to clear the
site of damaged materials to allow inspection to ascertain the scope of
required repairs, when authorized by the building official.
         z.   Replacement of roof covering materials and re-roofing materials,
other than tile roofing, so long as no structural components are repaired and
no more than sixty four (64) square feet of roof covering material is replaced.
      2.   Signs: No permit shall be required for any of the following work
with respect to signs:
         a.   One (1) painted or printed non-illuminated sign per street
address, placed on the exterior wall of a structure, not projecting out more
than three inches (3") and not exceeding three (3) square feet in area.
         b.   Real estate signs, provided: 1) the signs are removed within
seven (7) days of the sale, rental or lease of the property upon which the
signs are placed; 2) the signs do not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in
area; 3) the signs are not higher than eight feet (8') above the adjacent
grade; 4) the signs are not illuminated; and 5) the signs are set back at least
ten feet (10') from all property lines.
         c.   Government-owned signs for traffic control, direction to public
facilities, regulatory notice, warning or any other public purpose.
         d.   The changing of movable parts of a sign that is designed to be
changed in that manner.
         e.   The following maintenance activities: repainting, repositioning
or recovering of display matter; exact or functionally equivalent replacement
of flashers, lamps, bulbs, ballasts, neon tubing, starters, neon transformers,
wires or computer components; and cleaning or changing a part, so long as there
is no structural change to the sign.
         f.   Construction signs having an area forty eight (48) square feet or
less, or a height eight feet (8') or less above the adjacent grade, provided
such signs are erected no more than sixty (60) days prior to construction, are
confined to the site of construction, and are removed not more than thirty (30)
days after the suspension or abandonment of work or completion of construction
and prior to occupancy.
         g.   Political signs; provided, nothing herein shall be interpreted as
a limitation on any requirement to remove a political sign under Federal, State
or local law.
      3.   Mechanical: No permit shall be required for the following mechanical
work:
         a.   Portable heating appliances.
         b.   Portable ventilation appliances.
         c.   Portable cooling unit.
         d.   Portable evaporative cooler.
         e.   A closed system of steam, hot, or chilled water piping within
heating or cooling equipment regulated by this Code.
         f.   Replacement of any component part or assembly of an appliance
that does not alter its original approval and complies with other applicable
requirements of this Code.
         g.   Refrigerating equipment that is part of the equipment for which a
permit has been previously issued pursuant to this Code.
         h.   A unit refrigerating system as defined in the Mechanical Code.
         i.   Replacement of compressors of the same rating.
      4.   Plumbing: No permit shall be required for the following plumbing
work:
         a.   The stopping of leaks in drains, soil pipes, waste pipes, or vent
pipes.
         b.   The clearing of stoppages, including the removal and
reinstallation of water closets.
         c.   The repairing of leaks in pipes, valves, or fixtures, provided
such repairs do not involve or require the replacement or rearrangement of
valves, pipes, or fixtures.
         d.   Work pertaining to fuel tanks, either buried or above ground that
is regulated by the Fire Code or the State of Nevada.
         e.   Work pertaining to landscape water sprinkler systems, except for
the backflow prevention device at the point of connection to any potable water
supply.
         f.   Installation or replacement of water softeners where pre-plumbing
for the softener has already been installed.
         g.   Replacement of plumbing fixtures in the same location with a
similar fixture and materials, provided no work is done other than the
replacement of the fixture, the tail piece and/or the trap, and further
provided the work does not penetrate the fire-resistive rated construction,
including a fire-resistive rated concrete slab.
      5.   Electrical: No permit shall be required for the following electrical
work:
         a.   Minor repair work, including the replacement of lamps or the
connection of approved portable motors or other portable appliances having an
attachment plug end to be connected to an approved one hundred twenty (120)
volt receptacle, when that cord or cable is permitted by the Electrical Code.
         b.   Installation of electrical equipment used solely for radio and
television transmissions, but not to include equipment and wiring for a power
supply or the installation of towers and antennas.
         c.   Repair or replacement of motors, transformers and controls within
fixed approved appliances, provided replacements must be of the same type and
rating, and in the same location.
         d.   Installation and removal of temporary decorative lighting.
         e.   Repair or replacement of current carrying parts of any switch,
contactor or control device.
         f.   Replacement of attachment plug receptacles, but not replacement
of an outlet box.
         g.   Repair or replacement of any overcurrent device of the required
capacity in the same location.
         h.   Repair or replacement of electrodes or transformers of the same
size and capacity for signs or gas tube systems.
         i.   Taping or wrapping of joints and splices.
         j.   Removal of electrical wiring.
         k.   Installation of temporary wiring for experimental purposes in
laboratories.
         l.   Installation of wiring for temporary theater, motion picture or
television stage sets.
         m.   Electrical wiring, devices, appliances, apparatus or equipment
operating at less than twenty five (25) volts and not capable of supplying more
than fifty (50) watts of energy.
         n.   Installation of low energy power, control and signal circuits of
Classes II and III (as defined in the Electrical Code) that are not part of a
fire warning system, control wiring for emergency power systems, or smoke
control system.
         o.   Installation, alteration or repair of electrical wiring,
apparatus or equipment, or the generation, transmission, distribution or
metering of electrical energy or in the operation of signals or the
transmission of intelligence by a public or private utility in the exercise of
its function as a serving utility.
         p.   Installation of wiring outside of buildings and structures by
licensed cable television, telephone, or buried cable installers.
         q.   Replacement of lighting fixtures in dwelling units (to include
one-family, two-family and multifamily dwellings), guest rooms and guest
suites.
      6.   Grading Permit Exemptions: No permit shall be required for the
following grading and similar work:
         a.   Grading associated with agriculture within districts approved for
agriculture.
         b.   Grading, excavating or filling cemetery graves.
         c.   Grading, excavating or filling refuse disposal sites controlled
by other regulations.
         d.   Excavating for wells or trenches for utilities.
         e.   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing or stockpiling rock,
sand, gravel, aggregate or clay to the extent the activity is regulated by
Federal, State or other local governmental entities, provided such activities
do not affect the lateral support of or significantly increase stresses in soil
on adjoining properties.
         f.   Performing exploratory excavations.
      7.   Repairs:
         a.   Repairs Not Requiring Permit: No permit shall be required for the
following ordinary repairs to buildings and structures:
            (1)   Replacement of lamps.
            (2)   Connection of approved portable electrical equipment to
approved permanently installed receptacles.
         b.   Repairs Requiring Permit: Notwithstanding the foregoing
exceptions, a permit shall be required for the following repairs:
            (1)   Addition to or removal, cutting away, rearrangement,
modification or relocation of: a) any wall, partition or portion thereof; b)
any structural beam or load bearing support; c) any required means of egress or
d) parts of a building or structure affecting egress.
            (2)   Addition to, alteration of, replacement of or relocation of
any standpipe; water supply; sewer, drainage, drain leader, gas, soil, waste,
vent or similar piping; or
            (3)   Addition to, alteration of, replacement of or relocation of
any electric wiring, mechanical system or other work creating a risk of an
unsafe condition.
      8.   Other Laws: No exemption from the permitting requirements of this
chapter shall be construed as authorization to engage in or refrain from any
activity in violation of any other provision in this Code, or any applicable
Federal, State or local law or ordinance. All exemptions from the permitting
requirements of this chapter shall be strictly construed.
   H.   Emergency Work: Where emergency work must be performed without a
permit, the permit application shall be submitted to the building official the
next business day. Any emergency work performed before the permit is issued
shall comply with the technical codes.
   I.   Manufactured Structures: The City does not regulate the installation of
manufactured houses, commercial coaches, travel trailers or recreational
vehicles. Notwithstanding the foregoing, permits are required for the
installation of all permanent exterior footings, foundations and elements
outside the exterior perimeter of any building or structure.
   J.   Application for Permit:
      1.   Any person required to obtain a permit pursuant to this title shall
first file an application on a form furnished by the City, together with the
following documents and other information:
         a.   A description of the land on which the proposed work is to be
performed, to include the street address (if any) and the assessor's parcel
number.
         b.   If the building or structure is occupied by a tenant, the
tenant's name and contact phone number.
         c.   The property owner's name and contact phone number.
         d.   If the work is to be performed by a contractor, the contractor's
name, address, contact telephone number, fax number, email address, State
contractor's license number, State contractor's license type and City business
license number.
         e.   If a design professional is involved in the work, the design
professional's name, address, email address, contact phone number, and fax
number.
         f.   The type of permit(s) requested.
         g.   A detailed description of the work for which the permit is
requested.
         h.   An estimate or calculation of the cost to perform the proposed
work, including materials and labor.
         i.   A description of the planned use or occupancy of the building or
structure.
         j.   The occupant load of the building or structure.
         k.   The square footage of the building or structure.
         l.   A description of the type of construction that will be used to
perform the work.
         m.   The signature and printed name of the applicant or the
applicant's authorized agent.
         n.   A fully completed contractor contact list.
         o.   All submittal documents.
      2.   Applications (to include submittal documents and other required
information) must be filed with the building official.
      3.   If the application and submittal documents satisfy the requirements
of this title, upon payment of all applicable fees, the building official shall
issue the permit to the applicant.
      4.   The permit, when issued, shall be for the work described in the
application and no deviation shall be made from that work without the written
approval of the building official, except as otherwise provided in this Code.
   K.   Action on Application:
      1.   The building official will approve or reject applications submitted
pursuant to this chapter within ninety (90) days. If the building official
rejects an application, the building official will specify the reason(s) for
the rejection.
      2.   A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall only be for the work
described in the application. Except as otherwise provided and subject to any
other limitations or restrictions in this chapter, no work beyond the scope of
the work described in application shall be performed unless revised submittal
documents are submitted to and approved by the building official.
   L.   Contracting for Services: Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
City from contracting with third parties for plan review, engineering and other
services related to reviewing and processing the application; provided, in no
event shall the City delegate to a third party the authority to issue a permit
or any other governmental function.
   M.   Expiration of Application; Extensions:
      1.   Application Expiration: In the event a person submits an incomplete
application for any permit pursuant to this title, to include incomplete
submittal documents, and thereafter fails to provide a complete application for
a period of one hundred eighty (180) days after the date of filing the initial
application, the application will thereupon automatically expire unless an
extension has been granted in accordance with subsection M2 of this section.
      2.   Application Extension: Provided there have been no amendments to
those portions of the technical code that are applicable to the proposed work
since the date of the initial application, the building official may, on a
case-by-case basis, grant one (1) or more extensions of time to submit a
complete application. Each extension shall be for a period of not more than one
hundred eighty (180) days. To apply for an extension, the applicant must submit
a written statement prior to the expiration of the application then in effect
containing an explanation of why an extension is needed and describing the
diligent efforts the applicant has made to submit a complete application prior
to its expiration. (Ord. 859, 5-25-2021)
2-1-5: SUBMITTAL DOCUMENTS:
   A.   Required Documents: All submittal documents shall be submitted in two
(2) or more sets of physical hardcopies or in electronic file format with each
application.
   B.   Electronic File Submissions: Any submittal documents that are filed
electronically shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   All digital files shall be submitted using only City-approved file
transfer methods.
      2.   All digital documents shall be in searchable portable document
format (PDF).
      3.   Security settings shall be set to allow reviewers to make redline/
strikeout or tracked changes to, create notes and comments on, and insert and
remove pages from digital documents.
      4.   All pages containing drawings, diagrams or other graphic
representations (unless inserted into a page that primarily contains text)
shall be oriented in landscape format and positioned so that the top of the
page is at the top of the computer screen.
      5.   All pages shall be indexed and bookmarked. The index must indicate
the sheet number, and corresponding title and description for each sheet.
      6.   The title block of each sheet shall include a three inch (3") by
three inch (3") space for the placement of the building official's approval
stamp. This space shall be provided at the same location on each plan sheet.
      7.   All plans (to include building plans) shall be fully dimensioned and
drawn to an appropriate scale.
      8.   All text shall be in sans-serif font that is easily readable when
set to print. Clarity shall be equivalent to or better than arial, gill sans or
tahoma, with a minimum 10-point font size.
      9.   All PDF documents, including documents produced from scans, must be
legible in both electronic and printed formats. Scanned documents must be
scanned at a minimum of two hundred (200) dpi clarity.
      10.   Submittal packages must be compressed to the maximum extent
practical to reduce file size.
   C.   Electronic Stamps And Signatures: All submittal documents which must be
sealed or stamped by a professional pursuant to Nevada law shall be submitted
in final form and in accordance with all applicable professional licensing
requirements.
   D.   Plans: To the extent required by law, all plans included in the
submittal documents shall be prepared by a contractor, architect, engineer,
registered interior designer or registered residential designer licensed to
perform such work in the State of Nevada, or an owner/builder permitted to
prepare plans pursuant to the exemption contained in Nevada Revised Statutes
624.031(4) or any other applicable statute.
   E.   Standards For Submittal Documents: The submittal documents shall be
subject to the following standards:
      1.   Construction documents shall be dimensioned, drawn to scale (minimum
1/4 inch per foot), drawn on a material consistent with industry practices and
of sufficient quality to permit repeated use and handling by City personnel
throughout the work, and on sheets of uniform size.
      2.   The location, nature and extent of the work proposed shall be
clearly indicated in the submittal documents, regardless of the type of work.
      3.   Submittal documents containing stamps or other markings indicating
that the documents are not final, such as "preliminary", "for review only" and/
or "not for construction", will be rejected by the building official.
      4.   Plans drawn in pencil, pen ink or colored highlighting will be
rejected.
      5.   Plans shall contain sufficient detail to determine compliance with
the technical codes and the applicable submittal requirements checklist(s)
during field inspections.
   F.   Design Professional In Responsible Charge: For any multidisciplinary
projects submitted to the building official for review prior to issuance of any
permit required under this title, all submittal documents shall first be
reviewed and approved by a design professional in responsible charge. The term
"multidisciplinary project" shall mean any project for which more than one (1)
component must be prepared or approved by a professional with a different
license required by the State of Nevada, such as a project requiring submittal
documents prepared by both an architect and an engineer. The design
professional in responsible charge must be a person who is licensed to review
and approve the submittal documents. The design professional in responsible
charge shall perform the following duties:
      1.   Act as point of contact for City staff, clients, contractors,
developers, engineers, architects, registered interior designers, residential
designers, landscape architects, government bodies and other project
participants during the design phase.
      2.   Ensure that all elements of the submittal documents are mutually
compatible and coordinated, and that the submittal documents are logical and
comprehensive.
      3.   Verify that all elements of the design submitted are complete, and
that all calculations and specifications are complete and accurately delineated
on plans and related documents.
      4.   Act as the point of contact with the building official during the
application review process and be responsible for filing proper applications
and submittal documents.
      5.   Timely response to the building official's questions, requests for
corrections or requests for additional information on any element of the design
package.
      6.   Act as point of contact for communications between the building
official and the design team following permit issuance, to include responding
to any requests for changes, clarifications or additional information from the
building official.
   G.   Change Of Design Professional In Responsible Charge: The applicant or
permittee shall promptly notify the building official in writing if a design
professional in responsible charge is replaced or terminated, or is unable to
continue to serve in that capacity.
   H.   Deferred Submittals: A request for a deferred submittal shall be
submitted on a form supplied by the City. The deferred submittal request shall
contain a statement of the reasons why that portion of the submittal documents
cannot be provided prior to issuance of the permit and a statement by the
design professional in responsible charge (if any) that the items requested for
deferred submittal conform to the requirements of this title. Deferral of any
portion of the submittal documents must be approved by the building official.
   I.   Stamping, Signing, Sealing And Dating Of Submittal Documents:
      1.   Required Information: Where required by State law, submittal
documents shall be stamped, signed, sealed and/or dated by the professional who
prepared or certified them in accordance with all applicable statutes and
regulations. In the event any submittal documents are submitted to the building
official without the required professional stamps, signatures, seals and/or
dates, all submittal documents for the proposed work will be rejected and
returned to the applicant without approval.
      2.   Signature, Seal, Stamp, Date: Any plan, specification, report
(including a technical or soils report), map, calculation, survey, record of
survey or other document issued by a registered architect, engineer, surveyor
or other professional licensed by the State of Nevada that is submitted to the
City with the submittal documents must be signed, sealed, stamped and/or dated
by him or her in the manner required by State law, to include any applicable
regulations adopted by State licensing agencies. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
every document issued by a person subject to a professional license shall
contain: the signature of the licensed professional, the stamp or seal of the
licensed professional, the date of signature and the expiration date of the
applicable license held by the licensed professional.
      3.   Drawings Submitted By Licensed Contractor For Own Construction
Activities: A licensed contractor who provides his or her own drawings for his
or her own construction activities shall, in a prominent location on the front
sheet of each set of drawings, state the contractor's name, license number,
license classification, license limit and the name of person who prepared the
drawings. The original or electronic signature of the responsible contractor
shall accompany this information. In the case of electrical, plumbing,
refrigeration and air conditioning, or fire protection work, the original or
electronic signature shall be of the master or qualified employee.
      4.   Plans, Drawings Or Specifications Prepared By Residential Owner/
Builder: Any person who prepares plans, drawings or specifications for
buildings or structures for his or her own private residential use shall, in a
prominent location on the front sheet of each set of plans, drawings or
specifications, state the name of the owner who prepared the plans.
      5.   Product Information: Product details, shop drawings, product
descriptions and other product information prepared by manufacturers, suppliers
or installers of specific products or systems may be included in the submittal
documents, provided shop drawings shall be stamped, sealed, signed and dated by
a design professional in accordance with NAC 625.610. Design professionals are
responsible for the sufficiency of the content of product information included
in the submittal documents.
      6.   Electronic Stamps, Seals, Signatures And Dates: Design professionals
may submit stamps, seals, signatures and dates in electronic format, so long as
the stamps, seals, signatures and dates satisfy all applicable requirements
contained in NAC 625.610.
      7.   Landscape Architects: Landscape architects may use electronic stamps
and seals on final, original drawings, provided: a) a handwritten or electronic
signature shall be placed across the stamp or seal and b) the expiration date
of the license of the landscape architect and the date signed shall be written
below the stamp or seal.
   J.   Review And Approval Or Rejection Of Submittal Documents; Permits: The
building official shall review, and approve or reject the submittal documents
in accordance with the following procedure:
      1.   Rejection Of Nonconforming Submittal Documents: Following review of
the submittal documents, the building official shall reject any submittal
documents that fails to materially satisfy the corresponding requirements of
this title, to include requirements contained in the technical codes.
      2.   Approval Of Submittal Documents: Upon approval of the submittal
documents, the building official shall place the statement "reviewed for code
compliance" on the first page of the submittal documents.
      3.   Issuance Of Permit Upon Approval Of Application And Submittal
Documents: Following review and approval of the application and submittal
documents and payment of all applicable fees, and execution of the permit by
the applicant and contractor (if applicable), the building official shall
within ten (10) days issue the permit requested in the application.
   K.   Retention Of Submittal Documents: Following issuance of a permit, the
City shall retain one (1) set of submittal documents and shall return the other
set of submittal documents to the permittee.
   L.   Work To Comply With Permit And Applicable Code Requirements: All work
subject to the permitting requirements of this chapter shall be performed in
accordance with: 1) the permit and the approved submittal documents, unless a
permit modification is approved by the building official in accordance with
this chapter, and 2) all applicable provisions of this Code, to include the
technical codes.
   M.   Permit Modifications: Approved permits and/or submittal documents shall
not be materially changed, modified, or altered without an approved permit
modification. To apply for a permit modification, the permittee must submit a
request for permit modification prior to the expiration of the permit
containing an explanation of why a modification is needed and providing a
detailed description of the requested modification. The building official will
approve or reject the request for permit modification based on the same
criteria as are applicable to the approval or rejection of permits.
   N.   Revisions Identified On Modified Submittal Documents: Each revision to
a submittal document approved through a permit modification shall be identified
on the modified document with a corresponding delta symbol, letter or number;
the date of the change; and the name or initials of the person making the
change. Revisions of the same date shall have the same delta symbol, letter or
number. Any revised portions of drawings shall be clouded in a manner that
clearly indicates the location of the change and tagged with the corresponding
delta symbol, letter or number.
   O.   Previously Issued Permits: Any permit issued under a previous version
of this chapter shall not be modified or invalidated by the adoption of amended
requirements, so long as the work authorized by the permit is diligently
pursued within one hundred eighty (180) days of the date of the enactment of
the amended requirements that would otherwise render the permit noncompliant.
   P.   Amended Submittal Documents: Work authorized by a permit shall be
performed in accordance with the approved submittal documents. In the event of
any changes during construction that are not in compliance with or reflected in
the approved submittal documents, work shall be suspended and revised submittal
documents (or portions thereof) shall be submitted to the building official by
the design professional in responsible charge, for approval as an amended set
of construction documents. Construction shall not continue in the areas
affected by the changes nor shall those areas be covered or otherwise concealed
from view until the revised submittal documents have been approved by the
building official and additional plan review fees, if any, have been paid. "As
built" documents will not be accepted in lieu of revised plans.
   Q.   Retention Of Construction Documents: The City shall retain one (1) set
of approved submittal documents for a period of not less than one hundred
eighty (180) days from date of final completion of the work allowed under the
permit, unless a longer retention period is required by State law. (Ord. 820,
7-11-2017)
2-1-6: TEMPORARY STRUCTURES AND USES OF STRUCTURES:
   A.   General: The building official may issue a permit for a temporary
structure or temporary use of a structure, such as a tent or membrane
structure, or a reviewing stand used in connection with a carnival or sporting
event of limited duration. A permit for a temporary structure or use of a
structure shall expire on the date stated in the permit, but in all cases no
later than one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of issuance; provided,
the building official may grant one (1) extension if the permittee demonstrates
that the temporary structure or use of a structure is required for a longer
period of time due to reasons beyond the control of the permittee.
   B.   Conformance: Temporary structures and uses of structures shall conform,
without limitation, to the requirements of this title applicable to health and
safety, to include structural strength, fire safety, means of egress,
accessibility, light, ventilation, cleanliness and sanitation.
   C.   Termination Of Approval: The building official may terminate a permit
for a temporary structure or use of a structure upon determining that the
temporary use or structure is in violation of the permit or this title, to
include the technical codes. (Ord. 820, 7-11-2017)
2-1-7: FEES:
   A.   Payment Of Fees: No permit or modification or amendment shall be valid
until all associated fees have been paid by or on behalf of the applicant to
the City.
   B.   Calculation Of Permit Fees: The City Council may, by resolution,
establish separate fees for specific types of permits, such as mechanical,
plumbing and electrical permits. To calculate permit fees for work not
specifically established by resolution, the City Council shall, by resolution,
establish a schedule of permit fees based on the value of the work subject to a
permit, not to include the existing value of the real property upon which the
work will be performed. Permit fees shall be based on valuation ranges.
Additional fees may be established by resolution for such other related matters
as permit renewals, modifications and amendments, and submittal document
reviews. To assist in establishing permit fees, the City Council may, by
resolution, adopt a schedule of valuation data, to include categories based on
proposed uses (such as single-family residential, storage and commercial
retail) and types of construction defined in the International Building Code
(such as IA through VB), with each category corresponding to a specific fee
amount.
   C.   Building Permit Valuations: Valuation data is only intended to assist
in calculating permit fees that are not otherwise established for specific
types of permits. If a permit fee is not specifically established by
resolution, valuation data will be considered in calculating permit fees.
Valuation data shall include relevant information contained in any schedule of
permit fees adopted by the City Council, as well as overhead and profit, the
value of finish work, painting, roofing, electrical work, plumbing, heating,
air conditioning, elevators, fire suppression systems and other permanent
fixtures and equipment. The valuation used to calculate the permit fee shall
not include the existing value of the real property upon which the work will be
performed. In the event the valuation shown on the application is lower than
the valuation calculated by the building official, the building official shall
increase the valuation on the application to reflect the corrected valuation
calculated by the building official and promptly notify the applicant of the
revised fee.
   D.   Plan Review Fees: In addition to any other fee required in connection
with an application or permit, the City shall charge a plan review fee to
compensate the City for resources expended in the review of submittal
documents.
Except for projects limited to mechanical, plumbing or electrical work, when
submittal documents are required prior to issuance of a permit, a plan review
fee, equal to sixty five percent (65%) of the permit fee, shall be paid at the
time of filing the submittal documents with the City. The plan review fee
includes the initial plan review and one (1) subsequent plan review in the
event any corrections to the submittal documents are required. Additional plan
review necessitated by further changes, additions or revisions to submittal
documents will be charged to the applicant at an hourly rate and subject to any
minimum charge established by resolution of the City Council.
   E.   Fee Refunds: Upon written application filed by the applicant or
permittee not later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date the fee
was paid, the building official may authorize the refunding of any fee imposed
by this Code which was erroneously paid to or collected by the City; provided:
      1.   A permit fee refund shall not exceed eighty percent (80%) of the fee
if no work has been done under the corresponding permit;
      2.   A plan review fee refund shall not exceed eighty percent (80%) of
the plan review fee if an application is withdrawn or canceled before the City
has commenced reviewing the submittal documents; and
      3.   A plan review fee is non-refundable once the City commences
reviewing the submittal documents. (Ord. 820, 7-11-2017)
2-1-8: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   General: Work for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the building official, and such work shall remain accessible and
exposed for inspection until approved by the building official. In addition,
certain types of work may be subject to successive inspections at predetermined
phases as set forth in this Code. Upon completion of a phase, the permittee
shall not proceed with the work without the approval of the building official.
It shall be the duty of the applicant or permittee to provide access to and
means for proper inspection of the work by the building official. Neither an
approval as a result of an inspection nor the issuance of a permit shall
constitute approval of a violation of this title or any other provision of this
Code. Except as specifically provided in this Code, the building official is
not authorized to waive any requirement set forth in this title, this Code or
any Federal, State or local law, and any such waiver shall be void.
   B.   Subcontractor Of Record: Prior to the first inspection by the building
official, if construction plans have been prepared by a registered design
professional or mechanical, electrical, or plumbing subcontractor, the
subcontractor shall complete and submit to the Building Department a
"Subcontractor of Record" document on a form supplied by the City containing
the following information: date, permit number, work location and
subcontractor's name; Nevada contractor's license number; City of Elko business
license number; telephone number(s) and email address.
   C.   Right Of Entry:
      1.   The building official may enter a building, structure or other
property, provided the building official complies with the requirements of this
section, except in the case of an emergency or when consent to the entry has
been obtained from an owner or occupant of the property.
      2.   The following constitute purposes for which the building official
may enter a building, structure or other property pursuant to this section:
         a.   To inspect, observe, measure, sample, test or investigate the
building, structure or other property in connection with the review of an
application or permit;
         b.   To inspect, observe, measure, sample, test or investigate any
condition relating to, or to operate, maintain, or repair any City utility or
facility;
         c.   To inspect reported conditions related to compliance with this
title;
         d.   To perform periodic inspections required by any provision of this
title;
         e.   To assess compliance with any approval, application or permit;
         f.   To inspect or to otherwise enforce any provision of this title;
         g.   When cause exists to believe that a violation of this title was
or is being committed; or
         h.   For any other reason required by this title.
      3.   The building official may enter any building, structure or other
property during regular City business hours and at other reasonable times for
the purposes set forth in this section, subject to the following:
         a.   If the building, structure or other property to be inspected is
occupied, the building official shall present official City credentials,
including photo identification, to the owner or other person having charge or
control of the building, structure or other property, state the reason for the
inspection and request entry.
         b.   If the building, structure or other property to be inspected is
unoccupied, the building official shall make a reasonable effort to locate the
owner or other person having charge or control of the building, structure or
other property and request entry.
         c.   Consent to enter buildings, structures or other property may be
obtained by any means, including but not limited to written, facsimile,
telephonic, email or in-person consent. In addition, a property owner's
application for any permit or approval with respect to an activity in or on a
building, structure or other property shall be deemed to be consent for the
building official or his or her designee to enter the building, structure or
other property to perform any inspections, measurements, sampling, or other
action required to review and process the application; provided, that if the
building official intends to enter a building or structure, the building
official shall first contact the owner or occupant and arrange a mutually
convenient time for the entry. The owner's or occupant's failure to consent to
entry or to arrange a mutually convenient time for entry shall be grounds for
the City to deny the application for the permit or approval.
         d.   If, for any reason allowed under this Code, entry to a building,
structure or other property is refused or if the building official is unable to
obtain such consent, the City shall have recourse to every remedy provided by
law to secure entry, including but not limited to application to a court of
competent jurisdiction for an administrative search warrant or other remedy.
         e.   Nothing in this Code requires a City officer, official or
employee to obtain the property owner's consent: 1) to an inspection that is
conducted while the officer, official or employee remains on adjacent public
property, such as a public right-of-way, or on other adjacent property, or 2)
to enter property in which the City has a written easement, license or other
property right for purposes authorized in the applicable instrument.
         f.   Notwithstanding the provisions above, whenever it appears to the
City that conditions exist requiring immediate inspection or other action to
prevent harm due to an imminent danger, a City officer, official or employee is
authorized to enter in or upon any building, structure or other property,
public or private to the extent permitted by law without first obtaining the
owner's consent, or when any other circumstance exists making such entry lawful
under the common law.
   D.   Inspection Access: In the event the building official is unable to
inspect work subject to this title due to the presence of a covering, earth or
any other material that obscures visibility, the applicant or permittee shall,
at his or her own risk and expense, remove the material that obscures
visibility, and the failure of the applicant or permittee to do so shall be
grounds for denying or revoking the permit. An inspection may include the
operation of any installed mechanical system, to include a life safety system.
   E.   Inspection Requests: The permittee shall, as appropriate, submit a
written or verbal inspection request to the building official stating that work
or phase of work is ready for inspection. Inspection requests shall be
requested before eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on the day for which the inspection
is requested. Inspections requested after eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. will be
scheduled for the next business day. The City Council may, by resolution,
impose additional fees for expedited or same- day inspections. The building
official will inspect the work or phase of work as soon as is reasonably
practicable following the inspection request, depending upon the availability
of personnel and resources. Nothing herein shall be interpreted as a guarantee
that an inspection will take place on the date requested by the permittee.
   F.   Inspection Record Card, Permit, And Approved Plans: Work shall not
commence until the applicant has obtained an inspection record card on a form
provided by the City, the appropriate permit and approved submittal documents,
all of which shall be present on the property where the work is performed and
at a location readily accessible to the building official, until issuance of a
final Certificate of Occupancy.
   G.   Inspection Results: Following an inspection by the building official,
the building official will determine whether the work or phase of work has been
completed in accordance with the requirements of this title. In the event the
work or phase of work has been completed in accordance with the requirements of
this title, the building official will authorize the permittee to proceed to
the next phase of work or apply for a Certificate of Completion or Certificate
of Occupancy, as appropriate. In the event the work or phase of work has not
been completed in accordance with the requirements of this title, the building
official will inform the permittee of the deficiencies in writing. Upon
correction of any deficiencies identified by the building official, the
permittee shall leave the corrected work exposed in such a manner as to permit
inspection and shall thereafter request an inspection of the corrected work.
   H.   Inspection Of Phases And Verification Of Compliance: The building
official, upon receipt of an inspection request from a permittee, shall perform
the following inspections (where applicable) and/or require the following
verification of compliance with the submittal documents:
      1.   Footing And Foundation Inspection: A footing and foundation
inspection after excavations for footings are complete and any required
reinforcing steel, structural embeds, grounding electrodes, piping, and other
integral materials and equipment are in place. For concrete foundations, any
required forms shall be in place prior to inspection. Upon completion of the
excavation of the footing and prior to the footing and foundation inspection, a
Structure Placement Certificate on a form provided by the City, completed and
signed by a registered design professional or the applicant stating that the
structure is properly placed on the parcel as per the approved site plans,
shall be submitted to the building official.
      2.   Concrete Slab And Under-Floor Inspection: A concrete slab and under-
floor inspection after in-slab or under-floor reinforcing steel and building
service equipment systems, conduit, piping accessories and other ancillary
equipment items are in place, but before any concrete is placed or floor
sheathing installed, including the subfloor.
      3.   Building Elevation Inspection: In special flood hazard areas, the
elevations of the bottom floor, including crawl space and basement, the next
higher floor, the attached garage floor, the lowest machinery or equipment
serving the building or structure, the lowest adjacent grade and the highest
adjacent grade shall be certified by an engineer, land surveyor or architect on
a FEMA Elevation Certification. The completed certifications shall be submitted
to the City of Elko Floodplain Manager for review and approval prior to the
final inspection.
      4.   Frame Inspection: The following frame inspections will be performed:
         a.   Frame Inspection For Wood And Light Gauge Metal Construction:
Frame inspections for wood and light gauge metal construction shall be
performed after all roof sheathing and components of braced wall or shear
systems, framing, fireblocking, bracing, windows, pipes, chimneys, vents, rough
mechanical, rough plumbing, and rough electrical, are complete. All applicable
truss calculations shall be submitted to the building official no less than two
(2) weeks prior to submission of an inspection request for a frame inspection
for wood and light gauge metal construction. The failure of a permittee to
comply with the foregoing requirement may result in the delay of the requested
inspection or the return of the inspection request to the permittee, at the
discretion of the building official.
         b.   Frame Inspection For Concrete, Steel And Masonry Construction:
Frame inspections for concrete, steel (other than light gauge metal) and
masonry construction shall be performed after all structural elements required
by the approved construction documents and this title (including the technical
codes) are in place and structural connections completed. This inspection
includes an examination of all reinforcing steel, structural steel, concrete,
masonry, grout, mortar, and structural connections. All applicable truss
calculations shall be submitted to the building official no less than two (2)
weeks prior to submission of an inspection request for a frame inspection for
concrete, steel and/or masonry construction. The failure of a permittee to
comply with the foregoing requirement may result in the delay of the requested
inspection or the return of the inspection request to the permittee, at the
discretion of the building official.
         c.   Finished Floor Elevation Certificate: Upon completion of the
lowest habitable finished floor, a Finished Floor Elevation Certificate,
prepared and signed by a professional engineer or land surveyor licensed in
accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 625, the contractor or
developer performing the work, or the applicant stating that the finished floor
elevation is in compliance with the approved plans, shall be submitted to the
building official.
      5.   Lath And Gypsum Board Inspection: Lath and gypsum board inspections
shall be made after lathing and gypsum board, interior and exterior, is in
place, but before any plastering is applied or gypsum board joints and
fasteners are taped and finished.
      6.   Fire And Smoke Resistant Penetrations: Protection of joints and
penetrations in fire resistant rated assemblies, smoke barriers and smoke
partitions shall not be concealed from view until inspected and approved.
      7.   Energy Efficiency Inspections: Inspections shall be made to
determine compliance with the City Energy Conservation Code and shall include,
but not be limited to, inspections for: envelope insulation R-values,
fenestration U-value, duct system R-value, and HVAC and water heating equipment
efficiency.
      8.   Required Mechanical Inspections: The following mechanical
inspections will be performed:
         a.   Mechanical Rough Inspection: A mechanical rough inspection will
be performed after all HVAC and exhaust duct systems are installed, securely
fastened and supported in place, and all fire and smoke dampers have been
installed in accordance with the applicable manufacturer's requirements.
         b.   Mechanical Final Inspection: A mechanical final inspection will
be performed after all HVAC equipment is in place, and ductwork, gas lines,
freon lines and register grills have been installed.
      9.   Required Plumbing Inspections: The building official will perform
the following plumbing inspections:
         a.   Sewer Inspection: A sewer inspection will be performed to the
point of connection to the public sewer system or the furthest extend of the
septic system, whichever is applicable, after all underground sewer piping is
installed, including manholes and cleanouts. Sewer pipes shall be tested in the
presence of the building official by filling them with water and determining
whether they hold water from the lowest point to the highest point in the sewer
pipes.
         b.   Water Line Inspection: The building official will perform a water
line inspection to the point of connection with the public water system after
all underground on-site water piping is installed. Water pipes shall be tested
in accordance with the Uniform Plumbing Code if joints or unions are installed
in the water piping.
         c.   Plumbing Underground Inspection: A plumbing underground
inspection will be performed of all underground drain, waste, vent and water
piping within the boundaries of the exterior walls and foundation of the
building or structure after it has been installed and tested.
         d.   Plumbing Rough Inspection: After all portions of the above- floor
drain, waste, vent and water piping systems have been installed and tested, but
while all pipes and other components of the plumbing are still exposed prior to
covering, the building official will perform a plumbing rough inspection in
accordance with this title (to include the technical codes) and the applicable
manufacturer's specifications by running water through the system and making
visual observations.
         e.   Plumbing Final Inspection: The building inspector will perform a
plumbing final inspection after all fixtures are in place and connected to the
drain, waste, vent and potable water systems.
      10.   Electrical Inspections: The building official will perform the
following electrical inspections:
         a.   Site Electrical Inspection: A site electrical inspection of the
electrical system shall be performed up to the point of connection to the
public electric utility (if applicable) after all underground electrical
conduit and associated devices are installed.
         b.   Ufer Ground (Concrete Encased Electrode) Inspection: An ufer
ground inspection shall be completed concurrently with the footing or
foundation inspection (as applicable). The ufer ground must comply with the
National Electrical Code.
         c.   Underground Electrical Inspection: An underground electrical
inspection shall be performed before the concrete slab and under- floor
inspection. The underground electrical inspection must be performed after all
in slab or under-floor building service equipment items are in place, but
before any concrete is poured or floor sheathing is installed, including the
subfloor.
         d.   Rough Electrical Inspection: A rough electrical inspection shall
be performed concurrently with the frame inspection but after the initial
installation of the electrical equipment and conduit or wiring.
         e.   Additional Electrical Inspections: Additional inspections of
electrical installations to the extent such inspections are needed to determine
compliance with this title, to include the technical codes.
         f.   Final Electrical Inspection: A final electrical inspection shall
be performed upon completion of all work requiring any type of electrical
inspection.
      11.   Pool/Spa Inspection:
         a.   Concrete Pools And Spas: The building official will perform the
following inspections of concrete pools and spas:
            (1)   Initial Pool/Spa Inspection: An initial pool/spa inspection
will be performed upon completion of excavation and installation (and stubbing
out, where applicable) of reinforcing steel, shell bonding, piping, electrical
conduit and light shells. Piping will be subjected to a pressure test in
accordance with the City Swimming Pool and Spa Code.
            (2)   Pre-Plaster Pool/Spa Inspection: A pre-plaster pool/spa
inspection will be performed when: a) all underground and rough inspections are
completed and the associated work is approved, b) bonding is complete, c)
plumbing is complete, d) the final plumbing inspection has been completed and
the associated work has been approved, e) all electrical equipment has been
installed and all electrical conductors have been terminated, f) all dead
fronts have been labeled, g) the access barrier has been completed and h) for
private pools and spas, all applicable safety requirements set forth in this
title and the manufacturer's specifications, instructions and recommendations
have been satisfied.
            (3)   Final Pool/Spa Inspection: A final pool/spa inspection will
be performed following: a) the installation of all pool and site drainage,
piping and other apparatus and b) completion of all electrical work; provided,
the ground fault circuit interrupter or residual current device shall be
accessible and operational at the time of the final pool/spa inspection. The
pool/spa shall not be used until completion of the final pool/spa inspection
and approval of all associated work.
         b.   Manufactured Pools And Spas: The building official will perform
the following inspections of manufactured pools and spas:
            (1)   Initial Manufactured Pool/Spa Inspection: An initial
manufactured pool/spa inspection will be performed upon: a) completion of
excavation, b) placement of the pool/spa, c) completion of bonding, d)
completion of the access barrier, e) installation of all plumbing and related
piping (including gas piping, if applicable), and f) for private pools and
spas, all applicable safety requirements set forth in this title and the
manufacturer's specifications, instructions and recommendations have been
satisfied. Piping will be subjected to a pressure test in accordance with the
City Swimming Pool and Spa Code.
            (2)   Manufactured Pool/Spa Pre-Deck Inspection: A manufactured
pool/spa pre-deck inspection will be performed after installation of deck
reinforcing steel and before placing pavers, concrete or other material for the
pool/spa deck. Prior to the pre-deck pool/spa inspection: a) all deck steel or
wire mesh reinforcement must be installed and bonded, b) all geotechnical work
must be completed in accordance with all applicable standards, to include
geotechnical or engineering soils reports, c) all plumbing and electrical
equipment, to including piping and conduit, must be installed, d) all
conductors must be terminated, and e) all dead fronts must be labeled.
            (3)   Manufactured Pool/Spa Final Inspection: A manufactured pool/
spa final inspection will be performed after: a) completion of all pool/spa and
site drainage work, b) completion of all electrical work and c) all other
required inspections have been completed and approved by the building official.
The ground fault circuit interrupter shall be accessible and operational at the
time of the final manufactured pool/spa final inspection. The pool/spa shall
not be used until a final inspection has been completed and approved by the
building official.
      12.   Other Inspections: In addition to the inspections specified above,
the building official is authorized to make or require other inspections of any
work to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this Code and other laws
that are enforced by the building official.
      13.   Special Inspections: For special inspections, see chapter 17 of the
International Building Code.
      14.   Final Inspection: The final inspection shall be conducted after all
work required by the permit is completed in accordance with all applicable
requirements of this title, to include the technical codes, and a drainage
compliance report (if applicable) has been approved by the building official.
      15.   Approved Inspection Agencies: The building official may, in the
building official's discretion, accept inspection reports prepared by approved
inspection agencies; provided, prior to acceptance of any inspection report,
the inspector or the company that employs the inspector, as appropriate, must
be approved by the building official. In determining whether to approve an
inspector or a company that employs an inspector, the building official will
consider whether the person or company is qualified, properly licensed and
reliable. The building official may require the inspector or employing company
to submit the information needed to make an approval decision on a form
supplied by the City.
      16.   Re-Inspections:
         a.   Re-Inspection Fee: A re-inspection fee will be charged for each
inspection or re-inspection of work pursuant to a schedule adopted by the City
Council if any one (1) of the following conditions occurs:
            (1)   Work is not completed at the time of a scheduled inspection,
necessitating a re-inspection;
            (2)   Corrections identified in a previous inspection are not
completed at the time of a re-inspection;
            (3)   The inspection record card, permit, or approved plans are not
available on-site at the time of a scheduled inspection, necessitating a re-
inspection;
            (4)   Access to work is not provided or is restricted at the time
of a scheduled inspection, necessitating a re-inspection;
            (5)   Work for which inspection has been requested has been covered
and is therefore not visible at the time of the inspection, necessitating a re-
inspection; or
            (6)   Work which requires inspection prior to the scheduled
inspection was not approved by the time of the scheduled inspection.
Except as otherwise provided above, there shall be no fee charged for a re-
inspection.
         b.   Requesting A Re-Inspection: To obtain a re-inspection, the
permittee shall request a re-inspection for a specific phase of work covered by
the requested permit and pay any required re- inspection fee in accordance with
the adopted fee schedule. (Ord. 820, 7-11-2017)
2-1-9: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Use And Occupancy:
      1.   General Requirements: No building or structure shall be used or
occupied, and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a building
or structure or portion thereof shall be made until the building official has
approved the building or structure for use or occupancy by means of a
Certification of Occupancy. A Certificate of Occupancy does not approve or
waive a violation of any provision of this Code. A Certificate of Occupancy
creates no warranty or guarantee, either expressed or implied. A final
inspection shall be equivalent to a Certificate of Occupancy for any building
classified in Occupancy Group U. A Certificate of Completion may be issued for
a building or structure which is constructed as a "shell" and not intended for
occupancy until a Certificate of Occupancy is issued.
      2.   Suspension Or Revocation: The building official may temporarily
suspend or permanently revoke a Certificate of Occupancy or a Certificate of
Completion issued under the provisions of this Code whenever the certificate is
issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or when
written conditions are not completed within the required time, or when the
building or structure or portion thereof is in violation of this Code.
      3.   Use And Occupancy Of Existing Buildings And Structures:
Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this Code, the owner or
occupant of any building or structure, or any portion thereof, which was
constructed and thereafter used or occupied in compliance with the version of
this Code then in effect, but which was thereafter rendered noncompliant by
reason of an amendment to this title, shall not be required to obtain a
Certificate of Occupancy to continue the use or occupancy to which the building
or structure, or portion thereof, was placed at the time of adoption of the
amendment to this title rendering it noncompliant; provided, in the event the
use or occupancy is thereafter discontinued for a period of twelve (12) months
or more, a Certificate of Occupancy certifying compliance with the current
requirements of this title shall be required for any subsequent use or
occupancy.
   B.   Certificate Issued:
      1.   If, after a final inspection, the building official determines that
all applicable requirements of this title have been satisfied, the building
official shall thereupon issue a Certificate of Completion if the building or
structure may not be used or occupied or a Certificate of Occupancy if the
building or structure may be used or occupied. The Certificate of Completion or
Certificate of Occupancy shall contain the following information:
         a.   The permit number.
         b.   The address of the building or structure.
         c.   The name and address of the owner of the building or structure.
         d.   The name and address of the owner of the real property upon which
the building or structure is located (if different).
         e.   A description of that portion of the building or structure for
which the certificate is issued.
         f.   A statement that the described portion of the building or
structure has been inspected for compliance with the requirements of this title
for the proposed use and/or occupancy.
         g.   The name and signature of the building official.
         h.   The edition of the Code under which the permit was issued.
         i.   A description of the permitted use and/or occupancy (if
applicable).
         j.   A description of the type of construction.
         k.   The design occupant load (if applicable).
         l.   The date of issuance of the certificate.
         m.   The floor area of the building or structure indicated in square
feet.
         n.   The Land Use Zoning Code. (Ord. 820, 7-11-2017)
2-1-10: SERVICE UTILITIES:
   A.   Permanent Connection Of Service Utilities: No person shall permanently
connect or reconnect any water, sewer, electrical or gas utility, or source of
energy, fuel or power to any building, structure or building service equipment
system, or any system connected to a building, structure or building service
equipment system that is regulated by this Code, without the prior written
approval of the building official. No such connection or reconnection to a
source of energy, fuel or power shall be permitted if the use will likely
result in an unsafe condition or imminent danger.
   B.   Temporary Connection: Upon written request, the building official may
authorize the temporary connection of a building or structure, or a building
service equipment system connected to a building or structure to a utility that
provides a source of energy, fuel or power for a period not to exceed ninety
(90) days. No such temporary connection to a source of energy, fuel or power
shall be permitted if the use will likely result in an unsafe condition or
imminent danger.
   C.   Authority To Order Disconnection Of Utilities And Other Energy Sources:
      1.   Imminent Danger:
         a.   Scope Of Authority: The building official may order the
disconnection of any utility service or energy supplied to any building,
structure or building service equipment system regulated by this Code in the
event the building official determines such disconnection is needed to
eliminate or mitigate an imminent danger.
         b.   Duration: A disconnection order issued because of an imminent
danger shall be for only such period as the risk of imminent danger remains.
         c.   Notice: The building official shall, as soon as reasonably
practicable: 1) use any reasonable means of communication to notify the serving
utility, the owner and the occupant of the building, structure or building
service equipment system of a decision to order a disconnection due to an
imminent danger, and 2) post an appropriate placard warning of the imminent
danger at or near the entrance of the affected building or structure.
         d.   Posting At Entrance Of Building Or Structure: Notwithstanding any
other provision in this chapter, if the building official is unable to notify
the owner or occupant of an order issued pursuant to this subsection, posting a
placard in a visible location at or near the entrance of the affected building
or structure shall satisfy the notice requirements of this subsection.
         e.   Appeal: Any person aggrieved by a disconnection due to an
imminent danger shall have the right to immediately appeal the decision of the
building official to the City Manager or the City Manager's designee, which
appeal may be communicated to the City Manager or the City Manager's designee
in writing, verbally, by electronic mail or by telephone. The City Manager or
the City Manager's designee, upon receiving actual knowledge of the appeal from
the person aggrieved and the grounds therefor may affirm, modify or reverse the
decision of the building official. An aggrieved person may only appeal a
disconnection order of the building official pursuant to this subsection while
the disconnection order is in effect; provided, nothing herein shall in any way
limit an aggrieved person's right to appeal a decision of the building official
pursuant to any other applicable provision of this Code.
      2.   Unsafe Condition:
         a.   Scope Of Authority: The building official may order the
disconnection of any utility service to a building, structure or building
service equipment system if the connection has not been approved in the manner
required by this Code or is otherwise in actual violation of this Code, or if
the connection creates an unsafe condition.
         b.   Connections Prohibited By Order To Disconnect: No person shall
connect or reconnect a building, structure or building service equipment system
to any public utility or energy supply if prohibited by a disconnection order
issued by the building official pursuant to this subsection without prior
authorization from the building official.
         c.   Notification:
            (1)   Order To Disconnect: If a utility service or energy supply to
a building, structure or building service equipment system must be disconnected
due to an immediate hazard in accordance with this section, a disconnection
order and basis therefor shall be provided as soon as reasonably practicable to
the serving utility, the owner of such building, structure, or building service
equipment system and any occupants of the building or structure as soon as
reasonably practicable. Except as otherwise provided herein, whenever the
building official issues a disconnection order pursuant to this subsection, the
order shall be in writing and directed to the owner of the affected building,
structure or building service equipment system, and any occupants of the
building or structure by:
   (A) Personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested; and
   (B) Posting a placard at or near the entrance of the affected building or
structure.
            (2)   Posting At Entrance Of Building Or Structure: Notwithstanding
any other provision in this chapter, if the building official is unable to
notify the owner or occupant of a disconnection order by personal service or
certified mail, posting a placard in a visible location at or near the entrance
of the affected building or structure shall satisfy the notice requirements of
this subsection.
         d.   Contents Of Order: Any order issued by the building official
pursuant to this subsection due to an unsafe condition shall contain, at a
minimum, the following information:
            (1)   The street address and a location description sufficient for
identification of the real property upon which the building, structure or
building service equipment system is located;
            (2)   A statement identifying the specific Code provisions being
violated and explaining the reason for the notice and/or order; and
            (3)   A directive ordering the person in violation make the
repairs, improvements or other corrections required to bring the building,
structure or building service equipment system into compliance with the
applicable provisions of this Code within a specified period of time.
         e.   Cessation Of Use Or Occupancy: The building official may order
the owner or occupant of a building or structure to cease use or occupancy
based on an unsafe condition until the unsafe condition no longer presents a
threat to human health or safety. (Ord. 820, 7-11-2017)
2-1-11: APPEALS:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: Any person aggrieved by a decision of the building
official made pursuant to or in relation to matters subject to this title may
appeal the decision by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within
thirty (30) days of receiving notice of the building official's decision. The
notice of appeal shall contain the following information: the name of the
appellant, the address of the property to which the decision relates, the date
on which the appellant was notified of the decision, a summary of the decision
being appealed and a statement of reason why the decision is being appealed.
The failure of the aggrieved person to file a notice of appeal in the manner
stated in this section shall result in a waiver of the aggrieved person's right
to appeal. The filing of a notice of appeal shall not stay the action of the
building official pending the outcome of the appeal.
   B.   Investigation By City Council: Following the filing of a notice of
appeal, the City Council may, in its discretion, appoint a committee of the
City Council or an independent hearing officer to investigate the notice of
appeal, report findings of fact and make a recommendation for disposition to
the City Council.
   C.   Hearing Before City Council: The City Council shall conduct a hearing
on the appeal within forty five (45) days from the date the notice of appeal is
filed with the City Clerk. The hearing shall be open to the public and shall be
conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
   D.   Hearing Procedures: The procedures pursuant to which the City Council
shall hear an appeal pursuant to this section are as follows:
      1.   The appellant shall first describe the decision being challenged,
state the grounds for the appeal and present a summary of the appellant's
argument.
      2.   The appellant may then testify, submit documents and/or call
witnesses in support of the appeal.
      3.   The City shall then state the grounds for opposing the appeal.
      4.   The City may submit documents and/or call witnesses in opposition to
the appeal.
      5.   The appellant may then present a rebuttal argument, witnesses and/or
documents. The failure of an appellant to provide argument, witnesses and/or
documents on rebuttal shall not be considered by the City Council in deciding
the appeal.
      6.   The appellant and the City, respectively, may present closing
arguments.
      7.   Appellant and the City are entitled to be represented by counsel,
and present testimony, evidence and argument on all issues raised on appeal.
      8.   The City Council may, if it appears helpful to a clear understanding
of the issues, consider matters not raised at the hearing.
      9.   All testimony by the appellant and the parties' witnesses shall be
under oath.
      10.   The rules of evidence shall not apply.
      11.   The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem may limit testimony or other proffered
evidence that is duplicative, unnecessarily argumentative or not reasonably
related to the matter being appealed.
      12.   The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem may terminate the hearing upon finding
that sufficient testimony, documents and arguments have been presented to
enable the City Council to fully deliberate and decide the appeal; provided,
the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem shall first request from the appellant a summary of
all remaining matters he or she intends to present at the hearing.
   E.   Decision By City Council: At the conclusion of the hearing, the City
Council shall make a final decision that is consistent with the requirements of
this title (to include the technical codes) to affirm, deny, condition or
modify the decision of the building official and shall within thirty (30) days
thereafter file a notice of decision with the City Clerk stating the decision.
   F.   Judicial Review: Any person who has appealed a decision to the City
Council in accordance with this section and is aggrieved by the decision of the
City Council may appeal that decision to the Fourth Judicial District Court in
and for the County of Elko, State of Nevada, by filing with that court a
petition for judicial review within twenty five (25) days from the date the
notice of decision is filed with the City Clerk. (Ord. 820, 7-11-2017)
2-1-12: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct,
alter, extend, repair, move, remove, demolish or occupy any building, structure
or other improvement to real property regulated by this title, or cause same to
be done, in conflict with or in violation of any provision in this title.
   B.   Notice Of Violation: The building official may issue a notice of
violation ordering any person responsible for the erection, construction,
alteration, extension, repair, moving, removal, demolition, use or occupancy of
a building, structure, building service equipment system or other improvement
in violation of the provisions of this title, or in violation of a permit or
certificate issued pursuant to this Code. The notice of violation shall: 1)
order the person responsible to communicate to the building official a plan to
eliminate the violation within a specified period of time and 2) order the
person to cease and abate the violation within a specified period of time. In
the event the violation results in an unsafe condition or imminent danger, the
building official may order the person upon whom the person to whom the notice
of violation was issued to discontinue the use and/or occupancy until the
unsafe condition or imminent danger has been eliminated.
   C.   Service Of Notice: Except as otherwise provided herein, whenever the
building official issues a notice of violation pursuant to this section, the
notice of violation shall be directed to the owner of the affected building,
structure, building service equipment system or other improvement, and (if
applicable) the occupant of the building or structure by:
      1.   Personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested and
posting a placard at or near the entrance of the affected building or
structure.
      2.   If the building official is unable to notify the owner or occupant
of a notice of violation by personal service or certified mail, return receipt
requested, after attempting to effect notice in both such manners, posting a
placard in a visible location at or near the entrance of the affected building,
structure or, if there is no building or structure, in a visible location on
the real property containing the improvement, shall satisfy the notice
requirements of this section.
   D.   Contents Of Order: Any notice of violation issued by the building
official pursuant to this section shall be in writing and contain, at a
minimum, the following information:
      1.   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the real property upon which the building, structure,
building service equipment system or other improvement is located;
      2.   A statement identifying the specific provisions of this title being
violated and explaining the reason for the notice of violation; and
      3.   A directive ordering the person in violation make the repairs,
improvements or other corrections required to bring the building, structure,
building service equipment system or other improvement into compliance with the
applicable provisions of this title within a specified period of time
consistent with this section.
   E.   Violation; Penalties: Failure to comply with any requirement of this
Code, subject to any appeal rights, shall be punishable as a misdemeanor as
provided in section
1-3-1 of this Code.
   F.   Equitable Relief: Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this
Code, the City may seek equitable relief in a court of competent jurisdiction
to the extent necessary to prevent or remedy any violation of this title
(including unsafe conditions or imminent dangers) or to enforce any order
issued by the building official pursuant to this title, to include a notice of
violation issued pursuant to this section. (Ord. 820, 7-11-2017)
2-1-13: STOP WORK ORDER:
   A.   Authority: In the event the building official determines that work
regulated by this Code is being performed in a manner that is contrary to the
provisions of this Code or that creates an unsafe condition or imminent danger,
the building official may issue a stop work order.
   B.   Issuance: Notification of a stop work order shall be given to the owner
of the property upon which the work is being performed, the property owner's
agent, or the person(s) performing the work. The stop work order shall: 1)
state the reason for issuing the stop work order; 2) state the conditions under
which the work will be permitted to resume; 3) be in writing; and 4) be posted
on the property upon which the work is being performed. Upon issuance, notice
and posting of a stop work order, the work described in the stop work order
shall immediately cease.
   C.   Penalties For Violation Of Stop Work Order: Any person who continues to
perform any work after having been directed to cease performing the work with a
stop work order shall be subject to penalties and be punished as provided in
title 1, chapter 3 of this Code. Each calendar day or portion thereof during
which work proceeds in violation of a stop work order shall be deemed to
constitute a separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this Code.
   D.   Removal Or Repair Of Building Service Equipment System That Create
Unsafe Conditions:
      1.   In the event the building official determines that a building
service equipment system regulated by the technical codes creates an unsafe
condition, the building official shall issue a written order to the owner
thereof directing that such building service equipment system must either be
removed, or repaired or modified within a specified time in such a manner that
it no longer creates an unsafe condition. No person shall use or operate a
building service equipment system that is described in an order issued pursuant
to this section until the building official issues a written determination that
the building service equipment system no longer creates an unsafe condition.
Any person who disconnects a building service equipment system from a utility
shall notify the utility, the owner of the building or structure, and all
occupants of the building or structure at least twenty four (24) hours prior to
the disconnection.
      2.   In the event a building service equipment system is used or operated
in violation of an order issued pursuant to this section, the City may seek
equitable relief in a court of competent jurisdiction to abate the unsafe
condition described in the order. The foregoing equitable relief is without
prejudice to any other remedy available to the City.
      3.   Any person who shall knowingly occupy or use any building or
structure in violation of any order issued by the building official pursuant to
this section shall be subject to penalties and be punished as provided in title
1, chapter 3 of this Code. Each calendar day or portion thereof during which
use or operation of the building service equipment systems continues in
violation of an order issued by the building official shall be deemed to
constitute a separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable
as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this Code. (Ord. 820, 7-11-2017)
2-1-14: UNSAFE BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, NATURAL OR MANMADE EARTHEN FEATURES, OR
BUILDING SERVICE EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS:
   A.   Description Of Unsafe Conditions With Respect To Buildings, Structures,
Manmade Earthen Features, Building Appendages, Uses And Occupancies: Buildings,
structures, or manmade earthen features which are regulated by this title and
which endanger human safety or health, the environment, or property are unsafe
conditions. A building, structure or manmade earthen feature may constitute an
unsafe condition because it is structurally inadequate, is geotechnically
unstable, has inadequate egress, creates a fire hazard, or threatens the City
stormwater and/or sewer system. A building service equipment system regulated
by this title which constitutes a fire or electrical hazard, or is otherwise
dangerous to human safety or health is, for the purpose of this title, also
considered an unsafe condition. Any use or occupancy of buildings, structures
or building service equipment systems endangering the safety or health of any
person or the public by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation,
obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster, damage or abandonment is, for the purpose
of this title, an unsafe condition. Parapet walls, cornices, spires, towers,
tanks, statuary and other appendages or structural members which are supported
by, attached to, or a part of a building or structure and which are in
deteriorated condition or otherwise unable or reasonably unlikely to sustain
the design loads which are specified in this title are hereby considered to be
unsafe conditions.
   B.   Specific Unsafe Conditions With Respect To Buildings And Structures:
For the purpose of this title, any building or structure that has any or all of
the conditions or defects described below shall be considered unsafe
conditions:
      1.   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of egress
does not conform to this title, to include the standards set forth in the
technical codes.
      2.   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or
other means of egress is so warped, worn loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of egress.
      3.   Any portion of a building or structure has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect, abandonment, vandalism or any
other cause to such an extent that it is reasonably likely to partially or
completely collapse, or to become detached or dislodged.
      4.   Any portion of a building or structure, or any member, appurtenance
or ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting natural or artificial loads of one and one-half (11/2) the
original designed value.
      5.   The building or structure, or part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the removal
or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or for any
other reason, is reasonably likely to partially or completely collapse, or some
portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is
reasonably likely to fail or give way.
      6.   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is visibly unsafe
for use or occupancy.
      7.   The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated,
unsecured or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure and thus place themselves in danger; or
it becomes a harbor for vagrants or criminals; or it enables persons to use or
occupy the building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful act.
      8.   The building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of this title, to include the technical codes, in such
a manner to present a substantial risk of fire, collapse or danger to human
health or safety.
      9.   The building or structure, if used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, ventilation,
mechanical or plumbing systems, or otherwise, is unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation or in such a condition that is reasonably likely to cause sickness
or disease.
      10.   The building or structure, because of a lack of sufficient or
proper fire resistance rated construction, fire protection systems, electrical
system, fuel connections, mechanical systems, plumbing systems or other causes,
presents a substantial risk of harm to human safety or health.
      11.   All or part of a building or structure remains on a site after
demolition, destruction or abandonment in such a condition as to create an
unreasonable risk of harm to persons or the public.
   C.   Abatement Of Unsafe Conditions: No approval, permit or certificate may
be granted pursuant to this title if the building official determines that the
building, structure, phase, work, building service equipment system or other
matter described therein constitutes or creates an unsafe condition. In
addition to any other authorities set forth in this title, an unsafe condition
may, where appropriate, be subject to abatement under the Nuisance Code.
   D.   Imminent Dangers:
      1.   Abatement Of Imminent Dangers: In the event the building official
determines that there is imminent danger due to the potential failure or
collapse of all or part of a building or structure, or when a building or
structure or part thereof has fallen and as a result presents an imminent
danger, or when there is actual or potential danger to the occupants of a
building or structure or those in proximity to a building or structure due to
the presence of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors, or the presence of toxic
fumes, gases or materials, or the operation of defective or dangerous equipment
thus creating an imminent danger, the building official is hereby authorized
and empowered to order and require the occupants to vacate the building or
structure forthwith. The building official shall cause to be posted at each
entrance to such building or structure a notice reading as follows: "This
Structure Is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the City of Elko."
It shall be unlawful for any person to enter a building or structure posted
with the foregoing notice except for the purpose of securing the building or
structure, making the required repairs, removing the hazardous condition, or
demolishing the building or structure.
      2.   Notice: If an imminent danger is found with respect to a building or
structure, the building official shall serve on the owner, agent or person in
control of the building or structure a written notice describing the imminent
danger and specifying the required repair to render the building or structure
safe, or requiring the imminently dangerous building or structure or portion
thereof to be demolished within a specified time. If the notice directs the
person to demolish the building or structure, or any portion thereof, the
notice shall require the person thus notified to declare immediately to the
building official acceptance or rejection of the terms of an order to demolish.
      3.   Verbal Orders: Notwithstanding any other provision in this section,
where the building official determines that a condition exists which creates an
imminent danger requiring immediate action, a verbal order shall have the full
effect of a written order.
      4.   Posting Notice: Regardless of whether the person addressed with a
notice of imminent danger receives service as provided herein, a copy of the
notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the building or structure, or
as close thereto on the premises as is reasonably possible, and such procedure
shall be deemed the equivalent of personal notice.
      5.   Disregard Of Notice; Emergency Repairs And Other Measures; Recovery
Of Cost: Where the order to eliminate an imminent danger is rejected or not
obeyed, or when, in the opinion of the building official, immediate action is
required to protect the public safety, the building official shall cause the
necessary work to be done to demolish the building or structure or to render
the building or structure temporarily safe. Nothing in this Code shall be
deemed to limit in any way the right, under any existing law or ordinance, of
any department of the City to correct or remove any condition deemed to be an
imminent danger. When the City proceeds to demolish any building or structure,
whether by contract or by its own employees, the City may provide for the
installation of a fence or other protective device and implement such other
measures as are reasonable under the circumstances in order to secure the
perimeter of the premises, protect the health, safety and welfare of the
community and deter the illegal dumping of trash and debris. Where the City
incurs costs of emergency repairs, whether by itself or by contract, such costs
shall be charged to the owner of the property. The City shall, with the
approval of the City Attorney, collect such costs from the owner and may place
a lien upon the property in the amount of the cost of the emergency repairs,
together with all attorney fees and costs incurred in the enforcement thereof.
      6.   Closing Streets And Other Public Areas: The building official may
temporarily close public sidewalks, streets, ways and places adjacent to an
imminent danger, and prohibit the public from entering those areas. (Ord. 820,
7-11-2017)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
2-2-1: Building Code Provisions
2-2-2: Building Code Amendments
2-2-1: BUILDING CODE PROVISIONS:
    A.   Title: This chapter will be known as the INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE
OF THE CITY OF ELKO, hereinafter "code", including the adoption of the 2018
International Building Code - with Appendices C, E, H, I, J and O. Certain
sections of the international building code and appendices may be added or
deleted.
   B.   Applicability: All construction of, or the enlarging, altering,
repairing, moving, demolishing, or changing the occupancy of a building or
structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or
replace any component, element, or portion of a building or structure within
the city must be in compliance with, in addition to, the other applicable codes
or amendments set forth by the city council and the latest edition of the
international building code. (Ord. 723, 2-8-2011; amd. Ord. 839, 6-11-2019)
2-2-2: BUILDING CODE AMENDMENTS:
All building construction work and the inspections thereof must be in
conformity with the provisions of this code and with the latest edition of the
international building code, which is hereby adopted by the city, with the
following specific deletions and additions:
Chapter 1 - Scope And Administration
Chapter 1 Scope And Administration is deleted in its entirety and replaced by
city of Elko ordinance no. 722, title 2, chapter 1, "Building Regulations
Administrative Code", of the city code.
Chapter 2 - Definitions
Section 202 - Definitions.
Amend section 202 to include the following new definitions:
High Rise Building: Any building having occupied floors more than 55 feet
(16.764 mm) above the lowest level of the fire department vehicle access shall
comply with the requirements of Section 902.1.1.
Surcharge: A vertical load imposed on the retained soil that may impose a
lateral force in addition to the lateral earth pressure of the retained soil.
Examples include:
   . Sloped retained soil.
   . Structure footings supported by the retained soil.
   . Adjacent vehicle loads supported by the retained soil.
Chapter 3 - Occupancy Classification and Use
Section 305.2 Group E, Day Care Facilities.
Amend Section 305.2 to read as follows:
   305.2 Group E, day care facilities. This group includes buildings and
structures, or portions thereof occupied by more than six children older than 2
½ years of age who receive educational, supervision or personal care services
for fewer than 24 hours per day.
   305.2.1 Within places of religious worship. Rooms and spaces within places
of religious worship providing such day care during religious functions shall
be classified as part of the primary occupancy.
   305.2.2 Six or fewer children. A facility having six or fewer children
receiving such day care shall be classified as part of the primary occupancy.
   305.2.3 Six or fewer children in a dwelling unit. A facility such as the
above within a dwelling unit and having six or fewer children receiving such
day care shall be classified as a Group R 3 occupancy or shall comply with the
International Residential Code.
Section 308 - Institutional Group I.
Amend Section 308.2 to read as follows:
   Section 308.2 Institutional group I-1.
   Institutional Group I-1. Institutional Group I 1 occupancy shall include
buildings, structures or portions thereof for more than 16 persons, excluding
staff, who reside on a 24 hour basis in a supervised environment and receive
custodial care. Buildings of Group I 1 shall be classified as one of the
occupancy conditions specified in Section 308.2.1 or 308.2.2. This group shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
   Alcohol and drug centers
   Assisted living facilities
   Congregate care facilities
   Group homes
   Halfway houses
   Residential board and care facilities
   Social rehabilitation facilities
   308.2.1 Condition 1. This occupancy condition shall include buildings in
which all persons receiving custodial care who, without any assistance, are
capable of responding to an emergency situation to complete building
evacuation.
   308.2.2 Condition 2. This occupancy condition shall include buildings in
which there are any persons receiving custodial care who require limited verbal
or physical assistance while responding to an emergency situation to complete
building evacuation.
   308.2.3 Six to 16 persons receiving custodial care. A facility housing not
fewer than six and not more than 16 persons receiving custodial care shall be
classified as Group R-4.
   308.2.4 Five or fewer persons receiving custodial care. A facility with five
or fewer persons receiving custodial care shall be classified as Group R-3 or
shall comply with the International Residential Code provided an automatic
sprinkler system is installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.3 or Section
P2904 of the International Residential Code.
   308.2.5 Board of Health. All portions of a care facility which houses
patients or residents which is classified by the State Board of Health as
‘Category 2,' and which has an occupant load of more than 10 residents, is
classified as an ‘I- 1' occupancy classification.
Section 308.5 Institutional Group I-4, Day Care Facilities.
Amend Section 308.5 to read as follows:
   308.5 Institutional Group I-4, day care facilities. Institutional Group I-
4 occupancy shall include buildings and structures occupied by more than six
persons of any age who receive custodial care for fewer than 24 hours per day
by persons other than parents or guardians, relatives by blood, marriage or
adoption, and in a place other than the home of the person cared for. This
group shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
   Adult day care
   Child day care
   308.5.1 Classification as Group E. A child day care facility that provides
care for more than six but not more than 100 children 2½ years or less of age,
where the rooms in which the children are cared for are located on a level of
exit discharge serving such rooms and each of these child care rooms has an
exit door directly to the exterior, shall be classified as Group E.
   308.5.2 Within a place of religious worship. Rooms and spaces within places
of religious worship providing such care during religious functions shall be
classified as part of the primary occupancy.
   308.5.3 Six or fewer persons receiving care. A facility having six or fewer
persons receiving custodial care shall be classified as part of the primary
occupancy.
   308.5.4 Six or fewer persons receiving care in a dwelling unit. A facility
such as the above within a dwelling unit and having six or fewer persons
receiving custodial care shall be classified as a Group R 3 occupancy or shall
comply with the International Residential Code.
Section 310.2 Residential Group R-1.
Amend Section 310.2 to read as follows:
   310.2 Residential Group R-1. Residential Group R-1 occupancies containing
sleeping units where the occupants are primarily transient in nature,
including:
   Boarding houses (transient) with more than 10 occupants
   Brothels
   Congregate living facilities (transient) with more than 10 occupants
   Hotels (transient)
   Motels (transient)
Group 311.2 Moderate Hazard Storage, Group S-1.
   311.2 Moderate-Hazard Storage, Group S-1.
   Buildings occupied for storage uses that are not classified as group S-2,
including, but not limited to, storage of the following:
   Amend Section 311.2 to read as follows:
   Aerosol products, Levels 2 and 3
   Aircraft hangar (storage and repair)
   Bags: cloth, burlap and paper
   Bamboos and rattan
   Baskets
   Belting: canvas and leather
   Books and paper in rolls or packs
   Boots and shoes
   Buttons, including cloth covered, pearl or bone
   Cardboard and cardboard boxes
   Clothing, woolen wearing apparel
   Cordage
   Furniture
   Furs
   Glues, mucilage, pastes and size
   Grains
   Horns and combs, other than celluloid
   Leather
   Linoleum
   Lumber
   Motor vehicle repair garages complying with the maximum allowable quantities
of hazardous materials listed in Table 307.1(1) (see Section 406.8)
   Photo engravings
   Resilient flooring
   Self service storage facility (mini storage)
   Silks
   Soaps
   Sugar
   Tires, bulk storage of
   Tobacco, cigars, cigarettes and snuff
   Upholstery and mattresses
   Wax candles
Section 403.5.4 Smoke Proof Enclosures.
Amend Section 403.5.4 to read as follows:
   403.5.4 Smoke proof enclosures. Every required interior exit stairway
serving floors more than 55 feet (16764 mm) above the lowest level of fire
department vehicle access shall be a smoke proof enclosure in accordance with
Sections 909.20 and 1023.11
Revise section 404.3 to read as follows, deleting exception nos. 1 and 2:
[F] 404.3 Automatic Sprinkler Protection.
An approved automatic sprinkler system must be installed throughout the entire
building.
Section 406 - Motor-Vehicle-Related Occupancies.
Revise as follows:
406.1 Area Increase (Private Garages And Carports).
Add a new exception after last paragraph of section 406.1.2 to read as follows:
406.1.2 Area Increase.
Group U occupancies used for the storage of private or pleasure-type motor
vehicles where no repair work is completed or fuel is dispensed are permitted
to be 3,000 square feet (279 m2) when the following provisions are met:
      1.   For a mixed occupancy building, the exterior wall and opening
protection for the group U portion of the building must be as required for the
major occupancy of the building. For such a mixed occupancy building, the
allowable floor area of the building must be as permitted for the major
occupancy contained therein.
      2.   For a building containing only a group U occupancy, the exterior
wall must not be required to have a fire-resistance rating and the area of
openings must not be limited when the fire separation distance is 5 feet (1524
mm) or more.
More than one 3,000-square-foot (279 m2) group U occupancy must be permitted to
be in the same building, provided each 3,000-square-foot (279 m2) area is
separated by fire walls complying with section 705.
Exception: Noncombustible carports may be of unlimited area when they are open
on all sides, not over twelve feet (3658 mm) in height, and located a minimum
of 5 feet (1524 mm) from any property line or assumed property line, measured
from the roof edge.
406.1.4 Separation (Private Garages And Carports).
Revise section 406.1.4 by adding item nos. 4 and 5 as follows:
406.1.4 Separation.
Separations must comply with the following:
      1.   Unchanged.
      2.   Unchanged.
      3.   Unchanged.
      4.   Noncombustible carports do not require exterior wall and opening
protection when they are open on all sides, not over twelve feet (3658 mm) in
height, and located a minimum of 5 feet (1524 mm) from any property line or
assumed property line, as measured from the roof edge.
      5.   When a group B, F, M, R, or S occupancy structure and a
noncombustible carport are located on the same property with a minimum
separation of ten feet (3048 mm) between the structure and the carport, as
measured from the roof edges, exterior wall and opening protection is not
required for either structure.
406.4.2 Ventilation (Enclosed Parking Garages).
Revise section 406.4.2 as follows:
406.4.2 Ventilation.
A mechanical ventilation system must be provided in accordance with the uniform
mechanical code.
Exceptions:
            (1)   A mechanical ventilation system must not be required in an
enclosed parking garage when openings complying with section 406.3.3.1 are
provided.
            (2)   A mechanical ventilation system must not be required in an
enclosed parking garage having a floor area of 1,000 ft2 or less and used for
the storage of five (5) or less private motor vehicles.
406.4.2.1 Minimum Ventilation.
The mechanical ventilation system must be capable of producing a ventilation
rate of 0.75 cfm per square foot (0.0038 m3/s•m2) of floor area.
Exception:
When approved by the city of Elko, the mechanical ventilation system may be
designed to exhaust a minimum of 14,000 cfm (6.61 m3/s) for each operating
vehicle. Such system must be based on the anticipated instantaneous movement
rate of vehicles, but not less than 2.5 percent of the garage capacity, or one
vehicle, whichever is greater.
406.4.2.2 Intermittent Operation.
The mechanical ventilation system is not required to operate continuously where
approved automatic carbon monoxide sensing devices are provided to operate the
system automatically to maintain a maximum average concentration of carbon
monoxide of 50 parts per million during any eight-hour period, with a maximum
concentration not greater than 200 parts per million for a period not exceeding
one hour.
406.4.2.3 Occupied Spaces Accessory To Public Garages.
Connecting offices, waiting rooms, ticket booths and similar uses that are
accessory to a public garage must be supplied with conditioned air and
maintained at a positive pressure.
406.6.3 Ventilation (Repair Garages).
Revise section 406.6.3 as follows:
406.6.3 Ventilation.
Repair garages must be mechanically ventilated in accordance with the uniform
mechanical code. The ventilation system must be controlled at the entrance to
the garage.
406.6.3.1 Minimum Ventilation.
The mechanical ventilation system must be capable of producing a ventilation
rate of 1.5 cfm per square foot (0.0076 m3/s•m2) of floor area. Each engine
repair stall must be equipped with an exhaust pipe extension duct, extending to
the outside of the building, which, if over 10 feet (3048 mm) in length, must
mechanically exhaust 300 cfm (0.142 m3/s).
406.6.3.2 Occupied Spaces Accessory To Repair Garages.
Connecting offices, waiting rooms and similar uses that are accessory to a
repair garage must be supplied with conditioned air and maintained at a
positive pressure.
Section 419 - Live/Work Units.
Revise section 419.5 as follows:
419.5 Fire Protection.
The live/work unit must be provided with a monitored fire alarm system where
required by section 907.2.9 and an automatic sprinkler system in accordance
with section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2.
Chapter 5 - General Building Heights And Areas
Section [F] 501.2 Address Identification.
Revise section [F] 501.2 as follows:
[F] 501.2 Address Identification.
New and existing buildings must be provided with approved address numbers or
letters. Each character must be a minimum 6 inches (152 mm) high and a minimum
of 0.5 inch (12.7 mm) wide. They must be installed on a contrasting background
and be plainly visible from the street or road fronting the property. Where
access is by means of a private road and the building address cannot be viewed
from the public way, a monument, pole or other approved sign or means must be
used to identify the structure.
Section 507 - Unlimited Area Buildings.
507.2 Non-Sprinklered, One Story (Unlimited Area Buildings).
Revise section 507.2 as follows:
507.2 Nonsprinklered, Group F-2 Or S-2, One Story.
The area of a group F-2 or S-2 building no more than one story in height must
not be limited when the building is surrounded and adjoined by public ways or
yards not less than 60 feet (18 288 mm) in width and the building is provided
with an automatic sprinkler system throughout when required by section 903.2 or
the international fire code.
Chapter 6 - Types Of Construction
Section 603 - Combustible Material In Type I And II Construction.
603.1.2 Piping (Buildings Of Type I/II Construction).
Revise section 603.1.2 as follows:
603.1.2 Piping.
The use of combustible piping materials must be permitted when installed in
accordance with the following:
603.1.2.1 Equipment Rooms.
Combustible piping must be permitted to be installed in an equipment room that
is enclosed by 2-hour fire-resistance rated construction and protected
throughout by automatic sprinklers. The combustible piping must be permitted to
be extended from the equipment room to other rooms provided the piping is
encased in an approved, dedicated 2-hour fire- resistance rated assembly. Where
such combustible piping penetrates a fire-resistance rated wall and/or floor/
ceiling assembly, the penetration must be protected by a through- penetration
firestop system that is listed for the specific piping material and that has F
and T ratings not less than the required fire-resistance rating of the
penetrated assembly. The combustible piping must not penetrate more than a
single floor.
603.1.2.2 Chemical Waste Systems.
Combustible piping must be permitted to be installed for chemical waste and
vent systems when the chemical waste would otherwise react with noncombustible
piping. Combustible piping serving such systems must be protected as required
in section 603.1.2.1.
603.1.2.3 Medical Water Systems.
Combustible piping is permitted to be installed for purified water systems that
are used in conjunction with medical treatment systems, such as dialysis.
Combustible piping serving such systems must be protected as required in
section 603.1.2.1.
603.1.2.4 Bars And Soda Fountains.
Combustible piping is permitted to be installed for distribution/process
systems that serve bars and soda fountains. Combustible piping serving such
systems must either be installed below a fire-resistance rated slab-on- grade,
protected as required in section 603.1.2.1, or sleeved within noncombustible
EMT conduit or metal piping from the room of origin to the area of end use.
Where combustible piping serving bars and soda fountains is sleeved within
noncombustible EMT conduit or metal piping, the end points of the conduit or
pipe must be sealed in accordance with Nevada state health division
requirements.
603.1.2.5 Fire Sprinkler Systems.
   CPVC piping that is specifically listed and labeled for fire protection use
is permitted to be installed for fire sprinkler system piping provided that it
is installed in accordance with its listing, the manufacturer's installation
requirements, and the international building code.
603.1.2.6 Under Slab-On-Grade.
Combustible piping is permitted to be installed under a fire-resistance rated
slab-on-grade provided the transition from combustible to noncombustible piping
occurs entirely below the slab-on-grade. The transition from combustible to
noncombustible piping is permitted to occur within an equipment room directly
above the slab-on-grade when the room is protected as required in section
603.1.2.1.
Chapter 9 - Fire Protection Systems
Section 902.1 High Rise Buildings.
Amend Section 902.1 to read as follows:
   902.1 High rise buildings. Any building having occupied floors more than 55
feet (16 764 mm) above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access shall
comply with the requirements of Sections 902.1.1 and 902.1.2.
Section 906 Portable Fire Extinguishers.
Amend Section 906 to read as follows:
   Refer to the 2018 Editions of the International Fire Code and the 2018
Northern Nevada Fire Amendments.
Section 910.2 Where Required.
Amend Section 910.2 to read as follows:
   910.2 Where required. Smoke and heat vents or a mechanical smoke removal
system shall be installed as required by Sections 910.2.1 and 910.2.2.
   Exceptions:
   1. Frozen food warehouses used solely for storage of Class I and II
commodities where protected by an approved automatic sprinkler system.
   2. Automatic smoke and heat vents are not required within areas of buildings
equipped with early suppression fast response (ESFR) sprinklers unless the area
of Group F 1 or S 1 occupancy protected with the ESFR sprinklers has an exit
access travel distance of more than 250 feet (76 200mmn).
   3. Smoke and heat removal shall not be required in areas of buildings
equipped with control mode special application sprinklers with a response time
index of 50 (m x S)½ or less that are listed to control a fire in stored
commodities with 12 or fewer sprinkle.
Chapter 10 - Means Of Egress
1010.1.10 Panic and Fire Exit Hardware.
Amend Section 1010.1.10 to read:
   1010.1.10 Panic and fire exit hardware. Swinging doors serving a Group H
occupancy and swinging doors serving rooms or spaces with an occupant load of
50 or more in a Group A or E occupancy shall not be provided with a latch or
lock other than panic hardware or fire exit hardware.
   Exceptions:
   1. A main exit of a Group A occupancy shall be permitted to have locking
devices in accordance with Section 1010.1.9.4, Item 2.
   2. Doors provided with panic hardware or fire exit hardware and serving a
Group A or E occupancy shall be permitted to be electrically locked in
accordance with Section 1010.1.9.9 or 1010.1.9.10.
   Electrical rooms with equipment rated 800 amperes or more and over 6 feet
(1829 mm) wide, and that contain overcurrent devices, switching devices or
control devices with exit or exit access doors, shall be equipped with panic
hardware or fire exit hardware. The doors shall swing in the direction of
egress travel.
Section 1209.4 Baby Changing Tables.
Amend Section 1209 by adding Section 1209.4 as follows:
   1209.4 Baby Changing Tables. Diaper changing tables are required to be
installed in both male, female and other restrooms, in permanent buildings that
contain public restrooms as defined in chapter 29 of the 2018 IBC. Changing
tables are required when any of the following occur: new buildings, tenant
improvements, new restrooms, alteration of existing restrooms, new additions,
change of uses that require updating existing restrooms with additions to those
facilities. Changing tables shall meet the guidelines of 603.5, 309 and 902 of
ANSI/ICC A117.1 2017.
   Exceptions: A building or facility that does not have public restrooms or
has been issued a permit or license which restricts the admission of children
on the basis of age, shall be exempt from this requirement
Chapter 16 - Structural Design
Section 1608.2 Ground Snow Loads.
Amend Section 1608.2 to read as follows:
   Ground and roof snow loads shall be 30 pounds per square foot, minimum. Roof
snow loads shall not be reduced for slope, as outlined in Chapter 7 of ASCE 7.
For unheated structures, structures kept just above freezing, or for freezer
buildings, the roof snow load shall be increased using the appropriate factor
in Table 7.3-2 of ASCE 7-16.
Section 1704.2 Special Inspections And Tests.
Amend Section 1704.2 to read as follows:
   1704.2 Special inspections and tests. Where application is made to the
building official for construction as specified in Section 105, the owner or
the owner's authorized agent, other than the contractor, shall employ one or
more approved agencies to provide special inspections and tests during
construction on the types of work specified in Section 1705 and identify the
approved agencies to the building official. These special inspections and tests
are in addition to the inspections by the building official that are identified
in Section 110.
   Exceptions:
   1. Special inspections and tests are not required for construction of a
minor nature or as warranted by conditions in the jurisdiction as approved by
the building official.
   2. Unless otherwise required by the building official, special inspections
and tests are not required for Group R 3 occupancies as applicable in section
101.2 and Group U occupancies that are accessory to a residential occupancy
including, but not limited to, those listed in Section 312.1.
   3. Special inspections and tests are not required for portions of structures
designed and constructed in accordance with the cold formed steel light frame
construction provisions of Section 2211.1.2 or the conventional light frame
constructions provisions of Section 2308.
   4. The contractor is permitted to employ the approved agencies where the
contractor is also the owner.
Chapter 18 - Soils And Foundations
Section 1803.2 Investigations Required.
Amend Section 1803.2 to read as follows:
   1803.2 Investigations required. Geotechnical investigations shall be
conducted in accordance with Sections 1803.3 through 1803.5.17
   Exception: The building official need not require a geotechnical
investigation where satisfactory data from adjacent areas is provided by a
licensed design professional that demonstrates an investigation is not
necessary for any of the conditions in Sections 1803.5.1 through 1803.5.6 and
Sections 1803.5.10 and 1803.5.11.
1803.5.8 Compacted Fill Material.
Add new items #8 and #9 to subsection 1803.5.8 as follows:
      8.   Flooding or jetting must not be used to compact fill material that
will support footings or foundation systems.
      9.   Placement Procedures For Oversized Fill/Backfill Material.
No rock or similar irreducible material with a maximum dimension greater than
12 inches must be buried or placed in fills/backfills within five feet measured
vertically, from the bottom of the footing or lowest finished floor elevation,
whichever is lower, nor three feet measured horizontally from any footing,
stemwall, basement wall or structural element, within the building pad.
Oversized fill material must be placed so as to assure the filling of all voids
with well-graded soil. Specific placement and inspection criteria must be
stated in the geotechnical investigation. Continuous special inspection will be
required during placement of any oversized fill material.
1803.6 Reporting.
Amend section 1803.6 and add new items 5, 7, 13 through 22 as follows:
1803.6 Reporting.
Where geotechnical investigations are required, a written report of the
investigation must be submitted to the city of Elko by the owner or authorized
agent at the time of permit application. The geotechnical report must include,
but need not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   A plot showing the location of the test borings, excavations, and/or
investigations. The plot must be dimensioned and must show the approximate
location of all existing and proposed structures.
      2.   A complete record of the soil boring and penetration test logs and
soil samples.
      3.   A record of the soil profile.
      4.   Depth to the water table, if encountered.
      5.   Anticipated approximate cut and fill depths.
      6.   Recommendations for foundation type and design criteria, including
but not limited to: bearing capacity of natural or compacted soil; provisions
to mitigate the effects of expansive soils; mitigation of the effects of
liquefaction, differential settlement, and varying soil strength; and the
effects of adjacent loads. Provide provisions to mitigate the effects of
collapsible soils, soluble soils, uncontrolled fill, chemical heave, and
corrosive soils. Provide supporting test data.
      7.   Caliche and cemented soils considerations, if encountered.
Recommendations for the removal of caliche and cemented soils and/or the
preparation and grading for foundations on caliche and cemented soils.
      8.   Expected total and differential settlement.
      9.   Deep foundation information in accordance with section 1803.5.5.
      10.   Special design and construction provisions for foundations of
structures founded on expansive soils, as necessary.
      11.   Compacted fill material properties and testing in accordance with
section 1803.5.8. Provide provisions to mitigate the effects of collapsible
soils, soluble soils, uncontrolled fill, chemical heave, and corrosive soils.
      12.   Controlled low-strength material properties and testing in
accordance with section 1803.5.9.
      13.   Soil classification by the unified soil classification system (ASTM
D 2487). As an alternative, classification may be performed on a visual-manual
basis (ASTM D 2488) in the field by an individual with a degree in civil
engineering, engineering geology, geologic engineering, or geology. Backup data
must be included for at least one sample for every two (2) excavations and/or
borings distributed among the prominent horizons in the soil profile.
      14.   Classify the expansion level of the soil and specify the minimum
embedment depth per table 1808.6.1.1.
      15.   Address, if applicable, the possible impacts on adjoining
properties and mitigating measures to be undertaken.
      16.   Suitability of onsite soils for use as fill material.
      17.   Provide grading requirements for onsite and import soils (where
applicable) including, but not limited to, swell, solubility, and sulfates.
      18.   Geotechnical design considerations for drainage structures, as
applicable.
      19.   Erosion control requirements, as applicable.
      20.   Anticipated structural loads and type of proposed structure.
      21.   Site class per table 1613.5.5, including all test data and
supporting calculations.
      22.   All geotechnical reports must be current within the last 12 months.
Any report older than 12 months must be accompanied by a wet sealed update
letter addressing the current site conditions based on a recent site visit.
Section 1805 - Damp-Proofing And Waterproofing.
1805.2.1 Floors.
Revise subsection 1805.2.1 as follows:
1805.2.1 Floors.
Damp-proofing materials for floors must be installed between the floor and the
base course required by section 1805.4.1, except where a separate floor is
provided above a concrete slab. Where installed beneath the slab, damp-proofing
must consist of not less than 10-mil (.010 inch; 0.254 mm) polyethylene with
joints lapped not less than 6 inches (152 mm) or other approved methods or
materials. Where permitted to be installed on top of the slab, damp-proofing
must consist of mopped-on bitumen, not less than 4-mil (.004 inch; 0.012 mm)
polyethylene, or other approved methods or materials. Joints in the membrane
must be lapped and sealed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation
instructions.
   1807.2.1.1 Rockery retaining walls.
   Rockery retaining walls or rockery soil stabilization walls shall not be
subject to surcharges, such as building foundations, adjacent retaining
structures, slopes or vehicle surcharge. Rockery walls over four feet in height
shall be engineered and shall have special inspection. The special inspection
shall verify all of the specified items listed below. Wall height is determined
from the bottom of the footing to the adjacent grade at the top of the wall.
Structures adjacent to rockery wall shall be set back a minimum distance equal
to the height of the wall. As described above, drainage shall be provided
behind all engineered rockery walls. A global stability analysis shall be
performed for all rockery walls that are terraced. No single tier shall exceed
8 feet in height. The Engineer shall specify on the construction documents:
   1. Type and quality of rock.
   2. Unit weight, if design exceeds 155 pcf.
   3. Rock size in approximate diameter
   4. Rock placement voids greater than 3" shall be filled
   5. Drainage swale and system
   6. Embedment
   7. Wall face slope (batter 6v:1H recommended)
   8. Mechanically stabilized earth, if specified
   A Global Stability Analysis shall include the following:
   1. Shall be stamped by a licensed geotechnical engineer.
   2. Shall include a seismic evaluation representative of the location.
   3. All results of the analysis shall be included in the report.
1808.6.1 Foundations.
Amend Section 1808.6.1 to read as follows:
   1808.6.1 Foundations. Foundations placed on or within the active zone of
expansive soils shall be designed to resist differential volume changes and to
prevent structural damage to the supported structure. Deflection and racking of
the supported structure shall be limited to that which will not interfere with
the usability and serviceability of the structure.
   Foundations placed below where volume change occur or below expansive soil
shall comply with the following provisions:
   1. Foundations extending into or penetrating expansive soils shall be
designed to prevent uplift of the supported structure.
   2. Foundations penetrating expansive soils shall be designed to resist
forces exerted on the foundation due to soil volume changes or shall be
isolated from the expansive soil.
   Post tensioned slabs shall not be utilized in place of frost depth footing
design unless super structure deflection and differential movement calculations
are provided. The deflection calculations would need to show that the maximum
combined frost and expansive soil heaving, as localized at slab edges, with
resultant non uniformly distributed deflections, as well as whole slab
deflections would not result in super structure racking or excessive truss,
roof or wall frame movement.
Section 1809.5 Frost Protection.
Amend Section 1809.5(1) to read as follows:
   1809.5 Frost protection. Except where otherwise protected from frost,
foundations and other permanent supports of buildings and structures shall be
protected from frost by one or more of the following methods:
   1. Extending below the frost line of the locality. Refer to 2018 Northern
Nevada Amendments Appendix Table R201.2(1) for requirements of local
Authorities Having Jurisdiction.
   2. Constructing in accordance with ASCE 32.
   3. Erecting on solid rock.
   Exception: Free standing buildings meeting all of the following conditions
shall not be required to be protected:
   1. Assigned to Risk Category I.
   2. Area of 600 square feet (56 m2) or less for light frame construction or
400 square feet (37 m2) or less for other than light frame construction.
   3. Eave height of 10 feet (3048 mm) or less.
   Shallow foundations shall not bear on frozen soil unless such frozen
condition is of a permanent character.
Chapter 29 - Plumbing Systems
Amend Section 2901.5 to read as follows:
   2901.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter and the Uniform Plumbing Code
shall govern the design, construction, erection and installation of plumbing
components, appliances, equipment and systems used in buildings and structures
covered by this code. Toilet and bathing rooms shall be constructed in
accordance with Section 1209.The International Fire Code, Uniform Plumbing Code
shall govern the use and maintenance of plumbing components, appliances,
equipment and systems. The International Existing Building Code and the Uniform
Plumbing Code shall govern the alteration, repair, relocation, replacement and
addition of plumbing components, appliances, equipment and systems.
Section 2902.1 Minimum Number of Fixtures.
Amend Section 2902.1 to read as follows:
   2902.1 Minimum number of fixtures. Plumbing fixtures shall be provided in
the minimum number as shown in Table 2902.1 based on the actual use of the
building or space. Uses not shown in Table 2902.1 shall be considered
individually by the code official. The number of occupants shall be determined
by this code. Suitable toilet facilities shall be provided and maintained in a
sanitary condition for the use of workers during construction.
Table 2902.1 Minimum Number Of Required Plumbing Fixtures.
Amend Table 2902.1 to read as follows:
   (See next page)
 
                                            WATER            LAVATORIES
                                         CLOSETS                     BATHTUB DRINKING
No.       CLASSIFICATI    DESCRIPTION                                S/SHOWE FOUNTAI  OTHER
                                         Male      Female    Male Female   RS      NS

                          Theaters and
                          other
                          buildings for                                            1 per    1
                          the performing 1 per 125 1 per 65  1 per 200     --      500      service
                          arts and                                                          sink
                          motion
                          pictures d
                          Nightclubs,
                          bars, taverns,                                                    1
                          dance halls    1 per 40  1 per 40  1 per 75      --      1 per    service
                          and buildings                                            500      sink
                          for similar
                        purposesd
1         Assembly     Restaurants,                                                      1
                          banquet halls  1 per 75  1 per 75  1 per 200     --      1 per    service
                          and food                                                 500      sink
                          courtsd
                                         1 per 100 1 per 50
                                         for the   for the   1 per 250 for
                                         first 400 first 400 the first 750
                          Casino gaming  and 1 per and 1 per and 1 per 500         1 per    1
                          areas          250 for   150 for   for the       --      1,000    service
                                         the       the       remainder                      sink
                                         remainder remainder exceeding 750
                                         exceeding exceeding
                                         400       400
 
                                            WATER        LAVATORIES
                                            CLOSETS                BATHTUBS DRINKING
   N   CLASSIFICATI    DESCRIPTION                           /        FOUNTAI  OTHER
                                         Male    Female  Male Female  SHOWERS  NS

                          Auditoriums
                          without
                          permanent
                          seating, art
                          galleries,                                                    1
                          exhibition     1 per   1 per   1 per 200    --       1 per    service
                          halls,         125     65                            500      sink
                          museums,
                          lecture halls,
                          libraries,
                          arcades and
                          gymnasiumsd
                          Passenger                                                     1
                          terminals and  1 per   1 per   1 per 750    --       1 per    service
                          transportation 500     500                           1,000    sink
                        facilities d
                        Places of
1      Assembly           worship        1 per   1 per                         1 per    1
                        and other      150     75      1 per 200    --       1,000    service
                          religious                                                     sink
                          services d
                                         1 per   1 per
                                         75 for  40 for
                          Coliseums,     the     the
                          arenas,        first   first
                          skating rinks, 1,500   1,520
                          pools and      and 1   and 1   1    1 per            1 per    1
                          tennis courts  per 120 per 60  per  150     --       1,000    service
                          for indoor     for the for the 200                            sink
                          sporting       remain- remain-
                          events and     der     der
                          activities     exceed- exceed-
                                         ing     ing
                                         1,500   1,520
 
                                            WATER        LAVATORIES
                                            CLOSETS                BATHTUB DRINKING
   N   CLASSIFICATI    DESCRIPTION                           S/      FOUNTAI  OTHER
                                         Male    Female  Male Female  SHOWERS NS

                                         1 per   1 per
                                         75 for  40 for
                          Stadiums,      the     the
                          amusement      first   first
                          parks,         1,500   1,520
1                         bleachers and  and 1   and 1   1    1 per           1 per    1
      Assembly           grandstands    per 120 per 60  per  150     --      1,000    service
                          for outdoor    for the for the 200                           sink
                          sporting       remain- remain-
                          events and     der     der
                          activities f   exceed- exceed-
                                         ing     ing
                                         1,500   1,520
                          Buildings for
                          the
                          transaction of
                          business, pro-
                          fessional ser-
                          vices, other   1 per 25 for    1 per 40 for
                          services       the first 50    the first 80                  1
                        involving      and 1 per 50    and 1 per 80 --      1 per    service
2      Business           merchandise,   for the         for the              100      sink
                          office         remainder       remainder
                          buildings,     exceeding 50    exceeding 80
                          banks, light
                          industrial,
                          ambulatory
                          care and
                          similar uses
                          Educational                                         1 per    1
3      Educational        facilities     1 per 50        1 per 50     --      100      service
                                                                                       sink
                          Structures in
                          which
                          occupants are
                          engaged in                                                   1
4      Factory and        work           1 per 100       1 per 100    --      1 per    service
       industrial         fabricating,                                        400      sink
                          assembly or
                          processing of
                          products or
                          materials
                                            WATER    
                                            CLOSETLAVATORIES  BATHTUBS/ DRINKING
   N   CLASSIFICATI    DESCRIPTION                      SHOWERS   FOUNTAI  OTHER
                                         Male Female Male Female           NS

                          Custodial care                                   1 per    1
                          facilities     1 per 10    1 per 10    1 per 8   100      service
                                                                                    sink
                          Medical care
                          recipients in  1 per room  1 per room            1 per    1
                          hospitals and  c           c           1 per 15  100      service
                          nursing homes                                             sink
                          b
                          Employees in
                          hospitals and  1 per 25    1 per 35    --        1 per    --
                          nursing homes                                    100
                          b
                          Visitors in                                      1 per
                          hospitals and  1 per 75    1 per 100   --        500
                        nursing homes
                                                                         1 per    1
5      Institutional      Prisons b      1 per cell  1 per cell  1 per 15  100      service
                                                                                    sink
                          Reformatories,
                          detention                                        1 per    1
                          centers and    1 per 15    1 per 15    1 per 15  100      service
                          correctional                                              sink
                          centers b
                          Employees in
                          reformatories,
                          detention      1 per 25    1 per 35    --        1 per    --
                          centers and                                      100
                          correctional
                          centers b
                          Adult day care                                   1 per    1
                          and child day  1 per 15    1 per 15    1         100      service
                          care                                                      sink
 
                                            WATER    
                                            CLOSETLAVATORIES BATHTUB  DRINKING
   N   CLASSIFICATI    DESCRIPTION               Femal S/       FOUNTAI  OTHER
                                         Male Female Male e     SHOWERS  NS

                          Retail stores,
                          service
                        stations,                                      1 per    1 service
6      Mercantile         shops, sales-  1 per 500   1 per 750  --       1,000    sink e
                          rooms, markets
                          and shopping
                          centers
                          Hotels,
                          motels,        1 per       1 per      1 per             1 service
                          boarding       sleeping    sleeping   sleeping --       sink
                          houses         unit        unit       unit
                          (transient)
                          Dormitories,
                          fraternities,
                          sororities and 1 per 10    1 per 10   1 per 8  1 per    1 service
                          boarding                                       100      sink
                         houses (not
7                        transient)
      Residential                                                                1 kitchen
                                                                                  sink per
                                                                                  dwelling
                                                                                  unit; 1
                          Apartment      1 per       1 per      1 per             automatic
                          house          dwelling    dwelling   dwelling --       clothes
                                         unit        unit       unit              washer
                                                                                  connectio
                                                                                  n per 20
                                                                                  dwelling
                                                                                  units
 
                                            WATER    
                                            CLOSETLAVATORIES BATHTUB  DRINKING
   N   CLASSIFICATIO   DESCRIPTION               Femal S/       FOUNTAI  OTHER
                                         Male Female Male e     SHOWERS  NS

                          One- and two-                                           1 kitchen
                          family                                                  sink per
                          dwellings and  1 per                  1 per             dwelling
                          lodging houses dwelling    1 per 10   dwelling --       unit; 1
                          with five or   unit                   unit              automatic
7      Residential        fewer                                                   clothes
                          guestrooms
                          Congregate
                          living                                         1 per    1 service
                          facilities     1 per 10    1 per 10   1 per 8  100      sink
                          with 16 or
                          fewer persons
                          Structures for
                          the storage of
                          goods, ware-
                          houses, store-                                 1 per    1 service
8      Storage            houses and     1 per 100   1 per 100  --       1,000    sink
                          freight
                          depots, low
                          and moderate
                          hazard
 
a.   The fixtures shown are based on one fixture being the minimum required for
the number of persons indicated or any fraction of the number of persons
indicated. The number of occupants shall be determined by this code.
b.   Toilet facilities for employees shall be separate from facilities for
inmates or care recipients.
c.   A single occupant toilet room with one water closet and one lavatory
serving not more than two adjacent patient sleeping units shall be permitted,
provided that each patient sleeping unit has direct access to the toilet room
and provisions for privacy for the toilet room user are provided.
d.   The occupant load for seasonal outdoor seating and entertainment areas
shall be included when determining the minimum number of facilities required.
e.   For business and mercantile classifications with an occupant load of 30 or
fewer, a service sink shall not be required.
f.   The required number and type of plumbing fixtures for outdoor swimming
pools shall be in accordance with Section 609of the International Swimming Pool
and Spa Code.
g.   Drinking fountains are not required for an occupant load of 30 or fewer.
h.   For business and mercantile classifications with an occupant load of 30 or
fewer, a service sink shall not be required.
I.   In each bathroom or toilet room, urinals shall not be substituted for more
than 67 percent of the required water closets in assembly and educational
occupancies. Urinals shall not be substituted for more than 50 percent of the
required water closets in all other occupancies.
 
Section 3102.7 Engineering Design.
Amend Section 3102.7 to read as follows:
   3102.7 Engineering design. The structure shall be designed and constructed
to sustain dead loads; loads due to tension or inflation; live loads including
wind, snow, flood and seismic loads and in accordance with Chapter 16.
   Exception: Membrane structures intended to be in place for 30 days or less
may be engineered to risk category I loads provided the installation and use
are per the manufacturer's recommendations.
Appendices C, E, H, I, and O
Adopt Appendices C, E, H, I, and 0 in their entirety without amendment.
Adopt Appendix J in its entirety with the following amendments:
Section J102.1 Definitions.
Revise the definition of "GRADING" as follows:
   GRADING. An excavation, inclusive of clearing and grubbing of vegetation, or
fill or combination thereof.
   Add new definitions in Section J102.1 for Building Pad, Certify, Fault,
Fault, Final Grading Report, Geotechnical Report (Soils Report), Pad
Certification Report, Pad Recertification Report, and Refusal as follows:
   BUILDING PAD. The soil, cut or fill site, outlined by the area of the
footprint of the building plus a minimum of 5 additional feet (1529 mm) to the
exterior. This includes any type of foundation system for the structure.
   CERTIFY. Use of the word "certify" or "certification" constitutes an
expression of professional opinion regarding those facts or findings which are
the subject of the certification.
   FAULT. A fracture or zone of fracturing in geologic materials (soil or rock)
along which there has been displacement of the sides relative to one another
parallel to the fracture.
   FINAL GRADING REPORT. A grading report stamped and signed by a registered
design professional certifying that the building pad was constructed in
conformance with the recommendations set forth in the geotechnical report. This
report contains explicit information and data that verifies compliance with the
geotechnical report of record including any approved supplements or addendums.
   GEOTECHNICAL REPORT (SOILS REPORT). Data and engineering recommendations
resulting from site exploration which evaluates the soil conditions and general
site characteristics and suitability of the site for the proposed construction.
A registered design professional shall prepare and seal the report.
   PAD CERTIFICATION REPORT. An interim grading report stamped and signed by a
registered design professional certifying that the building pad currently is in
conformance with the recommendations set forth in the geotechnical report of
record.
   PAD RECERTIFICATION REPORT. A report stamped and signed by a registered
design professional certifying that the building pad currently is in
conformance with the recommendations set forth in the geotechnical report of
record. This report contains explicit information and data that verifies
compliance to the geotechnical report of record including any approved
supplements or addendums.
   REFUSAL. Refusal while advancing an exploration is recognized as defined by
ASTM D 1586-08a.
Section J103 - Permits Required.
J103.2 Permit Exemptions.
Delete exemption #1 in section J103.2 and re-number the remaining exemptions
sequentially as follows:
J103.2 Exemptions.
A grading permit must not be required for the following:
      1.   Excavation for construction of a structure permitted under this
code.
      2.   Cemetery graves.
      3.   Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations.
      4.   Excavations for wells or trenches for utilities.
      5.   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing or stockpiling rock, sand,
gravel, aggregate, or clay controlled by other regulations, provided such
operations do not affect the lateral support of, or significantly increase
stresses in, soil on adjoining properties.
      6.   Exploratory excavations performed under the direction of a
registered design professional.
Exemption from the permit requirements of this appendix must not be deemed to
grant authorization for any work to be done in any manner in violation of the
provisions of this code or any other laws or ordinances of the city.
J103.3 Hazards.
Add a new section J103.3 Hazards as follows:
J103.3 Hazards.
Whenever the city of Elko determines that any existing excavation, embankment,
or fill on private property has become a hazard to life and limb, or endangers
property, or adversely affects the safety, use or stability of a public way,
easement, storm sewer system, or drainage channel, the owner of the property
upon which the excavation or fill is located, or other person or agent in
control of said property, upon receipt of notice in writing from the city of
Elko, must, within the period specified therein repair or eliminate such
excavation or embankment to eliminate the hazard and to be in conformance with
the requirements of this code.
Section J104 - Permit Application And Submittals.
J104.1 Submittal Requirements.
Revise section J104.1 as follows:
J104.1 Submittal Requirements.
In addition to the provisions of section 105.3, the applicant must state the
estimated quantities of excavation and fill. All projects that require grading
must have a grading plan prepared, stamped, and signed by a registered design
professional.
Exception:
At the option of the city of Elko, if the structure is located outside of a
flood hazard area the following projects may be exempted from having a grading
plan. Projects exempted from a grading plan must still comply with the grading
and drainage requirements in the IBC.
      1.   Single story structures or additions with a footprint less than 600
square feet.
      2.   Patio covers, decks, and canopies associated with a single family
residence.
      3.   Mobile homes, trailers, modular buildings that do not have concrete
or masonry foundations.
      4.   Pre-engineered carports.
      5.   Signs, light poles, and communication towers.
J104.2 Site (Grading) Plan Requirements.
Revise section J104.2 in its entirety, as follows:
J104.2 Grading Plan Requirements.
All grading plans must be prepared, stamped, and signed by a registered design
professional. The following items must be included on all grading plan
submittals.
      1.   General vicinity of the proposed site.
      2.   Property limits and accurate contours of existing ground and details
of terrain and area drainage.
      3.   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be achieved by
the grading, proposed drainage channels, and related construction.
      4.   Location of any buildings or structures on the property where the
work is to be performed and the location of any buildings or structures on land
of adjacent owners that are within 100 feet of the property or that may be
affected by the proposed grading operations.
      5.   Recommendations included in the geotechnical report must be
incorporated in the grading plans or specifications as follows:
         a.   Locations and dimensions of all cut and fill slopes,
         b.   Locations of all cross sections presented in the geotechnical
report,
         c.   Locations and sizes of all recommended remedial measures such as
buttress fills, stability fills, deep foundation systems, reinforced earth,
retaining walls, etc.,
         d.   Location and layout of proposed subdrainage system.
      6.   A statement that the site must be graded in accordance with the
approved geotechnical report. This statement must include the firm name that
prepared the geotechnical report, the report number, and the date of the
geotechnical report.
      7.   Locations of other existing topographic features either natural or
man-made such as streets, drainage structures, pavements, walls, mining pits,
etc.
      8.   The cut to fill transition line.
      9.   Positive drainage away from the foundation per section 1804.3.
      10.   Details and cross sections at property lines, fence walls,
retaining walls, berms, etc.
      11.   Elevation datum and benchmarks (NAVD 88).
      12.   Existing contours at least 100 feet beyond the property lines.
      13.   Proposed finish contours or spot elevations at the property
corners, building pad, and at swale flow lines.
      14.   Elevations of curbs or centerlines of roads or streets.
      15.   Earthwork quantities in cubic yards.
      16.   Finish floor elevations.
      17.   Details and cross sections of typical fill slopes and cut slopes.
      18.   Typical details of fill-over-natural slopes and fill- over-cut
slopes where fill is to be placed on natural or cut slopes steeper than 5H:1V
in accordance with section J107.
      19.   Setback dimensions of cut and fill slopes from site boundaries per
section J108.
      20.   The placement of buildings and structures on and/or adjacent to
slopes steeper than 3H:1V (33.3% slope) must be in accordance with section
1808.7.
      21.   Provide terracing in accordance with section J109 for slopes
steeper than 3H:1V (33.3% slope).
      22.   Provide the locations and dimensions of all terrace drains for all
slopes steeper than 3H:1V in accordance with section J109.
      23.   The standard notes specified in the city of Elko Construction Site
Best Management Practice Guidance Manual (most current edition).
      24.   Registered design professional original seal (wet seal), signature
and date or a records stamp and signature stating, "This is a true and exact
copy of the original document on file in this office."
J104.3 Geotechnical Report.
Revise section J104.3 as follows:
J104.3 Geotechnical Report.
A geotechnical report prepared by a registered design professional must be
provided. The report must comply with section 1803.6.
Section J105 - Inspections.
Revise section J105 in its entirety, as follows:
J105.1 General.
Inspection of grading operations must comply with the provisions of this
section. The permittee must be responsible for the work to be performed in
accordance with the approved plans and specifications and in conformance with
the provisions of this code. The permittee must engage an approved agency, if
required by the city of Elko.
J105.1.1 Completion Of Work And Final Reports.
Report submittal must be in compliance with section 1704.1.2.
J105.1.2 Final Grading Report.
Upon completion of pad grading (or foundation excavation) and prior to a
footing or foundation inspection, a final grading report must be provided by an
approved agency. Grading (or foundation excavation) must be observed and tested
by an approved agency. The approved agency must prepare the report, signed by a
registered design professional certifying that the grading and earthwork are
complete and substantially comply with the requirements of the geotechnical
report of record including any approved supplements or addenda. At the option
of the city of Elko, a pad certification report submitted in accordance with
section J105.1.3 may be accepted as an interim report prior to a footing or
foundation inspection. A final grading report will then be required prior to
receiving a final inspection.
The final grading report itself will contain all applicable test data and
analysis of the data. Specific project information is also required if there
were any changes to the geotechnical report of record or unusual circumstances
encountered during grading. The report must also include the following
information:
      1.   Compaction test results, requirements, locations, depth of backfill
at test locations and names of technicians conducting the tests.
      2.   Moisture density values and curves that include classifications for
all soils used in the grading operation.
      3.   Description of structure or pad including the proposed use.
      4.   Grading plan showing approximate locations of tests, dates and
depths of over-excavation observations, original contours and finish pad
elevations.
      5.   Swell and solubility test requirements and results. This information
must be provided if required by the geotechnical report of record, elsewhere in
the code, or if imported soils were utilized.
      6.   Type of foundation system applicable to work being certified (i.e.,
spread footings, strip footings, combination footings, drilled shafts, etc.).
      7.   Import material used, source of import, and tests indicating
compliance with the geotechnical report of record recommendations, and
classification in relation to ACI 318-08 section 4.3.
      8.   A statement describing the process of pad grading. Where applicable,
this must include, but not be limited to the minimum depth of over-excavation,
blending operations, the use of import soils, nested aggregate, organics
encountered, and removal of unsuitable soils.
      9.   The preceding requirements must be presented for each pad or
structure being certified.
The final grading report remains valid for a maximum of six months after the
completion of grading. The six month period begins at the first test date of
the final test of the final lift of the structural pad. Once expired, a pad re-
certification report is required.
J105.1.3 Pad Certification Report.
This letter/report is used as an interim document until a final grading report
is completed (i.e., a final grading report for the entire project or a
particular phase(s) of a project). The approved agency must prepare this report
signed by a registered design professional and certifying that the grading and
earthwork are complete and substantially comply with the requirements of the
geotechnical report of record including any approved supplements or addenda.
Specific project information is also required if there were any changes to the
geotechnical report of record or unusual circumstances encountered during
grading.
This report must include the following information for each pad or structure:
      1.   The first test date of the final test of the final lift.
      2.   Permit number and pad or structure description.
      3.   Classification of foundation soils in relation to ACI 318-08 section
4.3.
      4.   Classification of foundation soil for expansive properties (i.e.,
non-expansive or results from standard 60 pounds per square foot swell test).
      5.   The name(s) of the approved special inspector(s) and any technicians
that observed grading or foundation improvements.
      6.   This report remains valid for no longer than six months after the
completion of grading. The six month period begins at the first test date of
the final test of the final lift of the structural pad. Upon expiration, a
final grading report and pad recertification report will be required.
J105.1.4 Pad Recertification Report.
This report is required when a final grading report or pad certification report
has expired or if required by the city of Elko. The approved agency must
prepare this report signed by a registered design professional certifying the
current suitability of the pad(s). The condition of the pad(s) is discussed,
tests performed and their results are presented and discussed, and any
additional grading or reworking is discussed. The conclusions are stated and
based upon the current condition of the pad(s) compared to completion at
original grading and a statement that the current condition of the pad(s)
substantially complies with the requirements of the geotechnical report of
record including any approved supplements or addenda.
As a minimum, pad moisture data and standard sixty pounds per square foot swell
test results, if applicable, are included in this report. The tests must be
conducted on a representative number of pads.
The report remains valid for no longer than six months after the latest test
date. Once expired, the pad(s) recertification will require an evaluation by a
registered design professional to confirm the applicability of current site
conditions.
J105.1.5 Finished Floor Elevation Certificate.
A registered design professional must certify the lowest habitable finished
floor elevation to the elevation on the approved plans upon completion of the
slab inspection and placement or the placement of the final construction form
for the finished floor.
All certifications required by this section must be provided to and accepted by
the city of Elko prior to performance of any additional inspections.
The minimum finished floor elevation must comply with the approved plans and
the allowable tolerance must be minus (-) 0.0 feet to plus (+) 0.3 feet of the
finished floor elevation detailed on the approved plans.
J105.1.6 Drainage Compliance Report.
Upon completion of final grading, and prior to the final building inspection, a
statement of compliance for drainage must be provided by the registered design
professional of record or the developer when approved by the city of Elko.
This report must state that site conditions at the time of final construction
provide positive drainage in compliance with the approved drainage plan or the
plot and grading plan.
When engineered drainage features, facilities, or structures are required by
the approved plans, the registered design professional of record must verify
that installed and constructed elements are in compliance with the approved
plans. This includes site detention, lot to lot drainage, and drainage
conveyance devices.
J105.1.7 Notification Of Noncompliance.
If in the course of fulfilling their respective duties under this appendix, the
registered design professional or the approved agency finds that the work is
not being done in conformance with this appendix or the approved plans the
discrepancies must be immediately reported in writing to the contractor, the
permittee, and to the city of Elko.
J105.2 Special Inspections.
The special inspection requirements of section 1704 must apply to work
performed under a grading permit where required by the city of Elko.
Appendix L - Fences, Walls And Retaining Walls
Add a new appendix L Fences, Walls And Retaining Walls, as follows:
Appendix O - Fences, Walls and Retaining Walls.
Add a new Appendix O Fences, Walls and Retaining Walls, as follows:
   Appendix O - Fences, Walls and Retaining Walls
   Section O101- General.
   O101.1 General. It will be unlawful for any person, contractor, firm or
corporation to erect, install, construct or replace any fence, wall or
retaining wall contrary to the provisions of this code.
   O101.2 Applicable Regulations. All regulations and requirements of the
building code and any amendments, deletions and additions thereto shall apply
to the erection, installation or construction of any fence, wall and/or
retaining wall except that which may be inconsistent with this chapter.
Section O102 - Definitions.
   O102.1 Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms are
defined as follows:
   Cut. See Excavation.
   Excavation. The removal of earth material by artificial means, also referred
to as a cut.
   Fence. A structure of material such as wrought iron, wire, wood, screen,
vinyl, plastic, etc., erected for purposes of enclosure, division of property
or decoration.
   Fill. The deposition placement of earth materials by artificial means.
   Retaining Wall. Any wall that is used to resist the lateral displacement of
earth or any other material with a difference in elevation of the material from
one side to the other exceeding 24 inches (610 mm) in height.
   Rockery Wall. A system of stacked rocks constructed to retain soil.
   Wall. A structure of stone, brick, masonry, concrete or other similar
permanent material, raised to some height and erected for purposes of
enclosure, division of property or decoration.
Section O103-Permits.
   O103.1 Permits Required. No fence, wall or retaining wall regulated by this
code, for which a permit is required, shall be erected, constructed, enlarged,
altered, repaired, moved, improved, removed, converted or demolished unless a
separate permit for each fence, wall or retaining wall is obtained from the
City.
   O103.2 Separate Permits Required. A separate permit is required for each
parcel of land upon which a fence, wall or retaining wall is to be located.
   Exception: Only one permit is required for multiple fence(s), wall(s) and/or
retaining wall(s) constructed along property lines in connection with the
development of a subdivision, provided that a legal description of the property
is submitted together with a dimensioned plot plan showing the exact location
of the fence, wall and/or retaining wall and all other recorded lot and
easement lines.
   O103.3 Application for a Fence, Wall or Retaining Wall Permit. To obtain a
permit, the applicant shall first file an application on a form furnished by
the City for that purpose. The application shall include the following:
   1. The name and address of the owner of the real property upon which the
fence, wall and/or retaining wall is to be located.
   2. The type of material to be used for construction of the fence, wall, and/
or retaining wall.
   3. The total length, height and square footage of each fence, wall and/or
retaining wall.
   4. The authorized agent to perform construction.
   5. A dimensioned drawing that identifies the location of each fence, wall
and/or retaining wall with respect to the property or lot lines, easements,
streets, other rights-of-way. Existing construction and drainage features shall
be clearly identified on the drawings.
   6. The location of all light standards, gas and water meters, and fire
hydrants.
    7. Other information deemed pertinent by the City.
   O103.4 Drawings and Specifications. Drawings and specifications required for
retaining walls shall be prepared by a registered design professional. The
design shall be in accordance with the applicable chapters of the IBC. Rockery
walls shall be designed in accordance with the IBC and shall be prepared by a
registered design professional. Specifications for fences and walls need not be
submitted unless required by the City. Drawings and specifications shall be
submitted for retaining walls showing that the retaining wall is designed in
accordance with this code.
Section O104 - General Requirements and Limitations.
   O104.1 General. General requirements and limitations shall be as follows:
   1. No fence, wall and/or retaining wall shall be placed within a right-of-
way unless granted permission by the City.
   2. The height and location of a fence, wall and/or retaining wall shall
comply with all zoning ordinances and regulations of the City.
   3. Special inspection, if required, shall be in accordance with the IBC.
   O104.2 Required Inspections.
   1. All footings shall be inspected to verify compliance to the approved
plans and permit. Footings shall be excavated and cast against the earth.
   2. Concrete foundations shall not be placed until footings have been
inspected and approved by the City.
   3. No wall and/or retaining wall shall be grouted until the reinforcing
required has been inspected and approved by the City.
   4. Retaining wall shall not be backfilled until verification of the damp-
proofing, when required, and drainage has been inspected and approved by the
City.
   O104.3 Natural Drainage.
   Permits shall not be issued for fences, walls and/or retaining walls, which
would block any natural flow path.
   O104.4 Prohibited Materials. Walls, fences and retaining walls shall not be
constructed of materials which impose a direct safety hazard, such as pointed
posts, stakes or pickets, components intended for electrocution, embedded
glass, nails, barbed or razor type wire, or other sharp, cutting objects.
   Exception: Manufactured barbed or razor wire may be used when its detailed
use, location, and construction requirements are approved by the City of Elko.
   O104.5 Minimum Requirements for the Structural Analysis and Construction of
Rockery Walls.
   1. A dimensioned drawing that identifies the location of each rockery wall
with respect to the property lines, easement, streets, and other rights-of-way.
Existing construction, required setbacks as noted below, and drainage features
shall clearly be identified on drawings.
   2. Cross section of wall showing the approximate rock size for each lift,
maximum height, backfill, drainage, slope of ground, embedment, cuts, and
required face inclination.
   3. All rockery walls greater than four feet (4') in height require
engineering analysis.
   4. All rockery walls greater than four feet (4') in height require a
geotechnical report.
   5. The base rock shall be embedded at least 12" into the soil. Placement of
base rocks at grade followed by subsequent backfilling of the "toe area" shall
not be permitted unless specific recommendations are provided by the
geotechnical and/or structural engineer(s). The base should be level and shall
not have a slope greater than 1 unit vertical to 10 units horizontal (10-
percent): otherwise a stepped base is required.
   6. The wall shall have a face inclination ratio of at least 1 unit
horizontal to 6 units vertical (1:6) measured at the exposed face of wall. The
ratio may be greater than 1:6.
   7. The surrounding site shall be graded such that water cannot flow over the
top of the wall.
   8. Landscape materials, if used, shall not have detrimental effect on the
wall. The use of landscape materials in close proximity to rockery walls shall
be specifically addressed in the structural analysis.
   9. Walls greater than ten feet high (10') shall have a slope stability
analysis performed by the design professional.
   10. Caliches and other "cemented soils" formed by precipitation shall not be
used in rockery wall construction unless special design considerations are
provided to address their suitability for use.
   11. The height of any single story rockery wall shall not exceed 8 feet.
   12. Rockery walls shall not be constructed as the sole means of repair to
provide stability to any unstable slope. In this case, a rockery wall may be
used only after the slope is first stabilized by MSE, soil nailing or some
other approved engineered repair.
   13. Multiple terraced (also sometimes referred to as stacked or tiered)
rockery require a slope stability analysis performed by the design
professional.
   14. Rockery walls greater than four feet (4') in height: Rocks sized as "two
man" (approximately 200-700 pounds and 18-28 inch nominal diameter) or greater
shall be tightly fitted and interlock with neighboring rocks. Smaller rocks may
be intermittently used for "structural chinking" which allows large rocks to
rest in a stable movement free position. Void spaces between larger rocks shall
be tightly filled or "aesthetically chinked" such that large gaps between rocks
in the exposed face are reasonably well filled. There shall be no loose rocks
or scree present at any point in the exposed face or top of a rockery wall.
   15. Rockery walls greater than four feet (4') in height: No rocks smaller
than the nominal "two man" size (approximately 200-700 pounds and 18-28 inch
nominal diameter) will be permitted to be exposed in the front face or top rock
layer. Tightly fitted smaller rocks used for the purpose of filling voids or
"chinking" shall not be subject to this limitation.
   16. The setback from a rockery wall to a building or structure shall be not
less than the height of the retained earth. The distance shall be measured from
the outside of the foundation of the structure to the exposed face of the
rockery wall. This provision applies to buildings or structures (except other
site walls or fences) on either the high side or low side of the rockery walls.
Exception: Where rockery walls are less than four feet (4') in height this
requirement may be waived at the option of the City of Elko.
   17. Multiple rockery walls, designed as terraced (stacked or tiered)
retaining walls, shall be minimum distance of ½ the height of the lower rockery
wall to another rockery wall. Surcharge loading from one wall to another shall
be considered in the design.
   18. Ornamental fences, guards, or screen walls shall be a minimum of four
feet (4') from the front face at the top of the rockery wall. Ornamental
fences, guards, or screen walls shall have their own foundations and not rely
on the rockery wall for structural support.
   19. Rockery walls shall be set back the required distances from fire
hydrants, light standards, gas meters, water meters, electrical transformers,
utility boxes or similar features. These distances shall be established and
enforced by the City. Where permitted, rockery walls located within a utility
or other easement shall be in accordance with the published standards of the
City.
   20. All structural analysis shall be in accordance with adopted building
codes, and local amendment adopted by the City, and this document.
   21. The following requirements shall apply:
   a. The maximum unit weight of the rocks used in the design of a rockery wall
shall be 155 pcf unless field verified by special inspection or preconstruction
lab analysis of samples from the source rock materials.
   b. The maximum coefficient of friction between rocks in a rockery wall is
0.5.
   c. Applied loads from adjacent foundations, surcharge materials, or dynamic/
transient loads shall be taken into consideration in the analysis.
   d. Specifications shall be provided to clearly define acceptance criteria
for rock materials.
   e. Design documents shall clearly address the need (or lack thereof) for
drainage provisions behind the wall. Items to be addressed are a gravel/cobble
drainage blanket, filter fabric and drainage pipes. Specific requirements may
be implemented by the City based upon prevailing geologic and climate
conditions.
   f. The engineer(s) of record shall provide specific acceptance criteria to
address special inspection details. Specific information shall be provided
regarding how the special inspector should determine compliance with embedment
requirements outlined in items 5 through 10.
   22. Inspections shall be performed as required by the City.
   23. Special inspection of rockery wall construction will be required for all
walls greater than four feet (4') in height.
   24. A final report shall be submitted by the special inspector to the City.
(Ord. 839, 6-11-2019)
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
2-3-1: Residential Code Provisions
2-3-2: Residential Code Amendments
2-3-1: RESIDENTIAL CODE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL
CODE OF THE CITY OF ELKO, hereinafter "code", including the adoption of the
2018 international residential code with the exception of chapters 11 through
42 but with appendices H and K and Q and necessary administrative provisions.
Certain sections of the international residential code and appendices may be
added or deleted.
   B.   Applicability: All construction of or the enlarging, altering,
repairing, moving, demolishing, or changing the occupancy of a building or
structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or
replace any component, element or portion of a building or structure within the
city must be in compliance with, in addition to, the other applicable codes or
amendments set forth by the city council and the latest edition of the
international residential code.
   C.   Frost Line: References in the international residential code to the
frost line mean a minimum of thirty inches (30") below finish grade.
   D.   Supplements: All supplements to the international residential code,
issued by the International Code Council Inc., between editions are hereby not
made a part of the then current edition of the international residential code.
   E.   Conflict: In the event that any of the provisions of the latest edition
of the international residential code conflict with any provision of this
chapter, the provisions of this chapter must govern and be controlling. (Ord.
724, 2-8-2011; amd. Ord. 839, 6-11-2019)
2-3-2: RESIDENTIAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
All building construction work and the inspections thereof must be in
conformity with the provisions of this code and with the latest edition of the
international residential code, which is hereby adopted by the city, with the
following specific deletions and additions:
Chapter 1 - Scope And Administration
Chapter 1 is deleted in its entirety and replaced by title 2 chapter 1,
"Building Regulations Administrative Code", of the city code.
Chapter 2 - Definitions
Section R202 - Definitions.
Revise and/or add the following definitions to section R202 as follows:
Townhouse. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of two or more
attached units completely independent of all other such units in the building
by reason of separation therefrom by un-pierced party walls in which each unit
extends from foundation to roof and with open space on at least two sides, and
as recorded on a final parcel map or final subdivision map.
Sleeping Area. Any area that includes one or more sleeping rooms that are
located on the same floor and are not separated by another habitable room, such
as a living room, dining room or kitchen (but not a bathroom, hallway or
closet).
Sleeping Room. Any sleeping room, bedroom, basement, loft, mezzanine or other
room that is ordinarily used or intended to be used for sleeping purposes. The
term is deemed to include any room that contains a closet and that provides for
occupant privacy.
Surcharge. A vertical load imposed on the retained soil that may impose a
lateral force in addition to the lateral earth pressure of the retained soil.
Examples include:
.   Sloped retained soil.
.   Structure footings supported by the retained soil.
.   Adjacent vehicle loads supported by the retained soil.
Temporary. A defined time set by the city not to exceed 90 days. Extension of
time may be granted upon written request.
Chapter 3 - Building Planning
Section R301 - Design Criteria.
Revise section R301 as follows:
R301.1.2 Construction Systems.
The requirements of this code are based on platform and balloon-frame
construction for light-frame buildings. The requirements for concrete and
masonry buildings are based on a balloon framing system. Other framing systems
must have equivalent detailing to ensure force transfer, continuity and
compatible deformations. All structural plain (unreinforced) concrete must be
designed in accordance with the 2009 IBC. All plain (unreinforced) masonry, and
rubble stone masonry construction is prohibited. All tables, figures and
references for these unreinforced systems are deleted.
Table R301.2(1) Climatic And Geographic Design Criteria.
Amend table R301.2(1) as follows:
   TABLE R301.2(1)
   CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
 
Ground Snow Wind Design        Seismic Design Subject To Damage From
Load        Speedd Topographic Category f     Weatheringa Frost Line Termitec
            (mph)  effectsk                               Depthb
30 lb/ft2   115    No          D0             Severe      30"        Slight to
                                                                     moderate
 
 
Winter Design Ice Barrier                    Air Freezing
Tempe         Underlayment Flood Hazardsg    Indexi       Mean Annual Tempj
              Requiredh
-2°          Yes          Varies, see       2000         46°F
                           Engineering Dept.
 
For SI: 1 pound per square foot = 0.0479 kPa, 1 mile per hour = 0.447 m/s.
a. Where weathering requires a higher strength concrete or grade of masonry
than necessary to satisfy the structural requirements of this code, the frost
line depth strength required for weathering shall govern. The weathering column
shall be filled in with the weathering index, "negligible," "moderate" or
"severe" for concrete as determined from Figure R301.2(4). The grade of masonry
units shall be determined from ASTM C34, C55, C62, C73, C90, C129, C145, C216
or C652.
b. Where the frost line depth requires deeper footings than indicated in Figure
R403.1(1), the frost line depth strength required for weathering shall govern.
The jurisdiction shall fill in the frost line depth column with the minimum
depth of footing below finish grade.
c. The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table to indicate the need
for protection depending on whether there has been a history of local
subterranean termite damage.
d. The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the wind speed
from the basic wind speed map [Figure R301.2(5)A]. Wind exposure category shall
be determined on a site specific basis in accordance with Section R301.2.1.4.
e. The outdoor design dry bulb temperature shall be selected from the columns
of 971/2 percent values for winter from Appendix D of the International
Plumbing Code. Deviations from the Appendix D temperatures shall be permitted
to reflect local climates or local 33 weather experience as determined by the
building official. [Also see Figure R301.2(1).]
f. The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the seismic
design category determined from Section R301.2.2.1.
g. The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with (a) the date of
the jurisdiction's entry into the National Flood Insurance Program (date of
adoption of the first code or ordinance for management of flood hazard areas),
(b) the date(s) of the Flood Insurance Study and © the panel numbers and dates
of the currently effective FIRMs and FBFMs or other flood hazard map adopted by
the authority having jurisdiction, as amended.
h. In accordance with Sections R905.1.2, R905.4.3.1, R905.5.3.1, R905.6.3.1,
R905.7.3.1 and 905.8.3.1, where there has been a history of local damage from
the effects of ice damming, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the
table with "YES." Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the
table with "NO."
I. The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the 100 year
return period air freezing index (BF days) from Figure R403.3(2) or from the
100 year (99 percent) value on the National Climatic Data Center data table
"Air Freezing Index USA Method (Base 32°F)."
j. The jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with the mean annual
temperature from the National Climatic Data Center data table "Air Freezing
Index USA Method (Base 32°F)."
k. In accordance with Section R301.2.1.5, where there is local historical data
documenting structural damage to buildings due to topographic wind speed up
effects, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part of the table with "YES."
Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall indicate "NO" in this part of the table.
l. In accordance with Figure R301.2(5)A, where there is local historical data
documenting unusual wind conditions, the jurisdiction shall fill in this part
of the table with "YES" and identify any specific requirements. Otherwise, the
jurisdiction shall indicate "NO" in this part of the table.
m. In accordance with Section R301.2.1.2 the jurisdiction shall indicate the
wind borne debris wind zone(s). Otherwise, the jurisdiction shall indicate "NO"
in this part of the table.
n. The jurisdiction shall fill in these sections of the table to establish the
design criteria using Table 1a or 1b from ACCA Manual J or established criteria
determined by the jurisdiction.
o. The jurisdiction shall fill in this section of the table using the Ground
Snow Loads in Figure R301.2(6).
R313 is deleted in its entirety with no replacement.
Adopt Appendix Q in its entirety with no amendments.
(Ord. 724, 2-8-2011; amd. Ord. 839, 6-11-2019)
CHAPTER 4
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
2-4-1: Mechanical Code Provisions
2-4-2: Mechanical Code Amendments
2-4-1: MECHANICAL CODE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the UNIFORM MECHANICAL CODE OF
THE CITY OF ELKO, hereinafter "code", including the adoption of the 2018
uniform mechanical code.
   B.   Applicability: All construction of or the enlarging, altering,
repairing, moving, demolishing, or changing the occupancy of a building or
structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or
replace any component, element or portion of a building or structure within the
city must be in compliance with, in addition to, the other applicable codes or
amendments set forth by the city council and the latest edition of the uniform
mechanical code.
   C.   Supplements: All supplements to the uniform mechanical code, issued by
the International Association Of Plumbing And Mechanical Officials (IAPMO),
between editions are hereby not made a part of the then current edition of the
uniform mechanical code.
   D.   Conflict: In the event that any of the provisions of the latest edition
of the uniform mechanical code conflicts with any provision of this chapter,
the provisions of this chapter must govern and be controlling. (Ord. 725, 2-8-
2011; amd. Ord. 839, 6-11-2019)
2-4-2: MECHANICAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
All building construction work and the inspections thereof must be in
conformity with the provisions of this code and with the latest edition of the
uniform mechanical code, which is hereby adopted by the city, with the
following specific deletions and additions:
Chapter 1 - Administration
Chapter 1 Administration is deleted in its entirety except for section 101.0
Title and section 102.0 Purpose, and replaced by title 2, chapter 1, "Building
Regulations Administrative Code", of the city code.
Chapter 2 - Definitions
Section 205.0 C - Definitions.
Add a new definition to section 205.0 to be placed in alphabetical order, as
follows:
Combustible Construction. Combustible construction means work within any
building or structure classified as type III, type IV, type V as defined in the
building code. Plastic piping is not permitted in type I and type II buildings.
Section 304.3 Access To Appliances On Roofs.
Amend Section 304.3 to read as follows:
   Section 304.3 Access to Appliances on Roofs. Appliances located on roofs or
other elevated locations above 30 inches shall be accessible. [NFPA 54:
9.4.3.11]
   304.3.1 Access. Buildings exceeding 15 feet (4572 mm) in height shall have
an inside means of access to the roof unless other means acceptable to the
Authority Having Jurisdiction are used [NFPA 54:9.4.3.2]
   3 4.3.1.1 Access Type. The inside means of access shall be a permanent, or
foldable inside stairway or ladder, terminating in an enclosure, scuttle, or
trap door. Such scuttles or trap doors shall be not less than 22 inches by 24
inches (559 mm by 610 mm) in size, shall open easily and safely under all
conditions, especially snow; and shall be constructed so as to permit access
from the roof side unless deliberately locked on the inside.
   Not less than 10 feet (3048 mm) of clearance shall be between the access
opening and the edge of the roof or similar hazard or rigidly fixed rails or
guards not less than 42 inches (1067 mm) in height shall be provided on
structures are utilized in lieu of guards or rails, they shall be not less than
42 inches (1067 mm) in height. [NFPA 54:9.4.3.1]
Section 403.7.2 Enclosed Parking Garages.
Amend Section 403.7.2 to read as follows:
   403.7.2 Enclosed Parking Garages. Mechanical ventilation systems for
enclosed parking garages shall operate continuously.
   Exceptions:
   (1) Mechanical ventilation systems for enclosed parking garages shall be
permitted to operate intermittently where the system is designed to operate
automatically upon detection of vehicle operation or presence of occupants by
approved automatic detection devices.
   (2) Automatic carbon monoxide sensing devices shall be permitted to be
employed to modulate the ventilation system to maintain a maximum average
concentration of carbon monoxide of 50 parts per million during an eight hour
period, with a concentration of not more than 200 parts per million for a
period not exceeding one hour. Automatic carbon monoxide sensing devices
installed to modulated parking garages ventilation systems shall be approved.
Chapter 5 - Exhaust Systems
Section 504.0 - Environmental Air Ducts.
Revise subsection 504.3.1, 504.3.2 and 504.3.2.2 as follows:
   504.4.1 Provisions for makeup air. Makeup air shall be provided in
accordance with the following:
   (1) Make up air shall be provided for Type 1 clothes dryers in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions. [NFPA 54:10.4.3.1] Where a closet is
designed for the installation of a clothes dryer, an opening of not less than
100 square inches for makeup air shall be provided by approved means. 100
square inches for makeup air must be provided by means of permanent openings.
Vents, louvers, or other openings in doors, or infiltration around doors must
be prohibited in the calculations of the required makeup air.
Section 504.4.2.1 Length Limitation
   504.4.2.1 Length Limitation. Domestic dryer moisture exhaust ducts shall not
exceed a total combined horizontal and vertical length of 14 feet, including
two 90-degree (1.57 rad) elbows. A length of 2 feet shall be deducted for each
90-degree (1.57 rad) elbow in excess of two.
Amend Section 504.4.2.1 to read as follows:
   504.3.2.2 Length Limitation.
   Domestic dryer moisture exhaust ducts must not exceed a total combined
horizontal and vertical length of fourteen (14) feet (4267 mm), including two
(2) 90-degree (1.57 rad) elbows. Two (2) feet (610 mm) must be deducted for
each 90-degree (1.57 rad) elbow in excess of two.
   Exceptions:
   1. Where large-radius 45-degtree (0.8 rad) and 90-degree (1.6 rad) bends are
installed, determination of the equivalent length of clothes dryer exhaust duct
for each bend by engineering calculation in accordance with ASHRAE Fundamentals
Handbook shall be permitted.
Section 505.10 Makeup Air.
Amend Section 505.10 to read as follows:
   505.10 Makeup Air. Makeup air shall be provided to replenish air exhausted
by the ventilator system. Exhaust hood systems capable of exhausting in excess
of 600 cfm (0.28 m3/s) shall be provided with makeup air at a rate
approximately equal to the exhaust air rate. Such makeup air systems shall be
equipped with a means of closure and shall be automatically controlled to start
and operate simultaneously with the exhaust system. Makeup air intakes shall be
located so as to avoid recirculation of contaminated air within enclosures.
Section 508.3.5.4 Evaporative Cooling Systems Used As Make Up Air Systems.
Add Section 508.3.5.4 to read as follows:
   508.3.5.4.1 Evaporative Cooling Systems. Evaporative cooling systems will
comply with this chapter. Evaporative coolers shall not be used for makeup air
units on commercial kitchen hoods and kitchen ventilation systems.
   Exception: Evaporative cooling systems that are part of a listed heating air
system for kitchen make up air systems. The temperature differential between
the makeup air and the air in the conditioned space shall not exceed 10ºF.
(6ºC.) except where the added heating and cooling load of makeup air do not
exceed the capacity if the HVAC system.
Section 511.2.2.2 Capture And Containment Test.
Amend Section 511.2.2.2 to read as follows:
   Section 511.2.2.2 Capture and Containment Test. The permit holder shall
verify the capture and containment performance of Type I hoods. A field test
shall be conducted with all appliances under the hood at operating
temperatures, all the hoods operating at design airflows, and with all sources
of replacement air operating at design airflows for the restaurant. Capture and
containment shall be verified by observing smoke or steam produced by actual
cooking operation or by simulating cooking using devices such as smoke candles
or smoke puffers. Smoke bombs shall not be used [ASHRAE 154: 4.7.2]
   Exception: Capture and containment test not required if hood is UL and NFPA
listed and manufacturer's data lists the individual equipment below hood.
Section 604.1 General.
Amend Section 604.1 to read as follows:
   604.1 General. Supply air ducts, return air ducts, and plenum of a heating
or cooling system shall be insulated to achieve the minimum thermal ® value in
accordance with the 2018 International Energy Conservation Code Section 403.2.1
for residential and 503.2.7 for commercial.Section 608.1 Air Moving Systems And
Smoke Detectors.
Add Section 608.1 to read as follows:
   608.1 Air Moving Systems and Smoke Detectors. Air moving systems supplying
air in excess of 2000 cubic feet per minute (ft 3 /min) (0.9439 m 3 /s) to
enclosed spaces within buildings shall be equipped with an automatic shutoff.
Automatic shutoff shall be accomplished by interrupting the power source of the
air moving equipment upon detection of smoke in the main return air duct or
plenum upstream of any filters, exhaust air connections, outdoor air
connections, or decontamination equipment and appliances served by such
equipment. Duct smoke detectors shall comply with UL 268A and shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions. Such
devices shall be compatible with the operating velocities, pressures,
temperatures, and humidity's of the system. Where fire detection or alarm
systems are provided for the building, the smoke detectors shall be supervised
by such systems in an approved manner.
   Exceptions:
   1. Where the space supplied by the air moving equipment is served by a total
coverage smoke detection system in accordance with the fire code,
interconnection to such system shall be permitted to be used to accomplish the
required shutoff.
   2. Automatic shutoff is not required where occupied rooms served by the air
handling equipment have direct exit to the exterior and the travel distance
does not exceed 100 feet (30 480 mm).
   3. Automatic shutoff is not required for Group R, Division 3 and Group U
Occupancies.
   4. Automatic shutoff is not required for approved smoke control systems or
where analysis demonstrates shutoff would create a greater hazard, such as
shall be permitted to be encountered in air moving equipment supplying
specialized portions of Group H Occupancies. Such equipment shall be required
to have smoke detection with remote indication and manual shutoff capability at
an approved location.
   5. Smoke detectors that are factory installed in listed air moving equipment
shall be permitted to be used in lieu of smoke detectors installed in the main
supply air duct served by such equipment.
Section 609.0 Performance Test For Automatic Shutoffs.
Add Section 609.0 to read as follows:
   609.0 Performance Test for Automatic Shutoffs. Upon completion and before
final approval of the air moving system, provide with the required smoke
detectors, a performance test shall be performed to verify compliance of
detector installation to manufacturer's instructions and system compatibility
as specified in this chapter. The permittee shall furnish the necessary test
equipment and devices required to perform the tests and shall provide the
jurisdiction with an accurate, completed, and signed test report. The report
shall provide the jurisdiction a form containing equivalent information. At the
discretion of the Authority Having Jurisdiction, the performance test may be
required to be witnessed by the Authority Having Jurisdiction or performed by
an approved third party testing agency.
Chapter 7 - Combustion Air
Section 701.12 - Prohibited Openings.
Add a new section 701.13 as follows:
Vents, louvers, other openings in doors, or infiltration around doors is
prohibited in the calculation of the required combustion air.
Chapter 9 - Installation Of Specific Appliances
Section 904.0 - Central Heating Boilers And Furnaces.
Revise section 904.10, Title and subsection 904.10.1 as follows:
Section 939.0 Sauna Heaters.
Add Section 939.1 to Section 939.0 Sauna Heaters to read as follows:
   939.0 Sauna Heaters.
   939.1 General. Sauna heaters shall be listed and installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's installation instructions. Approved guards or barriers
shall be installed to prevent accidental contact with the sauna heater.
Ventilation shall be provided in accordance with its listing and combustion air
for gas fired sauna heaters shall comply with chapter 7.
Chapter 13 - Fuel Gas Piping
Section 1301.1 Applicability.
Amend Section 1301.1 to read as follows:
   1301.1 Applicability. The regulations of this chapter shall govern the
installation of fuel gas piping in or in connection with a building, structure
or within the property lines of premises up to 5 pounds force per square inch
(psi) (34 kPa), other than service pipe.
   Fuel oil piping systems shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 31.
Whenever there is a conflict between this code and NFPA 54 and NFPA 58 as
adopted by the Nevada LP Gas Board for LP Gas installations, the adopted codes
of the Nevada LP Gas Board shall govern.
Section 1313.3 Test Pressure.
Amend Section 1313.3 to read as follows:
   1313.3 Test Pressure. This inspection shall include an air, CO2, or nitrogen
pressure test, at which time the gas piping shall stand a pressure of not less
than 25 psi (172.4 kPa) gauge pressure. Test pressures shall be held for a
length of time satisfactory to the Authority Having Jurisdiction but in no case
less than 30 minutes with no perceptible drop in pressure. For welded piping,
and for piping carrying gas at pressures in excess of 14 inches water column
(3.5 kPa) pressure, the test pressure shall be not less than 60 psi (414 kPa)
and shall be continued for a length of time satisfactory to the Authority
Having Jurisdiction, but in no case for less than 30 minutes. These tests shall
be made using air, CO2, or nitrogen pressure and shall be made in the presence
of the Authority Having Jurisdiction. Necessary apparatus for conducting tests
shall be furnished by the permit holder. Test gauges used in conducting test
shall be in accordance with Section 318.0.
Section 1313.5.1 Turning Gas On.
Amend Section 1313.5.1 to read as follows:
   1313.5.1 Turning Gas On. During the process of turning gas on into a system
of new gas piping or portion of a gas system that has been restored after an
interruption of service, the entire system shall be inspected to determine that
there are no open fittings or ends and that all valves at unused outlets are
closed and plugged or capped. [NFPA 54:8.2.2]
   1313.5.1.1 During the process of turning gas on into a system of new gas
piping or into a system or portion of a gas system that has been restored after
an interruption of service; in the City of Elko a manometer test shall be made
after all valves, unions, connectors and piping to the appliances are complete.
A pressure test shall be made with the use of a manometer gauge measuring
inches of water column. With all valves including gas cock and gas control
valves in the open position, a pressure of at least eleven (11) to fifteen (15)
inches of water column shall be measured for at least fifteen (15) minutes with
no perceptible drop in pressure.
   1313.5.1.2 For medium pressure gas systems: Where the appliance is rated for
seven (7) to eleven (11) inches of water column, a manometer test of eleven
(11) to fifteen (15) inches of water column will be conducted between the
pressure regulating valve and the appliance and shall be measured for at least
fifteen (15) minutes with no perceptible drop in pressure.
   1313.5.1.3 For appliances or equipment requiring pounds of gas pressure: A
pressure test using a pressure gauge measuring in one tenth (1/10) increments
shall be conducted on the gas train of that appliance or equipment. The
pressure shall be equal to the appliance's normal operating pressure for a
period of thirty (30) minutes with no perceptible drop in pressure.
   1313.5.1.4 Manometer testing. Manometer testing shall be performed by a
person holding a valid City of Elko manometer tester card for which the number
is to be provided at the time of request for inspection. A manometer test does
not need to be reported when the serving gas utility performs a manometer or
clock test prior to providing service. (Ord. 760, 9-11-2012; amd. Ord. 839, 6-
11-2019)
CHAPTER 5
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
2-5-1: Plumbing Code Provisions
2-5-2: Plumbing Code Amendments
2-5-1: PLUMBING CODE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the UNIFORM PLUMBING CODE OF THE
CITY OF ELKO, hereinafter "code", including the adoption of the 2018 Uniform
Plumbing Code (UPC) as published by the International Association Of Plumbing
And Mechanical Officials (IAPMO) and necessary administrative provisions.
Certain sections of the uniform plumbing code and appendices may be added or
deleted.
   B.   Applicability: All construction of or the enlarging, altering,
repairing, moving, demolishing, or changing the occupancy of a building or
structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or
replace any component, element or portion of a building or structure within the
city shall be in compliance with, in addition to, the other applicable codes or
amendments set forth by the city council and the latest edition of the uniform
plumbing code.
   C.   Supplements: All supplements to the uniform plumbing code, issued by
the International Association Of Plumbing And Mechanical Officials (IAPMO),
between editions are hereby not made a part of the then current edition of the
uniform plumbing code.
   D.   Conflict: In the event that any of the provisions of the latest edition
of the uniform plumbing code conflicts with any provision of this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern and be controlling. (Ord. 726, 2-8-
2011; amd. Ord. 839, 6-11-2019)
2-5-2: PLUMBING CODE AMENDMENTS:
All building construction work and the inspections thereof shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this code and with the latest edition of the
uniform plumbing code, which is hereby adopted by the city, with the following
specific deletions and additions:
Chapter 1 - Administration
Chapter 1 is deleted in its entirety except for section 101.0 Title and section
102.0 Purpose, and replaced by title 2, chapter 1, "Building Regulations
Administrative Code", of the city code.
Chapter 2 - Definitions
Section 205.0 - C
205.0 C Definitions.
Add a new definition to section 205 to be placed in alphabetical order, as
follows:
Combustible Construction - Combustible construction shall mean work within any
building or structure classified as type III, type IV, type V as defined in the
building code. Plastic piping is not permitted in type I and type II buildings.
Section 216.0 Definition Non-Combustible Material.
Amend Section 216.0 to read as follows:
   Section 216.0 Definitions. Non-Combustible Material: Materials that, when
tested in accordance with ASTM E136, have at least three of four specimens
tested meeting all of the following criteria:
   1. The recorded temperature of the surface and interior thermocouples shall
not at any time during the test rise more than 54ºF (30ºC) above the furnace
temperature at the beginning of the test.
   2. There shall not be flaming from the specimen after the first 30 seconds.
   3. If the weight loss of the specimen during testing exceeds 50 percent, the
recorded temperature of the surface and interior thermocouples shall not at any
time during the test rise above the furnace air temperature at the beginning of
the test, and there shall not be flaming of the specimen.
Section 218.0 Definition Penetration Firestop System.
Delete Section 218
Chapter 3 - General Regulations
Amend Section 312.7 to read as follows:
   312.7 Fire Resistant Construction. Piping penetrations of fire resistance
rated walls, partitions, floors, floor/ceiling assemblies, roof/ceiling
assemblies, or shaft enclosures shall be protected in accordance with the
requirements of the building code.
Section 422.0 Minimum Number of Required Fixtures.
Delete Section 422.0 to read:
Table 422.1 Minimum Plumbing Facilities
Section 609.1 Installation.
Amend Section 609.1 to read as follows:
   609.1 Installation. Water piping shall be adequately supported in accordance
with Table 313.3. Burred ends shall be reamed to the full bore of the pipe or
tube. Changes in direction shall be made by the appropriate use of fittings,
except that changes in direction in copper or copper alloy tubing shall be
permitted to be made with bends, provided that such bends are made with bending
equipment that does not deform or create a loss in the cross-sectional area of
the tubing. Changes in direction are allowed with flexible pipe and tubing
without fittings in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Provisions
shall be made for expansion in hot-water piping. Piping, equipment,
appurtenances, and devices shall be installed in a workmanlike manner in
accordance with the provisions and intent of the code. Building supply yard
piping shall be not less than 6 inches (152mm) below the average local frost
depth. The cover shall be not less than 12 inches (305 mm) below finish grade.
Chapter 7 - Sanitary Drainage
Section 712.1 Media.
Amend Section 712.1 to read as follows:
   712.1 Media. The piping of the plumbing, drainage and venting systems shall
be tested with water or air except that plastic piping shall not be tested with
air. The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall be permitted to require the
removal of cleanouts, etc., to ascertain whether the pressure has reached all
parts of the system. After the plumbing fixtures have been set and their traps
filled with water, they shall be submitted to a final test.
Section 717.1 General (Size of Building Sewers).
Amend Section 717.1 to read as follows:
   717.1 General. The minimum size of a building sewer shall be determined on
the basis of the total number of fixture units drained by such sewer, in
accordance with Table 717.1. No building sewer shall be smaller than the
building drain, or less than four (4) inches in diameter. For alternate methods
of sizing building sewers, see Appendix C.
Section 723.1 General (Building Sewer Test).
Amend Section 723.1 to read as follows:
   722.1 General. Building sewers shall be tested by plugging the end of the
building sewer at its points of connection with the public sewer or private
sewage disposal system and completely filling the building sewer with water
from the lowest to highest point thereof, or by approved equivalent low
pressure air test. Plastic DWV piping shall not be tested by the air test
method. The building sewer shall be watertight.
Section 1107.2 Methods Of Testing Storm Drainage Systems.
Amend Section 1107.2 to read as follows:
   1107.2 Methods of Testing Storm Drainage Systems. Except for outside leaders
and perforated or open jointed drain tile, the piping of storm drain systems
shall be tested upon completion of the rough piping installation by water or
air, except that plastic pipe shall not be tested with air and proved tight.
The Authority Having Jurisdiction shall be permitted to require the removal of
cleanout plugs to ascertain whether the pressure has reached parts of the
system. One of the following test methods shall be used in accordance with
Section 1109.2.1 through Section 1109.2.3.
Chapter 12 - Fuel Piping
Section 1201.1 Installation.
Amend Section 1201.1 to read as follows:
   1201.1 Installation. The regulations of this chapter shall govern the
installation of fuel gas piping in or in connection with a building, structure
or within the property lines of premises up to 5 pounds force per square inch
(34 kPa) other than service pipe. Fuel oil piping systems shall be installed in
accordance with NFPA31. Whenever there is a conflict between this code and NFPA
54 and NFPA 58 as adopted by the Nevada LP Gas Board for LP Gas installations,
the adopted codes of the Nevada LP Gas Board shall govern.
Section 1208.6.1.3 Snow Hazard.
Add Section 1208.6.1.3 to 1208.6 to read as follows:
   1208.6.1.3 Snow Hazard: Protection of utilities shall be per requirements of
local utility.
Section 1213.3 Test Pressure.
Amend Section 1213.3 to read as follows:
   1213.3 Test Pressure. This inspection shall include an air, CO2, or nitrogen
pressure test, at which time the gas piping shall stand a pressure of not less
than 25 psi (172.4 kPa) gauge pressure. Test pressures shall be held for a
length of time satisfactory to the Authority Having Jurisdiction, but in no
case less than 30 minutes with no perceptible drop in pressure. For welded
piping, and for piping carrying gas at pressures in excess of 14 inches water
column pressure (3.5 kPa), the test pressure shall be not less than 60 psi (414
kPa) and shall be continued for a length of time satisfactory to the Authority
Having Jurisdiction, but in no case for less than 30 minutes. These tests shall
be made using air, CO2, or nitrogen pressure and shall be made in the presence
of the Authority Having Jurisdiction. Necessary apparatus for conducting tests
shall be furnished by the permit holder. Test gauges used in conducting tests
shall be in accordance with Section 318.0.
Section 1213.5.1 Turning Gas On.
Amend Section 1213.5.1 to read as follows:
   1213.5.1 Turning Gas On. During the process of turning gas on into a system
of new gas piping or into a system or portion of a gas system that has been
restored after an interruption of service, the entire system shall be inspected
to determine that there are no open fittings or ends and that the valves at
unused outlets are closed and plugged or capped. [NFPA 54:8.2.2]
   1213.5.1.1 During the process of turning gas on into a system of new gas
piping or into a system or portion of a gas system that has been restored after
an interruption of service; in the City of Elko a manometer test shall be made
after all valves, unions, connectors and piping to the appliances are complete.
A pressure test shall be made with the use of a manometer gauge measuring
inches of water column. With all valves including gas cock and gas control
valves in the open position, a pressure of at least eleven (11) to fifteen (15)
inches of water column shall be measured for at least fifteen (15) minutes,
with no perceptible drop in pressure.
   1213.5.1.2 For medium pressure gas systems: Where the appliance is rated for
seven (7) to eleven (11) inches of water column, a manometer test of eleven
(11) to fifteen (15) inches of water column will be conducted between the
pressure regulating valve and the appliance and shall be measured for at least
fifteen (15) minutes with no perceptible drop in pressure.
   1213.5.1.3 For appliances or equipment requiring pounds of gas pressure: A
pressure test using a pressure gauge measuring in one tenth (1/10) increments
shall be conducted on the gas train of that appliance or equipment. The
pressure shall be equal to the appliance's normal operating pressure for a
period of thirty (30) minutes with no perceptible drop in pressure. (Ord. 761,
9-11-2012; amd. Ord. 839, 6-11-2019)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
2-6-1: Electrical Code Provisions
2-6-2: Electrical Code Amendments
2-6-1: ELECTRICAL CODE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the ELECTRICAL CODE OF THE CITY
OF ELKO, hereinafter "code", including the adoption of the 2017 National
Electrical Code and necessary provisions.
   B.   Applicability: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all new
construction, relocated buildings, and to any alterations, repairs, or
reconstruction, except as provided for otherwise in this chapter. All
electrical construction work, electrical alterations or repair, installation
and maintenance of overhead and underground electrical supply and communication
lines and the inspections thereof shall be in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter and with the national electrical code, along with supplements as
adopted by the National Fire Protection Association, which are hereby adopted
by the city.
   C.   Conversions To Commercial Or Industrial Uses: In the event that any
residential use presently permitted in any commercially or industrially zoned
area, which is presently being used as a residence, is converted to a
commercial or industrial use, such building, structure or other property must
be rewired with electrical wiring and equipment which meets commercial and
industrial standards established pursuant to this chapter and the national
electrical code.
   D.   Construction Power: The city is hereby empowered and authorized to
permit and approve the use of electrical current through any wiring or
equipment for the purpose of construction. Permits for construction power shall
be issued only after the primary building permit has been issued. Any wiring or
equipment shall comply with the limitations and restrictions of the electrical
code. Construction power wiring and equipment must be removed prior to the
final building inspection. (Ord. 727, 2-8-2011; amd. Ord. 839, 6-11-2019)
2-6-2: ELECTRICAL CODE AMENDMENTS:
All electrical construction work, electrical alterations or repair,
installation and maintenance of overhead and underground electrical supply and
communication lines and the inspections thereof, shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter and with the latest edition of the national
electrical code, along with supplements as adopted by the National Fire
Protection Association, which are hereby adopted by the city, with the
following specific additions and deletions:
Article 90 - Introduction
Section 90.2 (B)(5)(a) Scope.
Revise item (a) of section 90.2 (B)(5) as follows:
         a.   Consist of service drops or service laterals, and associated
metering and monitoring equipment, or
Chapter 1; Article 110 - Requirements For Electrical Installations
Section 110.12 Mechanical Execution Of Work.
Add a new subsection (C) as follows:
(C) Abandoned Conductors And Cables. For those structures regulated by the
building or swimming pool code, no electrical conductors or cables shall be
abandoned in place. Such conductors or cables shall be removed from the
building or structure back to the panelboard unless otherwise approved by the
city based upon consideration of safety and combustibility.
Add a new subsection (D) as follows:
(D) Used Materials And Equipment. The use of used materials which meet the
requirements of this code for new materials is permitted. Used equipment and
devices shall not be reused unless approved by the city.
Section 110.26 Spaces About Electrical Equipment.
Revise section 110.26 (C)(2) as follows:
            (2)   Large Equipment. For equipment rated 1200 amperes or more and
over 1.8 m (6 ft) wide that contains overcurrent devices, switching devices, or
control devices, there shall be one entrance to and from the required working
space not less than 610 mm (24 in.) wide and 2.0 m (61/2 ft) high at each end
of the working space. When more than one entrance is required by this section
both entrances shall open to the exterior of the building or into an approved
means of egress that is not under the control of an individual tenant.
A single entrance to and egress from the required working space shall be
permitted where either of the conditions in 110.26 (C)(2)(a) or (C)(2)(b) is
met.
The remainder of this section remains unchanged.
Section 110.33 Entrance To Enclosures And Access To Working Space.
Revise section 110.33 (A)(1) as follows:
            (1)   Large Equipment. On switchboard and control panels exceeding
1.8 m (6 ft) in width, there shall be one entrance at the end of the equipment.
When more than one entrance is required by this section both entrances shall
open to the exterior of the building or into an approved means of egress that
is not under the control of an individual tenant. A single entrance to the
required working space shall be permitted where either of the conditions in
110.33 (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) is met.
The remainder of this section remains unchanged.
Chapter 2; Article 210 - Branch Circuits
Section 210.23 Permissible Loads.
Add a new subsection (E) to section 210.23 as follows:
(E) Dwelling Branch Circuits.
Maximum Number (15-Ampere). The maximum number of outlets on a 15-ampere, 125
volt (nominal) luminaire lighting fixture circuit shall be twelve (12) and
shall not contain general purpose outlets. The maximum number of outlets on a
15-ampere, 125 volt (nominal) general purpose (duplex receptacle) circuit shall
be eight (8). The maximum number of outlets on a 15-ampere, 125 volt (nominal)
combination (luminaire lighting fixture and general purpose outlets) circuit
shall be eight (8).
Exception No. 1: Dedicated branch circuits feeding only IC rated recessed
luminaires (recessed lighting fixtures) and/or low wattage energy efficient
luminaires (lighting fixtures) may use article 220.14 (D) for maximum number of
lighting outlets.
Exception No. 2: In branch circuits serving smoke detectors the smoke detectors
outlets need not be counted with the other lighting outlets.
Maximum Number (20-Ampere). The maximum number of outlets on a 20-ampere, 125-
volt (nominal) luminaire lighting fixture circuit shall be fourteen (14) and
shall not contain general purpose outlets. The maximum number of outlets on a
20-ampere, 125 volt (nominal) general purpose (duplex receptacle) circuit shall
be ten (10). The maximum number of outlets on a 20-ampere, 125 volt (nominal)
combination (luminaire lighting fixture and general purpose outlets) circuit
shall be ten (10).
Exception No. 1: Dedicated branch circuits feeding only IC rated recessed
luminaires (recessed lighting fixtures) and/or low wattage energy efficient
luminaires (lighting fixtures) may use article 220.14(D) for maximum number of
lighting outlets.
Exception No. 2: In branch circuits serving smoke detectors the smoke detectors
outlets need not be counted with the other lighting outlets.
Individual Branch Circuits. The following fastened-in-place appliances are
required to have a separate minimum 20-ampere circuit: dishwasher, trash
compactor and microwave oven. The required laundry circuit may serve one (1)
additional outlet in the laundry area.
Section 210.52 Dwelling Unit Receptacle Outlets.
210.52(A)(2) Wall Spacing.
Amend Section 210.52(A)(2) of Section 210.52(A) General Provisions to read as
follows:
   210.52(A)(2) Wall Spacing. As used in this section, a wall space shall
include any of the following:
   1. Any space 600 mm (2 ft) or more in width (including space measured around
corners) and unbroken along the floor line by doorways and similar openings,
fireplaces, and fixed cabinets that do not have countertops or similar work
surfaces.
   2. The space occupied by fixed panels in walls, excluding sliding panels.
   3. The space afforded by fixed room dividers, such as free standing bar type
counters or railings.
   Exceptions
   1. The space behind operable doors.
   2. Vestibules, hallways, and similar areas less than 5 ft wide in bedrooms.
Section 225.32 Location.
Amend section 225.32 as follows:
225.32 Location.
The disconnecting means shall be attached as described in 230.70 of these
amendments. For the purposes of this section the requirements in 230.6 shall be
utilized.
Exception No. 1: For installations under single management, where documented
safe switching procedures are established and maintained for disconnection, and
where the installation is monitored by qualified individuals, the disconnecting
means shall be permitted to be located elsewhere on the premises.
Exception No. 2: For buildings or other structures qualifying under the
provisions of article 685, the disconnecting means shall be permitted to be
located elsewhere on the premises.
Exception No. 3: For towers or poles used as lighting standards, the
disconnecting means shall be permitted to be located elsewhere on the premises.
Exception No. 4: For accessory buildings to one and two-family dwellings the
disconnecting means may be installed either inside or on the exterior of the
accessory structure.
Exception No. 5: The disconnecting means shall be located independent of the
building or structure served, in direct line of sight, but not to exceed thirty
feet (30').
Exception No. 6: The service disconnecting means may be installed within a
building when an external remote shunt switch is provided. All shunt trip
switches shall be located at seven feet (7') above finish grade at a location
approved by the fire department. All shunt trip switches shall be located
within a twelve inch (12") equilateral triangle, red in color.
230.70(A)(1) Readily Accessible Location.
Amend Section 230.70(A)(1) of Section 230.70 General to read as follows:
   230.70 (A)(1) Readily Accessible Location. The service disconnecting means
shall be installed at a readily accessible location either outside of a
building or structure nearest the point of entrance of the service conductors.
The disconnecting means may be located independent of the building or structure
served, in direct line of sight, but not to exceed thirty feet (30').
   Exception: The service disconnecting means may be installed within a
building when an external remote shunt switch is provided. All shunt trip
switches shall be located at seven feet (7') above finish grade at a location
approved by the fire department. All shunt trip switches shall be located
within a twelve inch (12") equilateral triangle, red in color.
240.51(B) Replacement Only.
Amend Section 240.51(B) of Section 240.51 Edison Base Fuses to read:
   240.51(B) Replacement Only. Plug fuses of the Edison base type shall be used
only for replacements in existing installations where there is no evidence of
overfusing or tampering. In any existing building where alterations or
additions are made to any of the premises wiring, all fuse holders shall comply
with Article 240.54.
250.118(4) Types of Equipment Grounding Conductors.
Amend Section 250.118(4) of Section 250.118 Types of Equipment Grounding
Conductors to read as follows:
   250.118 Types of Equipment Grounding Conductors
   (3) Electrical metallic tubing with the exception of where the metallic
raceway is subject to either damage or likely to be disturbed in the future
under normal operating conditions, this determination shall be made by the
Authority Having Jurisdiction.
   FPN: An example of "subject to damage" is a surface installed conduit
running along a traffic path. An example of "likely to be disturbed" is a
surface installed conduit running across a rooftop, where future re roofing
operations will require the conduit to shifted, damaged, removed or relocated.
Section 250.120 Equipment Grounding Conductor Installation.
Add a new subsection (D) to section 250.120 as follows:
(D) Equipment Grounding Conductor. All raceways installed on roofs shall
contain an equipment grounding conductor sized per table 250.122 installed with
the circuit conductors.
Exception No. 1: Low voltage, communication and similar type systems unless
required elsewhere in the code.
314.17(C) Nonmetallic Boxes and Conduit Bodies.
Amend Section 314.17(C) of Section 314.17 Conductors entering Boxes, Conduit
Bodies, or Fittings to read as follows:
   314.17(C) Nonmetallic Boxes and Conduit Bodies. Nonmetallic boxes and
conduit bodies shall be suitable for the lowest temperature rated conductor
entering the box. Where nonmetallic boxes and conduit bodies are used with
messenger supported wiring, open wiring on insulators, or concealed knob and
tube wiring, the conductors shall enter the box through individual holes. Where
flexible tubing is used to enclose the conductors, the tubing shall extend from
the last insulating support to not less than 6 mm (1/4 in.) inside the box and
beyond any cable clamp. Where non metallic sheathed cable or multiconductor
Type UF cable is used, the sheath shall extend not less than 6 mm (1/4 in.)
inside the box and beyond any cable clamp. In all instances, all permitted
wiring methods shall be secured to the boxes.
   Exception: where non metallic sheathed cable or multiconductor Type UF cable
is used with boxes mounted in walls or ceilings, and where the cable is
fastened within 200 mm (8 in.) of the box measured along the sheath and where
the sheath extends through a cable knockout not less than 6 mm (1/4 in.),
securing the cable to the box shall not be required. Multiple cable entries
shall be permitted in a single cable knockout opening.
Chapter 3
358.12 Uses Not Permitted.
Amend Section 358.12 to read as follows:
   358.12 Uses Not Permitted. EMT shall not be used under the following
conditions:
   1. Where subject to severe physical damage.
   2. For the support of luminaires or other equipment except conduit bodies no
larger than the largest trade size of the tubing.
   3. In direct contact with earth.
700.10(D) Fire Protection.
Amend Section 700.10(D) of Section 700.10 Wiring, Emergency System to read as
follows:
   700.10(D) Fire Protection. Emergency systems shall meet the additional
requirements in (D)(1) through (D)(3) in the following occupancies:
   1. Assembly occupancies for not less than 1000 persons
   2. Buildings above 55 ft in height
   3. Health care occupancies where persons are not capable of self
preservation.
   4. Educational occupancies with more than 300 occupants
700.12 General Requirements.
Amend Section 700.12 to read as follows:
   700.12 General Requirements. Current supply shall be such that, in the event
of failure of the normal supply to, or within, the building or group of
buildings concerned, emergency lighting, emergency power, or both shall be
available within the time required for the application but not to exceed 10
seconds. The supply system for emergency purposes, in addition to the normal
services to the building and meeting the general requirements of this section,
shall be one or more of the types of systems described in 700.12(A) through
(E). Unit equipment in accordance with 700.12(F) shall satisfy the applicable
requirements of this article.
   In selecting an emergency source of power, consideration shall be given to
the occupancy and the type of service to be rendered, whether of minimum
duration, as for evacuation of a theater, or longer duration, as for supplying
emergency power and lighting due to an indefinite period of current failure
from trouble either inside or outside the building.
   Equipment shall be designed and located so as to minimize the hazards that
might cause complete failure due to flooding, fires, icing, and vandalism.
   Equipment for sources of power as described in 700.12(A) through (E) shall
be installed either in spaces fully protected by approved automatic fire
suppression systems (sprinklers, carbon dioxide systems, and so forth) or in
spaces with a 2 hour fire rating where located within the following:
   1. Assembly occupancies for more than 1000 persons.
   2. Buildings above 55 feet in height with any of the following occupancy
classes assembly, educational, residential, detention and correctional,
business, and mercantile
   3. Health care occupancies where persons are not capable of self
preservation
   4. Educational occupancies with more than 300 occupants (Ord. 727, 2-8-2011;
amd. Ord. 839, 6-11-2019)
CHAPTER 7
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
2-7-1: Energy Conservation Code Provisions
2-7-2: Energy Conservation Code Amendments
2-7-1: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the INTERNATIONAL ENERGY
CONSERVATION CODE OF THE CITY OF ELKO, hereinafter "code", including the
adoption of the 2018 International Energy Conservation Code and necessary
administrative provisions. Certain sections of the international energy
conservation code and appendices may be added or deleted.
   B.   Applicability: All construction of or the enlarging, altering,
repairing, moving, demolishing, or changing the occupancy of a building or
structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or
replace any component, element or portion of a building or structure within the
city shall be in compliance with, in addition to, the other applicable codes or
amendments set forth by the city council and the latest edition of the
international energy conservation code.
   C.   Materials: These provisions are not intended to prevent the use of any
material or method of construction not specifically prescribed herein, provided
the city of Elko has approved any alternates.
   D.   Supplements: All supplements to the international energy conservation
code, issued by the International Code Council Inc., between editions are
hereby not made a part of the then current edition of the international energy
conservation code.
   E.   Conflicts: In the event that any of the provisions of the latest
edition of the international residential code conflict with any provision of
this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall govern and be controlling.
(Ord. 728, 2-8-2011; amd. Ord. 839, 6-11-2019)
2-7-2: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE AMENDMENTS:
Chapter 1 - Administration
Chapter 1 is deleted in its entirety except for sections 101 and 102.
Section 101 - Scope And General Requirements.
Revise section 101 as follows:
Section C102.1.1 Above Code Program.
Amend Section C102.1.1 to read as follows:
   C102.1.1 Above code programs. The code official or other authority having
jurisdiction shall be permitted to deem a national, state or local energy
efficiency program to exceed the energy efficiency required by this code.
Programs seeking approval must submit all requested supporting documentation,
including program guidelines, protocols, calculations and program simulation
performance software, if applicable, to the NNICC and/or jurisdiction for
review for use as acceptable software. Buildings approved in writing by such an
energy efficiency shall be considered to be in compliance with this code. The
requirements identified as "mandatory" in Chapter 4 shall be met.
Section C201.3 Terms Defined In Other Codes.
Amend Section C201.3 to read as follows:
   C201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Terms that are defined in this code but
are defined in the International Building Code, International Fire Code,
Uniform Mechanical Code, Uniform Plumbing Code, or the International
Residential Code shall have the meanings ascribed to them in those codes.
Section C202 General Definitions.
Amend Section C202 by adding the following definitions to read as follows:
   C202 General Definitions
   CASINO. A structure that houses a business with a Non-Restricted Gaming
License from the Nevada Gaming Commission and State Gaming Control Board. It
includes the gaming area(s) as well as the adjacent area(s) within the building
envelope.
   CASINO GAMING AREA. The space within a casino wherein gaming is conducted.
The gaming area shall also include accessory uses within the same room(s) as,
or substantially open to the gaming floor(s). Such areas shall include, but not
be limited to lobbies, balconies, public circulation areas, assembly areas,
restaurants, bars, lounges, food courts, retail spaces, mezzanines, convention
pre function areas, cashiers' cages, players' clubs, customer support,
conservatories and promenades that share the same atmosphere, spillover
lighting and theme lighting with the adjacent gaming floor area. For accessory
areas situated on the perimeter of the gaming floor to be considered
substantially open, the walls(s) or partitions(s) separating an accessory space
from the gaming area must be a minimum of 50% open, as measured from the
interior side of the accessory space, with no doors, windows and other
obstructions, other than roll up security grills, installed within the opening.
Chapter 4 - Commercial Energy Efficiency
Amend Section R402.4.1.2 to read as follows:
   R402.4.1.2 Testing. The building or dwelling unit shall be tested and
verified as having an air leakage rate not exceeding 5 air changes per hour.
Testing shall be conducted with a blower door at a pressure of 0.2 inches w.g.
(50 Pascal’s). Where required by the Code Official, testing shall be conducted
by an approved third party. A written report of the results of the test shall
be signed by the party conducting the test and provided to the Code Official.
Testing shall be performed at any time after creation of all penetrations of
the building thermal envelope.
   During testing:
      1.   Exterior windows and doors, fireplace and stove doors shall be
closed, but not sealed, beyond the intended weather-stripping or other
infiltration control measures;
      2.   Dampers including exhaust, intake, makeup air, backdraft and flue
dampers shall be closed, but not sealed beyond intended infiltration control
measures;
      3.   Interior doors, if installed at the time of test, shall be open;
      4.   Exterior doors for continuous ventilation systems and heat recovery
ventilators shall be closed and sealed;
      5.   Heating and cooling systems, if installed at the time of testing,
shall be fully open.
      6.   Supply and return registers, where installed at the time of test,
shall be fully open.
Section C402.5.3 Rooms Containing Fuel Burning Appliances.
Amend Section C402.5.3 to read as follows:
   C402.5.3 Rooms containing fuel burning appliances. In Climate Zones 3
through 8, where combustion air is supplied through openings in an exterior
wall to a room or space containing a space conditioning fuel burning appliance,
one of the following shall apply:
   1. The room or space containing the appliance shall be located outside of
the building thermal envelope.
   2. The room or space containing the appliance shall be enclosed and isolated
from conditioned spaces inside of the building thermal envelope. Such rooms
shall comply with all of the following:
   2.1. The walls, floors and ceilings that separate the enclosed room or space
from conditioned spaces shall be insulated to be not less than equivalent to
the insulation requirement of below grade walls as specified in Table C402.1.3
or C402.1.4.
   2.2. The walls, floors and ceilings that separate the enclosed room or space
from conditioned spaces shall be sealed in accordance with Section C402.5.1.1.
   2.3. The doors into the enclosed room or space shall be fully gasketed.
   2.4. Water lines and ducts in the enclosed room or space shall be insulated
in accordance with Section 403.
   2.5. Where an air duct supplying combustion air to the enclosed room or
space passes through conditioned space, the duct shall be insulated to an R
value not less than R 8.
   Exception: Fireplaces and stoves complying with Section 911, 912, 913 of the
Uniform Mechanical Code, and Section 2111.14 of the International Building
Code.
Section 402.5.9 Air Curtains.
Amend Section 402.5 by adding 402.5.9 to read as follows:
   C402.5.9 Air curtains. Where doorway, passageway or pass thru openings in
the building thermal envelope area intended to be normally opened to the
exterior environment, an approved air curtain tested in accordance with ANSI/
AMCA 220 shall be used to separate conditioned air from the exterior.
Section 403.2.2 Ventilation (Mandatory).
Amend Section C403.2.2 Ventilation (Mandatory) to read as follows:
   C403.2.2 Ventilation (Mandatory). Ventilation, either natural or mechanical,
shall be provided in accordance with Chapter 4 of the Uniform Mechanical Code.
Where mechanical ventilation is provided, the system shall provide the
capability to reduce the outdoor air supply to the minimum required by Chapter
4 of the Uniform Mechanical Code.
Section C403.6.1 Variable Air Volume And Multiple Zone Systems.
Amend Section C403.6.1 to read as follows:
   C403.6.1 Variable air volume and multiple zone systems. Supply air systems
serving multiple zones shall be variable air volume (VAV) systems that have
zone controls configured to reduce the volume of air that is reheated, re
cooled or mixed in each zone to one of the following:
   1. Twenty percent of the zone design peak supply for systems with DDC and 30
percent for other systems.
   2. Systems with DDC where all of the following apply:
   3. The outdoor airflow rate required to meet the minimum ventilation energy
source requirements of Chapter 4 of the Uniform Mechanical Code.
   4. Any higher rate that can be demonstrated to reduce overall system annual
energy use by offsetting reheat/re cool energy losses through reduction in
outdoor air intake for the system as approved by the code official.
   5. The airflow rate required to comply with applicable codes or
accreditation standards such as pressure relationships or minimum air change
rates.
   Exception: The following individual zones or entire air distribution systems
are exempted are from the requirement for VAV control:
   1. Zones or supply air systems where not less than 75 percent of the energy
for reheating or for providing warm air in mixing systems is provided from a
site recovered, including condenser heat, or site solar
   2. Systems that prevent reheating, re cooling, mixing or simultaneous supply
of air that has been previously cooled, either mechanically or through the use
of economizer systems, and air that has been previously mechanically heated.
Section C403.6.6 Multiple Zone VAV System Ventilation Optimization Control.
Amend Section C403.6.6 to read as follows:
   C403.6.6 Multiple zone VAV system ventilation optimization control. Multiple
zone VAV systems with direct digital control of individual zone boxes reporting
to a central control panel shall have automatic controls configured to reduce
outdoor air intake flow below design rates in response to changes in system
ventilation efficiency (Ev) as defined by the Uniform Mechanical Code.
   Exception:
   1. VAV systems with zonal transfer fans that recirculate air from other
zones without directly mixing it with outdoor air, dual duct dual fan VAV
systems, and VAV systems with fan powered terminal units.
   2. Systems where total design exhaust airflow is more than 70 percent of the
total design outdoor air intake flow requirements.
Section 403.7.1 Demand Control Ventilation (Mandatory).
Amend Section C403.7.1 to read as follows:
   C403.7.1 Demand control ventilation (Mandatory). Demand control ventilation
(DCV) shall be provided for spaces larger than 500 square feet (46.5m2) and
with an average occupant load of 25 people or greater per 1,000 square feet
(93m2) of floor area, as established in Table 402.1 of the Uniform Mechanical
Code, and served by systems with one or more of the following:
   1. An air sided economizer.
   2. Automatic modulating control of the outdoor air damper.
   3. A design outdoor airflow greater than 3,000 cfm (1416 L/s).
   Exceptions:
   1. Systems with energy recovery complying with Section C403.7.4.
   2. Multiple zone systems without direct digital control of individual zones
communicating with a central control panel.
   3. Systems with a design outdoor airflow less than 1,200 cfm (566 L/s).
   4. Spaces where the supply airflow rate minus any makeup or outgoing
transfer air requirements is less than 1,200 cfm (566 L/s).
   5. Ventilation provided only for process loads.
Section C403.7.2 Enclosed Parking Garage Ventilation Controls (Mandatory).
Amend Section C403.7.2 to read as follows:
   C403.7.2 Enclosed parking garage ventilation controls (Mandatory). Enclosed
parking garages used for sorting or handling automobiles operating under their
own power shall employ contamination sensing devices and automatic controls
configured to stage fans or modulate fan average airflow rates to 50 percent or
less of design capacity, or intermittently operate fans less than 20 percent of
the occupied time or as required to maintain acceptable contaminant levels in
accordance with the applicable Uniform Mechanical Code provisions. Failure of
contamination sensing devices shall cause the exhaust fans to operate
continuously at design airflow.
   Exceptions:
   1. Garages with a total exhaust capacity less than 22,500 cfm (10 620 L/s)
with ventilation systems that do not utilize heating or mechanical cooling.
   2. Garages that have a garage area to ventilation system motor nameplate
power ratio that exceeds 1125 cfm/hp (710 L/kW) and do not utilize heating or
mechanical cooling.
Section C403.7.4 Energy Recovery Ventilation Systems (Mandatory).
Amend Section C403.7.4 to read as follows:
   C403.7.4 Energy recovery ventilation systems (Mandatory). Where the supply
airflow rate of a fan system exceeds the values specified in Tables C403.7.4(1)
and C403.7.4(2), the system shall include an energy recovery system. The energy
recovery system shall be configured to provide a change in the enthalpy of the
outdoor air supply of not less than 50 percent of the difference between the
outdoor air and return air enthalpies, at design conditions. Where an air
economizer is required, the energy recovery system shall include a bypass or
controls that permit operation of the economizer as required by Section C403.5.
   Exception: An energy recovery ventilation system shall not be required in
any of the following conditions:
   1. Where energy recovery systems are prohibited by the Uniform Mechanical
Code.
   2. Laboratory fume hood systems that include not fewer than one of the
following features:
   2.1. Variable air volume hood exhaust and room supply systems configured to
reduce exhaust and makeup air volume to 50 percent or less of design value.
   2.2. Direct makeup (auxiliary) air supply equal to or greater than 75
percent of the exhaust rate, heated not warmer than 2ºF (1.1ºC) below room
setpoint, with no humidification added, and no simultaneous heating and cooling
used for dehumidification control.
   3. Systems serving spaces that are heated to less than 60ºF (15.5ºC) and
that are not cooled.
   4. Where more than 60 percent of the outdoor heating energy is provided from
site recovered or site solar energy.
   5. Heating energy recovery in Climate Zones 1 and 2.
   6. Cooling energy recovery in Climate Zones 3C, 4C, 5B, 5C, 6B, 7, and 8.
   7. Systems requiring dehumidification that employ energy recovery in series
with the cooling coil.
   8. Where the largest source of air exhausted at a single location at the
building exterior is less than 75 percent of the design outdoor air flow rate.
   9. Systems expected to operate less than 20 hours per week at an outdoor
percentage covered by Table C403.7.4(1).
   10. Systems exhausting toxic, flammable, paint or corrosive fumes or ducts.
   11. Commercial kitchen hoods used for collecting and removing grease vapors
and smoke.
Section C403.7.7 Shutoff Dampers (Mandatory).
Amend Section C403.7.7 to read as follows:
   C403.7.7 Shutoff dampers (Mandatory). Outdoor air intake and exhaust
openings and stairway and shafts vents shall be provided with Class I motorized
dampers. The dampers shall have an air leakage rate not greater than 4 cfm/ft2
(20.3 L/s * m2) of damper surface area at 1.0 inch water gauge (249 Pa) and
shall be labeled by an approved agency when tested in accordance with AMCA 500D
for such purpose.
   Outdoor air intake and exhaust dampers shall be installed in automatic
controls configured to close when the systems or spaces served are not in use
or during unoccupied period warm up and setback operation, unless the systems
served require outdoor or exhaust air in accordance with the Uniform Mechanical
Code, or the dampers are opened to provide intentional economizer cooling.
   Stairway and shaft vent dampers shall be installed with automatic controls
configured to open upon the activation of any fire alarm initiating device of
the building's fire alarm system or the interruption of power to the damper.
   Exception: Nonmotorized gravity dampers shall be an alternative to motorized
dampers for exhaust and relief openings as follows:
   1. In buildings less than three stories in height above grade plane.
   2. In buildings of any height located in Climate Zones 1, 2 or 3.
   3. Where the design exhaust capacity is not greater than 300 cfm (142 L/s).
   Nonmotorized gravity dampers shall have an air leakage rate not greater than
20 cfm/ft2 (101 L/s*m2) where not less than 24 inches (610 mm) in either
dimension and 40 cfm/ft2 (203.2 L/s*m2) where less than 24 inches (610 mm) in
either dimension. The rate of air leakage shall be determined at 1.0-inch water
gauge (249 Pa) when tested in accordance with AMCA 500D for such purpose. The
dampers shall be labeled by an approved agency.
Section C403.11.1 Duct And Plenum Insulation and Sealing (Mandatory).
Amend Section C403.11.1 to read as follows:
   C403.11.1 Duct and plenum insulation and sealing (Mandatory). Supply and
return air ducts and plenums shall be insulated with not less than R-
6 insulation where located in unconditioned spaces and where located outside of
the building with not less than R-8 insulation in Climate Zones 1 through 4 and
not less than R-12 insulation in Climate Zones 5 through 8. Where located
within a building envelope assembly, the duct or plenum shall be separated from
the building exterior or unconditioned or exempt spaces by not less than R-
8 insulation in Climate Zones 1 through 4 and not less than R-12 insulation in
Climate Zones 5 through 8.
   Exceptions:
   1. Where located within equipment.
   2. Where the design temperature difference between the interior and exterior
of the duct or plenum is not greater than 15°F (8°C).
   Ducts, air handlers and filter boxes shall be sealed. Joints and seams shall
comply with Section 603.10, 603.11 of the Uniform Mechanical Code.
Amend Section C403.11.2.1 to read as follows:
   C403.11.2.1 Low pressure duct systems (Mandatory). Longitudinal and
transverse joints, seams and connections of supply and return ducts operating
at a static pressure less than or equal to 2 inches water gauge (w.g.) (498 Pa)
shall be securely fastened and sealed with welds, gaskets, mastics,
(adhesives), mastic plus embedded fabric systems or tapes installed in
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Pressure classifications
specific to the duct system shall be clearly indicated on the construction
documents in accordance with the Uniform Mechanical Code.
   Exception: Locking type longitudinal joints and seams, other than the snap
lock and button lock types, need not be sealed as specified in this section.
Section C403.11.2.2 Medium Pressure Duct Systems (Mandatory).
Amend Section C403.11.2.2 to read as follows:
   C403.11.2.2 Medium pressure duct systems (Mandatory). Ducts and plenums
designed to operate at a static pressure greater than 2 inches water gauge
(w.g.) (498 Pa) but less than 3 inches w.g. (747 Pa) shall be insulated and
sealed in accordance with Section C403.11.1. Pressure classifications specific
to the duct system shall be clearly indicated on the construction documents in
accordance with the Uniform Mechanical Code.
Section C406.6 Dedicated Outdoor Air Systems.
Amend Section C406.6 to read as follows:
   C406.6 Dedicated outdoor air system. Buildings containing equipment or
systems regulated by Section C403.3.4, C403.4.3, C403.4.4, C403.4.5, C403.6,
C403.8.4, C403.8.5, C403.8.5.1, C403.9.1, C403.9.2, C403.9.3, C403.9.4 shall be
equipped with an independent ventilation system designed to provide not less
than the minimum 100 percent outdoor air to each individual occupied space, as
specified by the Uniform Mechanical Code.
Chapter 5 - Commercial Energy Efficiency
Section C501.4 Compliance.
Amend Section C501.4 to read as follows:
   C501.4 Compliance. Alterations, repairs, additions and changes of occupancy
to, or relocation of, existing buildings and structures shall comply with the
provisions for alterations, repairs, additions and changes of occupancy or
relocation, respectively, in this code and in the International Building Code,
International Existing Building Code, International Fire Code, Uniform
Mechanical Code, Uniform Plumbing Code, International Property Maintenance
Code, International Private Sewage Disposal Code and NFPA 70.
Chapter 6 Referencing Standards
Amend Chapter 6 by adding the following to read as follows:
   AMCA
   205 12: Energy Efficiency Classification for Fans C403.8.3
   220 08 (R2012): Laboratory Methods for Testing Air Curtain Units for
Aerodynamic Performance Rating C402.5.7
   500D 12: Laboratory Methods for Testing Dampers for Rating C403.7.7
   IAPMO
   UMC 18: Uniform Mechanical Code C201.3, C403.2.2, C403.6, C406.6.6,
C403.7.1, C403.7.2, C403.7.4, C403.7.5, C403.7.7, C403.11.1, C403.11.2.1,
C403.11.2.2, C406.6, C501.4
   UPC 18: Uniform Plumbing Code C201.3, C501.4
   ICC
   IBC 18: International Building Code C201.3, C303.1.1, C303.2, C402.5.3,
C402.5.4, C501.4,
   IFC 18: International Fire Code C201.3, C501.4
RESIDENTIAL PROVISIONS
Section R102.1.1 above Code Programs.
Amend R102.1.1 to read as follows:
   R102.1.1 Above code programs. The code official or other authority having
jurisdiction shall be permitted to deem a national, state or local energy
efficiency program to exceed the energy efficiency required by this code.
Programs seeking approval must submit all requested supporting
   documentation, including program guidelines, protocols, calculations and
program simulation performance software, if applicable, to the NNICC and/or
jurisdictions for review for use as acceptable software. Buildings approved in
writing by such an energy efficiency program shall be considered in compliance
with this code. The requirements identified as "mandatory" in Chapter 4 shall
be met.
Section R401.3 Certificate (Mandatory).
Amend Section R401.3 to read as follows:
   R401.3 Certificate (Mandatory) The builder shall provide a final certificate
to the owner. The certificate shall indicate the predominant R values of
insulation installed in or on ceilings, roofs, walls, foundation components
such as slabs, basement walls, crawl space walls and floors and ducts outside
conditioned spaces; U factors of fenestration and the results from any required
duct system and building envelope air leakage testing performed on the
building. Where there is more than one value for each component, the
certificate shall indicate the value covering the largest area. The certificate
shall indicate the types and efficiencies of heating, cooling and service water
heating.
Section R403.3.4 Duct Leakage (Prescriptive).
Amend section R403.3.2 to read as follows:
   R403.3.4 Duct Leakage (prescriptive). The total leakage of the ducts, where
measured in accordance with Section R403.3.4, shall be as follows:
   1. Rough in test: The total leakage shall be less than or equal to 4 cubic
feet per minute (113.3 L/min) per 100 square feet (9.29 m2) of conditional
floor area where the air handler is installed at the time of the test. Where
the air handler is not installed at the time of the test, the total leakage
shall be less than or equal to 3 cubic feet per minute (85 L/min) per 100
square feet (9.29 m2) of conditioned floor area.
   2. Postconstruction test: Total leakage shall be less than or equal L/min) 5
cubic feet per minute (cfm) (141.6 L/min) or total leakage to outside shall be
less than or equal to 3.5 cfm (99.1 L/min) 100 square feet (9.29 m2) of
conditioned floor area.
Section R403.6 Mechanical Ventilation (Mandatory).
Amend Section R403.6 to read as follows:
   R403.6 Mechanical ventilation (Mandatory). The building shall be provided
with ventilation that complies with the requirements of the International
Residential Code or International Mechanical Code, as applicable, or with other
approved means of ventilation. The mechanical system shall have a readily
accessible on off control switch allowing control of the mechanical system.
Utilization of outside air temperature sensors, carbon dioxide sensors,
humidity sensors or similar intermittent controls to activate the outside air
mechanical equipment is permitted. Outdoor air intakes and exhausts shall have
automatic or gravity dampers that close when the ventilation system is not
operating. (Ord. 728, 2-8-2011; amd. Ord. 839, 6-11-2019 ; Ord. 847, 11-26-2019
)
CHAPTER 8
EXISTING BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
2-8-1: Existing Building Code
2-8-2: Existing Building Code Amendments
2-8-1: EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
Title: Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.570, et seq., this chapter shall
be known as the INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the INTERNATIONAL EXISTING
BUILDING CODE OF THE CITY OF ELKO, hereinafter "code", including the adoption
of the 2018 international existing building code.
   B.   Applicability: Existing building code is for the repair and alternative
approaches for alterations and additions to existing buildings. It is necessary
to regulate construction in existing buildings that undergo additions,
alterations, extensive repairs or change of occupancy. (Ord. 839, 6-11-2019)
2-8-2: EXISTING BUILDING CODE AMENDMENTS:
All building construction work and the inspections thereof must be in
conformity with the provision of this code and with the latest edition of the
international building code, which is hereby adopted by the city, with the
following specific deletions and additions:
Section 1209.4 Baby Changing Tables.
Amend Section 1209 by adding Section 1209.4 as follows:
   1209.4 Baby Changing Tables. Diaper changing tables are required to be
installed in both male, female and other restrooms, in permanent buildings that
contain public restrooms as defined in chapter 29 of the 2018 IBC. Changing
tables are required when any of the following occur: new buildings, tenant
improvements, new restrooms, alteration of existing restrooms, new additions,
change of uses that require updating existing restrooms with additions to those
facilities. Shall meet the guidelines of 603.5, 309 and 902 of ANSI/ICC A117.1
2017.
   Exceptions: A building or facility that does not have public restrooms or
has been issued a permit or license which restricts the admission of children
on the basis of age, shall be exempt from this requirement.
Section 902.1 High Rise Buildings.
Amend Section 902.1 to read as follows:
   902.1 High rise buildings. Any building having occupied floors more than 55
feet (16,764 mm) above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access shall
comply with the requirements of Sections 902.1.1. (Ord. 839, 6-11-2019)
CHAPTER 9
RESERVED
(Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
CHAPTER 10
RESERVED
(Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
CHAPTER 11
SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE
SECTION:
2-11-1: Title
2-11-2: Definitions
2-11-3: General Provisions
2-11-4: To Whom Permits May Be Issued
2-11-5: Plan Submittal Requirements
2-11-6: Site Work
2-11-7: Electrical Installation
2-11-8: Plumbing Installation
2-11-9: Structural Design And Installation
2-11-10: Setbacks And Clearances
2-11-11: Accessibility And Safety
2-11-12: Special Requirements
2-11-13: Chemicals
2-11-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE. (Ord.
696, 5-27-2008; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this code, certain terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall be construed as specified in this section and elsewhere in
this chapter where specific definitions are provided. Definitions listed in
Nevada administrative code 444.010 through 444.097 and 444.310 through 444.410
shall also be applicable to this chapter.
   ACCESS BARRIER: A fence, wall, building wall or combination thereof that
completely encloses a pool or spa and obstructs access.
   ACCESSIBLE: When applied to a fixture, connection, appliance or equipment
shall mean having access thereto, but which may require the removal of an
access panel, door or similar obstruction without damaging the structure or
finish.
   ACCESSIBLE, READILY: When applied to a fixture, connection, appliance or
equipment shall mean having direct access without the necessity to remove an
access panel, door or similar obstruction.
   APPROVED: Approval by the city of Elko as the result of investigation and
tests conducted by the city of Elko, or by reason of accepted principles or
tests by recognized authorities, technical or scientific organizations.
   GATE OR DOOR: A single movable panel that swings or hinges, rotates or
slides used for entrance into or closing off an opening in the required
barrier.
   HEALTH DISTRICT: Department of human resources, Nevada state health division
hereinafter "health authority".
   LISTED AND LISTING: Equipment or materials included in a list published by
an approved testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization
concerned with product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of current
productions of listed equipment or materials. The published list shall state
that the material or equipment complies with approved nationally recognized
codes, standards or tests and has been tested or evaluated and found suitable
for use in a specified manner.
   MANUFACTURED: A pool or spa that is manufactured or constructed at another
location, transported to the property, and placed and/or assembled at the
property.
   NORMAL OPERATING WATER LEVEL: The overflow point on overflow gutters or the
midpoint in the throat of skimmers.
   POOL: See definition of Swimming Pool.
   POOL DEPTH: The distance between the lowest point of the pool floor and the
normal operating water level.
   PORTABLE POOL (NONPERMANENTLY INSTALLED POOL): A pool that may be readily
disassembled for storage and reassembled to its original integrity, and is not
permanently attached to plumbing or electrical services.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL OR SPA: All artificially constructed swimming pools or
spas which are used in conjunction with and appurtenant to a single-family
residence, and available only to the family of the residence or their private
guests.
   PUBLIC POOL OR SPA: Any swimming pool or spa, other than a private pool or
spa, which is intended to be used for swimming or bathing, and is operated by
an owner, lessee, operator, licensee, or concessionaire regardless of whether a
fee is charged for use.
   SLIP RESISTANT: A surface that has been so treated or constructed as to
significantly reduce the chance of a user slipping when wet.
   SPA: A permanently installed artificial body of water in excess of twenty
four inches (24") in depth designed for recreation or therapeutic use that is
not drained, cleaned or refilled for each individual user.
   STAIR, RECESSED TREAD, LADDER: A means of entry and exit to and from the
pool or spa that may be used in conjunction with each other.
Ladder: A series of vertically separated treads or rungs connected by vertical
rail members or independently fastened to an adjacent vertical wall.
Recessed Tread: A series of vertically spaced cavities in the pool or spa wall
creating tread areas for step holes.
Stair: A riser/tread or series of risers/treads extending down from the deck
into the pool/spa area.
   SWIMMING POOL: A permanently installed artificial body of water in excess of
twenty four inches (24") in depth which includes all equipment necessary for
its use.
   WASTEWATER: Water from filter cleansing, draining of a pool or spa, or
lowering of the water level in a pool or spa.
   WATERSCAPE: Any structure that is used in conjunction with and appurtenant
with a swimming pool or spa (i.e., waterfalls, creeks, caves, fountains, rock
structures, etc.).
   WIDTH OR LENGTH: The actual dimension taken at the maximum location from
inner wall to inner wall at the normal operating water level of a pool or spa.
(Ord. 696, 5-27-2008; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-11-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall be known as the swimming pool and spa code of the city of
Elko, hereinafter "code".
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all new construction,
alterations, or reconstruction, except as provided for otherwise in this
chapter. All new construction, alterations, or reconstruction of swimming pools
and spas in the city shall comply with this chapter, in addition to any other
applicable provisions or amendments set forth by the Elko city council through
resolution or ordinance, which include, but are not limited to, the latest
edition of the uniform mechanical code, uniform plumbing code, national
electrical code, and international energy conservation code adopted by the
city.
   A.   The codes and standards referenced in this chapter shall be considered
part of the requirements of this chapter to the prescribed extent of each such
reference. In the event of differences between the provisions of this chapter
and the referenced codes and standards, the provisions of this chapter shall
apply.
   B.   Spas, whether permanent or portable, are regulated under the provisions
of the national electrical code and the uniform plumbing code. Electrical and
plumbing permits are required when any spa is permanently attached to
electrical or plumbing services.
   C.   In addition to the requirements set forth in this chapter, public
swimming pools, wading pools and spas, designed for full or partial human
submersion and open to the public must be constructed in compliance with the
Nevada administrative code chapter 444, sanitation. In the event that conflicts
between this chapter and those regulations occur, the most restrictive
condition will apply.
   D.   No person shall construct or proceed with the construction of, or add
to, enlarge, alter, or cause the same to be done to any swimming pool or spa,
without first obtaining a building permit in the manner as required, and upon
the payment of fees and under the conditions as set forth in this chapter or
other applicable codes or provisions set forth by the Elko city council.
   E.   Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to a group R-3 occupancy, which
are less than twenty four inches (24") deep, do not exceed five thousand
(5,000) gallons and are installed entirely aboveground are exempt from permits.
Electrical and plumbing permits are required when any pool is permanently
attached to electrical or plumbing services. (Ord. 696, 5-27-2008; amd. Ord.
721, 2-8-2011)
2-11-4: TO WHOM PERMITS MAY BE ISSUED:
Any permit required by this chapter may be issued to any of the following
persons:
   A.   To a person holding an appropriate valid Nevada state contractor's
license (A-10) and an appropriate valid city of Elko business license. If a
contract provides for the construction of a swimming pool or spa, the prime
contractor on the project must hire a properly licensed A-10 contractor to
perform the construction of the swimming pool or spa.
   B.   To an owner of property who is installing a residential pool on the
property for his own use and not intended for sale or lease within one year
after its completion.
Note: The city of Elko requires that all general and subcontractors must
maintain a valid Nevada state contractor's license and an appropriate valid
city of Elko business license. Any company or individual that bids work, not
hired on an hourly basis by a licensed contractor, must be licensed as stated
above. The city of Elko shall require a complete list of all contractors prior
to the issuance of the building permit and request an update at any time until
the certificate of completion is issued. (Ord. 696, 5-27-2008; amd. Ord. 721,
2-8-2011)
2-11-5: PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Plot plans dimensioned and drawn to a reasonable scale and showing at
least the following:
      1.   Property lines, easements, right of way of record, and overhead
utilities.
      2.   Existing structures, fences, retaining walls, irregular grades (2 to
1 slope or greater), and other relevant characteristics adjacent to the pool/
spa or waterscape area. Whenever the water line of the pool/waterscape is less
than five feet (5') from a property line or a structure a detailed cross
section will be required showing at least the following:
         a.   Grade to property line/structure.
         b.   Design and location of footings for structure, fence/retaining
wall, house, etc.
         c.   Grade of adjacent property.
         d.   Pool wall, raised bond beam, spa, waterfall, etc.
      3.   The proposed pool/spa or waterscape shape and type, dimensioned and
located to show setbacks, side yards and clearances from existing structures
adjacent to the pool/spa or waterscape area.
      4.   The proposed mechanical equipment pad dimensioned location in
relation to setbacks and side yards.
      5.   All diving and deck equipment items if included.
      6.   The proposed deck work configuration showing its anticipated
drainage.
   B.   A structural working plan showing at least the following:
      1.   Type Of Construction: The type of construction.
      2.   Dimensions: The pool/spa or waterscape dimensions, including the
depth, surface area, and adequate cross sections drawn to scale.
      3.   Correctness Of Plans: Computations, stress diagrams, and other data
sufficient to show the correctness of the plans, including the reinforcing
steel schedule and detail, if applicable.
      4.   Contractor's Structural Calculations: Contractor's structural
calculations (stamped and signed by a properly registered design professional)
for pool, spas, spa dam walls, raised bond beams, surcharges within five feet
(5') of structures or property lines, waterscape and all other unusual
conditions.
Note: The structural calculations are to be used to substantiate the drawings
not to replace them; separate detailed drawings are required.
      5.   Drawings: Detailed working drawings of the items listed in
subsection B4 of this section, which shall be stamped and signed by the design
professional of record and show:
         a.   Plan view.
         b.   Cross sections.
         c.   Reinforcing steel size.
         d.   Reinforcing steel spacing.
         e.   Thickness of walls.
      6.   International Code Council Evaluation Service: Premanufactured pools
or spas must include copies of the applicable International Code Council
evaluation services report.
   C.   A mechanical plan showing at least the following:
      1.   The volume, system flow rate in gallons per minute (GPMs) and
turnover in hours (see section
2-11-8 of this chapter).
      2.   The type and size of filtration system and the means of waste
disposal.
      3.   The type and size of the pool heater, including the method of
venting and provisions for combustion air, if applicable.
      4.   A pool piping schedule listing the types of materials and size of
materials being used, and showing the location of the main outlets, surface
skimmers, and inlets.
      5.   The means of adding make up water.
      6.   The size, length, material and routing of the gas line from source
to heater, if applicable.
      7.   All underground installation of plumbing lines to include water
supply, drain, vacuum and circulating lines and gas piping systems shall be
installed on a minimum three inch (3") base with four inch (4") cover of clean
sand.
   D.   An electrical plan showing at least the following:
      1.   The size and location of the existing electrical service.
Note: An electrical load calculation will be required if the size of the main
electrical service is less than two hundred (200) amp or two (2) or more pumps
are installed.
      2.   Indicate the type and size of conduit and size of conductors.
Note: For plans provided by a contractor: If a contractor chooses to draw his
own plans, in a prominent location, on the front sheet of each principal's
plans, the contractor needs to properly sign taking responsibility for the
design. Each signature must be an original, copies will not be accepted. Plans
may be copied, but the signature still needs to be an original. The following
information is required to be placed on the front sheet for each principal of
each set of plans:
   A.   The contractor company name.
   B.   State contractor number.
   C.   State license classification held.
   D.   State license limit.
   E.   The name of person who prepared the drawings.
   F.   Original signature of person who prepared the drawings.
The primary contractor may sign the cover/front sheet for the entire set of
plans. This does not include the site plan sheet; this sheet would need to be
signed separately. The electrical, mechanical and plumbing contractors need to
sign the first sheet of the sections he/she drew.
Note: For plans prepared by an owner/builder: If an owner/builder draws the
plans, the plans shall be so identified with the following information on the
site plan and front sheet of each set of plans:
   A.   Printed name of owner who prepared drawings.
   B.   Original signature of owner who prepared drawings.
   C.   Statement "owner/builder" underneath signature. (Ord. 696, 5-27-2008;
amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-11-6: SITE WORK:
   A.   Excavation: Excavations shall be so constructed or protected that they
do not endanger life or property. Temporary barricades shall be maintained in
place and kept in good order until permanent barriers are installed. It shall
be the responsibility of the contractor or owner to verify property line
locations prior to excavation.
   B.   Equipment Clearances: All electrical equipment clearances shall comply
with requirements specified per national electrical code and manufacturer's
listing guidelines. A twenty four inch (24") access path is required to all
pool and existing mechanical equipment. Equipment shall be mounted on a
permanent, secure wall, fence or other approved structure.
   C.   Equipment: The equipment slab shall not be in contact with the
foundation system of a property line structure. Equipment shall be installed
with adequate drainage. Equipment in vaults or pits shall have automatic means
to drain water. Equipment shall be installed in accordance with the currently
adopted codes, listing requirements and the manufacturer's installation
instructions. (Ord. 696, 5-27-2008; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-11-7: ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION:
All electrical installations, modifications, repairs or alterations of pools
and spas shall conform to the provisions of the currently adopted national
electrical code and local amendments.
   A.   Pool And Spa Lighting: Pools and spas shall be equipped with lighting
that illuminates the entire bottom and volume, and may be an underwater or
overhead type. Underwater lighting shall be a minimum of one-half (1/2) watt or
equivalent lumens per square foot of water surface area. Overhead lights shall
be a minimum of two (2) watts or equivalent lumens per square foot of water
surface area and shall be protected from breakage of any glass parts. Optical
fiber lighting used for pool and spa lighting shall be installed in accordance
with their listing and labeling.
   B.   Area Lighting Of Public Pools And Spas: Area lighting shall be provided
to illuminate the surface areas of the pool deck and spa deck. The lights shall
be a minimum of six-tenths (6/10) watt or equivalent lumens per square foot of
deck area.
   C.   Disconnecting Means: Time clocks are not permitted as a means of
disconnect for motors unless listed or approved by the city of Elko.
   D.   Load Calculations: Electrical load calculations will be required for
any pool, spa, or combination that utilizes more than one pump motor or if the
size of the main electrical service is less than two hundred (200) amp. This is
required to verify that the existing electrical system is adequate for the
additional loads being added.
   E.   Conductor Feeder, Overcurrent Protection And Grounding: All pool panels
shall have a minimum no. 10 AWG wire feeder and a thirty (30) ampere breaker
with an insulated ground wire to the existing panel. (Ord. 696, 5-27-2008; amd.
Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-11-8: PLUMBING INSTALLATION:
Plumbing installation, modification, repair or alteration of a pool or spa
shall conform to the currently adopted plumbing code and the additional
following requirements:
   A.   Water Quality: All water treatment, filtration and recirculation
devices, and hydraulic lines and systems shall be approved by the health
authority for a public pool or spa per Nevada administrative code 444.100 prior
to permit issuance. Water features designed for full or partial human
submersion open to the public shall be reviewed and approved by the health
authority per Nevada administrative code 444.100 prior to permit issuance.
Water quality in water features which do not come in contact with the public
and private pools and spas shall be maintained in such a manner that a nuisance
is not created pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 40.140.
   B.   Heating Equipment: Heating equipment shall conform to the provisions of
the currently adopted mechanical, plumbing and electrical codes. Installation
of such equipment shall be according to the manufacturer's instructions and
listing. Heating equipment shall be located on a minimum three inch (3") thick
pad of concrete or other approved material. The top of the pad shall be a
minimum of three inches (3") above adjacent grade and shall be appropriately
sized to accommodate all equipment. Alternate locations, such as vaults or
pits, are subject to the city of Elko approval. When pool or spa water heating
equipment is installed with a full way type shutoff valve between the outlet of
the heater and the pool or spa, an approved pressure relief valve shall be
installed on the discharge side of the water heating equipment. Vents shall
terminate with clearances as follows:
      1.   A minimum of four feet (4') below; or one foot (1') above; or four
feet (4') horizontally from a door, an operable window or a gravity air inlet
into a building.
      2.   A minimum of three feet (3') above a forced air inlet that is within
ten feet (10') of the vent.
      3.   A minimum of four feet (4') from a property line, except a public
way.
      4.   Vents shall terminate per the manufacturer's listing.
   C.   Underground Installation: Underground installation of plumbing lines to
include water supply, drain, vacuum and circulating lines and gas piping
systems shall be installed on a minimum three inch (3") base and four inch (4")
cover of clean sand in place at time of inspection.
   D.   Water Piping: Swimming pools and spas shall use approved type "L"
copper or approved PVC pipe of a minimum schedule 40 PVC meeting the NSF PW-14
standard or equal. PVC pipe shall be bent using heat by thermostatically
controlled equipment. All plastic pipe exposed to sunlight shall be protected
with an approved tape wrapping or paint. Water piping shall be pressure tested
at twenty (20) psi for fifteen (15) minutes.
   E.   Gas Piping: Natural gas piping systems shall conform to the provisions
of the currently adopted plumbing code. All other approved systems shall be
tested at sixty (60) psi for thirty (30) minutes. Liquefied petroleum gas
piping systems shall conform to the provisions of the NFPA 54. Threaded ferrous
metal gas pipe systems shall be pressure tested at ten (10) psi for fifteen
(15) minutes.
   F.   Water Supply: Pools and spas shall have water directly supplied through
a water supply inlet. The water supply inlet for public pools shall comply with
the health authority standards. The water supply inlet on private pools shall
be protected by a one inch (1") air gap or approved backflow protection device.
A positive point of potable water supply to each swimming pool shall be
established and shall be installed with a reduced pressure principle backflow
assembly.
      1.   Exception: Private pools and spas may be provided with a water
supply consisting of an approved backflow protection device (vacuum breaker)
located on the discharge side of the last valve or a sill cock (hose bib) from
which a water hose may be attached.
   G.   Wastewater: Wastewater from pools and spas shall be discharged to the
public sewer through a permanently installed waste line. Wastewater shall not
be discharged to a septic tank. No direct connection shall be made between any
storm sewer, storm drain, sanitary sewer, drainage system, drywell or subsoil
irrigation line and any line connected to a swimming pool or spa. The
permanently installed waste line shall discharge through an air gap waste
connection of the following type: an approved interceptor; a sand trap which is
vented and provided with a cleanout on the discharge side; or a "P" trap of a
minimum size of three inches (3"). The air gap shall be at least twice the
effective diameter at the pipe, or if the pipe is affected by sidewalls, at
least three (3) times the effective diameter of the pipe. In no case shall an
air gap separation be less than one inch (1").
      1.   Exception: If a public sewer service is not available, the city of
Elko may authorize the wastewater to be discharged aboveground and used for
irrigation purposes. The wastewater shall not be allowed to drain to adjacent
properties or the public way. This authorization may be revoked if a hazardous,
nuisance or unsanitary condition occurs.
      2.   Exception: For private pools and spas, a minimum one and one-half
inch (11/2") hose connection may be used as a waste line.
   H.   Entrapment Avoidance: The suction inlet for pool and spa cleaning
systems shall be protected against user entrapment by installation of an
antivortex cover. A minimum of two (2) suction inlets shall be provided in the
suction system. Separation of such inlets shall be a minimum of three feet (3')
on the horizontal plane, or located on two (2) different planes. (For example:
1 on the bottom and 1 on a vertical plane, 1 each on 2 separate walls, or 1
skimmer and 1 main drain on the same suction line.) The suction outlets shall
be plumbed so water is drawn simultaneously without valves, through the inlets
to a common line to the pump system.
   I.   Filtering And Recirculation: Pools and spas shall be equipped with a
filtering and recirculation system. Equipment shall be mounted on a minimum
three inch (3") thick pad of concrete or other approved materials. The pad
shall be a minimum of three inches (3") above adjacent grade and sized to
accommodate all equipment. All equipment shall be listed by a recognized
testing agency for the appropriate use. The circulation system shall provide a
complete turnover of water within the time frame specified below:
 
Public pool   6 hours
Private pool  12 hours
Public spa    0.5 hour
Private spa   1 hour
 
Filter, circulation systems, scum gutters and skimmers that are located in
public pools and spas shall conform to the health authority regulations. Inlets
for fresh or repurified water in all pools and spas shall be located to produce
uniform circulation of water throughout the entire pool or spa.
   J.   Over Sewer Lines: Swimming pools or inground spas shall not be
constructed over a sewer line, unless the sewer line is of cast iron material
and prior approval from the city of Elko is obtained.
   K.   Septic Systems: All swimming pool and spa water filter and circulation
piping within twenty five feet (25') of a septic system shall conform to the
health authority regulations. (Ord. 696, 5-27-2008; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-11-9: STRUCTURAL DESIGN AND INSTALLATION:
   A.   General: Pools and spas shall be constructed of reinforced concrete
conforming to the currently adopted codes or as approved by the building
official. If groundwater is present, a hydrostatic valve or other approved
means shall be installed at the lowest point. Approved, listed manufactured
pools and spas shall be installed in accordance with manufacturer's
installation instructions and their listing. Any changes or modifications to
listed manufactured pools, spas and waterscape shall require the submittal of
plans to the city of Elko for approval. All plans submitted shall be properly
stamped and signed by a properly licensed state of Nevada registered design
professional. (Ord. 696, 5-27-2008; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
   B.   Concrete And Steel Reinforcement: Concrete and steel reinforcement of
concrete pools and spas shall be designed by a properly licensed state of
Nevada registered design professional. The minimum design strength of the
concrete shall be four thousand five hundred (4,500) pounds per square inch
unless otherwise approved by the design professional (special inspections as
per section 1704 of the 2009 international building code will not be mandatory
unless noted by the design professional). The continuity of a bond beam shall
not be interrupted for the installation of skimmers or similar apparatus.
Reinforcing steel shall be continuous around the apparatus to tie in with the
remainder of the bond beam. (Ord. 696, 5-27-2008; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011; Ord.
723, 2-8-2011)
   C.   Walls And Floors: The materials used in pool and spa wall and floor
construction shall conform to the provisions of the currently adopted building
code. Walls and floors shall be designed and constructed of nonabsorbent
material in a manner to be leakproof and structurally sound under all the
conditions of the site. The inner surface of the pool or spa shall be coved,
rounded, or bullnosed at all joints, corners, angles of bases, walls, floors,
or curbs. No sharp corners or projections shall be permitted.
   D.   Entry/Egress:
      1.   Pools and spas with a depth greater than two feet (2') at pool walls
shall be provided with a means of entry/egress. Pools exceeding thirty feet
(30') in width or length shall have egress provided on opposite ends of those
sides greater than thirty feet (30'). A seat meeting the requirements of
subsection E2 of this section shall be considered as a second means of egress.
      2.   An entry/egress for a pool or spa shall be constructed to minimize
hazards and consist of a ladder, stairs, or recessed treads or an alternate
method approved by the city of Elko. The ladder, stairs or recessed treads
shall comply with the following requirements, respectively:
         a.   Ladder: Ladders shall be of a corrosion resistant material and be
provided with two (2) handholds or handrails. Ladder treads shall have a
uniform vertical spacing of seven inches (7") minimum and twelve inches (12")
maximum. Vertical spacing variation within each ladder shall not exceed one
inch (1"). Treads shall have a minimum horizontal depth of one and one-half
inches (11/2"). The top tread of the ladder shall be a maximum of twelve inches
(12") below the coping, deck or exterior edge of the pool or spa.
         b.   Stairs/Steps: Stairs/steps shall have a slip resistant surface
and rounded corners. Public pools shall have a maximum riser height of ten
inches (10") with a minimum horizontal tread depth of twelve inches (12").
Riser height variation within each stair shall not exceed one inch (1"). (Note:
The distance from the bottom of the pool to the bottom step shall not be
considered a riser.) Private pools, spas and waterscape may have a maximum
riser height of twelve inches (12") with a minimum horizontal tread depth of
twelve inches (12"). Riser height variation within each stair shall not exceed
one inch (1"). The distance from the bottom of the pool to the bottom step
shall not be considered a riser.
         c.   Recessed Treads: Recessed treads shall be provided with a set of
handrails or handholds to serve all treads and risers. Recessed treads shall
have a uniform vertical spacing of seven inches (7") minimum and twelve inches
(12") maximum. Recessed treads shall have a minimum depth of five inches (5")
and a minimum width of twelve inches (12"). The uppermost tread shall be a
maximum of twelve inches (12") below the coping, deck or exterior edge of the
pool or spa.
   E.   Deck, Seat Or Handholds: Pools and spas greater than three feet (3') in
water depth shall be provided with a deck made of a slip resistant material or
alternate method as approved by the city of Elko. Manmade decorative waterscape
and planters behind a rolled bond beam may interrupt the deck. In these cases
seats or handholds may be used for safety and emergency provisions, and shall
be a maximum of every four feet (4') around the perimeter of the pool or spa.
The deck, seat or handholds shall comply with the following requirements,
respectively:
      1.   Deck: The deck shall be a minimum of thirty inches (30") wide and
slope one-fourth inch (1/4") per foot away from pool, property lines and house
footings. The deck shall be placed a maximum of twelve inches (12") above the
normal operating water level to qualify as a handhold. Public pools and spas
shall have a minimum deck width of four feet (4'). Decks shall be sloped to
effectively drain to either deck drains or perimeter areas away from the pool
or spa.
      2.   Seat: An underwater seat, bench or swim out shall be a minimum of
twelve inches (12") long and a maximum of twenty four inches (24") below the
water surface.
      3.   Handhold: A handhold shall consist of any of the following:
         a.   A continuous coping, ledge or handhold shall be a minimum width
of three inches (3") and placed a maximum of twelve inches (12") above the
water surface or no greater than four inches (4") below water level. Individual
handholds must be at least six inches (6") in length and one and one-half
inches (11/2") in depth. Attachment must be made by an approved listed
waterproof epoxy.
         b.   A permanently secured rope of a minimum diameter of three-
fourths inch (3/4") or a railing of one and one-fourth inches (11/4") to two
inches (2") in diameter placed at a maximum of twelve inches (12") above the
water surface.
         c.   Ladders, steps or recessed treads complying with subsection D,
"Entry/Egress", of this section.
   F.   Site Drainage: Site drainage shall be provided to direct all perimeter
deck drainage, general site and roof drainage away from the pool, spa and
adjacent buildings and structures. Deck drains must terminate a minimum of
twenty four inches (24") from the foundation of any structure.
   G.   Diving Boards/Slides: Pools equipped with diving boards or slides shall
be engineered and designed to comply with standards such as ANSI/NSPI-
1 required by the National Spa And Pool Institute. Slides shall be installed
per manufacturer's listing. (Ord. 696, 5-27-2008; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-11-10: SETBACKS AND CLEARANCES:
   A.   Location: Inground pools and spas shall not be placed closer than five
feet (5') to any building or structure. An exception may be permitted when
justification is provided by a Nevada licensed structural or civil engineer
that no damage will occur to buildings, structures or adjacent properties and
that no unsafe structural conditions will exist. Inground pools and spas shall
not encroach within public utility or drainage easements.
   B.   Overhead Electrical Conductor Clearances: Conductor clearances shall
conform to the provisions of the currently adopted national electrical code and
local amendments. (Ord. 696, 5-27-2008; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-11-11: ACCESSIBILITY AND SAFETY:
   A.   Access Barrier Required: Pools and spas in excess of twenty four inches
(24") in depth shall comply with the requirements of this code.
      1.   Exception: Prefabricated swimming pools accessory to group R-
3 occupancy, which are less than twenty four inches (24") deep, do not exceed
five thousand (5,000) gallons and are installed entirely aboveground.
      2.   Exception: Spa with an approved lockable cover in the closed
position meeting the most recent addition of ASTM standard F1 346, or equal,
requiring structural support capacity of two hundred seventy five (275) pounds.
   B.   Access Barrier Construction Requirements: Access barriers shall comply
with the following:
      1.   The top of the barrier shall not be less than sixty inches (60") in
height above adjacent grade measured from outside the enclosed area. The
vertical clearance between grade and the bottom of the barrier shall be four
inches (4") maximum.
      2.   Wrought iron fence with open guardrails shall have intermediate
rails or an ornamental pattern such that a sphere four inches (4") in diameter
cannot pass. Horizontal support members shall be spaced a minimum of thirty two
inches (32") apart and shall comply with subsection A of this section.
      3.   Mixed use of masonry and wrought iron walls shall comply with all of
the following:
         a.   Masonry or wrought iron portion of the wall shall be a minimum of
thirty two inches (32") in height.
         b.   Wrought iron portion of the wall shall comply with subsections B1
and B2 of this section with a maximum of two (2) horizontal members, one near
the top of the masonry wall (maximum of 4 inches above top of wall) and one a
minimum of sixty inches (60") above grade.
         c.   Chainlink fences shall have approved slats installed.
         d.   Public pools and spas shall comply with the health authority
requirements.
   C.   Gates Or Doors: All gates or doors eight feet (8') in width or less
shall be self-closing and self-latching. Gates shall open outward. The self-
latching device for gates shall be mounted inside the enclosed area and be
designed to be inoperable from outside the enclosed area. Such devices shall be
mounted at a minimum of forty eight inches (48") above grade and not less than
six inches (6") nor more than twelve inches (12") below the top of the door or
gate. The devices shall be inaccessible from outside the enclosed area for a
distance of twenty inches (20") in all directions from the latch except that
opening not greater than one-fourth inch (1/4") diameter shall be permitted.
Access barrier gates not required to be self-closing and self-latching shall be
equipped with protected self-latching, lockable hardware and shall remain
locked at all times when not in use.
Single access gates and doors integral to fences shall comply with the
requirements of subsection B1 of this section and have latching devices capable
of keeping the door or gate securely closed and latched.
Double gates used to close an opening shall be permanently locked. If the
double gates are the only access to the protected area, one gate shall be
pinned and locked in the closed position and the adjoining gate must be self-
closing and self-latching.
Key operated, self-latching locks that are integral to the gate or door may be
used as latching devices, so long as they are permanently locked from the
outside and comply with the above installation requirements.
   D.   Private Pool And Spa Safety Requirements: One of the following shall be
used:
      1.   Door Devices: Self-closing and self-latching devices installed on
all doors with direct access to the pool with the release mechanism located a
minimum of fifty four inches (54") above the floor.
      2.   Alarm System: Residential dwelling units that do not have a separate
pool or spa enclosure barrier shall have an alarm installed on all doors with
direct access to the pool. The alarm shall sound continuously for a minimum of
thirty (30) seconds within seven (7) seconds after the door and its screen, if
present, are opened, and be capable of providing a sound pressure level of not
less than eighty five (85) dB when measured indoors at ten feet (10'). The
alarm shall automatically reset under all conditions. The alarm shall be
equipped with a manual means, such as a touch pad or switch, to temporarily
deactivate the alarm for a single opening. The deactivation switch shall be
located at least fifty four inches (54") above the threshold of the door.
      3.   Laser Or Light Beam: A laser or light beam perimeter alarm that
provides an active beam barrier around the total perimeter or isolates the pool
or spa may be used. The laser or light beam must have an adjustable height
capability and sound an alarm of at least eighty five (85) dB both inside and
outside of the home when the beam is crossed. The alarm must automatically
reset after alarming. The alarm shall meet ASTM's provisional standard
specifications for pool alarms (PS 128-01) and be UL listed.
      4.   Addition Barriers: Addition barriers that isolate the dwelling from
the pool shall be a minimum forty eight inches (48") in height through which a
four inch (4") sphere will not pass. Any gate shall be self-closing and self-
latching per subsection D1 of this section.
Exception: Latching mechanisms may be installed on the exterior side of the
gate if it is installed at least fifty four inches (54") above finished grade.
      5.   Power Safety Covers: Power safety covers meeting ASTM F1 346-1.
      6.   Other Means: When approved by the city of Elko, other means of
protection may be acceptable so long as the degree of protection afforded is
not less than that afforded by any of the devices described above.
   E.   Safety Glazing: Glazing in walls and fences within five feet (5') of
the water's edge measured horizontally and less than sixty inches (60")
measured vertically above grade shall be considered hazardous locations. In
these locations, tempered glazing, laminated glass or plexiglas shall be used.
   F.   Barrier Timeliness: All required access barrier elements shall be in
place prior to:
      1.   Setting a manufactured pool or spa.
      2.   The preplaster inspection of a conventionally constructed pool or
spa.
      3.   The filling with water of artificial bodies of water.
   G.   Surveillance Substitute: For resort hotel type facilities only; in lieu
of access barriers required above for swimming pools or spas, a pool guard may
be provided so that observation is maintained at all times or an alternate
method submitted in writing and approved by the city of Elko. Such submittal
shall become a permanent part of the job record.
   H.   Responsible Party: The owner of the property upon which pools, spas or
artificial bodies of water are located are responsible to establish and
maintain access barriers. The owner or developer of land adjacent to an access
barrier required by this section shall not reduce, degrade, or infringe on the
access barrier's compliance with this code.
   I.   Alternative Plans Or Devices: Written alternative plans or devices for
access barriers shall be submitted to the city of Elko. If approved by the city
of Elko, the owner remains responsible for establishing and maintaining such
approved alternate methods. (Ord. 696, 5-27-2008; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-11-12: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
The fire department shall have the authority to require the stored water in a
swimming pool and spa to be available through standard fire department approved
connections for fire protection purposes when deemed necessary by the current
fire code adopted by the city and/or unique design, location, type and use of
the residence or facility as determined by the fire chief. (Ord. 696, 5-27-
2008; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-11-13: CHEMICALS:
Commercial pools and spas that utilize chemicals such as chlorine, must post on
the exterior of the door where chemicals are stored and/or mixed, and further
provide generic mix bucket or container with common name of chemical, mix
percentages contained within, and health risk hazard per NFPA standard UN
identifiers. (Ord. 696, 5-27-2008; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
CHAPTER 12
STREET NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
SECTION:
2-12-1: Street Addresses For Apartment Complexes
2-12-2: Mobile Home Parks And Recreational Vehicle Parks
2-12-3: Commercial Shopping Centers
2-12-4: State Or Political Subdivision Buildings
2-12-5: Buildings Used For Commercial Purposes
2-12-1: STREET ADDRESSES FOR APARTMENT COMPLEXES:
Every person owning any apartment complex, or the agent thereof, shall, within
thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof, and within thirty (30) days
after the completion of a new apartment complex, place or cause to be placed
the number of its street address on the complex in such a manner that the
police, fire department and other persons responding to an emergency can
readily locate individual dwelling units within the complex. The number shall
be three inches (3") high, or higher. As used in this section, "apartment
complex" means a building or group of buildings, each building of which is
arranged in several suites of connecting rooms, each suite designed for
independent housekeeping. (Ord. 420, 2-11-1992; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-12-2: MOBILE HOME PARKS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS:
Every person owning any mobile home park or recreational vehicle park, or the
agent thereof, shall, within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof,
and within thirty (30) days after the completion of a new mobile home park or
recreational vehicle park, place or cause to be placed the number of each space
on each space in such a manner that the police, fire department and other
persons responding to an emergency can readily locate individual spaces within
the park. The number shall be three inches (3") high, or higher. (Ord. 420, 2-
11-1992; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-12-3: COMMERCIAL SHOPPING CENTERS:
Every person owning a commercial shopping center, or the agent thereof, shall,
within thirty (30) days after the effective date hereof, and within thirty (30)
days after completion of any new commercial shopping center, place or cause to
be placed a number identifying that business on the back door of each business
in the shopping center in such a manner that the police, fire department and
other persons responding to an emergency can readily locate the business within
the shopping center. The number shall be three inches (3") high, or higher.
(Ord. 420, 2-11-1992; amd. Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-12-4: STATE OR POLITICAL SUBDIVISION BUILDINGS:
Every state or political subdivision owning any building shall, within thirty
(30) days after the effective date hereof, and within thirty (30) days after
the completion of any new building, place the number of its street address on
the front of the building in such a manner that the police, fire department and
other persons responding to an emergency can readily locate the building. The
number shall be three inches (3") high, or higher. (Ord. 420, 2-11-1992; amd.
Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
2-12-5: BUILDINGS USED FOR COMMERCIAL PURPOSES:
Every person, or the agent thereof, owning any building which is used for
commercial purposes shall, within thirty (30) days after the effective date
hereof, and within thirty (30) days after the completion of any new building
built for a commercial purpose, place the number of its street address on the
front of the building in such a manner that the police, fire department and
other persons responding to an emergency can readily locate the building. The
number shall be three inches (3") high, or higher. (Ord. 420, 2-11-1992; amd.
Ord. 721, 2-8-2011)
TITLE 3
ZONING REGULATIONS
Reserved   1
General Zoning Ordinance   2
Sexually Oriented Business Zoning Ordinance   2A
Divisions Of Land   3
Planning Commission   4
Mobile Home Parks, Mobile Home, Manufactured Home Subdivisions And Recreational
Vehicle Parks   5
Reserved   6
Movement Of Buildings   7
Floodplain Management   8
Sign Regulations   9
CHAPTER 1
RESERVED
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL ZONING ORDINANCE
SECTION:
3-2-1: Title
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: General Provisions
3-2-4: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
3-2-5: Residential Zoning Districts
3-2-6: RB Residential Business District
3-2-7: RMH Mobile Home Park And Mobile Home Subdivision District
3-2-8: PQP Public, Quasi-Public District
3-2-9: CC, CT Commercial Districts
3-2-10: PC, C Commercial Districts
3-2-11: IBP, IC Industrial Districts
3-2-12: LI, GI Industrial Districts
3-2-13: AG General Agriculture District
3-2-14: FP, SA Overlay Districts
3-2-15: PUD Planned Unit Development District
3-2-16: RC Restricted Commercial District
3-2-17: Traffic, Access, Parking And Loading Regulations
3-2-18: Conditional Use Permits
3-2-19: Nonconforming Uses
3-2-20: Enforcement
3-2-21-A: Amendments To Zoning District Boundaries
3-2-21-B: Amendments To Zoning Regulations
3-2-22: Variances
3-2-23: Violations And Penalties
3-2-24: Repeal And Saving Clause
3-2-25: Appeals
3-2-26: Agreements Concerning Development Of Land
3-2-27: Operation Of Facilities Utilizing Explosives
3-2-28: Hillside Development Regulations And Guidelines
3-2-29: Marijuana Establishments And Medical Marijuana Establishments
Prohibited
3-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ELKO ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 256,
4-11-1978)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms, whenever used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
indicated. Words used in the present tense include the future tense; words in
the singular include the plural, and vice versa. The word "shall" is always
mandatory, and the word "may" is permissive. The word "persons" includes an
association, firm, partnership or corporation, as well as an individual. The
word "occupied" and the word "used" shall be considered as meaning the same as
the words "intended", "arranged" or "designed to be used or occupied". The word
"dwelling" includes the word "residence"; the word "lot" includes the words
"plot" or "parcel".
                The condition of two (2) adjoining properties having a common property line or
ABUTTING:       boundary, including cases where two (2) or more lots adjoin only at a corner or
                corners, but not including cases where adjoining lots are separated by a street
                or alley.
ACTION:         The decision made by the reviewing authority on a land use application, to
                include any conditions of approval.
ADJOINING,      The condition of being near to or close to, but not necessarily having a common
ADJACENT:       dividing line; e.g., two (2) properties which are separated only by a street or
                alley shall be considered as adjoining one another.
ADULT           For the purposes of this chapter, means an establishment which merchandises
BOOKSTORE:      printed material or movies which are intended to appeal to the prurient
                interests of the reader.
ADULT CARE      An establishment that furnishes food, shelter, assistance and limited
FACILITY:       supervision only during the day to unrelated person(s) with an intellectual
                disability or with a physical disability who is aged or infirm.
                A motion picture theater whose program, during the time of its operation,
ADULT MOTION    contains one or more motion pictures which are rated "X" by the Code Rating
PICTURE         Administration of the Motion Picture Association of America or are not rated,
THEATER:        and whose program is intended to appeal to the prurient interests of the
                viewer.
AGRICULTURE:    The practice of cultivating the soil, producing crops and raising livestock.
                A. A street or highway within a City block set apart for public use, vehicular
ALLEY:          traffic and local convenience;
                B. A street or highway which primarily furnishes access to the rear entrances
                of abutting property.
                A room or suite of rooms with facilities for the preparation of meals that is
APARTMENT:      designed for and used or intended to be used by one family and that is intended
                to be occupied on a rental basis with a rental period of at least one week.
APPLICANT:      A person who submits an application to the Planning Department.
APPLICATION:    A written request for a permit on a form approved by the City.
                An architectural projection that provides weather protection, identity or
AWNING:         decoration and is partially or wholly supported by the building to which it is
                attached. An awning is comprised of a lightweight frame structure over which a
                covering is attached.
BUILDING:       Any structure, regardless of whether it is affixed to real property that is
                used or intended for supporting or sheltering any human use or occupancy.
BUILDING,       A detached subordinate building on the same lot with a principal building or
ACCESSORY:      use, the use of which is customarily accessory and incidental to the main use
                of the principal building or use.
BUILDING,       A detached building that is not attached to or set upon a permanent foundation,
ACCESSORY, NON- such as a greenhouse, garden shed, storage shed, or other building designed to
PERMANENT:      store garden tools, bicycles, holiday decorations, or similar items and that is
                usually purchased at a retail establishment.
BUILDING,       A detached building attached to or set upon a permanent foundation and/or
ACCESSORY,      connected to utilities, such as a greenhouse, pole barn, garage, or other
PERMANENT:      building designed to store household items and/or vehicles and that is usually
                built on-site.
BUILDING        The vertical distance measured from grade to the highest point of the building.
HEIGHT:
BUILDING        Qualified employee of the City of Elko Building Department delegated to do
INSPECTOR:      building inspections and enforce applicable portions of this Code.
BUILDING,       A building, or where the context so indicates, a group of buildings, within
PRINCIPAL:      which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which the building is
                situated.
                The use of real property owned or occupied by another person for living
                accommodation purposes outside of a structure that is affixed to the ground, to
                include uses such as, without limitation, the following when done in connection
                with outdoor living: a) overnight sleeping activities or making preparations to
                sleep overnight outside of a motor vehicle, recreational vehicle or trailer,
                such as the laying down of bedding on the ground for the purpose of sleeping
CAMPING:        overnight; b) storing personal belongings outside of a structure in connection
                with overnight sleeping activities; c) cooking outdoors or making a fire for
                the purpose of cooking food outdoors as approved by the City; or d) using any
                tent, shelter or other mobile structure for sleeping overnight. "Camping" does
                not include using a motor vehicle, recreational vehicle or trailer as long-term
                shelter, for living accommodation purposes or for the purpose of storage of
                belongings.
CARPORT:        An accessory building, attached or detached, having two (2) or more open sides,
                used by occupants of the principal building for automobile shelter or storage.
                A document issued by the building official certifying that work performed by a
CERTIFICATE OF  permittee is in compliance with this title and is in a condition suitable for
OCCUPANCY:      the indicated use or occupancy. The term “building official” shall have the
                meaning ascribed in Section 2- 1-2(C) of the Code.
CHILDCARE       A childcare facility providing care for more than twelve (12) children.
CENTER:
                An establishment operated and maintained for the purpose of furnishing care on
CHILDCARE       a temporary or permanent basis during the day or overnight, to five (5) or more
FACILITY:       children under eighteen (18) years of age, if compensation is received for the
                care of any of those children and provided that such establishment is licensed
                by the State and operated in accordance with State requirements.
CHILDCARE       A childcare facility providing care for not less than five (5) children and not
FAMILY HOME:    more than six (6) children.
CHILDCARE GROUP A childcare facility providing care for not less than seven (7) children and
HOME:           not more than twelve (12) children.
CITY COUNCIL:   The Mayor and City Council of the City of Elko, Nevada.
                A building, or part thereof, in which ambulatory patients are provided
CLINIC:         diagnostic, therapeutic or preventative medical, surgical, dental or optical
                treatment by a group of doctors acting jointly, but not providing for overnight
                residence of patients.
CODE:           The Elko City Code.
                A parcel or parcels of land, or an area of water, or a combination of land and
                water, within the site designated for planned unit residential development
COMMON OPEN     which is designed and intended for the use or enjoyment of the residents of the
SPACE:          development. Common open space may contain such complementary structures and
                improvements as are necessary and appropriate for the benefit and enjoyment of
                such residents.
CONDITIONAL     A use permitted in zoning district regulations subject to a finding by the
USE:            Planning Commission that all special conditions and requirements imposed shall
                be met.
                A multi-family dwelling or commercial building within which the occupied area
CONDOMINIUM:    is owned individually and the structure, land, common open space areas and
                facilities are owned by all of the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
                An area on, abutting or adjacent to a major construction or demolition site
CONSTRUCTION    used on a temporary basis for the parking and storage of equipment used in the
YARD:           project, and the storage and preparation of materials and other items used in
                the project, including construction offices and shops.
CONVALESCENT    See definition of nursing or convalescent home.
HOME:
                Unless specifically provided otherwise, a person who holds a professional
DESIGN          license or certificate issued pursuant to chapter 623, 623A or 625 of the
PROFESSIONAL:   Nevada Revised Statutes, or a person primarily engaged in the practice of
                professional engineering, land surveying architecture or landscape
                architecture.
                A location-specific written document containing the information required by
DEVELOPMENT     this chapter and demonstrating the feasability of a proposed commercial or
PLAN:           other development. A development plan is in addition to and not in lieu of a
                site plan.
                A business enterprise, activity or use of land consisting of sales or services
DRIVE-IN        rendered to patrons who normally receive the products or utilize the services
ESTABLISHMENT:  while in motor vehicles upon the premises, including, but not limited to, gas
                service stations, drive-in restaurants, drive-in laundry and dry cleaning pick
                up, and drive-in bank.
                The use of a dedicated drive lane that, incidental to a principal use, provides
DRIVE-THROUGH:  access to a station, such as a window, door or mechanical device, from which
                occupants of a motor vehicle receive or obtain a product or service.
DROUGHT         A plant that can survive with minimum supplemental water.
TOLERANT PLANT:
DWELLING,       A building or group of buildings that contains three (3) or more dwelling
MULTIPLE-       units.
FAMILY:
                A building that consists solely of one (1) dwelling unit and which is
DWELLING,       constructed under the Building Code in accordance with title 2 of this Code,
SINGLE-FAMILY:  and which also includes manufactured homes developed to specific standards in
                accordance with subsection 3-2-3Q of this chapter.
DWELLING, TWO-  A building that contains two (2) attached single-family dwelling units totally
FAMILY:         separated from each other by an unpierced wall and located on the same lot or
                parcel.
DWELLING UNIT   A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one (1)
(DU):           family, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking
                and sanitation.
                Built, constructed, altered, reconstructed or moved upon; any physical
ERECTED:        operations on a premises which are required for construction, excavation, fill,
                drainage and the like, shall be considered a part of erection.
                The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by a public utility of
                underground, surface or overhead gas, electrical, steam, water transmission or
                distribution systems, communication, supply or disposal systems, poles, wires,
ESSENTIAL       mains, drains, sewers, pipes, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes,
SERVICE:        traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories in
                connection therewith reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate
                service by such public utilities for the public health, safety or general
                welfare, not including buildings, electric substations and transmission towers.
EXCAVATION:     Any breaking of ground, except common gardening and grounds care, and general
                agriculture.
                An individual living alone; or, one (1) or more persons living together who are
FAMILY:         related by blood, marriage or other legal bond, and their dependents; or, a
                group of not more than five (5) unrelated persons living together as a single
                household in a dwelling unit. A "family" includes its domestic employees.
FOUNDATION:     A structure that supports a building or structure from underneath, typically
                made of stone or concrete.
                All lot lines of any lot, parcel or tract of property adjacent to a road,
FULL FRONTAGE:  street, alley or right-of-way, to include lots, parcels or tracts containing
                multiple borders or edges, such as corner lots.
GARAGE:         A covered or enclosed outbuilding or part of a building designed for housing
                motor vehicles, boats, or trailers.
GAS SERVICE     An establishment retailing motor fuels and lubricants directly to the public on
STATION:        the premises, including incidental sale of minor auto accessories and services.
GOVERNING BODY: The City Council.
GRADE:          The average elevation of the finished ground surface adjacent to the exterior
                walls of a building or base of a structure.
HALFWAY HOUSE   A residence that provides housing and a living environment for recovering
FOR RECOVERING  alcohol and drug abusers and is operated to facilitate their reintegration into
ALCOHOL AND     the community, but does not provide treatment for alcohol or drug abuse. The
DRUG ABUSERS:   term "halfway house for recovering alcohol and drug abusers" does not include a
                facility for transitional living for released offenders.
                A business customarily carried on in a business establishment that is permitted
HOME            to be carried out in a residence as long as the use as a business is incidental
OCCUPATION:     to the primary residential purpose and the residential character of the
                property is not changed. Every person permitted to carry on a home occupation
                shall obtain an annual business license.
                A building, or group of buildings, in which sick or injured persons are given
                medical or surgical treatment, examination or care, including overnight
HOSPITAL:       residence, together with related facilities, e.g., laboratories, training
                facilities, staff residences, outpatient department and similar facilities
                which are an integral part of the principal use.
HOTEL, MOTEL,   A building, or group of buildings, used primarily for accommodation of
or HOTEL        transient guests in rooms or suites.
SUITES:
                A designated area that serves a humanitarian purpose by allowing people, with
HUMANITARIAN    permission from the owner or occupier of the land, to engage in camping and
CAMPGROUND:     that may or may not have toilets, showers and/or other amenities for campers to
                use.
HUMANITARIAN    A use which is not for profit and which is designed to allow people who are
PURPOSE:        homeless or who cannot occupy their homes due to lack of utilities or other
                causes, to engage in life sustaining activities, such as eating and sleeping.
                An open area where waste, used or secondhand materials are bought and sold,
                exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including, but not
JUNKYARD:       limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires, and
                bottles. A "junkyard" includes automobile wrecking yards and any area of more
                than one hundred twenty (120) square feet for storage, keeping or abandonment
                of junk, but does not include uses confined entirely within enclosed buildings.
                The legal or beneficial owner or owners of all the land proposed to be included
                in the planned unit development. The holder of an option or contract of
LANDOWNER:      purchase, and lessee having a remaining term of not less than thirty (30)
                years, or another person having an enforceable proprietary interest in such
                land, is a "landowner" for the purposes of this chapter.
LICENSED HOUSE  A licensed commercial enterprise maintained for the convenience and resort of
OF              persons desiring lawful sexual intercourse.
PROSTITUTION:
                An off-street space provided for the temporary parking of a vehicle while
LOADING SPACE:  loading or unloading merchandise or materials, situated on the same lot with a
                building and entirely outside the right-of-way of any public street or alley.
                A floor level located more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the main floor, open
LOFT:           to the main floor on one or more sides with a ceiling height of less than 6
                feet 8 inches (2032 mm) and used as a living or sleeping space.
                A distinct part or parcel of land separated from other pieces or parcels by
                description, identified as such in a subdivision or on a record survey map, or
                described as such by metes and bounds, with the intention or for the purposes
                of sale, lease, or separate use, or for the purpose of building, including the
                following types of lots:
LOT:            Corner Lot: A lot abutting two (2) or more intersecting streets.
                Double Frontage Lot: A lot abutting two (2) parallel or approximately parallel
                streets.
                Interior Lot: A lot having only one (1) side abutting a street.
                Key Lot: An interior lot, one (1) side of which is contiguous to the rear line
                of a corner lot.
LOT AREA:       The total area of a lot within the lot lines as measured on a horizontal plane.
LOT COVERAGE:   That part or percentage of a lot occupied by principal and/or accessory
                buildings.
LOT DEPTH:      The shortest distance, measured on a line parallel to the axis of the lot,
                between points on the front and rear lot lines.
                A line bounding a lot, including the following types of lot lines:
                Front Lot Line: The lot line coinciding with the street line; or, in the case
                of a corner lot, the shorter of two (2) lot lines coinciding with street lines;
                or, in the case of a double frontage lot, both lot lines coinciding with street
                lines.
                Rear Lot Line: The lot line opposite and farthest from the front lot line; for
LOT LINE:       a pointed or irregular lot, the rear lot line shall be an imaginary line,
                parallel to and farthest from the front lot line, not less than ten feet (10')
                long and wholly within the lot.
                Side Lot Line: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line; in the case of
                a corner lot, the lot line abutting the side street is designated as the
                exterior side lot line and all other side lot lines are designated as interior
                side lot lines.
                A lot which is part of a subdivision plat or other type of map used for the
                purpose of dividing or merging parcels of land, recorded in the Elko County
LOT OF RECORD:  Recorder's Office prior to the effective date hereof; or, a lot or parcel
                described by metes and bounds and having its description recorded in the Elko
                County Recorder's Office prior to the effective date hereof.
                A. In case of a rectangular lot or a lot abutting on the outside of a street
                curve, the distance between side lot lines measured parallel to the street or
                to the street chord and measured on the street chord.
LOT WIDTH:      B. In the case of a lot abutting on the inside of a street curve, the distance
                between the side lot lines measured parallel to the street or the street chord
                at the rear line of the dwelling, or, where there is no dwelling, thirty feet
                (30') behind the minimum front setback line.
MAJOR
ELECTRICAL      Any electrical line carrying an electrical load of sixty six (66) kV and above.
TRANSMISSION
LINE:
                The reduction or extraction of metals from their ores by mechanical, physical
METALLURGY:     or chemical methods, including their refinement and preparation for use as raw
                materials.
                The extraction from the earth of gravel, stone, sand, and metallic or
MINING:         nonmetallic ore, and the crushing, washing, grading, storage and loading for
                transportation thereof.
MIXED USE:      Combination of different uses including residential use within a shared
                building.
MOBILE HOME:    As defined in the City of Elko mobile home ordinance. 1
MOBILE HOME     As defined in the City of Elko mobile home ordinance. 2
LOT:
MOBILE HOME     As defined in the City of Elko mobile home ordinance. 3
PARK:
NONCONFORMING   Uses existing at the time of adoption of this chapter, but not in accordance
USE:            with the provisions and requirements contained herein.
                An establishment providing bed care, or chronic or convalescent care, for one
NURSING OR      (1) or more persons, exclusive of relatives, who by reason of illness or
CONVALESCENT    physical infirmity are unable to properly care for themselves; excluding,
HOME:           however, institutions for the care of alcoholics, drug addicts, and persons
                with mental or communicable diseases.
OFF STREET:     Land which is not within the right-of-way of any street or alley.
PARK AND RIDE   Parking lots which are intended to allow commuters to park their vehicles and
FACILITIES:     then transfer to some form of mass transportation, such as buses, trains or
                carpools.
                An area other than for single-family dwellings used for the off street parking
PARKING LOT:    of more than two (2) motor vehicles, including parking spaces, access and
                maneuvering aisles.
PARKING SPACE:  A fully accessible space adequate for the temporary parking of permitted
                vehicles, situated entirely outside the right-of-way of any public street.
PARTIES IN      A term identifying the owners of property within three hundred feet (300') of
INTEREST:       specific property.
                Except where otherwise indicated, a natural person, any form of business or
                social organization and any other nongovernmental legal entity including, but
PERSON:         not limited to, a corporation, partnership, association, trust or
                unincorporated organization, or a government, governmental agency or political
                subdivision of a government.
PLANNED         An area of one or more parcels to be developed as a single project which is
COMMERCIAL      planned, operated and maintained by one entity and contains a number of
DEVELOPMENT:    commercial uses to include but not limited to mixed- use community shopping
                centers, office parks, and other similar commercial developments.
PLANNED         A business development not divided by a street and characterized by an
SHOPPING        organized and concentrated grouping of retail and service outlets served by a
CENTER:         common circulation and parking system.
                An area of land controlled by a landowner, which is to be developed as a single
PLANNED UNIT    entity for a number of dwelling units, the plans for which do not correspond in
DEVELOPMENT:    lot size, bulk or type of dwelling, density, lot coverage and required open
                space to the regulations established in any one (1) residential district
                created, from time to time, under the provisions of this chapter.
PLANNING        The City of Elko Planning Commission.
COMMISSION:
PRIVATE         An enclosed accessory building, attached or detached, used for storage of motor
GARAGES:        vehicles used by occupants of the principal building and providing no public
                shop or services in connection therewith.
PROJECT:        A commercial development consisting of buildings, structures and other
                improvements built and arranged according to a single plan.
                Any person, firm, corporation, municipality or Municipal board duly authorized
PUBLIC UTILITY: under State or Municipal regulations, to furnish to the public electricity,
                gas, steam, communications, water, drainage, flood control, irrigation, garbage
                or trash disposal, or sewage disposal.
PROHIBITED USE: A use that is not permitted by any means in a particular zoning district.
                The occupation and use of land, buildings and structures for purposes directly
                connected with rail transportation of articles, goods and passengers, including
                such facilities as tracks, sidings, signal devices and structures, shops and
RAILROAD USE:   yards for maintenance and storage of rail machinery, loading platforms,
                passenger and freight terminals, but excluding warehouses, stockyards, grain
                elevators, truck freight terminals and yards, and similar facilities, which are
                maintained and operated by the owning railroad company or by a lessee for
                purposes auxiliary to rail transportation.
RECREATION AND  Buildings and grounds used for and operated by membership of fraternal
SOCIAL CLUBS:   organizations primarily not for profit, including golf clubs, tennis clubs,
                riding clubs, American Legion halls, Elks Club, and similar facilities.
RECREATIONAL    A vehicle self-propelled or otherwise, designed to temporarily shelter persons
VEHICLE:        en route on a recreational or vacation trip. "Recreational vehicle" includes
                truck mounted campers, and self-propelled travel vans.
                A lot, parcel or tract of land, having as its principal use the rental of space
RECREATIONAL    of temporary short term, transient occupancy by two (2) or more recreational
VEHICLE PARK:   vehicles, including any accessory buildings, structures and uses customarily
                incidental thereto.
                An establishment where these services may be allowed: normal activities of a
                gas service station, general repair, engine rebuilding, rebuilding or
REPAIR GARAGE:  reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision services such as body, frame or
                fender straightening and repair; general painting and undercoating of
                automobiles; high speed washing; auto, boat or trailer rental; and general
                sales of auto parts or accessories.
RESIDENTIAL     A halfway house for recovering alcohol and drug abusers or a residential
ESTABLISHMENT:  facility for groups.
                An establishment that furnishes food, shelter, assistance and limited
                supervision to unrelated person(s) with an intellectual disability or with a
                physical disability who is aged or infirm. The term does not include an
RESIDENTIAL     establishment which provides care only during the day, a natural person who
FACILITY FOR    provides care for no more than two (2) persons in his own home, a natural
GROUPS:         person who provides care for one (1) or more persons related to him within the
                third degree of consanguinity or affinity, a halfway house for recovering
                alcohol and drug abusers, or a facility funded by a division or program of the
                Nevada Department of Health and Human Services.
RETAIL USE:     A commercial establishment selling goods at retail; however, a home occupation
                shall not be considered as a retail use.
ROADWAY         All roadway classifications shall be determined in accordance with the
CLASSIFICATION: Transportation Component of the City of Elko Master Plan.
                A building other than a hotel or motel where, for compensation and by
ROOMING OR      prearrangement for definite periods of time, with or without meals, lodging is
BOARDING HOUSE: provided for individuals who are not members of a resident family and not
                occupied by a single-family unit.
                A public or private building, or group of buildings, used for purposes of
SCHOOL:         primary or secondary education, meeting all requirements of the Compulsory
                Education Laws of the State of Nevada.
SCREEN WALL:    A masonry wall or opaque fence so constructed as to prevent the view of
                enclosed activities or uses from without.
SERVANT         An attached or detached building, or part thereof, housing persons employed on
QUARTERS:       the premises.
                Buildings and grounds used for and operated by nonprofit organizations whose
                membership is open to any resident of the community, including YMCA, YWCA, Boy
SERVICE CLUBS:  Scouts, Girl Scouts, Boys Club and any similar organizations having as its
                primary objective the improvement of the district, neighborhood or community
                and its social welfare.
                The minimum horizontal distance between a lot line and the nearest point of a
SETBACK:        building, structure or use, as the context indicates, located on a lot.
                "Setback" shall not include eaves of the building.
                An architectural, engineering, and/or landscape architectural plan drawn to
                scale showing the physical layout of the site, including the size and location
                of new construction and existing structures on the site, distances from lot
SITE PLAN:      lines, the established street grades, the proposed finished grades and, as
                applicable, flood hazard areas, floodways, design flood elevations, and any
                other information pertaining to the physical layout of the site required by the
                building official.
                That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the
                surface of the next floor above, or if there is no floor above, the space
STORY:          between the topmost floor and the roof having a usable floor area at least one-
                half (½) that of the floor area of the floor immediately below. A basement
                shall be considered a story when fifty percent (50%) or more of its cubic
                content is above grade.
STREET:         A dedicated public way which affords the principal means of vehicular access to
                abutting property.
STREET LINE:    A line demarcating the limits of a street right-of-way.
                A nondedicated, privately owned right-of-way or limited public way that affords
STREET,         the principal means of emergency and limited vehicular access and connection
PRIVATE:        from the public street system to properties created through the division or
                subdivision of land.
                A dedicated public right-of-way that is part of the public street system and
STREET, PUBLIC: which affords the principal means of emergency and general vehicular access to
                abutting property.
                Something built or constructed that may be placed upon or affixed to real
STRUCTURE:      property for a purpose, such as storage or protection from the elements. The
                term “structure” includes, without limitation, a building, a non- permanentized
                mobile home or an unattached shed placed on skids.
SWIMMING POOL:  Any constructed pool, used for swimming, bathing or wading, whether above or
                below the ground surface and regardless of depth or water surface area.
TEMPORARY USE   A use or structure permitted under the terms of this chapter to exist for a
OR BUILDING:    limited period of time.
TINY HOUSE:     A dwelling that is 400 square feet (37m2) or less in floor area excluding
                lofts.
                A row or cluster of at least three attached dwellings in which each dwelling is
                located on separately owned lot, each unit is separated by one or more common
TOWNHOUSE OR    vertical walls, each unit has its own front and rear yard access, and no unit
ROW HOUSE:      is located over another unit. A townhouse complex may include common open space
                and recreational areas and facilities which are owned by all owners on a
                proportional, undivided basis.
                A term used in computing parking requirements, meaning the aggregate area of a
                building measured to the interior area, similarly measured, or each additional
                story which is connected to the first story by a fixed stairway, escalator,
                ramp or elevator, and the floor area of all accessory buildings, measured
USABLE FLOOR    similarly, but excluding that part of any floor area which is occupied by
AREA:           heating, ventilating, or other permanently installed equipment required for
                operation of the building, and by unenclosed porches, light shafts, public
                corridors and public toilets. For uses not enclosed within a building, the area
                for sales, display or service shall be measured to determine equivalent usable
                floor area.
                The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or intended, or
                for which land or a building is or may be occupied. The principal use is the
USE:            main use to which the premises are devoted and the main purpose for which the
                premises exist. An accessory use is a use subordinate to the principal use on a
                lot and used for purposes clearly incidental to those of the principal use.
                A modification of the literal enforcement of the technical provisions and
VARIANCE:       requirements of this chapter. The applicant for variance shall present adequate
                evidence to support the granting of a variance in accordance with section 3-2-
                22 of this chapter.
                The construction, erection, installation, production, activity, manufacture,
WORK:           labor or operation that goes into the making of any improvement to or
                alteration of real property, to include buildings, structures and building
                service equipment systems.
                An open space located between any portion of a building and the nearest lot
YARD:           line, or the nearest adjacent building or group of buildings, as the context
                indicates, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as
                otherwise provided in this chapter.
                A yard extending across the full width of the lot and having a depth equal to
YARD, FRONT:    the horizontal distance between the nearest point of the principal building and
                the front lot line, measured at right angles to the front lot line.
YARD,           Any yard with dimensions exceeding those required herein.
NONREQUIRED:
                A yard extending across the full width of a lot and having a depth equal to the
YARD, REAR:     horizontal distance between the nearest point of the principal building and the
                rear lot line, measured at right angles to the rear lot line.
YARD, REQUIRED: A yard having the minimum dimensions required herein.
                A yard extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line between a side
                lot line and the principal building, and having a width equal to the horizontal
YARD, SIDE:     distance between the nearest point of the principal building and the side lot
                line, measured at right angles to the side lot line. (Ord. 818, 4-25-2017; amd.
                Ord. 860, 5-25-2021; Ord. 880, 8-8-2023)
 
3-2-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, shall be liberally
construed in favor of the City, and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal
of any other power granted by the Nevada Revised Statutes.
   B.   Street, Utility And Other Public Improvement Requirements: The
following restrictions shall apply:
      1.   Generally, all lots shall abut and access a public street connecting
with the public street system in order to provide for orderly growth, vehicular
circulation and to ensure accessibility to utilities and emergency services. A
condominium or townhome project shall be considered one (1) lot for purposes of
this specific requirement.
      2.   Lots may abut and access a private street connecting with the public
street system in the following circumstances:
         a.   Within a PC (Planned Commercial) District in conformance with an
approved concept development plan.
         b.   Within an IBP (Industrial Business Park) District in conformance
with an approved concept development plan.
         c.   Within a PUD (Planned Unit Development) District in conformance
with an approved site development plan.
         d.   Within an RMH (Residential Mobile Home) District in conformance
with an approved site development plan.
         e.   For residential, commercial or industrial developments involving
four (4) or fewer lots and where the length of the private street, from the
nearest public street to the lot being accessed, does not exceed six hundred
eighty feet (680').
      3.   Building permits may be issued for lots which abut undedicated
portions of a partly dedicated public street.
      4.   A building permit shall not be issued for any lot for which City
public sewerage and water supply is not available, unless the City Council
grants a waiver of the mandatory connection to public sewer requirement
pursuant to subsection
9-5-61B of this Code.
      5.   All utilities shall be placed underground, except for lots of
record.
      6.   Public street and utility construction and installation is required
across the full frontage of property at time of development.
      7.   Requirements for sidewalk, curb and gutter construction may be
applicable as set forth in Elko City Code Section 8-21-3.
   C.   Use Restrictions: The following use restrictions shall apply:
      1.   Principal Uses: Only those uses and groups of uses specifically
designated as "principal uses permitted" in zoning district regulations shall
be permitted as principal uses; all other uses shall be prohibited as principal
uses.
      2.   Conditional Uses: Certain specified uses designated as "conditional
uses permitted" may be permitted as principal uses subject to special
conditions of location, design, construction, operation and maintenance
hereinafter specified in this chapter or imposed by the planning commission or
city council.
      3.   Accessory Uses: Uses normally accessory and incidental to permitted
principal or conditional uses may be permitted as hereinafter specified.
      4.   Unspecified Uses: The listing of groups of permitted uses is
intended to establish the character of uses to be permitted, but not to include
each and every use which may be permitted. Unspecified uses may be imposed by
the planning commission upon evidence and determination that such uses are
closely similar in character to and not typically more objectionable than other
uses actually listed as permitted.
      5.   Temporary Uses: Certain temporary uses such as interim
administrative and sales offices, sales offices for mobile and manufactured
homes, model home sales complex for residential subdivisions, materials
storage, mixing, assembly, manufacturing of a portable nature and similar uses
determined to be functionally comparable, and, as specified in this subsection
C5, temporary emergency shelters, temporary camping and temporary campgrounds
may be permitted by temporary use permit.
         a.   "Temporary emergency shelters" are defined as enclosed and
unenclosed locations, to include structures and portions of structures, used
for temporary occupancy by individuals and families who are homeless or who
cannot occupy their homes due to lack of utilities or other causes. Temporary
emergency shelters may be permitted, but only within C (general commercial), LI
(light industrial) and GI (general industrial) zoning districts.
         b.   "Temporary camping" means to use real property owned or occupied
by another person for living accommodation purposes for a limited period of
time outside of a structure that is affixed to the ground, to include uses such
as, without limitation, the following when done in connection with outdoor
living:
            (1)   Overnight sleeping activities or making preparations to sleep
overnight outside of a motor vehicle, recreational vehicle or trailer, such as
the laying down of bedding on the ground for the purpose of sleeping overnight;
            (2)   Storing personal belongings outside of a structure in
connection with overnight sleeping activities;
            (3)   Cooking outdoors or making a fire for the purpose of cooking
food outdoors as approved by the city in the temporary use permit; or
            (4)   Using any tent, shelter or other mobile structure for
sleeping overnight.
"Camping" does not include using a motor vehicle, recreational vehicle or
trailer as long-term shelter, for living accommodation purposes, or for the
purpose of storage of belongings.
         c.   "Temporary campground" means a designated area where people may,
with permission from the owner or occupier of the land, engage in camping for a
limited period of time and that may or may not have toilets, showers and/or
other amenities for campers to use.
         d.   Temporary camping and temporary campgrounds may be permitted as
temporary uses, but only within LI (light industrial) and GI (general
industrial) zoning districts.
         e.   For purposes of this section, "overnight" is defined as the
period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to sunrise.
         f.   For purposes of this section, "living accommodation purposes" is
defined as uses and activities needed for or directly connected with the use of
land for engaging in life sustaining activities.
         g.   The temporary use permit process for temporary camping and
temporary campgrounds shall be subject to the following public hearing process:
the city shall set a time and place for the public hearing before the planning
commission on the application and the city shall send, by mail, notice of the
time and place and purpose of the planning commission hearing, at least ten
(10) days before the hearing, to the owners of property within three hundred
feet (300') of the exterior limits of the property involved, as shown by the
latest assessment rolls of the city. Notice by mail to the last known address
of the real property owners, as shown by the assessor's records, shall be
sufficient. Legal notice shall be placed in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
Applications for temporary use permits must be filed at least twenty one (21)
days before the planning commission hearing.
         h.   Temporary use permits may be subject to such special conditions
as may be imposed by the planning commission related to time frame, location,
nature and character of the use and extent of on-site improvements. Application
for a temporary use permit shall be filed with the planning department on a
form provided for such purpose and shall include payment of a filing fee in an
amount established by resolution of the city council.
      6.   Site Plan Review: Certain uses, structures, activities or uses
requiring planning commission review or determination, inclusive of public
buildings, public structures or other public developments such as parks, except
those submitted as part of an application for a conditional use permit or
temporary use permit, may be permitted upon formal review by the planning
commission. The scope of the planning commission's review shall be limited to
location, character and extent of improvements thereof, and shall be subject to
such special conditions, relative to the defined scope of review, as may be
imposed by the planning commission. Application for site plan review shall be
filed with the planning department on a form provided for such purpose and
shall include payment of a filing fee in an amount established by resolution of
the city council.
   D.   Site Unsuitability: No land may be used or structure erected where the
land is held by the planning commission to be unsuitable for such use or
structure by reason of flooding, concentrated runoff, inadequate drainage,
adverse soil or rock formation, extreme topography, low bearing strength,
erosion susceptibility, or any other features likely to be harmful to the
health, safety and general welfare of the community. The planning commission,
in applying the provisions of this section, shall state in writing the
particular facts upon which its conclusions are based. The applicant shall have
the right to present evidence contesting such determination to the city council
if he or she so desires, whereupon the city council may affirm, modify or
withdraw the determination of unsuitability.
   E.   Reduction Or Joint Use: No lot, yard, parking or loading area, building
area, or other space, nor any part thereof, hereinafter required about or in
connection with any building, shall be included as part of a yard area or space
required for any other building, nor shall any yard or lot existing on the
effective date hereof be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum
requirements set forth in this title.
   F.   Building Height Regulations: No building shall exceed the heights
allowed in the current city of Elko airport master plan.
   G.   Projections Into Required Yards; Residential Districts:
      1.   Awnings, open fire balconies, fire escape stairs, window type
refrigeration units not exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons or one and one-
half (11/2) horsepower rating, suspended or roof evaporative coolers, and
forced air furnaces, may project not more than five feet (5') over any required
yard; provided, that they shall be no closer than two feet (2') to any lot
line.
      2.   Cornices and eaves may project over any required yard, provided,
that they shall be no closer than two feet (2') to any lot line.
      3.   Sills, belt courses and similar ornamental features may project not
more than six inches (6") over or into any required yard.
      4.   Unroofed terraces, patios, steps or similar features may project
into any required yard; provided, that projections into required front yards
shall not exceed ten feet (10'). Roofed or covered terraces, patios, steps or
similar features may project into the required rear yard no closer than ten
feet (10') to the rear lot line, provided two (2) sides of the covered feature
remain open.
      5.   Fireplaces may be allowed to encroach into required yards no closer
than two feet (2') to any lot line.
      6.   Carports may be allowed to encroach into required side yards;
provided, that two (2) sides of the carport remain open, that no portion of the
carport structure be closer than three feet (3') to any side lot line, and all
drainage from the roof of the structure shall be onto the property itself.
   H.   Exterior Lighting: All lighting for advertising off street parking or
loading areas, or for the external illumination of buildings, shall be directed
away from and shielded from any adjacent residential district and shall not
detract from driver visibility on adjacent streets or highways, interfere with
or cause driver confusion regarding traffic control devices, interfere with
driver vision or create other traffic hazards.
   I.   Essential Services Permitted: Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
location, erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by a public utility
of any "essential services", as herein defined.
   J.   Required Screen Walls: Under certain conditions, the planning
commission may recommend that the city council require screen walls to separate
incompatible uses; e.g., separation of abutting or industrial uses and
residential uses. Such wall shall be constructed by the developer and approved
by the city engineer or planning commission.
   K.   Nonrequired Fences, Walls And Hedges:
      1.   No fence, wall, tree, shrub or hedge may be allowed which would
obstruct vision at street intersections in any residential district.
      2.   No fence or wall shall contain barbed wire, concertina razor wire,
electrical current or charge of electricity, broken glass, or similar hazardous
materials or devices; provided, however, that fences enclosing storage areas in
industrial or commercial districts may use barbed wire extension arms on
chainlink fences six feet (6') or higher, or may use concertina razor wire
extension arms on chainlink fences seven feet (7') or higher. In addition,
fences enclosing storage areas in industrial or commercial districts may use
concertina razor wire extension arms on chainlink fences between six feet (6')
and seven feet (7') in height so long as the concertina razor wire extension
arm does not protrude more than six inches (6") out from the exterior vertical
extension of the chainlink fence.
      3.   No nonbuilding wall or fence in any residential district shall
exceed six feet (6') in height without a building permit.
   L.   Trash Enclosures: A permanent enclosure for temporary storage of
garbage, refuse and other waste materials shall be provided for every use other
than single-family dwellings in every zoning district, except where an approved
mechanically loaded steel bin is used for the purpose, or where a property is
entirely surrounded by screen walls or buildings. Trash enclosures shall be so
constructed that contents are not visible from a height of five feet (5') above
grade on any abutting street or property.
   M.   Swimming Pools: Swimming pools, whether private, public or commercial,
shall comply with the laws, rules and regulations of the city and state.
   N.   Signs: The provisions of the sign code as set forth in chapter 9 of
this title shall apply.
   O.   Building And Electrical Codes: In all construction hereafter made
within the city, the same shall be in accordance with title 2, chapters 2 and 6
of this code, and all other applicable provisions of this code.
   P.   Mobile Homes: Mobile homes are hereby expressly prohibited for living
purposes outside the RMH district, except as stated in other chapters of this
title. All requirements of chapter 5 of this title and all other applicable
provisions of this code shall be adhered to with respect to standards for the
RMH district.
   Q.   Manufactured Homes: Notwithstanding any other provisions in this code,
manufactured homes are hereby recognized as a "principal permitted use" in all
zoning districts which recognize single-family dwellings as a "principal
permitted use", provided all of the following standards are complied with:
      1.   The manufactured home shall be placed on a foundation permanently
affixed to the residential lot and qualify and constitute real property, as
established by Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 361.
      2.   The manufactured home shall be manufactured within the five (5)
years immediately preceding the date on which it is affixed to the residential
lot.
      3.   The manufactured home shall utilize exterior siding consisting of or
giving the appearance of stucco, masonry, wood, metal or vinyl and affixed to
the dwelling unit in a continuous horizontal or vertical pattern similar in
color, material and appearance to the exterior siding used on other single-
family dwellings in the immediate vicinity.
      4.   The manufactured home shall utilize roofing materials consisting of
asphalt shingles or equivalent roofing materials of comparable quality, similar
in color, material and appearance to the roofing used on other single-family
dwellings in the immediate vicinity. The manufactured home shall utilize a full
height roof element with a minimum pitch of three to twelve (3:12). The roof
element shall include a minimum overhang or projecting eave of twelve inches
(12").
      5.   The manufactured home shall be multisectioned (doublewide or larger)
with a minimum width or minimum depth of twenty four feet (24').
      6.   The manufactured home shall consist of at least one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet of living area. A waiver can be filed and may be
granted for a reduction of the living area based on the size or configuration
of the lot or the square footage of single-family residential dwellings in the
immediate vicinity, in accordance with site plan review procedures pursuant to
subsection C6 of this section.
      7.   Any elevated foundations shall be masked architecturally in a manner
to blend and harmonize with exterior siding materials utilized on the
manufactured home.
      8.   As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes, the provisions of this
section do not abrogate recorded restrictive covenants prohibiting manufactured
homes, nor do the provisions apply within the boundaries of a historic district
established pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 384.005 or 384.100. An
application to place a manufactured home on a residential lot pursuant to this
section constitutes an attestation by the owner of the lot that the placement
complies with all covenants, conditions and restrictions placed on the lot and
that the lot is not located within a historic district.
   R.   Minimum Distance Between Residential Establishments: A minimum distance
of at least one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') shall be required
between residential establishments. A residential establishment is defined in
Nevada Revised Statutes section 278.02384 as:
   "Residential establishment means (1) a home for individual residential care
in a community whose population is 100,000 or more, (2) a halfway house for
recovering alcohol and drug abusers or (3) a residential facility for groups".
      1.   The definition of "individual residential care" is not applicable as
the population of Elko County is less than one hundred thousand (100,000).    
      2.   "Halfway house for recovering alcohol and drug abusers" is defined
in Nevada Revised Statutes section 449.008 as:   
      "Halfway house for recovering alcohol and drug abusers means a residence
that provides housing and a living environment for alcohol and drug abusers and
is operated to facilitate their reintegration into the community, but does not
provide treatment for alcohol or drug abuse. The term does not include a
facility for the treatment of abuse of alcohol or drugs as defined in Nevada
Revised Statutes section 449.00455".
      3.   "Residential facility for groups" is defined in Nevada Revised
Statutes section 449.017 as:   
      "Except as otherwise provided in subsection 2, residential facility for
groups means an establishment that furnishes food, shelter assistance and
limited supervision to an aged, infirm, mentally retarded or handicapped
person. The term does include:
         a.   An establishment which provides care only during the day;
         b.   A natural person who provides care for no more than two (2)
persons in his own home;   
         c.   A natural person who provides care for one or more persons
related to him within the third degree of consanguinity or affinity;   
         d.   A halfway house for alcohol and drug abusers; or   
         e.   A facility funded by a division or program of the department of
human resources."
   S.   As Built Drawing: Except for the new construction of a single-family
dwelling, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any new
construction, the applicant must submit to the City a complete and accurate as
built drawing with survey data on the Elko grid (NAD 83 Nevada east zone ground
elevation). The as built drawing must be submitted electronically in AutoCAD
format and must be accompanied by a wet stamped and signed paper copy by the
professional of record for the project. As used herein, the term "as built
drawing" means a drawing that accurately depicts the locations of all
improvements on the parcel or lot containing the new construction and any
associated utilities or other public improvements constructed on other
properties, which drawing shall, without limitation, include the structure(s)
and all associated utilities and other public improvements. (Ord. 805, 12-13-
2016; amd. Ord. 842, 8-13-2019)
3-2-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
The entire City is hereby divided into zoning districts, within which zoning
districts all property use shall hereafter conform to the requirements
specified in this chapter, and which zoning districts are hereby classified as
follows:
   A.   Types of Districts:
1. Residential districts:
      
  RS  Residential Suburban District
  R1  Single-Family Residential District
  R2  Two-Family Residential District
  R3  Multiple-Family Residential District
  R   Single-Family and Multiple-Family Residential District
  RO  Residential Office District
  RB  Residential Business District
  RMH Mobile Home Park and Mobile Home Subdivision District
      
2. Nonresidential districts:
      
  PQP Public, Quasi-Public District
  CC  Convenience Commercial District
  CT  Commercial Transitional District
  PC  Planned Commercial District
  C   General Commercial District
  IBP Industrial Business Park District
  IC  Industrial Commercial District
  LI  Light Industrial District
  GI  General Industrial District
  RC  Restricted Commercial District
      
3. Special districts:
      
  AG  General Agriculture District
  FP  Floodplain Overlay District
  SA  Special Area Overlay District
  PUD Planned Unit Development District
 
   B.   Required Conformity to District Regulations: Except for nonconforming
uses to the extent permitted under Section
3-2-19 or as otherwise provided in this subsection, the regulations set forth
in this chapter for each zoning district shall be minimum regulations and shall
apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or land. Unless an
appropriate conditional use has been permitted or a variance has been approved.
The following restrictions shall apply in all zoning districts:
      1.   No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied
and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, moved, or structurally altered, unless in conformity with all
regulations specified in this subsection, unless excepted, for the district in
which it is located.
      2.   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or
altered:
         a.   To exceed the heights required by the current City Airport Master
Plan;
         b.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families than as
permitted in this chapter; or
         c.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area or
         d.   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards
or other open spaces, than required in this title, or in any other manner
contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   No part of a required yard, or other open space, or off street
parking or loading space, provided in connection with any building or use,
shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off street parking or
loading space similarly required for any other building.
      4.   No yard or lot existing on the effective date hereof shall be
reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth in this
title.
   C.   Annexation of Territory to City: Proceedings for annexation of
territory to the city shall be in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes
sections 268.610 through 268.671, inclusive. A petition for annexation, in
writing, shall be presented to the city council. The city council shall
consider said petition and may refer the matter to the planning commission for
further consideration. The petitioner shall, prior to the consideration of the
petition by the planning commission, pay a filing fee to the city in an amount
established by resolution of the city council.
   D.   Classification Of Annexed Areas: All territory which is annexed to the
city after the effective date hereof shall be zoned upon annexation AG general
agriculture, unless the planning commission shall recommend and/or the city
council shall otherwise designate the zoning district after holding duly
advertised public hearings in accordance with section
3-2-21 of this chapter. As part of considering any petition for annexation of
territory to the city, a review of conformance with the city master plan,
including land use designation, shall be performed by the planning commission,
with recommendations forwarded to the city council. If said annexation
necessitates substantial amendment to the master plan, the planning commission
may adopt such amendment only after holding duly advertised public hearings in
accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes section 278.210.
   E.   Detachment of Territory from City: Proceedings for detachment of
territory from the city shall be in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes
section 268.664. A petition for detachment, in writing, shall be presented to
the city council. The city council shall consider said petition and may refer
the matter to the planning commission for further consideration. The petitioner
shall, prior to the consideration of the petition by the planning commission,
pay a filing fee to the city in an amount established by resolution of the city
council and included in the appendix to this code.
   F.   Classification of Vacated Streets: Whenever a public street or alley is
vacated by official action of the city council, the zoning districts adjoining
each side of such street or alley shall automatically be extended to the
centerline thereof, and all land area thus vacated shall then and henceforth be
subject to all regulations of the extended districts.
   G.   Official Zoning District Map:
      1.   Establishment: The areas and boundaries of zoning districts are
hereby established as shown on the official city zoning map which, together
with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
      2.   Identification: The official city zoning map shall be entitled "Elko
zoning map" and identified by the signature of the mayor, attested by the city
clerk, bear the notations that it was adopted on the date this zoning ordinance
was passed, and bear the seal of the city. Regardless of the existence of
purported copies of the official city zoning map which may, from time to time,
be made or published, the official city zoning map, which shall be located in a
secure location designed by the city clerk, shall be the final authority as to
the current zoning status of land areas, buildings, and other structures in the
city.
      3.   Changes: If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
changes are made in district boundaries or in other matters portrayed on the
city zoning map, such changes shall be made on said map promptly after the
amendment has been approved and adopted by ordinance. No changes of any nature
shall be made in the city zoning map or matter shown thereon, except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter. Any unauthorized change of
whatever kind by any person or persons shall be considered a violation of this
chapter and punishable as hereinafter provided.
      4.   Replacement: In the event that the city zoning map becomes damaged,
destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret due to the nature or number of
changes and additions, the city council may, by ordinance, adopt a new city
zoning map which shall supersede the former map. The new city zoning map may
correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the former map, but no such
correction shall have the effect of amending the original zoning ordinance or
any subsequent amendment thereof. The new city zoning map shall be identified
by the signature of the mayor attested by the city clerk, and bear the seal of
the city under the words:
         "This is to certify that this Elko zoning map adopted the (date)
supersedes and replaces the Elko zoning map adopted (date of adoption of map
being replaced) as part of the zoning ordinance of the city of Elko, Nevada".
      5.   Interpretation: Where, due to scale, lack of detail or illegibility
of the city zoning map, there is an uncertainty, contradiction, or conflict as
to the intended location of any district boundary shown thereon, the exact
location of such boundary shall be determined by the city planner, who, in
reaching a determination, shall apply the following standards:
         a.   Zoning district boundary lines are intended to follow lot lines,
or be parallel or perpendicular thereto, and centerlines of streets, alleys and
rights of way, unless otherwise fixed by dimensions shown on the city zoning
map.
         b.   In subdivided property, or where a zoning district boundary
divides a lot, the exact location of such boundary shall be indicated by
dimensions shown on the city zoning map.
         c.   If, after application of the foregoing rules, uncertainty still
exists as to the exact location of a zoning district boundary, the city council
shall determine and fix the location of such boundary in accordance with the
purpose and intent of this chapter. (Ord. 547, 12-12-2000; amd. Ord. 861, 5-25-
2021)
3-2-5: RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   RS Residential Suburban District:
      1.   Intent: The purpose of the RS zoning district is to provide and
preserve low density, single-family residential living areas that are semirural
or agricultural in character and transitional in relationship to more urbanized
residential areas of higher density, to allow for the sheltering of large
domestic or farm animals on a lot or parcel in conjunction with an established
residential use and to preclude the encroachment of land use activities that
may be incompatible with the character of the semirural residential
environment.
      2.   Principal Uses Permitted:
         Electrical power substations, sewer lift stations and water pumping
stations wherein service to district residents requires location within the
district.
         One single-family dwelling of a permanent character in a permanent
location with each dwelling unit on its own parcel of land and provided all
area and setback requirements are met.
         Publicly owned and operated parks and recreation areas and centers.
         Sheltering of farm animals:
         a.   The keeping of domestic horses, donkeys, llamas and alpacas under
the ownership of the resident occupant of the lot or parcel shall be considered
as a permitted principal use; provided, that any combination of such animals on
any one lot shall be limited to one animal for the first thirty thousand
(30,000) square feet of lot area. One additional large animal may be maintained
for each additional twenty thousand (20,000) square feet of lot area contained
in the same lot.
         b.   The keeping of domestic sheep and goats under the ownership of
the resident occupant of the lot or parcel shall be considered as a permitted
principal use; provided, that any combination of such animals on any one lot
shall be limited to one animal for the first fifteen thousand (15,000) square
feet of lot area. One additional small animal may be maintained for each
additional ten thousand (10,000) square feet of lot area contained in the same
lot.
         c.   The keeping of such farm animals shall conform to all other
provisions of law governing same, and no animal, nor any pen, stable, barn or
corral shall be kept or maintained within one hundred feet (100') of any
principal dwelling (other than that occupied by the owner of such domestic
animal), any public building, park, school, hospital, or any other public
place; or within eighty feet (80') of the front property line of the lot on
which the animals are maintained, or within twenty five feet (25') of the side
street of a corner lot. There shall be no killing or dressing of any such
animals for commercial purposes.
         d.   Poultry, rabbits or domestic fowl raised for food, education,
scientific or furbearing purposes; provided, not more than twelve (12) of any
one or combination of such animals and fowl may be maintained on one lot.
         e.   The keeping of such domestic animals or fowl shall conform to all
other provisions of law governing same, and no fowl or animals, nor any pen or
coop, shall be kept or maintained within fifty feet (50') of any window or door
of any residence, dwelling or other building used for human habitation (other
than that occupied by the owner of such domestic animals or fowl), or within
sixty feet (60') of the front property line of the lot on which the animals are
maintained, or within twenty five feet (25') of the side street on a corner
lot.
      3.   Conditional Uses Permitted: Any of the following uses may be
permitted as principal uses upon approval of a conditional use permit in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and those set forth in section
3-2-18 of this chapter regarding conditional use permits. In reviewing
conditional use permit applications, the Planning Commission shall ensure that
adequate light and air, ingress and egress, and compatibility with other uses
in the neighborhood are maintained.
Churches, church facility complexes and places of religious worship.
Public buildings providing cultural, educational, administrative and fire and
police service to residents of the district.
      4.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory buildings, structures and uses
customarily incidental to a permitted use may be permitted, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
         Accessory buildings.
         Childcare family home.
         Guesthouse or servants' quarters provided they conform to all yard
requirements applicable to the principal building.
         Home occupations in accordance with other provisions of this chapter.
         Private garage or carport.
         Ramada, outdoor swimming pool, or similar home recreational facility
so long as the facility is used solely by the occupants of the premises and
their guests.
         Storage parking for recreational vehicles owned by the occupant;
provided, that it is located in a garage, carport, rear or interior side yard,
is not provided water or sewer service connections, and is not used for living
purposes.
         Storage parking of boat, utility trailer, horse trailer and similar
equipment owned by the occupant; provided, that such equipment is located in a
garage, carport, rear or interior side yard.
      5.   Property Development Standards:
         a.   Development standards comply with Section
3-2-5(G).
         b.   Subdivisions within the RS District which are essentially
independent and self-contained and, which are characterized by lots which are
no less than one-half (1/2) acre in size, may utilize rural road standards in
accordance with specifications contained within section
3-3-11 of this title.
      6.   Property Development Standards for Accessory Buildings: All
accessory buildings, both permanent and non-permanent, shall comply with
Section
3-2-5(H).
   B.   R1 Single-Family Residential District:
      1.   Intent: The purpose of the R1 zoning district is to provide and
preserve low density residential living areas reserved predominantly for the
development of single-family dwellings and to preclude the encroachment of land
use activities that may be detrimental or injurious to the character or quality
of the low density residential environment.
      2.   Principal Uses Permitted:
         Electrical power substations, sewer lift stations and water pumping
stations wherein service to district residents requires location within the
district.
         One single-family dwelling of a permanent character in a permanent
location with each dwelling unit on its own parcel of land, and provided all
area and setback requirements are met.
         Publicly owned and operated parks and recreation areas and centers.
      3.   Conditional Uses Permitted: Any of the following uses may be
permitted as principal uses upon approval of a conditional use permit in
accordance with provisions of this chapter and those set forth in section
3-2-18 of this chapter regarding conditional use permits. In reviewing
conditional use permit applications, the planning commission shall ensure that
adequate light and air, ingress and egress, and compatibility with other uses
in the neighborhood are maintained.
         Churches, church facility complexes and places of religious worship.
         Public buildings providing cultural, educational, administrative and
fire and police service to residents of the district.
      4.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory buildings, structures and uses
customarily incidental to a permitted use may be permitted, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
         Accessory buildings.
         Childcare family home.
         Guesthouse or servants' quarters provided they conform to all yard
requirements applicable to the principal building.
         Home occupations in accordance with other provisions of this chapter.
         Private garage or carport.
         Ramada, outdoor swimming pool, or similar home recreational facility
so long as the facility is used solely by the occupants of the premises and
their guests.
         Storage parking for recreational vehicles owned by the occupant;
provided, that it is located in a garage, carport, rear or interior side yard,
is not provided water or sewer service connections, and is not used for living
purposes.
         Storage parking of boat, utility trailer, horse trailer and similar
equipment owned by the occupant; provided, that such equipment is located in a
garage, carport, rear or interior side yard.
      5.   Property Development Standards: Development standards shall comply
with Section
3-2-5(G).
      6.   Property Development Standards for Accessory Buildings: All
accessory buildings, both permanent and non-permanent, shall comply with
Section
3-2-5(H).
   C.   R2 Two-Family Residential District:
      1.   Intent: The purpose of the R2 zoning district is to provide and
preserve medium density residential living areas appropriate primarily for
single-family and two-family dwellings, limited multiple residential uses and
neighborhood service type uses where appropriate, and to preclude uses that
would detract or be detrimental to the character of the medium density
residential environment.
      2.   Principal Uses Permitted:
         Electrical power substations, sewer lift stations and water pumping
stations wherein service to district residents requires location within the
district.
         One single-family dwelling or one two-family dwelling (duplex) of a
permanent character in a permanent location with each dwelling unit on its own
parcel of land, and provided all area and setback requirements are met.
         Publicly owned and operated parks and recreation areas and centers.
      3.   Conditional Uses Permitted: Any of the following uses may be
permitted as principal uses upon approval of a conditional use permit in
accordance with provisions of this chapter and those set forth in section
3-2-18 of this chapter. In reviewing conditional use permit applications, the
planning commission shall ensure that adequate light and air, ingress and
egress, and compatibility with other uses in the neighborhood are maintained.
         Childcare group home.
         Churches, church facility complexes and places of religious worship.
         One three-family dwelling (triplex) or one four- family dwelling
(fourplex) of a permanent character in a permanent location with each dwelling
unit on its own parcel of land and contingent upon any dwelling unit more than
a two-family dwelling providing an additional two thousand two hundred (2,200)
square feet of lot area per unit, and provided setback requirements are met.
         Public buildings providing cultural, educational, administrative and
fire and police service to residents of the district.
         Recreational, social and service clubs.
      4.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory buildings, structures and uses
customarily incidental to a permitted use may be permitted, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
         Accessory buildings. Lots with single-family dwelling units may have
both permanent and non-permanent accessory buildings. Lots with multiple-family
dwelling units may only have permanent accessory buildings.
         Childcare family home.
         Guesthouse or servants' quarters provided they conform to all yard
requirements applicable to the principal building.
         Home occupations in accordance with other provisions of this chapter.
         Private garage or carport.
         Ramada, outdoor swimming pool, or similar home recreational facility
so long as the facility is used solely by the occupants of the premises and
their guests.
         Storage parking for recreational vehicles owned by the occupant;
provided, that it is located in a garage, carport, rear or interior side yard,
is not provided water or sewer service connections, and is not used for living
purposes.
         Storage parking of boat, utility trailer, horse trailer and similar
equipment owned by the occupant; provided, that such equipment is located in a
garage, carport, rear or interior side yard.
      5.   Property Development Standards: Development standards shall comply
with Section
3-2-5(G).
      6.   Property Development Standards for Accessory Buildings: All
accessory buildings, both permanent, shall comply with Section
3-2-5(H).
   D.   R3 Multiple-Family Residential District:
      1.   Intent: The purpose of the R3 zoning district is to provide and
preserve residential areas appropriate primarily for multiple-family
residential uses of higher density usually along or in close proximity to
arterial roadway corridors, and to preclude uses that would detract or be
detrimental to the character or function of the high density residential
environment.
      2.   Principal Uses Permitted:
Electrical power substations, sewer lift stations and water pumping stations
wherein service to district residents requires location within the district.
Publicly owned and operated parks and recreation areas and centers.
      3.   Conditional Uses Permitted: Any of the following uses may be
permitted as principal uses upon approval of a conditional use permit in
accordance with provisions of this chapter and those set forth in section
3-2-18 of this chapter. In reviewing conditional use permit applications, the
planning commission shall ensure that adequate light and air, ingress and
egress, and compatibility with other uses in the neighborhood are maintained.
         Childcare center.
         Churches, church facility complexes and places of religious worship.
         Multiple-family residential developments which contain five (5) or
more units located on a single lot or parcel; townhouse or row house
developments.
         Public buildings providing cultural, educational, administrative, and
fire and police service to residents of the district.
         Recreation, social and service clubs.
      4.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory buildings, structures, and uses
customarily incidental to a permitted use shall be permitted, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
      5.   Property Development Standards: Development standards shall comply
with Sections
3-2-5(E)(6) and
3-2-5(G).
      6.   Property Development Standards for Accessory Buildings: Development
standards for accessory buildings within the R3 district shall comply with
Section
3-2-5(H).
      7.   General Regulations:
         a.   The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited.
         b.   The minimum site area necessary to establish an R3 zoning
district shall be one acre.
   E.   R Single-Family and Multiple-Family Residential District:
      1.   Intent: The purpose of the R zoning district is to provide for a
mixture and diversity of housing types for both single-family and multi-family
residential development where such development is desirable, and limited
institutional, office and neighborhood service type uses where appropriate, and
to preclude land uses that would be detrimental to a mixed and varied
residential environment.
      2.   Principal Uses Permitted:
         Adult care facility which serves ten (10) or fewer.
         Electric power substations, sewer lift stations, and water pump
stations wherein service to district residents requires location within the
district.
         Multiple-family residential units, including a duplex, triplex, or a
fourplex located on a single lot or parcel, provided area and setback
requirements are met.
         One single-family dwelling of a permanent character in a permanent
location with each dwelling unit on its own parcel of land and provided all
area and setback requirements are met.
         Publicly owned and operated parks and recreation areas and centers.
         Residential facility for groups of ten (10) or fewer.
      3.   Conditional Uses Permitted: Any of the following uses may be
permitted as principal uses upon approval of a conditional use permit in
accordance with provisions of this chapter and those set forth in section
3-2-18 of this chapter regarding conditional use permits. In reviewing
conditional use permit applications, the planning commission shall ensure that
adequate light and air, ingress and egress, and compatibility with other uses
in the neighborhood are maintained.
         Adult care facility which serves eleven (11) or more.
         Childcare center; childcare group home.
         Churches, church facility complexes and places of religious worship.
         Halfway house for recovering alcohol and drug abusers.
         Healing arts, healthcare facilities, but not including animal
hospital.
         Multiple-family residential developments which contain five (5) or
more units located on a single lot or parcel; townhouse or row house
developments.
         Public buildings providing cultural, educational, administrative, and
fire and police service to residents of the district.
         Recreation, social and service clubs.
         Residential facility for groups of eleven (11) or more.
         Teaching of creative arts.
      4.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory buildings, structures and uses
customarily incidental to a permitted use, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
         Accessory buildings. Lots with single-family dwelling units may have
both permanent and non-permanent accessory buildings. Lots with multiple-family
dwelling units may only have permanent accessory buildings.
         Childcare family home.
         Guesthouse or servants' quarters provided they conform to all yard
requirements applicable to the principal building.
         Home occupations in accordance with other provisions of this chapter.
         Private garage or carport.
         Ramada, outdoor swimming pool, or similar home recreational facility
so long as the facility is used solely by the occupants of the premises and
their guests.
         Rooms in the principal building for roomers, not exceeding two (2)
such persons per dwelling unit; provided, that adequate additional off street
parking space shall be provided.
         Storage parking for recreational vehicles owned by the occupant;
provided, that it is located in a garage, carport, rear or interior side yard,
is not provided water or sewer, and is not used for living purposes.
         Storage parking of boat, utility trailer, horse trailer and similar
equipment owned by the occupant; provided, that such equipment is located in a
garage, carport, rear or interior side yard.
      5.   Property Development Standards: Development standards shall comply
with Section
3-2-5(G).
      6.   Additional Property Development Standards for Multiple-Family
Residential Developments:
         a.   Minimum Distance between Buildings on the Same Lot: The minimum
distance between the opposing exterior walls of detached buildings, or parts of
attached or semiattached buildings, on the same lot, shall be:
            (1)   If both walls are front walls, or contain main entrances or
living room windows: Thirty feet (30');
            (2)   If one wall is a front wall, or contains a main entrance or
living room windows, and one wall is a side or rear wall containing no doors or
windows: Twenty four feet (24');
            (3)   If both walls are side or rear walls containing windows or
secondary entrances: Twenty four feet (24');
            (4)   If one wall is a side or rear wall containing windows or
secondary entrances and one wall contains no doors or windows: Eighteen feet
(18');
            (5)   If neither wall contains windows or doors: Ten feet (10').
         b.   Additional Placement Regulations For Multi-Family Dwellings: If
the front of a building, or part thereof, faces on an interior side or rear lot
line, the building, or that part thereof, shall be set back from such lot line
not less than twenty feet (20').
         c.   Separation Of Semidetached Dwellings Or Row Houses: When, for
purposes of sale or separate ownership, a two-family or multi-family dwelling
and the land in and upon which such dwellings are situated, is to be subdivided
into separate lots having one dwelling unit per lot, such lots shall be exempt
from all interior side yard requirements.
      7.   Property Development Standards for Accessory Buildings: All
accessory buildings, both permanent and non-permanent, shall comply with
Section
3-2-5(H).
      8.   Exceptions:
         a.   Lots Of Record: On each existing lot of record, the side yards
shall have a width of not less than five and one-half feet (5 1/2'), and a
front yard of not less than twelve feet (12') for single-family dwelling units.
         b.   Detached Guesthouse or Servants' Quarters: Detached guesthouses
and servants' quarters are permitted in any district; provided, however, that
they shall conform to all yard requirements applicable to the principal
building.
   F.   RO Residential Office District:
      1.   Intent: The purpose of the RO zoning district is to establish a
residential zone that is transitional in character and location to more intense
commercial districts, and to promote a mixed pattern of compatible development
consisting primarily of residential uses and a blend of professional office,
limited service and retail activities that are recognized as low traffic
generators. The RO district is intended to protect the integrity of established
residential neighborhoods from noise and excessive levels of traffic while at
the same time afford the opportunity for compatible office, service and retail
development in a mixed use setting.
      2.   Principal Uses Permitted:
         Electric power substations, sewer lift stations, and water pump
stations wherein service to district residents requires location within the
district.
         Multiple-family residential units, including a duplex, triplex, or a
fourplex located on a single lot or parcel, provided area and setback
requirements are met.
         One single-family dwelling of a permanent character in a permanent
location with each dwelling unit on its own parcel of land and provided all
area and setback requirements are met.
         Publicly owned and operated parks and recreation areas and centers.
      3.   Conditional Uses Permitted:
         Art studios.
         Barber and beauty shops.
         Florists.
         Multiple-family residential developments which contain five (5) or
more units located on a single lot or parcel; townhouse, condominium or
attached housing developments.
         Offices, medical and professional.
         Photographic studios.
         Restaurants, limited in scale and hours of operation, such as ice
cream parlors, sandwich and beverage shops, delicatessens.
         Retail and service establishments, limited in scale and hours of
operation, such as boutiques, gift shops and similar uses.
         Schools for music, dance, teaching and creative arts.
         Similar uses determined to be functionally comparable to conditional
permitted uses in this zone.
      4.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory buildings, structures, and uses
customarily incidental to a permitted use, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
         Accessory buildings. Lots with single-family dwelling units may have
both permanent and non-permanent accessory buildings. Lots with multiple-family
dwelling units may only have permanent accessory buildings.
         Childcare family home.
         Guesthouse or servants' quarters provided they conform to all yard
requirements applicable to the principal building.
         Home occupations in accordance with other provisions in this chapter.
         Private garage or carport.
         Ramada, outdoor swimming pool, or similar home recreational facility
so long as the facility is used solely by the occupants of the premises and
their guests.
         Storage parking for recreational vehicles owned by the occupant;
provided, that it is located in a garage, carport, rear or interior side yard,
is not provided water or sewer service connections, and is not used for living
purposes.
         Storage parking of boat, utility trailer, horse trailer and similar
equipment owned by the occupant; provided, that such equipment is located in a
garage, carport, rear or interior side yard.
      5.   Property Development Standards: Development standards shall comply
with Section
3-2-5G).
      6.   Property Development Standards for Accessory Buildings: Development
standards for accessory buildings shall comply with Section
3-2-5(H).
      7.   General Regulations:
         a.   The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited.
         b.   Warehousing or the indoor storage of goods or materials beyond
that normally incidental to permitted uses shall be prohibited.
         c.   One wall mounted, nonilluminated sign, for each lot of record not
to exceed twelve (12) square feet in area or one freestanding, nonilluminated
sign for each lot of record not to exceed six feet (6') in height and twelve
(12) square feet in area may be permitted for any approved conditional use. The
planning commission may modify such regulations as part of the conditional use
permit procedure.
   G.   Residential Zoning Districts Area, Setback, and Height Schedule for
Principal Buildings:
      1.   Table of Area Requirements:
                                                                   Maximum
          Minimum Requirement         Building Setbacks            Height
                                                                   Requirements
Zoning    Corner          Lot   Lot   Front Rear Interior Exterior Building
Districts Lot    Lot Area Width Depth Yard  Yard Side     Side     Height
          Area                                   Yard     Yard
                                                                   Maximum
          Minimum Requirement       Building Setbacks              Height
                                                                   Requirements
Zoning    Corner Lot    Lot   Lot   Front Rear   Interior Exterior Building
Districts Lot    Area   Width Depth Yard  Yard   Side     Side     Height
          Area                                   Yard     Yard
                 15,000 80    180   25
RS              sq.    ft.   ft.   ft.   20 ft. 10 ft.   20 ft.   35 ft.1
                 ft.
          6,500  6,000  60    100   15
R1        sq.    sq.    ft.   ft.   ft. 6 20 ft. 5½ ft.  15 ft.5  35 ft.1
          ft.    ft.
          6,500  6,000  60    100   15
R2        sq.    sq.    ft.   ft.   ft. 6 20 ft. 7 ft.    15 ft.5  35 ft.1
          ft.    ft.
                 12,000 80    100   20
R3              sq.    ft.   ft.   ft.   20 ft. 10 ft.   15 ft.5  45 ft.1
                 ft.4
          6,500  6,000  60    100   15           10 ft.
R         sq.    sq.    ft.   ft.   ft. 6 20 ft. 2,3      15 ft.5  45 ft.1
          ft.    ft.4
                 6,000  60    100   15           10 ft.
RO              sq.    ft.   ft.   ft. 6 20 ft. 2,3      15 ft. 5 45 ft.1
                 ft.4
 
Notes:
   1.   Height limitations contained within the current City of Elko Airport
Master Plan shall supersede the height restrictions indicated in the above
table where more restrictive.
   2.   For single-family dwellings, interior side yard setbacks shall be 51/
2 feet.
   3.   For multi-family dwellings, interior side yard setbacks shall be 7
feet.
   4.   For three- and four-family dwellings on the same lot, a minimum of
2,200 square feet of lot area is required for each dwelling unit.
   5.   For residences in existence at the time of enactment hereof (November
25, 2003), exterior side yard setbacks shall be 12 feet.
   6.   Garages, whether attached or detached, and carports shall be set back
20 feet from the front lot line; provided, that for any garage in existence
prior to March 26, 2013, the front yard setback shall be 15 feet.
   2.   Residential Lots of Record:
      a.   A single lot or parcel of land of record in the office of the county
recorder as of the effective date of the city subdivision ordinance (December
9, 1975), and which does not meet minimum requirements for lot area, lot width
or lot depth shall be considered a buildable lot for one single-family
dwelling, provided all other requirements of this chapter are satisfied.
      b.   For existing platted subdivisions characterized by twenty five foot
(25') wide lots and situated within a residential zoning district, any lot or
parcel reconfiguration or resubdivision shall adhere to a minimum lot area of
five thousand (5,000) square feet.
   H.   Residential Zoning Districts Area, Setback, and Height Schedule for
Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Requirements for Non-Permanent Accessory Buildings:
                                                               Maximum
          Minimum Requirements  Building Setbacks3             Height
                                                               Requirements
          Maximum
          Cumulative Minimum
Zoning    Square     Separation Front Rear Interior  Exterior  Building
Districts Feet of    from Other Yard  Yard Side Yard Side Yard Height
          All Acc.   Buildings
          Buildings2
                                                                   Maximum
          Minimum Requirements  Building Setbacks3                 Height
                                                                   Requirements
          Maximum
          Cumulative Minimum
Zoning    Square     Separation Front   Rear   Interior  Exterior  Building
Districts Feet of    from Other Yard    Yard   Side Yard Side Yard Height
          All Acc.   Buildings
          Buildings2
RS                  5 ft.      25 ft.  5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     15 ft.1
          10% of lot
R1        size or    5 ft.      15 ft.5 5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     15 ft.1
          1,200 sq.
          ft.
          10% of lot
R2        size or    5 ft.      15 ft.5 5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     15 ft.1
          1,200 sq.
          ft.
          10% of lot
R         size or    5 ft.      15 ft.5 5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     15 ft.1
          1,200 sq.
          ft.
          10% of lot
RO        size or    5 ft.      15 ft.5 5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     15 ft.1
          1,200 sq.
          ft.
          10% of lot
RB        size or    5 ft.      15 ft.5 5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     15 ft.1
          1,200 sq.
          ft.
 
Notes:
1.   Height limitations contained within the current City of Elko Airport
Master Plan shall supersede the height restrictions indicated in the above
table where more restrictive.
2.   Includes both permanent and non-permanent accessory buildings.
3.   No buildings or structures shall be located within any easement.
4.   Setback can be reduced to 0 feet if the rear lot line abuts a public
alley.
5.   Garages and/or carports shall be setback 20 feet from the front or
exterior side property line.
      2.   Requirements for Permanent Accessory Buildings:
          Minimum Requirements                                 Maximum
                             Building Setbacks3             Height
                                                               Requirements
          Maximum
          Cumulative Minimum
Zoning    Square     Separation Front Rear Interi or Exterior  Building
Districts Feet of    from Other Yard  Yard Side Yard Side Yard Height
          All Acc.   Buildings
          Buildings2
          Minimum Requirements                                     Maximum
                             Building Setbacks3                 Height
                                                                   Requirements
          Maximum
          Cumulative Minimum
Zoning    Square     Separation Front   Rear   Interi or Exterior  Building
Districts Feet of    from Other Yard    Yard   Side Yard Side Yard Height
          All Acc.   Buildings
          Buildings2
RS                  5 ft.      25 ft.  5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     35 ft.1
          10% of lot
R1        size or    5 ft.      15 ft.5 5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     35 ft.1
          1,200 sq.
          ft.
          10% of lot
R2        size or    5 ft.      15 ft.5 5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     35 ft.1
          1,200 sq.
          ft.
          10% of lot
R3        size or    5 ft.      20 ft.  5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     45 ft.1
          1,200 sq.
          ft.
          10% of lot
R         size or    5 ft.      15 ft.5 5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     45 ft.1
          1,200 sq.
          ft.
          10% of lot
RO        size or    5 ft.      15 ft.5 5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     45 ft.1
          1,200 sq.
          ft.
          10% of lot
RB        size or    5 ft.      15 ft.5 5 ft.4 5 ft.     5 ft.     25 ft.1
          1,200 sq.
          ft.
 
Notes:
1.   Height limitations contained within the current City of Elko Airport
Master Plan shall supersede the height restrictions indicated in the above
table where more restrictive.
2.   Includes both permanent and non-permanent accessory buildings.
3.   No buildings or structures shall be located within any easement.
4.   Setback can be reduced to 0 feet if the rear lot line abuts a public
alley.
5.   Garages and/or carports shall be setback 20 feet from the front or
exterior side property line.
(Ord. 805, 12-13-2016; amd. Ord. 860, 5-25-2021)
3-2-6: RB RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: This zoning district is intended to allow conversion of
residential structures located along arterial and collector roads in areas of
transition to an appropriate mix of residential, light retail and service
commercial uses that provides good transitions with nearby residential uses and
neighborhoods. This zone allows existing residential uses to remain and be
improved, while also allowing low scale, low intensity commercial and business
operations to be developed as part of infill projects. The district is intended
to protect established residential neighborhoods from the type of land use
associated with high levels of noise, illumination and traffic that could be
detrimental to the characteristics of the residential neighborhood.
   B.   District Boundary: The initial district boundary includes properties
within the 5th Street corridor that are located between Pine Street and Walnut
Street along the northeast side of 5th Street, and between Pine Street and
Willow Street along the southwest side of 5th Street, with at least one
property line abutting the right-of-way of 5th Street, and the following lots
that are not abutting the 5th Street right-of- way: Lots 21 & 22 of Block 98
and Lots 15 & 16 of Block 66, as shown on the Map of the First Addition to the
Town of Elko, recorded as File No. 5, Elko County records.
      1.   The district boundaries may be amended in accordance with section
3-2-21 of this chapter.
      2.   The maximum distance allowed from the east or west side of 5th
Street right-of-way to the district boundary is one hundred twenty five feet
(125').
   C.   Principal Uses Permitted:
      1.   The following residential uses are permitted:
         Multiple-family residential units, including a duplex, triplex, or a
fourplex located on a single lot or parcel, provided all area and setback
requirements are met.
         One single-family dwelling of a permanent character in a permanent
location on its own parcel of land, provided all area and setback requirements
are met.
      2.   The following commercial uses are permitted:
         Art galleries and studios.
         Bakeries.
         Banks, financial institutions, not including short term lending
businesses such as title loans or payday lending.
         Barber and beauty shops.
         Bicycle repair.
         Bookstores.
         Childcare centers.
         Coffee shops.
         Corner stores.
         Florists.
         Healing art, healthcare facilities, including medical and dental
offices.
         Laboratories: medical, dental, optical.
         Laundry or dry cleaning pick up outlets.
         Lodges, fraternal organizations, recreation, social and service clubs.
         Offices, to include the following uses and activities: government,
business and professional, including accountants, architects, collection
agencies, chiropractors, employment agencies, engineers, health services,
insurance agencies, law offices, real estate, stenographic services, title
insurance firms.
         Pharmacies when operated in conjunction with, and within the same
building as, a medical clinic.
         Photographic studios.
         Schools for music, dance, teaching and creative arts.
         Trade schools.
         Travel agencies.
         Uses determined to be functionally comparable to principal permitted
uses in this zone.
   D.   Conditional Uses Permitted:
      1.   The following uses are permitted with a conditional use permit:
         Churches, church facility complexes and places of religious worship.
         Convalescent hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, homes for the
aged.
         Funeral homes and mortuaries.
         Mixed uses within structures containing one or more residential
dwelling units in which a significant portion of the space within the structure
includes one or more principal commercial permitted uses.
         Multiple-family residential developments which contain five (5) or
more units located on a single lot or parcel; townhouse, condominium or
attached housing developments.
         Restaurants, sandwich and beverage shops, delicatessens.
         Theaters, indoor.
         Uses determined to be functionally comparable to conditional permitted
uses in this zone.
   E.   Accessory Uses Permitted:
      1.   Accessory buildings, structures and uses customarily incidental to a
permitted use, except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, are permitted
for the following uses:
         Accessory buildings. Lots with single-family dwelling units may have
both permanent and non-permanent accessory buildings. Lots with multiple-family
dwelling units may only have permanent accessory buildings.
         Childcare family home.
         Guesthouse or servants' quarters provided they conform to all yard
requirements applicable to the principal building.
         Home occupations in accordance with other provisions of this chapter.
         Private garage or carport.
         Ramada, outdoor swimming pool, or similar home recreational facility
so long as the facility is used solely by the occupants of the premises and
their guests.
         Rooms in the principal building for roomers, not exceeding two (2)
such persons per dwelling unit; provided, adequate additional off street
parking space(s) shall be provided.
         Storage parking for a boat and/or boat trailer, a utility trailer, a
horse trailer and similar equipment owned by the occupant; provided, such
equipment shall be located in a garage, carport, or rear or interior side yard.
         Storage parking for recreational vehicles owned by the occupant, so
long as it is located in a garage, carport, rear or interior side yard, is not
connected to water or sewer lines, and is not used for living purposes.
   F.   Property Development Standards:
      1.   Lot Area:
         a.   Commercial Uses: The lot area shall be of sufficient size to
provide for the building, off-street parking and landscaping.
         b.   Residential Uses: Residential uses less than five (5) units and
not attached to a commercial use shall provide the minimum lot area required in
the R District.
      2.   Lot Width:
         a.   Commercial Uses: No requirement.
         b.   Residential Uses: Residential buildings less than five (5)
residential units and which do not contain a commercial use shall provide the
minimum lot width required in the R District.
      3.   Front, Rear, Interior Side and Exterior Side Yard For New
Development Or Expansion:
         a.   Commercial Uses: Zero feet (0').
         b.   Residential Uses:
            (1)   New development of residential buildings containing less than
five (5) residential units and which do not contain a commercial use shall
conform to the yard standards required in the R District.
            (2)   Expansion upon existing principal permitted use shall have
the following setbacks:
               (A)   Front: Five feet (5').
               (B)   Rear: Five feet (5').
               (C)   Interior side: Three feet (3').
               (D)   Exterior side: Five feet (5').
      4.   Building Height: Building height shall not exceed forty five feet
(45'), or requirements contained within the City Airport Master Plan, whichever
is the most restrictive.
      5.   Landscaping:
         a.   Commercial uses shall provide landscaping as described in
subsection
3-2-10B2a of this chapter.
         b.   Landscaping within an adjacent right-of-way may be used to
satisfy landscaping requirements, so long as it is maintained by the property
owner.
         c.   With approval from the Planning Department, a lighted art element
incorporated into the business signage may be allowed in lieu of required
landscaping, but only if the developed property has physical conditions that
prevent the property owner from installing the landscaping that would otherwise
be required.
      6.   Signage:
         a.   Free standing signage shall be limited to a maximum height of six
feet (6').
         b.   Signs shall be made of materials that enhance the appearance of
the neighborhood, such as wood, stone, non-reflective or patinated metals, or
similar materials.
         c.   Illuminated signs located adjacent to any residential area shall
be shielded to direct light downward and away from adjacent properties such
that there is no spillover light and shall be controlled by a rheostat or
functional equivalent to avoid excessive glare visible from residential
properties.
         d.   Signs which contain, include, or are illuminated by any flashing,
intermittent, or moving light or lights are prohibited.
         e.   Wall signs shall not be allowed on any facade on the interior
side that faces property zoned R - Single Family and Multiple Family
Residential or that has a residential principal permitted use.
      7.   Off-Street Parking:
         a.   Commercial and residential uses must comply with applicable
provisions contained in section
3-2-17 of this chapter.
         b.   On-street parking adjacent to commercial property may be used to
satisfy off-street parking requirements.
   G.   Property Development Standards For Accessory Buildings: All accessory
buildings, both permanent and non-permanent, shall comply with Section
3-2-5(H).
   H.   Building Development Standards for Commercial Uses: Buildings used for
commercial purposes shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Low-intensity building and site lighting shall be installed in such
a manner as to minimize light spillover and glare into residential
neighborhoods.
      2.   Commercial storefront exterior materials and colors shall harmonize
with the surrounding properties. Exterior treatments characterized by an overly
bright, shiny, reflective or artificial appearance shall not be permitted.
      3.   The appearance of handicap ramps and entries shall be integrated
into the design of the property they serve, minimize visual impact from the
public right-of-way, provide the most direct building access possible, and
comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
      4.   The visual impact of parking and mechanical equipment from the
public right-of-way shall be minimized through the use of screening or
landscaping.
      5.   Awnings shall not obscure the character-defining features of the
building.
   I.   General Regulations for Commercial Uses: Commercial uses shall be
subject to the following restrictions:
      1.   The outdoor storage of goods or materials is prohibited.
      2.   Warehousing or the indoor storage of goods or materials beyond that
normally incidental to permitted uses is prohibited.
      3.   The appearance of handicap ramps and entries shall be integrated
into the design of the property they serve, minimize impact on the public
right-of-way, provide the most direct building access as possible, and comply
with the Americans with Disabilities Act.
      4.   Commercial buildings and associated structures and other
improvements shall be designed in a manner that minimizes conflicts between
pedestrian traffic and vehicles.
      5.   Commercial building facades shall be designed and constructed in a
manner that avoids large expanses of undifferentiated space.
      6.   Commercial uses shall not have adverse impacts on the use and
enjoyment of adjacent residential properties. (Ord. 819, 8-22-2017; amd. Ord.
860, 5-25-2021)
3-2-7: RMH MOBILE HOME PARK AND MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION DISTRICT:
Mobile homes shall be regulated by chapter 5, "Mobile Home Parks, Mobile Home,
Manufactured Home Subdivisions And Recreational Vehicle Parks", of this title,
in conjunction with the official zoning district map. (Ord. 256, 4-11-1978)
3-2-8: PQP PUBLIC, QUASI-PUBLIC DISTRICT:
This district is intended to accommodate public or quasi- public institutional
uses.
   A.   Principal Uses Permitted:
      Adult care facility.
      Cemeteries.
      Hospitals, sanatoriums or similar healthcare facilities; provided, that:
      1.   The site shall contain a net land area in accordance with State law
and/or occupancy tables specified in the Uniform Building Code, latest edition.
      2.   All loading facilities shall be screened from adjoining properties,
and insofar as practicable, from the view of patients from the interior of the
building.
         Museums, convention centers and civic auditoriums.
         Public administrative offices.
         Public airport and associated private land uses of a light industrial
nature (hangars, flight school, flight service, etc.).
         Public parks; provided, however, that existing parks shall not be
encroached upon for other public or quasi- public building purposes (i.e., no
school buildings, firehouses, etc., may be allowed in parks).
         Public schools, colleges or universities.
         Residential facility for groups.
   B.   Accessory Uses Permitted: Accessory buildings, structures and uses
customarily incidental to a permitted use, except as otherwise provided herein.
   C.   Property Development Standards For Permitted Principal Uses:
      1.   Minimum Setback From Any Street Line: Not less than one and one-half
(11/2) times the height of the principal building.
      2.   Minimum Setback From Interior Side And Rear Lot Lines: Not less than
the height of the principal building, plus one additional foot for each five
feet (5') or part thereof that such building exceeds thirty five feet (35') in
the aggregate horizontal dimension of the wall generally parallel to such side
or rear lot line.
      3.   Maximum Building Height: In accordance with requirements of the
current City Airport Master Plan.
      4.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The total ground floor area of all buildings
shall not exceed thirty five percent (35%) of the net site area.
   D.   Conditional Use Permits Required:
      1.   The establishment, expansion or change of any use, including
principal permitted uses, shall be governed by the conditional use permit
procedure, as set forth in section
3-2-18 of this chapter.
      2.   Similar uses determined to be functionally comparable to principal
permitted uses in this zone.
      3.   For purposes of application of the conditional use permit procedure,
"use expansion" shall be defined as any building expansion involving an
addition of one thousand (1,000) square feet of the gross building footprint or
an addition of five percent (5%) of the gross building footprint, whichever is
greater.
   E.   Property Development Standards For Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Maximum Height: Regulations applicable to the principal building
shall apply.
      2.   Location: Accessory buildings, whether attached or detached, shall
be located in accordance with location on the lot as approved by the planning
commission.
   F.   General Regulations:
      1.   Site Plan Approval: Prior to issuance of a permit, site plans shall
be reviewed and approved by the city administrative staff.
      2.   Outdoor Storage Prohibited: The outdoor storage of goods or material
shall be prohibited, except when enclosed by a screen wall in a location
approved by the building inspector. (Ord. 805, 12-13-2016)
3-2-9: CC, CT COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   CC Convenience Commercial District: This district is intended to
accommodate small scale convenience centers, which are under one roof and
served by an adequate off street parking area, and which are designed to meet
the incidental daily convenience needs of immediately adjacent residential
areas.
      1.   Principal Uses Permitted:
         Barber and beauty shops.
         Retail establishments selling a line of convenience goods similar to
that of supermarkets but more limited in scale.
         Self-service laundry and self-service dry cleaning establishments;
laundry or dry cleaning pick up outlets.
         Similar commercial-retail activities.
      2.   Accessory Uses Permitted: No accessory buildings, structures or uses
shall be permitted, except off street parking and loading, trash enclosures and
accessory signs.
      3.   Property Development Standards For Permitted Principal Uses: Area,
height, bulk and placement requirements:
 
            Lot Area        Minimum Lot Minimum Setbacks For
            (Sq. Ft.)       Dimensions  Principal Buildings  Maximum    Maximum
District                                            Interior Building   Of Lot
            Minimum Maximum Width Depth Street Rear Line     Height     Coverage
                                                    Side
                                                    Yard
                                                             25', 2
                                                             stories or
                                                             in
                                                             accordance
Convenience                                                  with city
commercial  15,000  30,000  150'  100'  40'    25'  15'      airport    40%
                                                             master
                                                             plan,
                                                             whichever
                                                             is the
                                                             least
 
      4.   General Regulations:
         a.   The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited.
         b.   Warehousing or the indoor storage of goods or material beyond
that normally incidental to permitted uses shall be prohibited.
         c.   The planning commission, subject to approval of the city council,
may require landscaping to promote compatibility with the neighborhood.
      5.   Conditional Use Permits Required: All developments in CC zoning
districts shall be subject to the conditional use permit procedure as set forth
in section
3-2-18 of this chapter. (Ord. 256, 4-11-1978; amd. Ord. 460, 8-22-1995)
   B.   CT Commercial Transitional District:
      1.   Intent: The purpose of the CT zoning district is to establish a
transitional zone between more intense commercial districts and residential
districts, particularly along higher volume traffic corridors, and to promote a
pattern of land use suitable for the development of professional and business
offices and limited service, retail and commercial activities. The CT district
is intended to protect established residential neighborhoods from the type of
land use associated with high levels of noise, illumination and traffic that
could be detrimental to the characteristics of the residential neighborhood.
      2.   Principal Permitted Uses:
         Art studios.
         Banks, financial institutions.
         Barber and beauty shops.
         Childcare centers.
         Florists.
         Healing art, healthcare facilities, including medical and dental
offices.
         Laboratories: medical, dental, optical.
         Laundry or dry cleaning pick up outlets.
         Lodges, fraternal organizations, recreation, social and service clubs.
         Offices: both business and professional, including accountants,
architects, collection agencies, chiropractors, employment agencies, engineers,
health services, insurance agencies, law offices, real estate, stenographic
services, title insurance firms.
         Pharmacies when operated in conjunction with, and within the same
building as, a medical clinic.
         Photographic studios.
         Schools for music, dance, teaching and creative arts.
         Trade schools.
         Travel agencies.
         Uses determined to be functionally comparable to principal permitted
uses in this zone.
      3.   Conditional Uses Permitted:
         Churches, church facility complexes and places of religious worship.
         Convalescent hospitals, sanatoriums, nursing homes, homes for the
aged.
         Funeral homes and mortuaries.
         Multiple-family residential developments which contain five (5) or
more units located on a single lot or parcel; townhouse, condominium or
attached housing developments.
         Restaurants, sandwich and beverage shops, delicatessens.
         Theaters, indoor.
         Similar uses determined to be functionally comparable to conditional
permitted uses in this zone.
      4.   Property Development Standards:
         a.   Lot Area: The minimum lot area shall be fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet.
         b.   Lot Width: The minimum lot width shall be one hundred feet
(100').
         c.   Lot Coverage: The maximum lot coverage shall be fifty percent
(50%).
         d.   Front Yard: A minimum setback of thirty feet (30') shall be
required.
         e.   Rear Yard: A minimum setback of ten feet (10') shall be required.
         f.   Interior Side: A minimum setback of zero feet (0') to five and
one-half feet (51/2') shall be required. Interior side yards which abut any
residential district shall observe the five and one-half foot (51/2') setback
required as part of the R zoning district.
         g.   Exterior Side: A minimum setback of thirty feet (30') shall be
required.
         h.   Building Height: Building height shall not exceed thirty five
feet (35'), or requirements contained within the city airport master plan,
whichever is the most restrictive.
      5.   General Regulations:
         a.   The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited.
         b.   Warehousing or the indoor storage of goods or materials beyond
that normally incidental to permitted uses shall be prohibited. (Ord. 460, 8-
22-1995)
3-2-10: PC, C COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   PC Planned Commercial District:
      1.   Intent: The purpose of the PC planned commercial zoning district is
to designate areas appropriate for mixed-use community shopping centers, office
parks, and other similar commercial developments where excellence in site
planning, building design and maintenance are important objectives.
      2.   Conditionally Permitted Uses: Planned commercial development,
inclusive of retail, commercial, service, medical, professional office or
similar business development, is characterized by an organized and concentrated
grouping of retail/service outlets and establishments that are served by common
streets, points of access, circulation routes and parking systems. For all uses
in the PC planned commercial District, an application for a conditional use
permit must be submitted pursuant to Section
3-2-18; in addition to a site plan, the application must contain a development
plan describing how the use will satisfy the development standards set forth in
this section.
      3.   Development standards:
         a.   Street Access Requirements: A planned commercial development
shall be permitted only on a site which abuts an arterial street or highway.
Curb cut requirements shall comply with Section
3-2-17.
         b.   Required Yards: All buildings and structures, including, but not
limited to, loading docks and service areas shall be set back not less than
thirty feet (30') or one and one-half (1-1/2) times the height of the building
or structure, whichever is greater, from the outer most perimeter boundary of
the project.
         c.   Required Yards: Yards shall be used only for landscaping,
driveways, internal circulation, walkways, parking, signs, and other related
streetscape features.
         d.   Landscaping:
         (1)   Provisions for landscaping shall be shown on the site plan and
included in the development plan submitted with the conditional use permit
application. Landscaping features may include screen planting, lawn areas,
trees, shrubs, fences and walls. Drought tolerant, low maintenance species, in
conjunction with decorative "hard surface" materials such as volcanic rock,
gravel or stone are encouraged and may be utilized to fulfill landscape surface
requirements.
         (2)   For every new construction in the PC planned commercial zoning
district, a minimum landscaped area shall be provided in an amount equal to
fifteen percent (15%) of the surface area of the developed portion of the
property, to include property consisting of multiple parcels which form a
single development. Additionally, the City may, in its discretion, require that
landscaped areas be distributed throughout the development, including yard
areas between buildings, structures and the adjacent street right of way line.
         (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or developer to
satisfy the landscaping requirements set forth in this section and to provide
such maintenance and care as are reasonably required to maintain and obtain the
aesthetic effect intended by the development plan.
         e.   Screening for Residential Property: In addition to other
buffering requirements, when loading docks or service areas within the
development are across the street from or adjoining property in a residential
district, the development is subject to the screen wall requirements set forth
in Subsection
3-2-3(J) and any conditions imposed by the Planning Commission or, in the event
of an appeal, the City Council in accordance with Section
3-2-18.
         f.   Internal Traffic Circulation: For parking spaces within PC
planned commercial zoning district parking lots, the City may require the use
of chocks or comparable traffic control devices to prevent undesirable traffic
movements, facilitate the channeling of vehicular and pedestrian movement, and
protect any features of the parking lot (walls, landscape areas, signs, etc.)
         g.   Parking Lot Lighting: Lighting of parking lots shall be installed
for safety and security purposes and shall have an illumination range of
twenty-five hundredths (0.25) of a foot-candle to one foot-candle.
         h.   Pedestrian Walkways: A system of pedestrian walkways shall be
provided so as to separate vehicle and pedestrian movements.
         i.   Parking Reduction: For PC planned commercial district
developments which, pursuant to Section
3-2-17, require one hundred (100) or more parking spaces, the Planning
Commission, upon demonstration of adequate shared or alternative parking, may
grant a reduction of up to ten percent (10%) of the collective number of
parking spaces that would otherwise be required.
         j.   Storage: Outdoor storage is prohibited in the PC planned
commercial zoning district. Permanent accessory building(s) for storage are
allowed.
   B.   C General Commercial District:
      1.   Principal Uses Permitted: All commercial uses customarily found in a
commercial area, including, but not limited to, the following uses:
         a.   Entertainment (including, but not limited to, casinos, theaters,
museums, and arcades).
         b.   Lodging.
         c.   Offices.
         d.   Restaurants.
         e.   Retail sales and services.
      2.   Conditional Uses Permitted: The following uses are permitted in the
C general commercial zoning district only with a conditional use permit:
         a.   Banking: Stand-alone automated teller machines (ATMs).
         b.   Central Business District (CBD): See Subsection
3-2-10(B)(8) for conditionally permitted uses within the CBD.
         c.   Churches: Churches, church facility complexes and places of
religious worship.
         d.   Commercial Zone Abutting Residential Zone: Every new development
on a lot or parcel abutting a residential zoning district. All such
developments are subject to the screen wall requirements set forth in
Subsection
3-2-3(J) and any conditions imposed by the Planning Commission or, in the event
of an appeal, the City Council in accordance with Section
3-2-18.
         e.   Gas Stations: Businesses where gasoline and oil are sold,
including businesses with facilities for repairing or maintaining automobiles.
         f.   Mixed Uses: Buildings or structures containing one or more
residential dwelling units in which a significant portion of the space within
the building or structure includes one or more principal permitted uses.
         g.   Mobile Homes: One (1) mobile home or manufactured home may be
used as an office on a trailer, recreational vehicle, manufactured home or
mobile home sales lot, provided it is properly connected to utilities. The
mobile home or manufactured home may not be used for any other purpose, such as
for residential use.
         h.   Parking Lots and Garages: Areas and structures used for parking
vehicles, except where located on the same lot as and used in conjunction with
another permitted use.
         i.   Planned Shopping Centers: See Subsection
3-2-10(B)(5)(a) for development standards.
         j.   Public, Quasi-Public: All uses identified as principal permitted
uses in the PQP public, quasi-public district.
         k.   Recreational Vehicle Parks (RVPs): The rental of space for
temporary short-term, transient occupancy by two (2) or more recreational
vehicles, including any accessory buildings, structures and uses customarily
incidental thereto.
         l.   Residential Uses: Multiple-family residential developments which
contain five (5) or more units located on a single lot or parcel and townhouses
or condominiums or attached housing developments. Single-family residences,
duplexes, triplexes and fourplexes are not permitted in the C general
commercial zoning district.
         m.   Storage Units: Commercial storage units.
         n.   Other Uses: All other uses which do not meet the criteria for but
are similar in function and character to any of the uses which are specifically
identified as being permitted with a conditional use permit.
      3.   Accessory Uses Permitted:
         a.   Outdoor display and sales.
         b.   Propane or fuel filling areas.
         c.   Outdoor dining with proper permitting.
         d.   Accessory buildings.
         e.   Electric vehicle charging stations.
      4.   Development Standards:
         a.   Setbacks: All setbacks are zero, unless stated otherwise for
specific uses.
         b.   Height Restrictions: All structures within the C general
commercial zoning district must be in accordance with the height and other
standards set forth in the current City Airport Master Plan, to the extent the
plan applies to that location.
      5.   Development Standards for Specific Uses:
         a.   Planned Shopping Centers: Within the C general commercial zoning
district, planned shopping centers are permitted with a conditional use permit,
subject to the following standards:
         (1)   Street Access Requirements: The site must abut an arterial
street or highway. Curb cuts shall comply with the requirements contained in
Section
3-2-17.
         (2)   Required Yards: All buildings and structures, including, but not
limited to, loading docks and service areas, shall be set back not less than
thirty feet (30') or one and one-half (1-1/2) times the height of the building
or structure, whichever is greater, from the outer most perimeter boundary of
the project.
         (3)   Screening for Residential Property: In addition to other buffer
requirements, when the loading docks or service areas of the development are
across the street from or adjoining property in a residential district, then
such development is subject to the screen wall requirements set forth in
Subsection
3-2-3(J) and any conditions imposed by the Planning Commission or, in the event
of an appeal, the City Council in accordance with Section
3-2-18.
         (4)   Internal Traffic Circulation: For parking spaces in parking lots
within the C general commercial zoning district, the City may require the use
of chocks or comparable traffic control devices to prevent undesirable traffic
movements, facilitate the channeling of vehicular and pedestrian movement, and
protect any features of the parking lot (walls, landscape areas, signs, etc.)
         (5)   Pedestrian Walkways: A system of pedestrian walkways shall be
designed and constructed so as to separate vehicle and pedestrian movements.
         b.   Public, Quasi-Public: All uses identified as principal permitted
uses within the PQP public, quasi-public zoning district must comply with the
development standards set forth in Section
3-2-8.
         c.   Residential Uses: Residential uses must meet the setback
standards applicable to the R3 Zoning District set forth in Subsection
3-2-5(G) and the development standards applicable to multiple-family
residential developments set forth in Subsection
3-2-5(E)(6).
         d.   Commercial storage units: The surface of the area accessing each
storage unit shall be paved with material such as asphalt, concrete or
comparable permeable hard surface materials.
         e.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings (either permanent or
non-permanent) shall meet the following requirements as applicable:
         (1)   Permitting: A Building Permit may be required pursuant to
Chapter 2-1-4(G) of the Code.
         (2)   Maximum Height: Height limitations contained in the current City
of Elko Airport Master Plan are, without limitation, incorporated into this
Subsection
3-2-10(B)(5)(e).
         (3)   Placement: No accessory building shall block existing parking
spaces, drive aisles or fire lanes, or be placed on any easement.
      6.   Landscaping:
         a.   For every new construction in the C general commercial zoning
district which is outside of the Central Business District (CBD), minimum
landscaped area shall be provided in an amount equal to fifteen percent (15%)
of the surface area of the developed portion of the property for lot sizes one
acre or greater and ten percent (10%) of the surface area of the developed
portion of the property for lot sizes smaller than one acre, to include
property consisting of multiple parcels which form a single development.
Additionally, the city may, at its discretion, require that landscaped areas be
distributed throughout the development, including yard areas between buildings,
structures and within the adjacent street right of way. The landscaping may
include screen planting, lawns, trees, shrubs, fences and walls. Drought
tolerant, low maintenance species, in conjunction with decorative hard surface
materials such as volcanic rock, gravel or stone, are encouraged and may, where
appropriate, be utilized to fulfill landscape surface requirements.
         b.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or developer to carry
out the requirements of this section and to provide proper maintenance and care
of the landscaping.
      7.   Storage: Outdoor storage within the C general commercial zoning
district is permitted subject to the limitations and requirements of this
subsection. Outdoor storage shall be screened by a solid (opaque) wooden fence
or masonry wall, or quality material of similar opacity or of open-type
construction (such as chain-link) with screening material. The screen fence or
wall shall be of a height capable of screening the stored materials from view
from public streets and alleys and from neighboring property. Ordinary use of
parking areas for operable personal vehicles of customers and employees, and
display areas for sales or rental of operable vehicles, is not considered
outdoor storage. The surface of the area to be used for outdoor storage shall
be paved with an all-weather material such as asphalt or concrete or, in the
case of the storage of heavy equipment, covered with a material which will
control fugitive dust. Shipping containers (Conex boxes) are permitted in the C
general commercial zoning district subject to the standards set forth in
Subsection
3-2-10(B)(5)(e), above, provided the containers are located behind a screen
wall or fence, are not stacked vertically and are solely utilized for the
storage of materials and goods in association with the permitted business at
that location. Shipping containers approved with a temporary use permit are not
required to be located behind screen wall or fence.
      8.   Central Business District (CBD): Within the C general commercial
zoning district, the Central Business District (CBD) is intended to contain a
high concentration of the community's commercial land use and activity, with
the objective of having a clean, safe, aesthetic, diverse, integrated and
mutually-compatible mixture of commercial activities. Generally, the CBD is
bounded by the following streets: Court Street on the northwest, 12th Street on
the northeast, Silver Street on the southeast, and 2nd Street on the southwest.
         a.   Within the CBD, commercial activities will be permitted, provided
they meet the requirements applicable to both the C general commercial zoning
district and the CBD, except where this chapter specifically provides
otherwise.
         b.   Within the CBD, construction of a new structure within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of any residential zoning district will only be
permitted if a conditional use permit is first issued pursuant to Section
3-2-18.
         c.   Within the CBD, any new business or other use of land involving
activities which are reasonably likely to discourage other businesses through
light, noise, odors, types and levels of activity, or the creation of a
nuisance, such as (without limitation) auto and truck service and repair
facilities; mobile home, recreational vehicle and truck sales lots; gas service
stations; ministorage facilities; bars; businesses that involve light
manufacturing activities, such as printing and newspaper production, saddle
manufacturing and similar uses; and other uses determined by the City to have
similar impacts, must first obtain a conditional use permit pursuant to Section
3-2-18.
      9.   Dog Grooming Businesses: Within the C general commercial zoning
district, a business may be operated and maintained for dog grooming; provided,
however, there shall not be any overnight or other harboring of dogs. (Ord.
767, 2-12-2013; amd. Ord. 880, 8-8-2023)
3-2-11: IBP, IC INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   IBP Industrial Business Park District:
      1.   Intent: The purpose of the IBP Zoning District is to provide and
preserve high profile areas appropriate for corporate office, research and
development facilities, office parks and compatible light industrial uses with
emphasis on special site design features that strengthen the City's economic
base and contribute to a higher quality of appearance and standard of land use,
and to preclude residential uses and also extensive commercial uses and
development that may be detrimental to the character or quality of the
business/industrial park environment.
      2.   Principal Uses Permitted: The primary permitted uses in the IBP
Zoning District are listed as follows, plus other uses of a similar nature:
         Advertising distribution.
         Bakery.
         Bottling plants.
         Business schools, vocational and trade schools.
         Catering services.
         Childcare center.
         Communication facilities.
         Corporate and professional office, offices subordinate to and related
to the principal industrial use.
         Electronic manufacturing and assembly.
         Financial institutions.
         Indoor light manufacturing, processing, assembly, fabricating or
storage of certain specified products and materials.
         Laboratories, medical experimental and research.
         Machine shops.
         Newspaper and publishing plants.
         Office supply stores.
         Printing, blueprinting, photostating, and photo finishing facilities.
         Recording studios.
         Recreation and fitness centers.
         Warehousing and distribution center.
         Other commercial uses which are supportive and complementary to IBP
uses and the intent of the district as determined by the Planning Commission.
      3.   Conditions:
         a.   Conditional Use Permit Required: Issuance of a conditional use
permit following review by the Planning Commission and in accordance with this
chapter is required for all fully integrated and planned IBP developments as
part of a concept Master Plan or for individual IBP uses not part of an
approved Master Plan.
         b.   Outside Storage: Any outside storage shall be suitably screened
from the surrounding area by walls, planting, or other barrier to the
satisfaction of the Planning Commission.
         c.   Signs: Advertising signs shall be reviewed as part of the plans
submitted for conditional use permit review. The Planning Commission may
require the reduction of any height or size of sign suggested by the developer,
if the Planning Commission finds such reduction to be in keeping with the
intent of this section.
         d.   Height Limitation: No structure may be allowed to exceed the
elevation indicated in the current Airport Master Plan of the City.
         e.   Required Area And Width: Five (5) acre minimum development area
with ten thousand (10,000) square feet minimum lot area within the development,
one hundred fifty feet (150') average width, unless otherwise permitted by the
Planning Commission.
         f.   Yards: Yards shall be set as follows:
            (1)   Rear yard: Twenty foot (20') minimum setback unless the
structure borders on an alley, in which event no setback is required.
            (2)   Interior side yard: Ten foot (10') minimum setback.
            (3)   Exterior side yard: Fifteen foot (15') minimum setback.
            (4)   Front yard: Twenty foot (20') minimum setback.
         g.   Front And Exterior Side Yards: Required front yards and exterior
side yards shall be limited exclusively for landscaping, driveways, internal
circulation, walkways, parking, signs and other related streetscape features.
Materials storage within such yards shall be prohibited.
         h.   Landscaping:
            (1)   Provisions for landscaping shall be included in the
Development Master Plan to be submitted for conditional use permit approval.
These shall include, but are not limited to, screen planting, lawn areas,
trees, shrubs, fences and walls. Drought tolerant, low maintenance species in
conjunction with decorative "hard surface" materials, such as, but not limited
to, volcanic rock, gravel or stone are encouraged and may be utilized to
fulfill landscape surface requirements.
            (2)   Minimum landscape area shall be provided equal to twenty five
percent (25%) of the required front yard and exterior side yard equal to two
and one-half (21/2) square feet per linear foot of street frontage.
            (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or developer to
carry out this program and to provide such maintenance and care as is required
to obtain the effect intended by the original plan. All landscaping shall be
planned and maintained to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission. A screen
wall as set forth in subsection
3-2-3J of this chapter is required for all IBP uses within one hundred fifty
feet (150') of an R district.
   B.   IC Industrial Commercial District:
      1.   Intent: The purpose of the IC Zoning District is to provide and
preserve transitional areas characterized by surrounding commercial and
industrial districts appropriate for a mixture of commercial uses and small
scale industrial uses which are not associated with excessive levels of noise,
dust, odor, vibration or smoke.
      2.   Principal Uses Permitted:
         All general commercial principal permitted uses listed in subsection
3-2-10B of this chapter.
         All light industrial principal permitted uses listed in subsection
 
3-2-12A of this chapter.
      3.   Conditional Uses Permitted: Any of the following uses may be
permitted upon approval of a conditional use permit in accordance with
provisions of this subsection and as set forth in section
3-2-18 of this chapter:
         Gas service stations.
         Mixed uses. Structures containing one or more residential dwelling
units in which a significant portion of the space within the structure includes
one or more principal commercial permitted uses.
         Recreational vehicle parks.
      4.   Development Standards:
         a.   Minimum Area: There is no required minimum lot area.
         b.   Minimum Lot Width: There is no required minimum lot width.
         c.   Minimum Front And Rear Yard Setback: Required minimum front and
rear yard setback shall be five feet (5').
         d.   Minimum Side Yard Setback: Required minimum side yard setback
shall be five feet (5').
      5.   Height Restrictions: In addition to all other applicable
requirements, all structures within the IC Industrial Commercial Zoning
District must comply with the height and other requirements of the current City
Airport Master Plan, to the extent the plan applies to that location.
      6.   IC Industrial Commercial Zone Abutting Residential Zone: A
conditional use permit pursuant to section
3-2-18 of this chapter is required for every new development on a lot or parcel
in the IC Industrial Commercial Zoning District which abuts a residential
zoning district. All such developments are subject to the screen wall
requirements set forth in subsection
3-2-3J of this chapter.
      7.   Outside Storage: Any outside storage of materials shall be suitably
screened from surrounding area by fencing, walls, planting, or other comparable
barrier.
      8.   Landscaping:
         a.   For every new construction in the IC Industrial Commercial Zoning
District which is outside of the Central Business District (CBD), minimum
landscape area shall be provided in an amount equal to fifteen percent (15%) of
the surface area of the developed portion of the property for lot sizes one
acre or greater and ten percent (10%) of the surface area of the developed
portion of the property for lot sizes smaller than one acre, to include
property consisting of multiple parcels which form a single development.
Additionally, the City may, at its discretion, require that landscaped areas be
distributed throughout the development, including yard areas between buildings,
structures and the adjacent street right- of-way line. The landscaping may
include, but is not limited to, screen planting, lawns, trees, shrubs, fences
and walls. Drought tolerant, low maintenance species, in conjunction with
decorative hard surface materials such as, but not limited to, volcanic rock,
gravel or stone, are encouraged and may, where appropriate, be utilized to
fulfill landscape surface requirements.
         b.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or developer to carry
out the requirements of this section and to provide proper maintenance and care
of the landscaping. (Ord. 829, 5-22-2018)
3-2-12: LI, GI INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   LI Light Industrial District:
      1.   Intent: The purpose of the LI Zoning District is to provide and
preserve areas reserved primarily for less intensive industrial use and
activity normally associated with previously prepared materials and with
minimal levels of noise, dust, odor, vibration or smoke, and to preclude
encroachment of land uses such as residential uses that could be in conflict
with the industrial and manufacturing environment.
      2.   Area and Setback Requirements: All LI District uses shall be
established in accordance with the following:
         a.   Minimum Area: In an LI District, there is no required minimum lot
area for a light industrial use.
         b.   Minimum Lot Width: In an LI District, there is no required
minimum lot width.
         c.   Minimum Front and Rear Yard Setback: Required minimum front and
rear yard setback in the Light Industrial (LI) District shall be ten feet
(10').
         d.   Minimum Side Yard Setback: Required minimum side yard setback in
the Light Industrial District shall be ten feet (10').
         e.   Maximum Building Height: The maximum allowable building height in
the Light Industrial District shall not exceed the allowable elevation
indicated in the current Airport Master Plan for the City.
      3.   Principal Uses Permitted: The primary permitted uses in the LI
Zoning District are listed as follows, plus other uses of a similar nature:
         Ambulance service.
         Appliance repair.
         Assayer.
         Assembly of products and materials.
         Auto and truck repair garage.
         Auto parking lot.
         Bakery.
         Bottling plant.
         Bus facilities or terminals.
         Business machine service.
         Cabinet manufacturing.
         Clinics.
         Contractor's services.
         Corporate offices.
         Dairy products distribution.
         Drilling companies.
         Electrician shop.
         Equipment rentals and sales.
         Fabricating of products and materials.
         Financial institutions.
         Fire stations.
         Government facilities.
         Health club.
         Heavy equipment storage and sales.
         Laboratories (medical, dental, optical, veterinarian, chemists).
         Manufacturing of products and materials (limited in scale).
         Medical offices.
         Metallurgical lab.
         Municipal buildings.
         Museums.
         Park and ride facilities.
         Plumbing shop.
         Post office.
         Professional offices.
         Restaurants.
         Storage units.
         Trucking facilities or terminals.
         Utility companies.
         Veterinary clinics.
         Warehousing.
         Other commercial uses, which are supportive and complementary to LI
uses and the intent of the district.
      4.   Accessory Uses Permitted: The accessory permitted uses in the LI
district are:
         Storage buildings.
      5.   Conditional Uses Permitted: Any of the following uses may be
permitted upon approval of a conditional use permit in accordance with
provisions of this subsection and those set forth in section
3-2-18 of this chapter:
         Childcare center.
         Gas service station.
         Halfway house for recovering alcohol and drug abusers.
         Humanitarian campgrounds.
         Mixed uses; any structure containing a residential dwelling unit
occupied by the owner or an employee of the owner of the structure containing
the principal permitted use, if a significant portion of the space within the
structure includes one or more principal permitted uses.
         Mobile homes or residential quarters for caretakers or watchmen. A
permanentized mobile home that has been converted to real property under the
common law and is taxed as real property in accordance with Nevada Revised
Statutes Chapter 361. In addition, there must be fill compliance with all yard
requirements of the R zoning district.
         School; Public, Private or Trade.
      6.   Residential Uses: A stand-alone (i.e., freestanding and independent)
building or structure devoted solely to residential use is not allowed in the
LI district as a permitted use or a conditional permitted use. Residential uses
existing at the time of adoption of the ordinance codified herein may be
allowed to continue in accordance with section
3-2-19 of this chapter.
      7.   Industrial Zone Abutting Residential Zone: When an industrial zone
abuts a residential zone, a conditional use permit is required pursuant to
section
3-2-18 of this chapter. All such developments are subject to the required
screen wall in accordance with the provisions of subsection
3-2-3J of this chapter.
      8.   Requirements: All requirements set forth in section
3-2-17 of this chapter must be adhered to.
      9.   Screen Walls: A screen wall as set forth in subsection
3-2-3J of this chapter is required for all LI uses within one hundred fifty
feet (150') of an R district.
      10.   Provisions for Landscaping:
         a.   Provisions for landscaping shall be part of the development plan
and shall include, but are not limited to, screen planting, lawn areas, trees,
shrubs, fences and walls. Drought tolerant, low maintenance species in
conjunction with decorative "hard surface" materials, such as, but not limited
to, volcanic rock, gravel or stone are encouraged and may be utilized to
fulfill landscape surface requirements.
         b.   Minimum landscape area shall be provided equal to twenty-five
percent (25%) of the required front yard and exterior side yard, or equal to
two (2) square feet per linear foot of street frontage.
         c.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or developer to carry
out this program and to provide such maintenance and care as is required to
obtain the effect intended by the original plan.
   B.   GI General Industrial District:
      1.   Intent: The purpose of the General Industrial (GI) zoning district
is to provide and preserve areas reserved primarily for more intensive
industrial uses engaged in basic processing or manufacturing of products from
raw materials and with tolerable levels of noise, dust, odor, vibration or
smoke, and to preclude encroachment of land uses such as residential uses that
could be in conflict with the industrial and manufacturing environment.
      2.   Area and Setback Requirements: All GI District uses shall satisfy
the following requirements:
         a.   Minimum Lot Area: In the GI District, there is no minimum lot
area.
         b.   Minimum Lot Width: In the GI District, there is no minimum lot
width.
         c.   Minimum Front and Rear Yard Setback: Minimum front and rear yard
setbacks in the GI District shall be ten feet (10'). If the property adjoins a
residential district, there shall be a rear yard having a width of not less
than twenty-five feet (25').
         d.   Minimum Side Yard Setback: The minimum side yard setback in the
GI District shall be ten feet (10'). If the property adjoins a residential
district, there shall be a side yard having a width of not less than twenty-
five feet (25').
         e.   Maximum Building Height: The maximum building height in the GI
District shall not exceed the allowable elevation indicated in the current
Airport Master Plan for the City.
      3.   Principal Uses Permitted: The primary permitted uses in the GI
zoning district include all uses permitted in the LI zoning district, plus
other uses listed as follows:
         Food processing facilities.
         Manufacturing of products or materials.
         Outdoor manufacturing, processing, assembly and fabrication.
         Other commercial uses which are supportive and complementary to GI
district uses and the intent of the district as determined by the planning
commission.
      4.   Accessory Uses Permitted: The accessory permitted uses in the GI
district are:
      Storage buildings.
      5.   Conditional Uses Permitted: Any of the following uses may be
permitted upon approval of a conditional use permit in accordance with
provisions of this subsection and those set forth in section
3-2-18 of this chapter:
         Asphalt or concrete batch plant.
         Gas service station.
         Halfway house for recovering alcohol and drug abusers.
         Humanitarian campgrounds.
         Mobile homes or residential quarters for caretakers or watchmen. A
permanentized mobile home that has been converted to real property under the
common law and is taxed as real property in accordance with Nevada Revised
Statutes Chapter 361. In addition, there must be full compliance with all yard
requirements of the R zoning district.
         Mixed uses; any structure containing a residential dwelling unit
occupied by the owner or an employee of the owner of the structure containing
the principal permitted use, if a significant portion of the space within the
structure includes one or more principal permitted uses.
         Wrecking yard, salvage yard or junkyard.
         Other similar uses or uses determined to be more noxious in character
or operation.
      6.   Residential Uses: A stand-alone (i.e., freestanding and independent)
building or structure devoted solely to residential uses is not allowed in the
GI district as a permitted use or a conditional permitted use. Residential uses
existing at the time of adoption of this section may be allowed to continue in
accordance with section
3-2-19 of this chapter.
      7.   Industrial Zone Abutting Residential Zone: When an industrial zone
abuts a residential zone, a conditional use permit is required pursuant to
section
3-2-18 of this chapter. All such developments are subject to the required
screen wall in accordance with the provisions of subsection
3-2-3J of this chapter.
      8.   Flammable and Combustible Liquids, Bulk Storage: All flammable and
combustible liquids shall be governed by title 6, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord.
805, 12-13-2016; amd. Ord. 879, 1-24-2023)
3-2-13: AG GENERAL AGRICULTURE DISTRICT:
This district is intended to comprise lands devoted to agriculture, related
activities and other open uses. This district is further intended to constitute
a "hold" district to retain land in less intensive use until the time is
appropriate for more intensive development so as to prevent scattered
development and the premature and costly extension of utility mains and
services related thereto, and to regulate development of the city so that it
occurs in stages according to market needs and progresses contiguously outward
from the developed urban area. Regulations are designed to limit uses to those
which are compatible with agriculture, to prevent encroachment by more
intensive uses, and to preserve the open space characteristics of the district.
   A.   Principal Uses Permitted:
      1.   Agricultural Uses:
         General agriculture on parcels not less than five (5) contiguous acres
in area.
         Commercial breeding, raising, training and feeding principally by
grazing of horses, cattle, sheep, goats and hogs; provided, that pens,
buildings, corrals and yards other than open pastures are not closer than five
hundred feet (500') to any residence, except the residence of the property
owner.
         Dairies; poultry and egg farms; fur farms; public stable; provided,
that pens, buildings and enclosures other than open pastures are not closer
than five hundred feet (500') to any residence, except the residence of the
property owner.
         Oil wells.
         Soil crops.
      2.   General Uses:
         Guest ranches, on parcels having an area not less than ten (10) acres;
provided, that pens, buildings and yards other than open pastures used for
keeping of livestock are not closer than one hundred feet (100') to any street,
highway or residential district.
         Veterinary clinic or animal hospital.
      3.   Conditional Uses Permitted:
         Churches and church facility complexes.
         Public recreational uses, including public or quasi- public golf
courses and similar activities.
         Schools.
         Water pumping plants and storage tanks.
   B.   Accessory Uses Permitted:
      1.   Accessory buildings, structures and uses customarily incidental to
permitted principal or conditional uses.
      2.   Employee housing, servants' quarters, guesthouses.
      3.   Storage of petroleum products required for use on the premises;
provided, that such storage shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) gallons and
shall be subject to all applicable health and safety laws.
      4.   Home occupations.
   C.   Property Development Standards For Principal Permitted Uses:
      1.   Minimum lot or site area: Five (5) acres.
      2.   Minimum lot or site width: Four hundred feet (400').
      3.   Minimum setback from all street lines: One hundred feet (100').
      4.   Minimum side yards: One hundred feet (100').
      5.   Minimum Rear Yard: One hundred feet (100').
   D.   Property Development Standards For Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Maximum Height: In accordance with requirements of the current city
airport master plan.
      2.   Minimum Space: The minimum space between a building used for
sleeping or living purposes and any other detached building is twenty feet
(20').
      3.   Minimum Side And Rear Setbacks: Minimum side and rear setbacks of
buildings not used for keeping poultry or animals is twenty feet (20').
      4.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings, whether attached or
detached, shall not be erected in any required front or side yard, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   E.   Maintenance Of Stock Fences: All livestock and poultry kept shall be
kept confined to the premises by erection and maintenance of a stock fence and
necessary cattle guards. (Ord. 256, 4-11-1978)
3-2-14: FP, SA OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
   A.   FP Floodplain Overlay District: This overlay comprises areas subject to
inundation by floodwaters according to limits established by the department of
housing and urban development. It is the intent of this overlay to establish
such regulations as are necessary to protect the public from the hazards and
cost which may be incurred when unsuitable development occurs in such areas.
   B.   SA Special Area Overlay District: The purpose of the SA special area
overlay district is to recognize certain areas as having unique or
extraordinary features, characteristics, circumstances or history related to
topography, streets and circulation, property sizes and configurations or
established patterns of land use; and, to provide the opportunity to establish
special development standards and regulations suitable for qualified special
areas.
      1.   Standards Established: Special area and special area development
standards are hereby established for the following described property:
Property zoned R on the east and west side of Lamoille Road, north of Wilson
Avenue and inclusive of all R zoned property between Front Street on the north
and Wilson Avenue on the south; property zoned R on the north and south side of
Carlin Court and on the south side of Ouderkirk Avenue, west of Lamoille Road
and inclusive of all R zoned property between Wilson Avenue on the north,
Ouderkirk Avenue on the south and Lamoille Road on the east.
      2.   Property Development Standards:
         a.   Area Requirements:
            (1)   Minimum lot area: Four thousand (4,000) square feet.
            (2)   Minimum lot width: Forty feet (40').
            (3)   Minimum lot depth: Eighty feet (80').
         b.   Land Use:
            (1)   Single-family dwelling (SFD): Four thousand (4,000) square
feet.
            (2)   SFD or duplex: Six thousand (6,000) square feet.
            (3)   SFD, duplex or triplex: Seven thousand (7,000) square feet.
            (4)   SFD, duplex, triplex or fourplex: Eight thousand eight
hundred (8,800) square feet.
      3.   Building Setbacks:
         a.   Front Yard:
            (1)   Single-story wall or elevation, twelve feet (12').
            (2)   Two-story wall or elevation, fifteen feet (15').
         b.   Rear Yard: Fifteen feet (15').
         c.   Exterior Side Yard:
            (1)   Single-story wall or elevation, seven and one-half feet (71/
2').
            (2)   Two-story wall or elevation, twelve feet (12').
         d.   Interior Side Yard:
            (1)   Single story wall or elevation, five feet (5').
            (2)   Two-story wall or elevation, seven and one-half feet (71/2').
      4.   Off Street Parking:
         a.   Single-family dwelling, two (2) spaces.
         b.   Multiple-family dwelling, two (2) spaces per unit. (Ord. 512, 8-
11-1998)
3-2-15: PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT:
The regulations set forth in this section, or set forth elsewhere in this
chapter when referred to in this section, are the planned unit development
(PUD) district regulations. The "planned unit development" is a concept as
defined in section
3-2-2 of this chapter. A planned unit development may consist of attached or
detached single-family units, townhouses, chapter units, condominiums, garden
apartments or any combination thereof.
   A.   Purpose And Objective: The purpose is to establish procedures and
standards for planned unit developments within the corporate limits of the city
in order that the following objectives may be attained:
      1.   Accumulation of large areas of usable open space for recreation and
preservation of natural amenities.
      2.   Flexibility in design to take the greatest advantage of natural
land, trees, historical and other features.
      3.   Creation of a variety of housing types and compatible neighborhood
arrangements that give the homebuyer greater choice in selecting types of
environment and living units.
      4.   Allowance of sufficient freedom for the developer to take a creative
approach to the use of land and related physical development, as well as
utilizing innovative techniques to enhance the visual character of the city.
      5.   Efficient use of land which may result in reduction in development
costs of street and utility systems.
      6.   Establishment of criteria for the inclusion of compatible associated
uses to complement the residential areas within the planned unit development.
      7.   Simplification of the procedure for obtaining approval of proposed
developments through simultaneous review by the city of proposed land use, site
consideration, lot and setback considerations, public needs and requirements,
and health and safety factors.
   B.   Use Regulations: Uses permitted in the planned unit development may
include, and shall be limited to, the following; provided, that the uses
permitted in this district shall be subject to the issuance of a conditional
use permit after review by the planning commission and approval by the city
council:
      1.   Public dedication to the city of the common open space. This method
is subject to formal acceptance by the city.
      2.   Establishment of an association or nonprofit corporation of all
individuals or corporations owning property within the planned unit development
to ensure the maintenance of all common open space.
      3.   Retention of ownership, control and maintenance of all common open
space by the developer.
      4.   All privately owned common open space shall continue to conform to
its intended use and remain as expressed in the site plan through the inclusion
of all deeds or appropriate restrictions to ensure that the common open space
is permanently preserved according to the site plan. Said deed restrictions
shall run with the land and be for the benefit of present as well as future
property owners and shall contain a prohibition against partition.
      5.   All common open space as well as public and recreational facilities
shall be specifically included in the development schedule and be constructed
and fully improved by the developer at an equivalent or greater rate than the
construction of residential structures.
      6.   If the developer elects to administer common open space through an
association or nonprofit corporation, said organization shall conform to the
following requirements:
         a.   The developer must establish the association or nonprofit
corporation prior to the sale of any lots.
         b.   Membership in the association or nonprofit corporation shall be
mandatory for all residential property owners within the planned unit
development and said association or corporation shall not discriminate in its
members or shareholders.
         c.   The association or nonprofit corporation shall manage all common
open space and recreational and cultural facilities that are not dedicated to
the public, shall provide for the maintenance, administration and operation of
said land and any other land within the planned unit development not publicly
or privately owned, and shall secure adequate liability insurance on the land.
         d.   If the developer elects an association or nonprofit corporation
as a method of administering common open space, the title to all residential
property owners shall include an undivided fee simple estate in all common open
space.
         e.   Said association or nonprofit corporation shall not be dissolved
nor shall dispose of any common open space by sale or otherwise, without first
offering to dedicate such common open space to the city, which offer shall be
accepted or rejected within one hundred twenty (120) days.
         f.   Said association or nonprofit corporation may make reasonable
assessments to meet its necessary expenditures for maintaining the common open
space in reasonable order and condition in accordance with the planned unit
development plan. The assessment shall be made ratably against the properties
within the planned unit development that have a right of enjoyment of the
common open space.
         g.   Said association or nonprofit corporation established for
ownership and maintenance of common open space and receiving payments from
owners of the property within the planned unit development shall:
            (1)   Immediately deposit such payments in a separate trust account
maintained by it with some bank or recognized depository in this state.
            (2)   Keep records of all payments deposited therein and all
disbursements therefrom.
      7.   The city, association, nonprofit corporation, developer or landowner
who retains ownership, control and maintenance of a common open space shall
have all rights of assessment, enforcement of assessment lien and other
procedures available to said individual, corporation, association or other
business entity as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 278A.
   C.   Utilities And Services: Structures within the planned unit development
shall be connected to city water and sewer lines and all utility lines shall be
placed underground except for major electrical transmission lines. The road
network of the planned unit development shall be of a suitable design and
construction as to meet city specifications. The city shall have the right to
require, prior to the approval of the site plan, such easements from the
developer as are necessary for access by the city to privately owned acres of
the planned unit development to permit the city to perform necessary police,
health, safety and fire services.
   D.   Minimum Development Standards: A planned unit development must contain
five (5) or more dwelling units and all lots within the planned unit
development shall meet at least the following minimum requirements:
      1.   Minimum Site Area: Minimum site area shall be five (5) acres, except
the planning commission, with approval of the city council, may waive this
minimum when proper planning justification is shown.
      2.   Minimum Lot Size For Single-Family Detached Residences: The
following minimum lot sized per dwelling unit shall apply to all lots
containing a single-family detached residence, if said lots are located
entirely within that section of the planned unit development that was
previously located in an R zoning district:
7,500 square feet = 5.81
      3.   Lot Coverage: Maximum lot coverage shall be fifty percent (50%) for
all lots within the planned unit development.
      4.   Setbacks: There shall be a minimum setback of ten feet (10') between
any buildings which are forty feet (40') or less in height and all public or
private access right of way designed for limited vehicular traffic, such as
minor residential streets, cul-de-sacs, or dead end type streets. A minimum
setback of twenty feet (20') shall apply to dwelling units located on collector
streets and a minimum setback of thirty feet (30') shall apply to dwelling
units located on arterial streets. The setback shall be increased two feet (2')
for each additional story above forty feet (40') of height.
      5.   Distance Between Buildings: There shall be a minimum distance
between detached buildings as follows: Twenty feet (20') for the first forty
feet (40') of height. Two feet (2') additional for each additional story above
forty feet (40') of height.
      6.   Access: All lots shall have access to either private or public roads
within the planned unit development. Private roads are to be allowed within the
planned unit development if they meet the minimum city construction standards.
Private roads shall not be permitted along the perimeter of the planned unit
development unless approved by the planning commission. All roads must be
designated to tie in effectively with the city thoroughfare portion of the
general plan. The city shall be allowed access on private roads and privately
owned common open space to ensure the police and fire protection of the area to
meet emergency needs, and to conduct city service.
      7.   Buffer Areas And Screening: Compatible and complementary buffer
areas and/or screening shall be provided between primary residential uses and
secondary nonresidential uses within the planned unit development and between
conflicting uses located on the periphery of the development and surrounding
developments or zoning districts. Sizes of buffer zones shall be determined
during the process of conditional use permit approval.
      8.   Common Walls; Fire Resistance: Within the buildings, whenever common
walls are proposed, they shall be two (2) hour fire resistant.
      9.   Drainage: Drainage on the internal private and public streets shall
be as required by the public works department. All common driveways shall drain
to either storm sewers or a street section.
      10.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be provided and installed as
required by the fire department. Fire lanes shall be provided as required by
the fire department. Fire lanes may be grass areas.
      11.   Exterior Lighting: Exterior lighting within the development shall
be provided on private common drives, private vehicular streets and on public
streets. The lighting on all public streets shall conform to the standards
approved for regular use elsewhere in the city. (Ord. 256, 4-11-1978)
   E.   Open Space And Density:
      1.   In no instance shall the total amount of usable open space within
the planned unit development be less than twenty percent (20%) of the gross
acreage of the planned unit development. The following shall not be counted as
usable open space: Land that has average slopes of greater than ten percent
(10%); any streets, parking areas or other asphaltic or paved areas except for
pedestrian and bicycle paths.
      2.   Density of the area shall be computed in the form of dwelling units
per acre. The following maximum density shall apply to those sections of the
planned unit development that were previously located in the following
specified zoning districts:
         R district specific density will be determined in process of
conditional use permit review, however, in no instance shall the maximum
density exceed twelve (12) units per acre.
   F.   Open Space And Related Incentives:
      1.   For each five percent (5%) increment of additional usable common
open space above the twenty percent (20%) per gross acre minimum, the developer
will be allowed a corresponding increase in density of ten percent (10%) above
the density figure computed in subsection E of this section, subject to the
maximum limitation of twelve (12) units per acre.
      2.   For each linear mile of bicycle path provided in the planned unit
development, the developer will be allowed a corresponding increase in density
of ten percent (10%) above the density figure computed in subsection E of this
section, subject to the maximum limitation of twelve (12) units per area. The
route of the bicycle path and its gradient must be reviewed by the planning
commission and approved by the city council and shall be constructed according
to the following specifications: width, at least eight feet (8') wide; paving,
at least six inches (6") of compacted crushed stone base with two inches (2")
of asphaltic concrete, whichever is suitable to the development. All site work,
including drainage facilities, clearing and grading for the bicycle path shall
be reviewed by the planning commission and approved by the city council. (Ord.
336, 12-14-1982)
   G.   Termination Of Planned Unit Development: Any owner of land which has
been designated a planned unit development may apply to the city for the
termination of the planned unit development use of that portion of his land in
which construction has not been commenced pursuant to a site plan. The petition
for termination of a planned unit development shall be accompanied by a zoning
change application in accordance with the procedure specified in this chapter.
   H.   Building And Occupancy Permits: All building and occupancy permits
shall be issued in conformance with an approved site plan for a planned unit
development.
   I.   Procedures For Authorization Of Planned Unit Development: In order to
provide an expeditious method for processing a plan for a planned unit
development and to avoid delay and uncertainty, it is hereby declared that all
procedures with respect to the approval or disapproval of a planned unit
development and its continuing administration shall be consistent with the
provisions set out in Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278A.440 through
278A.590, inclusive. (Ord. 256, 4-22-1978)
3-2-16: RC RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Principal Uses Permitted:
      1.   Licensed houses of prostitution and limited residential uses
associated therewith, and "sexually oriented business uses", as defined in
section
 3-2A-2 of this chapter, shall be permitted in restricted commercial zoned
areas.
      2.   Development within the restricted commercial district shall be
limited to the following areas:
The westerly 1/2 of Lot 9 and Lots 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20,
21, 22, 23, 24, of Block 47 in the Town of Elko Subdivisions; Lots 1, 2 and
easterly 13.70 feet of Lot 3 of Block E of the Central Addition Subdivision.
   B.   Restricted Commercial District Use Permitted: It shall be unlawful to
locate or relocate any house of prostitution in any area within the city except
within a restricted commercial district.
   C.   Other Uses Permitted: General commercial, convenience commercial, light
industrial and general industrial uses may be permitted in the RC zone,
provided all requirements of section
3-2-12 of this chapter have been adhered to.
   D.   General Regulations:
      1.   The planning commission may require, with approval of the city
council, landscaping sufficient to promote the compatibility with the
neighborhood.
      2.   The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited.
   E.   Conditional Use Permits Required: Houses of prostitution in the RC
zoning district shall be subject to the conditional use permit procedure as set
forth in section
3-2-18 of this chapter. (Ord. 439, 4-12-1994)
3-2-17: TRAFFIC, ACCESS, PARKING AND LOADING REGULATIONS:
It is the intent of this Chapter to secure optimum coordination and interaction
between land use and transportation facilities. Preservation and improvement of
the traffic function of abutting streets, and of the major street system as a
whole are essential considerations in the project planning stage of land
development. It is the purpose of this section to establish the regulations
necessary to assure that every land use will be so located and planned as to
minimize traffic congestion, hazards, and vehicular pedestrian conflicts. This
Chapter also places the primary responsibility for reducing street parking on
property owners and contains the regulations and minimum standards essential to
the planning and development of adequate off-street parking.
   A.   Property Owner Responsibility: It shall be the duty and responsibility
of each property owner to plan and develop his or her property in such a way
that:
      1.   On-street space will not be required to satisfy parking or loading
space needs;
      2.   Points of access from adjacent public streets will be minimized;
      3.   Driveway openings will be located and dimensioned to minimize
disruption to passing traffic and the creation of traffic hazards; and
      4.   Driveways will be located to provide direct access from driveway
openings to any required off-street parking.
   B.   Regulations Pertaining to Traffic: Every use of land shall conform to
the following general standards, in addition to the special standards for
certain specific uses of land as set forth in this Chapter:
      1.   Traffic Visibility: No obstructions to visibility at any street
intersection that interfere with the ability of motorists to observe traffic
signs, vehicles, and pedestrians, including but not limited to structures,
signs, parked vehicles, or vegetation shall be allowed or permitted to remain
in any zoning district between the heights of two and one-half feet (2 1/2')
and eight feet (8') above the ground.
      2.   Driveway Openings: “Driveway openings” means the transition area
from a public road or public street within a right-of-way or easement extending
to a private property line for the purpose of allowing ingress and egress of
vehicular traffic. With the exception of driveway openings that were in
conformance with this Code at the time of their installation or modification
and are permitted to continue as legal nonconforming uses, all driveway
openings that are installed, altered, changed, replaced, or extended shall
comply with the requirements set forth in this Chapter and be approved by the
City prior to installation or modification. All driveway openings subject to
this section shall satisfy the following requirements.
         a.   Pedestrian or Vehicular Traffic Hazards:
Driveway openings which contribute to or result in the creation of pedestrian
or vehicular traffic hazards shall not be approved absent extenuating
circumstances. The following factors shall be considered in determining whether
a condition creates a pedestrian or vehicular traffic hazard:
            (1)   Obstructions to visibility at the intersection of a public
street and proposed driveway.
            (2)   Traffic congestion and the risk of vehicular pedestrian
conflicts at the intersection of a public street and proposed driveway.
            (3)   Multiple proposed driveway openings or added driveway
openings combined with existing driveway openings which increase vehicular
traffic conflict points in the public street.
         b.   Single-Family Residential Driveway Openings.
            (1)   Driveway openings shall not exceed:
               A.   Twenty (20) feet in width at single-family residences for
off-street parking pertaining to accessory uses in conformance with Section
3-2-5.
               B.   The width of the garage or carport for covered parking
(such as detached garage or carport).
               C.   Thirty (30) feet in width or the width of the garage or
carport, whichever is greater, for attached parking, as measured at the street
line, exclusive of curb returns or tapers; provided, no driveway opening shall
conflict with the requirements set forth in Section B(3)(c), below.
            (2)   Driveways shall be designed with a minimum slope of 0.5% and
a maximum slope of 14%. Slopes between 10% and 14%, inclusive, may be allowed
under unique circumstances only if the developer/contractor can demonstrate a
hardship which would make a slope less than 10% impractical.
         c.   For commercial and industrial uses, driveway openings shall not
exceed forty-five feet (44') in width measured at the street line, exclusive of
curb returns or tapers. However, in the event the City determines that public
safety would best be served by a multiple lane driveway opening configuration,
the City may approve a driveway opening greater than the maximum width
prescribed in this section.
         d.   Driveway openings for vehicular entrances and exits to drive-in
theaters, stadiums, racetracks, funeral homes and similar uses generating very
heavy, periodic traffic conflicts shall be located not closer than two hundred
feet (200') to any intersection or any pedestrian entrance or exit to or from a
school, college, university, church, hospital, public emergency shelter or
other place of public assembly.
      3.   Access:
         a.   Roadway Classifications: All roadway classifications shall be
determined in accordance with the Transportation component of the City of Elko
Master Plan.
         b.   Private Access: No direct private access shall be permitted to an
existing or proposed right of way of any freeway, interstate highway,
expressway, or controlled access arterial street without the written permission
of the City or other governmental entity having jurisdiction over the location
where the access is proposed.
         c.   Public or Private Access: Direct public or private access shall
meet the minimum standards set forth in this section based on the applicable
roadway classifications; provided: (1) the Nevada Department of Transportation
(NDOT) shall be granted access through existing NDOT rights of way; and (2)
NDOT may be granted access through property owned by the City; further
provided, the City may, in its discretion, modify the minimum standards set
forth in this section if the property owner demonstrates that physical site
conditions and/or the location of existing rights-of-way render strict
compliance impractical or impossible. Except as otherwise provided in this
subsection, the following access standards shall apply based on the applicable
roadway classification:
            (1)   The City may grant a private property owners access from a
principal or major arterial street if there is no other reasonable access to
the parcel, in which event access shall be restricted to right turns only and
shall be located no less than three hundred fifty feet (350') from all other
intersections and points of access. Access from principal or major arterial
streets shall be shared with adjacent properties where feasible.
            (2)   Access from minor arterial streets shall be permitted so long
as it is located no less than two hundred fifty feet (250') from intersections
and other points of access. Access from minor arterial streets shall be shared
with adjacent properties where feasible.
            (3)   Access to collector streets from residential parcels shall be
permitted so long as the design does not force or encourage vehicles to back
into streets, further provided the access is located no less than seventy five
feet (75') from intersections and twenty five feet (25') from other points of
access.
            (4)   Access to collector streets from nonresidential parcels shall
be permitted so long as the access is located no less than one hundred fifty
feet (150') from intersections and other points of access.
            (5)   Access to local streets from residential parcels shall be
permittedso long as the access is located no less than thirty feet (30') from
all other intersections and no less than ten feet (10') from other points of
access.
            (6)   Access to local streets from nonresidential parcels shall be
permittedso long as the access is located no less than fifty feet (50') from
intersections and thirty feet (30') from all other points of access.
         d.   Points of Access, Driveways, and Parking Spaces: Except for
single-family dwellings and two-family dwellings, point of access, driveway,
and parking space location and design shall include a paved turning area that
allows vehicles to turn around and travel into a public street. Except as
provided above, under no circumstance shall any off street parking lot be so
arranged or designed as to necessitate backing a vehicle into a public street.
         e.   Civil Improvements Required: All civil improvements required
pursuant to the City Code (to include, without limitation, Title 8, Chapter 18,
"Public Improvement Standards") shall be completed on the full frontage of the
lot, parcel, or tract of real property prior to granting access to any City
right- of-way or easement from the lot, parcel, or tract. Civil improvements
shall satisfy the public improvement standards and requirements set forth in
Chapters 3 and 5 of this Title as applicable, and shall satisfy all other
applicable requirements of the City Code. All civil improvements must be
approved by the City constructed by a properly licensed contractor, and
certified by a properly licensed engineer.
         f.   Revocation of Access: Permission to access City rights-of-way or
easements may be revoked if conditions identified in the approval of the civil
improvement plans are not satisfied or if a person attempts to access City
rights-of-way or easements without prior approval by the City following the
submittal of civil improvement plans.
   4.   Traffic Counts: All developers shall provide calculations in accordance
with the Institute of Traffic Engineers (ITE) "Traffic Generation Manual" for
the anticipated traffic load created by the development. In the event the City
determines that a proposed development is likely to create a traffic load
exceeding one thousand (1,000) vehicles per day (vpd), or if the City
determines that the resulting increase in traffic from a proposed development
will likely decrease the level of service (LOS) of a roadway based on the
current traffic counts on that roadway to an LOS of D or worse as determined in
accordance with the "Highway Capacity Manual" and the AASHTO publication
entitled "Geometric Design Of Highways and Streets", the developer shall
complete and submit to the City a traffic study prior to submitting plans for
civil improvements. The City may take the traffic study into consideration in
approving or rejecting any civil improvement plans related to the proposed
development.
   C.   General Off-Street Parking Regulations: In all zoning districts, off-
street parking areas must be provided in accordance with the provisions of this
section for: 1) new buildings, establishments, or uses of land; and 2) existing
buildings, establishments, or uses of land which are extended, enlarged or
altered.
      1.   Buildings, establishments, or uses of land established and in
operation prior to June 12, 2002 that were in compliance with this Chapter on
that date shall be exempt from the requirements of this section; provided,
however, that whenever such buildings, establishments, or uses of land are
extended, enlarged, modified, increased, or altered, off-street parking
facilities shall be provided for the extended, enlarged, modified, increased or
altered area in accordance with the provisions of this section; further
provided, any extension, enlargement, modification, increase, or alteration of
a building, establishment, or use of land shall be subject to any additional
parking requirements contained in this Title or required by the City in
accordance with the City Code, to include, without limitation, additional
parking requirements contains in a conditional use permit.
      2.   No person required to provide off-street parking under this section
may discontinue or reduce any existing required parking without first providing
replacement parking in accordance with provisions of this section.
      3.   Except as otherwise provided in Subsection 4, below, required off-
street parking spaces used in connection with any establishment or business
which are located within any public street or right of way and thus,
nonconforming with the requirements of this section, shall be deemed abandoned
within ninety (90) days upon the automatic termination of the legal
nonconforming use of parking caused by any one of the following events:
         a.   A change in use of any building or land owned, leased, or used by
the establishment or business;
         b.   Any enlargement, expansion, or addition to any building owned,
leased, or used by the establishment or business that is in excess of four
hundred (400) square feet of gross floor area; or
         c.   The occupancy by the establishment or business of a building that
has not been occupied or used for a period of at least twelve (12) consecutive
months.
      4.   Parking spaces used in connection with an establishment or business
that are located within any public street or right of way shall be
automatically deemed abandoned unless the establishment or business obtains a
revocable permit for use of the parking spaces from the City Council. In order
to obtain any such revocable permit, the applicant must first present an
application for a revocable permit to the Planning Commission for
consideration. The recommendation of the Planning Commission must then be
submitted to the City Council. If the City Council grants any such revocable
permit, it may be granted subject to any terms or conditions required by the
City Council which the City Council deems to be in the best interest of the
City.
   D.   Location and Placement of Required Off-Street Parking:
      1.   General: Every part of every off-street parking facility shall be
set back from every lot line a sufficient distance to assure that no part of
any parked vehicle can project over the lot line.
      2.   Residential Uses:
         a.   In any residential zoning district other than the RMH-1 district,
no required off-street parking space shall be located in a required front yard
or side yard.
         b.   Required off-street parking shall be located on the same lot or
parcel as the use it is intended to serve; provided, however, that:
            (1)   Parking for cooperative or condominium type multi-family
dwellings, fraternities, sororities and rooming houses, may be provided in a
parking lot not farther than two hundred feet (200') from the entrance to the
dwelling unit it is intended to serve.
            (2)   Required parking for multi-family dwellings in excess of one
space per dwelling unit may be located on a separate, abutting lot or parcel in
a parking lot not more than three hundred feet (300') from the dwelling units
it is intended to serve.
      3.   Nonresidential Uses:
         a.   Required off-street parking shall be located within three hundred
feet (300') of the real property it is intended to serveas measured along the
sidewalk from the nearest point of the building or structure to the nearest
point of the parking lot; provided, however, that parking facilities for a
stadium, auditorium, outdoor sports arena, or similar use, may be located not
farther than one thousand three hundred feet (1,300') from the nearest point of
such building or structure.
         b.   Every nonresidential parking lot abutting a residential district
shall be set back a distance not less than the minimum required setback for
abutting principal residential buildings in that residential district; for
example, the parking lot setback must be equal to or greater than the interior
side yard setback if abutting an interior side yard.
      4.   Documentation Required: Whenever the use of a separate lot or parcel
is proposed for fulfillment of minimum parking requirements, the owner shall
submit as a part of an occupancy certificate satisfactory assurance that the
separate lot or parcel is permanently committed to parking use by deed
restriction or other enforceable legal measure.
   E.   Methods of Providing Required Off-Street Parking: Required off-street
parking may be provided by any one or combination of the following methods:
      1.   By providing the required parking space on the same lot as the
building or use being served.
      2.   By the collective provision of required parking for two (2) or more
buildings or uses, whereupon the total of such parking shall be not less than
the sum of the requirements for the several buildings or uses computed
separately; provided, however, that if two (2) or more such buildings or uses
have operating hours which do not overlap, the Planning Commission, upon
appeal, may grant a reduction of the collective requirement based upon the
special circumstances involved. A written agreement for joint use of such
facilities shall be executed between the parties concerned and a copy shall be
filed with the Planning Department and recorded with the County Recorder’s
Office.
      3.   By securing the consent to use off-street parking facilities under
another's ownership which are not otherwise used during the principal operating
hours of the building or use in question; provided, however, that such consent
shall be in written form and a copy shall be filed with the Planning Department
and recorded with the County Recorder’s Office.
      4.   In any zoning district and for cause shown, the Planning Commission
may waive all or any portion of an off-street parking requirement, provided
such waiver does not conflict with the purpose and intent of this chapter. In
conjunction with the review and consideration of a parking waiver, the City
shall notify all adjacent property owners as listed on the County Assessor's
records not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of the Planning
Commission meeting. Any decision of the Planning Commission associated with a
request to waive an off-street parking requirement may be appealed to the City
Council. Application for parking waiver shall be filed with the Planning
Department on a form provided for such purpose and shall include payment of a
filing fee in an amount established by resolution of the City Council.
   F.   Schedule of Required Off-Street Parking: The minimum number of off-
street parking spaces required for specific uses shall be determined according
to the following schedule. Requirements for a specific use not listed shall be
the same as those for the most similar use listed, or as required by the
Planning Commission or the City Council.
Use Minimum Spaces Required
Use Minimum Spaces Required
Commercial recreation:
                                          1 per 2 billiard tables, plus 1 per
   Billiard parlors                      each 2 employees on the shift with
                                          the most employees
                                          4 per bowling lane, plus 1 per each 2
   Bowling alleys                        employees on the shift with the most
                                          employees
    Gymnasiums, health studios, private   1 per 400 square feet of usable floor
   golf clubs, swimming pools, tennis    area, plus 1 per each employee on the
    clubs, and similar uses               shift with the most employees
   Skating rinks, dance halls, dance     1 per 3 persons of maximum capacity
    studios                               permitted by Building Code
Commercial sales and services:
                                          1 per each 800 square feet of sales
   Automobile/truck, mobile home, RV,    area for first 4,000 square feet,
    boat, or trailer sales and service    plus 1 per additional 2,000 square
                                          feet
   Banks, credit unions                  1 per 300 square feet of usable floor
                                          area
   Barbershops, beauty shops             2 per service chair
                                          1 per 150 square feet of waiting room
   Bus depot                             space, plus requirements for
                                          auxiliary commercial uses as
                                          elsewhere listed
                                          1 per each employee on the largest
   Car wash/wash line                    shift, plus reservoir spaces equal to
                                          5 times the capacity
   Casino, gaming                        1 per every 200 square feet of usable
                                          floor area, plus 1 space per employee
                                          1 per every 10 students based on
                                          licensed occupancy, plus 1 per each
   Childcare center                      employee on the shift with the most
                                          employees, plus 1 per each facility
                                          vehicle
                                          Requirements for uses elsewhere
                                          specified herein, plus stacking
    Drive-through facility (bank, fast    capacity for 5 vehicles. Drive-
   food, retail)                         through lanes must be independent of
                                          access lanes required for parking
                                          space backup area and for general and
                                          emergency vehicle circulation
   Furniture and appliance stores (sales 1 per 800 square feet of usable floor
    and repairs)                          area
   Gas stations                          1 per employee on the shift with the
                                          most employees
   Gas stations with convenience stores  1 per 2 gasoline pumps
   General Retail                        1 per 300 square feet of usable floor
                                          area
                                          1 per 500 square feet of sales area
   Greenhouse, garden center             for the first 2,000 square feet, plus
                                          1 per additional 2,000 square feet
   Large machinery/equipment sales or    1 per 800 square feet of gross area
    rental
                                          1 per 3 fixed chapel seats, or 1 per
                                          50 square feet of assembly area,
   Mortuaries, funeral homes             whichever is greater, plus 1 per
                                          employee, plus 1 per commercial
                                          funeral vehicle
                                          1 per 100 square feet of usable floor
   Restaurants, bars, cocktail lounges   area, plus 1 per each employee on the
                                          shift with the most employees
   Self-service laundries                1 per 4 machines
   Supermarkets, drugstores              1 per 300 square feet of usable floor
                                          area
Hotels, motels:
                                          1 per 100 square feet of usable floor
   Auxiliary uses, i.e., restaurants     area of dining room, bar, plus 1 per
                                          each 2 employees on the shift with
                                          the most employees
   Commercial accessory use              1 per 400 square feet of usable floor
                                          area
                                          1 per guestroom, or suite, plus 1 per
   Overnight guests                      each 2 employees on the shift with
                                          the most employees
   Convention/meeting rooms              1 per 6 fixed seats or 1 per 24
                                          square feet of unfixed seating space
Institutional uses:
                                          1 per 2 beds, plus 1 per each
                                          employee on the shift with the most
   Hospitals                             employees, plus 1 per 225 square feet
                                          of auxiliary medical office floor
                                          area
                                          1 per 5 beds, plus 1 per each
   Sanatoriums, children’s homes       employee on the shift with the most
                                          employees
                                          1 per 500 square feet of gross floor
Manufacturing and industrial uses         area, or 1 per each employee on the
                                          shift with the most employees,
                                          whichever is greater
Offices:                                   
   Medical and dental offices and        1 per 225 square feet of usable floor
    clinics                               area
   Offices; professional, governmental   1 per 300 square feet of usable floor
                                          area
Places of public assembly:                 
    Auditoriums, exhibition halls,        1 per 5 fixed seats, or 1 per 40
   theaters, convention facilities,      square feet of unfixed seating space,
    meeting rooms                         plus 1 per each 2 employees on the
                                          largest shift
                                          1 per 5 fixed seats, or 1 per 40
   Churches, for primary seating only    square feet of unfixed seating space,
                                          plus 1 per each 2 employees on the
                                          shift with the most employees
   Library, art gallery, or museum       1 per 1,000 square feet of usable
                                          floor area
   Movie theater                         1 per 5 seats, plus 1 per employee on
                                          the largest shift
   Social clubs such as Elks, Moose,     1 per 200 square feet of usable floor
    VFW, etc.                             area
                                          1 per 5 seats, plus 1 per each 2
   Stadium, outdoor sports arenas        employees on the shift with the most
                                          employees
Public and quasi-public uses:              
   Elementary schools                    1 per 6 students
   Golf course, open to public           4 per hole, plus 1 per each employee
                                          on the shift with the most employees
   High schools                          1 per 4 students, plus 1 per employee
   Junior colleges, colleges and         1 per 3 enrolled full time day
    universities                          students, plus 1 per employee
   Middle school/junior high school      1 per 10 students, plus 1 per
                                          employee
   Trade schools, business colleges      1 per 150 square feet of gross floor
                                          area
Residential uses:                          
                                          See mobile home parks, mobile home,
   Mobile home parks and lodges          manufactured home subdivisions and
                                          recreational vehicle (RV) parks
                                          (chapter 5 of this title)
   Multiple-family dwellings (studio     1 per dwelling unit
    unit)
   Multiple-family dwellings (1 and 2    1-1/2 per dwelling unit, plus 1 per 3
    bedroom unit)                         units for guest parking
   Multiple-family dwellings (3 or more  2 per dwelling unit, plus 1 per 3
    bedrooms)                             units for guest parking
   Rooming houses, fraternities,         1 per sleeping room or 1 per bed,
    sororities, resident clubs, lodges    whichever is greater
   Senior citizen housing development    1 per unit, plus 1 per 5 units for
                                          guest parking
   Single-family residence, duplex,      2 per dwelling unit
    triplex, fourplex
   Townhouses, condominiums              2 per dwelling unit, plus 1 per 3
                                          units for guest parking
                                          1 per 1,700 square feet of usable
                                          floor area, or 1 per each employee on
Wholesaling and warehousing uses          the largest shift, whichever is
                                          greater, plus 1 per company owned
                                          motor vehicle
                                          In accordance with the most recent
All other uses not specifically listed    applicable parking generation rates
                                          established by the Institute Of
                                          Transportation Engineers (ITE)
 
   G.   Parking Lot Design Standards: Design standards associated with
secondary access, landscaping, lighting, and provision of snow storage and
trash receptacle enclosure areas, are intended to apply to the development and
construction of new parking lots and facilities.
      1.   Minimum Design Dimensions: The layout of every off-street parking
lot shall conform to the following minimum standards:
 
Angle Of Parking One-Way Access Two-Way Access Parking Space Parking Space
                 Lane Width     Lane Width     Width         Length
90°             24 feet        24 feet        9 feet        20 feet
75° - 89°      22 feet        24 feet        9 feet        20 feet
54° - 74°      18 feet        22 feet        9 feet        20 feet
30° - 53°      15 feet        20 feet        9 feet        20 feet
Parallel         12 feet        20 feet        8 feet        23 feet
 
Parking which is adjacent to a building face, or which is adjacent to
improvements such as landscaping and sidewalks located directly adjacent to a
building face shall provide access for fire equipment and personnel in
conformance with the fire code adopted in title 6 of this code.
      2.   Measurement of Existing Unmarked Lots: In measuring unmarked parking
lots in use or operation on the effective date hereof, each parking space shall
be considered to require a minimum of three hundred (300) square feet,
inclusive of access lanes. For single-family, duplex, triplex and fourplex
residential land uses, the square footage of each required parking space shall
be not less than one hundred eighty (180) square feet (9 feet x 20 feet).
      3.   Secondary Access or Interior Turnarounds: Secondary access or
interior turnarounds shall be provided for parking lots of ten (10) or more
parking spaces, interior turnarounds shall also be designed in accordance with
the currently adopted fire code set forth in title 6 of this code.
      4.   Driveways and parking areas shall be designed to include paved
turnaround areas to prevent the use of striped parking stalls as turning areas
and drive aisles for backing movements.
      5.   Landscaping: Five percent (5%) of any off-street parking lot of
twenty (20) or more parking spaces shall be reserved for landscaping
improvements, except for parking lots and facilities not directly associated
with or serving adjacent commercial or industrial development. Where
landscaping is required under other provisions of the City Code, landscaped
areas in parking lots shall be considered in calculating landscaping
requirements. Landscape areas should be distributed throughout the project site
and should contribute to the screening and softening of the off-street parking
lot. Landscape materials may include, but are not limited to, screen planting,
lawn areas, trees, shrubs, fences and walls. Drought tolerant, low maintenance
species in conjunction with decorative "hard surface" materials, such as, but
not limited to, volcanic rock, gravel or stone are encouraged and may be
utilized to fulfill landscape surface requirements.
         a.    For off-street parking lots of twenty (20) or more parking
spaces, provision of the required five percent (5%) of landscaping may be
accompanied by a five percent (5%) reduction in the amount of required parking
spaces.
         b.   Parking spaces which abut and overhang a sidewalk exceeding seven
feet (7') in width or a landscape planter area at least six feet (6') in width
may reduce space lengths from the required twenty feet (20') to eighteen feet
(18').
         c.   Selection and installation of plant materials shall be done with
the intent to screen and soften rather than conceal in order to maintain
visibility for facility security. Preference shall be given to the use of low
lying ground cover and shrubs and the use of trees with elevated canopies over
the selection and use of densely compacted trees and shrubs.
         d.   Planter areas should be distributed throughout the off street
parking lot and are encouraged to be used as a traffic control device to
promote safe orderly vehicular and pedestrian circulation within the off street
parking lot.
         e.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or developer to carry
out this program and to provide maintenance and care as required to obtain the
effect intended by the original plan.
         f.   Landscaping requirements contained in this chapter are not
intended to supplement or compound landscaping provisions contained in other
sections of this title.
         g.   The City shall not be responsible for maintenance, repair or
replacement of any landscaping or related materials placed or constructed
within the public right-of-way pursuant to this Section. No landscaping shall
be constructed within the public right-of-way without a revocable permit issued
by the City following any required approval by the City Council with the
exception of public rights-of-way in which the City Council has granted
administrative approval authority. Revocable permits may be granted with or
without conditions.
         h.   No obstructions to visibility at any street intersection shall be
located within a sight triangle determined in accordance with American
Association of State Highway And Transportation Officials (AASHTO) publication
of "A Policy On Geometric Design Of Highways And Streets", including any
amendments thereto.
      6.   Snow Storage Areas: Snow storage areas shall be provided for parking
lots of twenty (20) or more parking spaces. Landscape areas may be utilized to
fulfill this requirement.
      7.   Lighting: Off-street parking areas shall satisfy the following
lighting requirements: Eighty percent (80%) of the parking lot shall have a
minimum illumination level of twenty five hundredths (0.25) of a foot-candle.
Levels of illumination should be distributed throughout the parking lot.
      8.   Trash Receptacle/Dumpster Areas: Trash receptacle/dumpster areas,
enclosed by a screen wall, shall be provided for parking lots directly
associated with industrial, commercial or multiple-family residential
development and which contain twenty (20) or more parking spaces.
      9.   Parking Lot Access:
         a.   Access from Alley: An alley may be used for principal access to
any parking lot, and for direct access to parking spaces; provided, however,
that every such alley shall be dedicated full width to the public, fully
improved with an all-weather, dust free surface, and properly drained to
prevent impoundment of surface water.
         b.   Access from Street: No entrance or exit to a parking lot shall be
located closer than fifteen feet (15') to any abutting residential district
without prior approval from the City.
      10.   Surfacing, Curb and Drainage: Every parking lot and parking access
shall be:
         a.   Properly graded to prevent impoundment of surface water;
         b.   Surfaced with asphaltic concrete or cement concrete at least two
inches (2") thick;
         c.   Parking spaces shall be clearly striped;
         d.   Continuous six inch (6") concrete curbs or a comparable
alternative shall be installed around the perimeter of the paved parking area
and as protection for planted areas, islands, and walls within the parking lot
area. Noncontinuous curbing may be allowed in circumstances where perimeter
planted areas are part of the approved storm runoff and drainage plan.
      11.   Required Screen Walls: Where the interior side lot line or rear lot
line of a nonresidential parking lot abuts a residential district and is not
separated therefrom by an alley, a solid, continuous screen wall not less than
five feet (5'), nor more than six feet (6') in height above grade, shall be
installed and maintained abutting the residential district line; provided,
however, that such wall shall extend no closer to the street line than the
minimum required setback for residential properties in the same block.
      12.   Plans Required for Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces: Site
plans are required for off-street parking and loading and shall show how the
required parking and loading spaces are to be located and arranged on the site.
In addition, such plans shall demonstrate safe and efficient internal
circulation and traffic flow and show how drives and parking lots are to be
graded and drained, as well as the location and design of all screen walls,
landscaping and lighting. Such plans must be reviewed and approved by the
Planning and Engineering Departments.
   H.   Park and Ride Facilities: Park and ride facilities shall satisfy the
design standards set forth in subsection G of this section, unless specifically
discussed in this subsection H, as follows:
      1.   Location: Park and ride facilities shall be located in either Light
Industrial (LI) or General Industrial (GI) zoning districts and shall be
located adjacent to roadways classified as commercial/industrial collector,
arterial, or principal arterial in the City of Elko Master Plan.
      2.   Stand Alone Use: A park and ride facility shall be a stand-alone use
located on a single parcel that does not contain any other use.
      3.   Area Requirements: Park and ride facilities shall be located on lots
with a minimum lot size of three (3) acres and not more than fifteen (15)
acres.
      4.   Lighting: Park and ride facilities shall satisfy the following
lighting requirements: Fifty percent (50%) of the parking lot shall have a
minimum illumination level of twenty-five hundredths (0.25) of a foot-candle.
Levels of illumination must be distributed throughout the parking lot.
      5.   Trash Receptacle/Dumpster Areas: Every park and ride facility must
contain at least one area, enclosed by a screen wall, for the placement of
trash receptacles and/or dumpsters. There must be no less than one trash
receptacle for every acre of a park and ride facility. The trash receptacle
areas shall be evenly placed through the park and ride facility. In addition to
the foregoing, trash receptacles shall be located at each bus loading zone and
at least one enclosed dumpster must be placed in a location that can be
accessed from a paved surface.
      6.   Traffic Study: All developers of new park and ride facilities shall
provide calculations in accordance with the Institute of Traffic Engineers
(ITE) "Traffic Generation Manual" for the anticipated traffic load created by
the park and ride facility. In the event the city determines that a proposed
park and ride facility is likely to create a traffic load exceeding two
thousand (2,000) vehicles per day (vpd), or if the City determines that the
resulting increase in traffic from a proposed park and ride facility will
likely decrease the level of service (LOS) of a roadway based on the current
traffic counts on that roadway to an LOS of D or worse as determined in
accordance with the "Highway Capacity Manual" and the AASHTO publication
entitled "Geometric Design Of Highways And Streets", the developer of the
proposed park and ride facility shall complete and submit to the city a traffic
study prior to submitting plans for civil improvements. The City may take the
traffic study into consideration in approving or rejecting any civil
improvement plans related to the proposed development.
      7.   Surfacing and Drainage: Every new park and ride facility shall:
         a.   Be properly graded to prevent impoundment of surface water;
         b.   Be surfaced with compacted type II road base with a minimum
thickness of six inches (6");
         c.   Contain parking spaces which are clearly delineated either with
striping on paved surfaces or with the use of parking bumpers on unmarked
areas;
         d.   Contain asphaltic surfacing with a minimum thickness of two
inches (2") over the route leading from each entrance into the parking lot for
a minimum of forty feet (40'); and
         e.   Contain asphaltic surfacing with a minimum thickness of two
inches (2") over the route intended for the loading and unloading of commuters
on and off buses (if applicable).
   I.   Exceptions for Certain Multi-Family Residential Developments:
      1.   In the case of a multi-family residential development which contains
five (5) or more units proposed to be occupied by elderly persons or
individuals with disabilities, the Planning Commission may grant a twenty-five
percent (25%) reduction in the required off-street parking.
   J.   Central Business District Regulations:
      1.   All principal permitted uses which are situated on property located
within four hundred feet (400') of the Central Business District (CBD) public
parking corridor, are exempted from providing required off street parking.
Residential uses shall provide required off street parking in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
         a.   Residential uses in a mixed-use building with no more than four
(4) residential units located within two hundred (200) feet of the Downtown
Parking Corridor are exempt from the requirement to provide off-street parking.
All other residential uses shall provide the required off-street parking in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Overnight parking in conjunction with occupancy of recreational
vehicles within the Central Business District (CBD) public parking corridor
shall be prohibited.
      3.   Parking of all unlicensed or unregistered vehicles within the
Central Business District (CBD) public parking corridor shall be prohibited.
      4.   Parking of any type of trailer that is disconnected from the pulling
vehicle within the Central Business District (CBD) public parking corridor
shall be prohibited unless otherwise authorized by special event or other
permit.
      5.   Within the Central Business District (CBD) public parking corridor,
parking or storage of any properly licensed vehicle shall be temporary and
limited to seventy-five (72) hours, unless an exemption is authorized pursuant
to a special event permit or other permit issued in advance by the City.
      6.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including a business, to
utilize the Central Business District (CBD) public parking corridor for the
purposes of storing or parking a vehicle while shuttling employees or car-
pooling to or from places of employment.
      7.   It shall be unlawful to store, park, or idle any semis with trailers
within the Central Business District (CBD) public parking corridor.
      8.   Police officers are authorized to remove vehicles parked in
violation of this Code from the Central Business District (CBD) subject to the
provisions of this section.
      9.   Whenever any police officer determines that a vehicle is parked in
violation of this Code, such officer may cause to be moved or remove such
vehicle in any manner provided by law, or require the driver or person in
charge of the vehicle to move the vehicle to a location or in such a manner as
to render it no longer in violation.
      10.   Any police officer may cause to be removed any vehicle or part of a
vehicle parked in violation of this Code, or may cause such vehicle to be
removed, to the nearest garage or other location for storage if:
         a.   The vehicle has been involved in an accident and is so disabled
that its normal operation is impossible or impractical and/or the person or
persons in charge of the vehicle are incapacitated by reason of physical injury
or other reason to such an extent as to be unable to provide for its removal or
custody, or are not in the immediate vicinity of the disabled vehicle; or
         b.   The person driving or in actual physical control of the vehicle
is arrested for any alleged offense providing that the officer is required by
law to take the person arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary
delay.
      11.   In any prosecution charging a violation of any provision of this
subsection I, proof that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was
found in violation thereof, together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint or citation was at the time of such complaint or citation the
registered owner, owner or party in the care or custody of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner,
owner or party in the care or custody of such vehicle was the person who parked
or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for the time during which, such
violation occurred.
      12.   To the extent there should exist any actual conflict with other
traffic laws of the City, the provisions of this subsection J shall be
controlling concerning the parking of vehicles within the Central Business
District (CBD) public parking corridor.(Ord. 864, 8-24-2021)
3-2-18: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
It is the intent of this section to provide for the issuance of conditional use
permits to allow for the specialized use within zoning districts of certain
normal and complementary uses to that of the principal use of the zoning
district.
   A.   General Regulations:
      1.   Certain uses of land within designated zoning districts shall be
permitted as principal uses only upon issuance of a conditional use permit.
Subject to the requirements of this chapter, other applicable chapters, and
where applicable to additional standards established by the Planning
Commission, or the City Council, a conditional use permit for such uses may be
issued.
      2.   Any building, structure or use existing on the effective date of
this chapter for the zoning district in which it is located shall be considered
as meeting the conditions which would otherwise be imposed upon such use by the
zoning district, and its continuance shall not be subject to issuance of a
conditional use permit; however, to the extent that such use fails to conform
to the requirements of the zoning district, it shall be considered
nonconforming and its continuance shall be governed by all nonconforming use
regulations applicable thereto.
      3.   Conditional use permits for development or for the extension,
enlargement or change of a nonconforming use or which are otherwise required
under the terms of this chapter shall be transferable and shall run with the
land upon the issuance of an occupancy permit signifying that all zoning and
site development requirements imposed in connection with the permit have been
satisfied. The maintenance of special conditions imposed by the permits, as
well as compliance with other provisions of the zoning district, shall be the
responsibility of the property owner.
      4.   Every conditional use permit issued, including a permit for a mobile
home park, shall automatically lapse and be of no effect one (1) year from the
date of its issue unless the permit holder is actively engaged in developing
the specific property to the use for which the permit was issued.
      5.   Every conditional use permit issued shall be personal to the
permittee and applicable only to the specific use and to the specific property
for which it is issued. However, the Planning Commission may approve the
transfer of the conditional use permit to another owner. Upon issuance of an
occupancy permit for the conditional use, signifying that all zoning and site
development requirements imposed in connection with the permit have been
satisfied, the conditional use permit shall thereafter be transferable and
shall run with the land, whereupon the maintenance or special conditions
imposed by the permit, as well as compliance with other provisions of the
zoning district, shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
      6.   Conditional use permits shall be reviewed from time to time by City
personnel. Conditional use permits may be formally reviewed by the Planning
Commission. In the event that any or all of the conditions of the permit or
this chapter are not adhered to, the conditional use permit will be subject to
revocation.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit Application Filing: Application for a
conditional use permit shall be filed with the City Planning Department by the
owner or lessee of the proposed building, structure or use, on forms furnished
for the purpose; provided, however, that the owner must "approve" lessee's
application. A filing fee shall be paid by the applicant to defray the costs
for reviewing and reporting of the facts, in accordance with a fee schedule
maintained by the City.
   C.   Conditional Use Permit Application Filing: The application shall be
full and complete and shall be accompanied by a detailed site plan showing all
information necessary to demonstrate that the proposed use will comply with
special conditions as well as other regulations and requirements of this
chapter. If the property is developed, the application shall include a site
plan prepared by a properly licensed surveyor depicting the proposed
conditional use permit site, drawn to scale and showing property lines,
existing and proposed buildings, building setbacks, distances between
buildings, parking and loading areas, driveways and other information needed to
demonstrate that the proposed use will be compliant with this Code. If the
property is not developed, the application shall include a site plan provided
by a properly licensed design professional, drawn to scale and showing property
lines, proposed buildings, building setbacks, parking and loading areas,
driveways and other information needed to demonstrate that the proposed use
will be compliant with this Code. In addition the applicant shall furnish the
Planning Commission any additional information it may consider relevant to its
investigation of the application.
   D.   Planning Commission Review And Investigation: The Planning Commission
shall review the application and supporting data, and make such site
inspections and other investigations as it deems necessary.
   E.   Planning Commission Findings And Actions: It is the express intent of
this chapter that any use for which a conditional use permit is required shall
be permitted as a principal use in the particular zoning district; provided,
that all special conditions and requirements of this chapter are met.
Therefore, the action of the Planning Commission shall be one of recommending
approval or denial based upon its judgment as to whether the specific
conditions have been or will be met. The Planning Commission may consider not
only the nature of the use and the special conditions influencing its location
in the particular district, but also the proposed location of buildings,
parking and other facilities within the site, the amount of traffic likely to
be generated and how it will be accommodated, and the influence that such
factors are likely to exert on adjoining properties. The Planning Commission
may make such suggestions it considers desirable and may provide guidance to
the applicant in his preparation of application, plans, and data in such a
manner as to satisfy the intent of this section. The Planning Commission shall
make the final determination on the conditional use permits, subject to the
right of appeal as set forth in section
3-2-25 of this chapter.
      1.   If the Planning Commission approves the application, it shall issue
a conditional use permit setting forth all conditions and requirements
governing such use, and shall make the approved site plan a part of the record
of the case. Failure of the applicant to comply with the conditions and
safeguards which are a part of the terms under which a conditional use permit
is granted shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, and grounds for
revocation of the conditional use permit.
      2.   If the Planning Commission finds that the application and supporting
data does not indicate that all applicable conditions and requirements for a
conditional use permit will be met, it shall deny the permit. Notice of denial,
including reasons therefor, shall be mailed to the applicant at the address
shown in the application.
      3.   At any time following receipt of notice of denial of application for
conditional use permit, the applicant shall have the privilege of reactivating
the case by making such modifications of proposal or plans or submitting such
additional information, as the Planning Commission may have determined was
required for approval, or shall have the right to appeal to the City Council as
set forth in section
3-2-25 of this chapter.
   F.   Public Hearing Required: The Planning Commission shall first hold a
public hearing prior to approval or denial of a conditional use permit other
than a home occupation permit. Upon the filing of an application for a
conditional use permit other than a home occupation, the City staff shall set
the matter for hearing not later than thirty five (35) days thereafter. After
the time and place have been established by the City staff, notice of the
hearing shall be sent by mail at least ten (10) days before the hearing to the
owners of the property within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior limits
of the property involved as shown by the latest assessment roles of the City.
Notice by mail to the last known address of the real property owners as shown
by the Assessor's records shall be sufficient. Applications must be filed at
least twenty (20) days before the Planning Commission hearing. Legal notice
shall be placed in a newspaper of general circulation within the City at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the public hearing.
   G.   Conditional Use Permit For Home Occupation:
      1.   Every conditional use permit issued for a home occupation shall be
personal to the permittee and applicable only to the specific use and to the
specific property for which it is issued. Conditional use permits for home
occupations are not transferable, do not run with the land, and must satisfy
all other applicable requirements set forth in this Code.
      2.   All applications and application fees for home occupation
conditional use permits, as established by resolution of the City Council,
shall be filed with the Planning Department and reviewed to determine
conformance with the criteria as set forth in subsection G3 of this section.
         a.   The City Planner or a duly authorized representative shall make a
determination on the application no later than ten (10) days after receipt of a
complete application.
         b.   All decisions of an application for home occupation shall be
attested by the City Clerk, or a duly authorized representative. Any denial of
an application by the City Planner or duly authorized representative shall
include in writing the reason for such denial.
         c.   The decision to grant or deny a home occupation permit may be
appealed by the applicant to the City Manager. A written appeal shall be filed
with the City Clerk within ten (10) days of the date of the ruling. The City
Manager shall make a determination on the appeal no later than ten (10) days
after filing of the written appeal.
         d.   The decision of the City Manager may be further appealed to the
City Council. A written appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk within ten
(10) days of the ruling of the City Manager to the City Council for a final
ruling. In the event of such an appeal, the notice requirements and procedures
set forth in section
3-2-25 of this chapter shall be followed.
         e.   The City Council shall hear and consider evidence and form facts
from any persons and shall consider written communications from any persons
relative to the home occupation request. The City Council shall make a decision
on the application after hearing all evidence and facts presented.
      3.   Permits issued for home occupation shall adhere to the following
criteria:
         a.   Not more than one (1) home occupation is allowed in any dwelling
unit.
         b.   The permitted use shall be confined to the dwelling unit and
shall not include areas outside the dwelling unit, such as yards or accessory
structures.
         c.   Only natural persons who are occupants of the permitted dwelling
unit may be permittees; provided, nothing herein shall prevent a permittee from
being affiliated with a business association or other entity that is not a
natural person in connection with the home occupation.
         d.   No employee, other than the permittee or other occupants of the
permitted dwelling unit, shall be permitted to report to work or perform work
related to the home occupation in the permitted dwelling unit.
         e.   Permittees shall not allow more than five (5) customers or other
business invitees to enter the permitted dwelling unit to examine or purchase
goods or services on any single day. The foregoing prohibition applies to
promotional events and business related parties at the permitted dwelling unit.
The foregoing prohibition does not apply to or limit transaction conducted by
telephone or over the internet.
         f.   No forms of advertising related to the home occupation may be
placed on the exterior of the dwelling unit or in a location visible from a
public street, sidewalk or alley. This prohibition includes, without
limitation, yard signs or signs visible from windows.
         g.   No addition, alteration or remodeling that changes the
residential character of the dwelling unit shall be permitted in connection
with a home occupation.
         h.   The home occupation shall not generate additional vehicular
traffic at the or in the vicinity of the permitted dwelling unit that is
measurably in excess of that normally associated with the residential use.
         i.   No home occupation which produces noise, odors, dust, smoke or
electrical disturbances or in any way interferes with the quiet, peace, and
enjoyment of surrounding residential uses shall be permitted.
         j.   The appearance of the property upon which the home occupation is
permitted shall be maintained in a clean and orderly manner.
         k.   There shall be no commercial delivery of products or materials to
or from the property upon which the home occupancy is permitted more than once
every two (2) days or through the use of vehicles with three (3) or more axles.
         l.   A permittee may park or use no more than one (1) motor vehicle in
connection with a home occupation on the property subject to the conditional
use permit; provided, in no event shall the permittee utilize on-street parking
for the aforementioned motor vehicle; further provided, the permittee must
comply with all off-street parking requirements as set forth in section
3-2-17 of this chapter. The foregoing parking restrictions do not limit
permitted nonconforming uses allowed under section
3-2-19 of this chapter.
      4.   Home occupation permits may be periodically reviewed at the
discretion of the City Planner or its designee in order to ensure compliance
with the terms and conditions of the home occupation permit and the provisions
of this section. In the event a permittee violates the terms and conditions of
the home occupation permit or the provisions of this section, the City Planner
or its designee may suspend or revoke the permit. The decision of the City
Planner or its designee may thereafter be appealed to the City Council. The
notice requirements and procedures set forth in section
3-2-25 of this chapter apply to and shall be followed for an appeal of a
decision by the City Planner or its designee to suspend or revoke a home
occupation permit. (Ord. 818, 4-25-2017)
3-2-19: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Permitted: A use lawfully existing on the effective date of enactment
of this chapter or any amendment to this chapter, but which is not in
accordance with the provisions and requirements currently contained in this
chapter, shall be known as a nonconforming use and, if not abandoned, may be
allowed to continue; provided, however, that such nonconforming uses may not be
extended, enlarged or changed to other nonconforming uses, except by variance
or conditional use permit.
   B.   Uses Included: A nonconforming use is a property use which existed
lawfully on the effective date of the enactment of this chapter or any
amendment to this chapter, but which is no longer in accordance with the
provisions and requirements contained in this chapter, and has been continued
and not abandoned since becoming inconsistent with the requirements of this
chapter. Nonconforming uses are not limited to, but may include and consist of
the following:
   A nonconforming use of property, such as any commercial, industrial or
residential use not listed as a principal, permitted use within the existing
underlying zoning district; nonconforming structures or buildings such as any
building or structure that is noncompliant with area, height or setback
requirements of the existing underlying zoning district; and nonconforming
development standards, such as noncompliant off street parking, including:
      1.   Quantity of spaces;
      2.   Paving;
      3.   Security lighting; and
      4.   Landscaping.
   C.   Nuisance Declared: It shall be unlawful for any person to continue a
nonconforming use of any kind in any zoning district established by this
chapter more than one (1) year after its passage when such nonconforming use
has been declared to constitute a nuisance or to be detrimental to public
health, safety or welfare by a majority vote of the City Council. The City
Council shall have written notice served on the person last known to be the
owner of the property on which such nonconforming use exists or which
constitutes a nonconforming use. The written notice shall order the
nonconforming use to be discontinued within one (1) year thereafter. If the
owner does not reside in the City at the time, the notice may be mailed to the
person by registered mail at the last known address. This subsection shall not
be construed as limiting the right of the City of any person to abate a
nuisance under any existing laws or ordinances.
   D.   Abandonment or Discontinuance: A nonconforming use of a building or
land which is operationally abandoned or discontinued for a period of twelve
(12) consecutive months or more shall be considered abandoned and shall not be
resumed. Nonconforming buildings which have been damaged or destroyed by
natural calamity may be repaired or reconstructed within one (1) year from the
date of damage, so long as the repaired building is appropriate for the
previous use. In considering whether a use is abandoned, the City may consider
one or any combination of the following factors:
      a.   Failure to maintain regular business hours that are typical or
normal for the use;
      b.   Failure to maintain equipment, supplies or stock-in-trade that would
typically be present in the building or on the land for the active operation of
the use;
      c.   Failure to maintain utilities that would typically be required for
the active operation of the use;
      d.   Failure to pay taxes, including but not limited to sales tax,
workers' compensation taxes or business taxes that would be required for the
active operation of the use;
      e.   Failure to maintain required local, state or federal licenses or
other approvals, to include business licenses, that would be required for the
active operation of the use; and/or
      f.   Other indicia of abandonment, such as the presence of a nuisance.
(Ord. 861, 5-25-2021)
3-2-20: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the building inspector as
the City Council so direct.
   A.   Duties Of Building Inspector: The building inspector shall:
      1.   Receive and examine applications for and issue zoning compliance
certificates and occupancy permits;
      2.   Make such inspections of buildings, structures and premises as are
necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter;
      3.   Revoke any zoning compliance certificate or occupancy permit wherein
he may have erroneously authorized a use not permitted in the district or a
structure which does not meet the regulations of this chapter, whereupon such
permit shall be void; and
      4.   Carry out the orders of the city council and/or the planning
commission issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   Under no circumstances shall the building inspector:
         a.   Grant exceptions to the actual meaning of any clause, order or
regulation contained in this chapter;
         b.   Make changes in or vary the terms of this chapter.
   B.   Zoning Compliance Certificates Required: It shall be unlawful to
commence any excavation for, or erection, alteration, enlargement, extension or
moving of, any building or structure, or part thereof, or to change or extend
the use of any lot, or to change the use or type of occupancy of any building
or structure, except as may be provided elsewhere in this chapter until a
zoning compliance certificate for such action has been issued by the building
inspector. It shall also be unlawful to change the type of use on any lot on
which there is a nonconforming use, until the building inspector has issued a
zoning compliance certificate for such intended use. Accessory buildings or
structures, when proposed for erection at the same time as the principal
building and included on the application therefor, shall not require a separate
certificate. No zoning compliance certificate shall be issued except in
conformity to the provisions of this chapter, and by written order of the city
council.
      1.   Applications:
         a.   Applications for zoning compliance certificates shall be filed
with the building inspector on forms provided for the purpose. In cases where a
building permit is also required by the city building code, application for a
zoning compliance certificate shall be made coincidentally with application for
building permit. In all other cases, it shall be made prior to the date when a
new or enlarged use of a building or premises, or part thereof, is intended to
begin.
         b.   When the building inspector receives an application for a zoning
compliance certificate for a use which requires a permit from the city council,
such application, together with all supporting data, shall be transmitted by
the building inspector to the planning board and the city council.
         c.   When the building inspector receives an application for a zoning
compliance certificate for a use which required a conditional use permit, or
for which site plan approval by the planning commission is required, such
application shall be transmitted to the planning commission and a zoning
compliance certificate shall not be issued by the building inspector until the
planning commission and the city council have approved the site plans.
      2.   Site Plan Required: Application for zoning compliance certificates
shall be accompanied by site plans, which shall be filed in the building
inspector's office, showing the following and any such additional information
as may be required to assure conformity of the proposed building, structure or
use to the provisions of this chapter:
         a.   Legal description of the property by township, range and section
coordinates, and by metes and bounds, or if the property is a part of a
recorded plat, by name, book and page number of plat and lot number or parcel
designation;
         b.   Name, address and telephone number of the property owner of the
person who prepared the site plan;
         c.   Dimensions of all lot and property lines showing the relationship
of the property to abutting properties; boundaries of all lots or parcels under
separate ownership contained therein, or abutting thereon;
         d.   Precise location, dimensions, height and use of all buildings and
structures existing on the property;
         e.   Location, alignment and right of way width of all streets, alleys
and utility easements existing in or abutting the property;
         f.   Location and dimensions and number of spaces contained in all
existing and proposed off street parking lots and loading areas;
         g.   Location, right of way width and alignment of all proposed public
streets, alleys and utility easements in or abutting the site, and location and
width of all access drives to the property from public streets;
         h.   Precise location, size and height of all buildings and structures
proposed to be erected or altered;
         i.   Proposed uses of buildings, structures and land, including the
number of dwelling units, amount of usable floor area, etc.; and
         j.   Any additional information required to show how all special
regulations pertaining to the proposed use are to be met.
      3.   Site Plans For Part Of Complex: In the case of an application for a
zoning compliance certificate for any part of a building complex or use of
land, which complex or use is proposed to be completed at a later date, a
preliminary site plan drawn to scale for the entire complex or use shall be
submitted for approval in addition to and at the same time as the submission of
detailed site plans required above. Such preliminary site plans shall show how
the part for which a zoning compliance certificate is sought will be related to
the part(s) to be constructed at a later date.
      4.   Site Plan Review And Approval: All site plans, except those
submitted as part of an application for a conditional use permit, a special use
permit, a temporary use permit, or indicated as requiring planning commission
approval, shall require review and approval by the building inspector prior to
issuance of a zoning compliance certificate. If site plans are found to be
deficient or require modification in any respect to meet the requirements of
this chapter, the building inspector shall call in the applicant and/or the
person preparing the plan for clarification of site plan requirements and
regulations pertaining to the particular use.
      5.   Issuance Of Zoning Compliance Certificates:
         a.   If review of the application and site plan indicates that the
proposed use will meet all requirements and comply with all regulations
pertaining thereto, the building inspector shall, within ten (10) days after
receipt of the application, issue a zoning compliance certificate to the
applicant.
         b.   If, in the opinion of the building inspector, the proposed use
will not meet all requirements and comply with all regulations pertaining
thereto, he shall within ten (10) days after receipt of the application, refuse
to issue a zoning compliance certificate. When a certificate is refused, the
building inspector shall so inform the applicant in writing stating his reasons
for refusal, and shall retain a copy of the action in his files.
         c.   The building inspector shall return one copy of submitted site
plans to the applicant marked either "approved" or "disapproved" and attested
by his signature. The second copy of plans, similarly marked and signed, shall
be retained in the files of the building inspector.
         d.   A zoning compliance certificate shall remain in force until the
building, structure or use has been completed and an occupancy permit has been
issued therefor. All buildings must be completed within two (2) years from the
date of issuance of the occupancy permit.
      6.   Site Plan Revisions: From time to time, before or during the course
of construction, the person holding a zoning compliance certificate may request
and the building inspector may approve minor revisions of an approved site
plan; provided, however, that such revisions shall not propose any change in
standards nor reduce the degree of compliance with any requirements of this
chapter. All such revisions shall be approved in writing by the building
inspector and a complete record of such action shall be filed in his office.
   C.   Occupancy Permits: It shall be unlawful to use or occupy, or permit the
use or occupancy of, any building or structure, or any change or extension of a
use of land, unless and until an occupancy permit has been issued therefor by
the building inspector.
      1.   Issuance Of Occupancy Permits: Within five (5) regular workdays
after receipt of notice that the building, structure or premises, or part
thereof, has been completed and is ready for use of occupancy, the building
inspector shall make a final inspection thereof to determine whether
construction has been completed in conformity with provisions of this chapter.
If he finds construction in conformity, he shall issue an occupancy permit to
the owner of the building, structure or premises.
      2.   Temporary Occupancy Permits: The building inspector may issue a
temporary occupancy permit for a part of a building, structure or use prior to
completion of the entire building, structure or use; provided, that such part
has been completed in conformity with all provisions of this chapter and is
considered safe and suitable for use or occupancy. Such temporary occupancy
permit shall then remain in force until the entire building, structure or use
has been completed and inspected, and an occupancy permit has been issued
therefor. (Ord. 256, 4-11-1978; amd. Ord. 274, 5-22-1979)
3-2-21-A: AMENDMENTS TO ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The city council may change the boundaries of any zoning district by ordinance.
The change may be initiated by the city council or the planning commission on
the motion of either body, or by application by one or more owners of real
property within the area proposed to be changed.
   A.   Application for Change of District Boundaries:
      1.   An application for a change of district boundaries submitted by an
owner of real property within the area proposed to be changed shall be filed
with the planning department on a form provided for that purpose. Any such for
shall be rejected if not complete. The application shall contain the following
information: a map of the area depicting the area to be changed with a
statement of the proposed zone change, as follows: area to be change from “x”
to “y”; (LI to R, for example); a plot plan depicting existing conditions that
have been surveyed by a properly licensed surveyor, to include: property lines,
existing buildings, building setbacks, distances between buildings, parking and
loading areas, driveways and other existing construction or improvements on the
subject property; a complete legal description of the boundary, including area
to the center line of the street(s), of the proposed zone change and a
statement of the existing and proposed zoning of the property, including a
brief summary of the intent of the proposed zone change.
      2.   If the property to be rezoned is adjacent to a public right-of-way,
the proposed zone change must go to the center of the corresponding right-of-
way.
      3.   Except as provided below, at the time the application is filed, the
applicant shall pay a filing fee in an amount established by resolution of the
city council.
      4.   No part of the filing fee shall be refunded once paid.
      5.   Notwithstanding the above, no filing fee shall be required if the
applicant is a governmental entity.
   B.   Planning Commission Stage:
      1.   Notice of Hearing:
         a.   The City Council or, is authorized by the City Council, the
planning commission or planning department, shall set a date for a public
hearing on any application to change district boundaries within forty-five (45)
calendar days of the date the application is filed. In addition to any
applicable notice requirements contained in Chapter 241 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes, notice of the time, date and place of the hearing shall be published
at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least ten
(10) calendar days prior to the hearing date. The notice shall include a legal
description and a physical description or map of the property proposed to be
rezoned, and a statement of the existing and proposed zoning of the property,
including a brief summary of the proposed zone change.
         b.   In addition to publication of the notice of the hearing, a notice
shall be sent by mail at least ten (10) calendar days before the hearing to the
following:
            (1)   The applicant;
            (2)   Each property owner, as listed on the county assessor's
records, of real property located within three hundred feet (300') of the
exterior boundary of the property being considered for the zone change;
            (3)   The owners, as listed on the county assessor's records, of at
least thirty (30) parcels nearest to the exterior boundary of the property
being considered for the zone change;
            (4)   Each tenant of a mobile home park if the park is located
within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundary of the property being
considered for the zone change; and
            (5)   Any advisory board which has been established by the city
council for the affected area or any area within three hundred feet (300') of
the exterior boundary of the property being considered for the zone change.
      2.   Hearing Before the Planning Commission: At the public hearing on the
application, the planning commission shall review the proposed change to the
district boundaries and shall hear evidence offered by the applicant and
persons having an interest in the change, if any.
      3.   Planning Commission Action: After the conclusion of the public
hearing on the application but prior to consideration by the city council, the
planning commission shall file a written report with the city council
recommending either that the application should be granted as requested,
granted subject to conditions, or denied. The planning commission's written
report shall be transmitted to the city clerk and a copy mailed to the
applicant. Failure by the planning commission to file a report with the city
council in accordance with this subsection shall be deemed a recommendation by
the planning commission to grant the application without conditions.
   C.   City Council Stage:
      1.   Adoption of Zone Change by Ordinance: All changes to zoning district
boundaries shall be made by ordinance.
      2.   First Reading: After the city council receives the planning
commission's recommendation on the application, a date shall be set for a first
reading of the proposed ordinance to change the zoning district boundaries. At
the first reading, the city council shall consider the planning commission’s
recommendation, and shall hear comments from the applicant (if any) and any
persons in interested in the proposed zone change. The first reading shall
comply with Section 2.110(1) of the City Charter. At the first reading, the
city council may approve or reject the planning commission’s recommendation in
whole or in part. The city council may also take any of the following actions:
         a.   Approve the proposed zoning ordinance;
         b.   Place conditions on the proposed zoning ordinance;
         c.   Modify the proposed zoning ordinance; or
         d.   Disapprove the proposed zoning ordinance in its entirety.
      3.   Second Reading:
         a.   If the city council approves any or all of the proposed zoning
ordinance at the first reading, with or without modifications or conditions,
the proposed ordinance shall proceed to a second reading. The second reading
shall be a public hearing that satisfies the requirements of NRS 278.260,
including notice requirements, and that complies with Section 2.110(2) of the
City Charter.
         b.   At the conclusion of the second reading, the city council shall
either approve the zoning ordinance as approved at the first reading (subject
to minor technical or nonsubstantive revisions, or the removal of conditions
that have been satisfied) or shall disapprove the zoning ordinance in its
entirety.
         c.   The failure of an applicant for a zoning change to satisfy
conditions imposed by the city council in the proposed ordinance adopted at the
first reading may be grounds for disapproval at the second reading.
         d.   The city council may enact a zoning ordinance even if the
applicant has not satisfied conditions in the proposed zoning ordinance adopted
at the first reading. Alternatively, the city council may table the second
reading to the next meeting, and to subsequent meetings thereafter, for the
purpose of allowing an applicant to satisfy conditions.
         e.   The city council may rescind approval of any zoning change for
any reason permitted by law, to include the failure of an applicant to satisfy
conditions bearing a substantial relationship to the future use of the land, so
long as no person has acquired a vested right in reliance on the zoning change;
provided, any such rescission shall promote the public health, safety, morals
or general welfare, and shall encourage the most appropriate use of the land.
      4.   Limitation on Reconsideration of Denied Application: In the event an
application to change district boudaries is denied by the city council, the
city council shall not reconsider an application to change the same district
boundaries, or any part thereof, within a period of one (1) year from the date
of the city council’s decision. (Ord. 861, 5-25-2021)
3-2-21-B: AMENDMENTS TO ZONING REGULATIONS:
The city council may amend Title 3, Chapter 2 of the Elko City Code
(hereinafter the "zoning regulations" by ordinance, subject to the provisions
of this section. The amendment may be initiated by the city council or the
planning commission on the motion of either body. If the proposed amendment is
initiated by the planning commission, the planning commission shall file a
written report with the city council containing a description of the proposed
amendment and the reasons therefor. If the proposed amendment is initiated by
the city council, the proposed amendment shall be presented to the planning
commission, which shall then provide a recommendation to the city council. The
city council may thereafter amend the zoning regulations by ordinance in
accordance with Sections 2.090, 2.100 and 2.110 of the Elko City Charter. (Ord.
861, 5-25-2021)
3-2-22: VARIANCES:
The planning commission shall hear and decide variances from regulations and
requirements and all matters referred to it or properly of concern in the
administration of this chapter. All actions of the planning commission shall be
limited to administrative actions only in order to ensure the intent and
purpose of this chapter shall apply in special cases as herein defined. Any
action that has in effect changed the uses or overall density permitted in any
zoning district of this chapter shall be deemed a violation of their powers and
be of no force and effect; however, the planning commission may recommend to
the city council that an amendment of this chapter be considered, in accordance
with procedures specified in this chapter for amendments. (Ord. 256, 4-11-1978)
   A.   City Planner, Powers And Duties: The city planner shall submit to the
planning commission a written report of his findings on each application for
variance.
   B.   Procedure: Any person requesting a variance by the planning commission
shall include:
      1.   The provision or regulations of this chapter from which the property
or building is sought to be excepted.
      2.   A legal description of the property involved.
      3.   Plot plans showing the location of all existing and proposed
buildings.
      4.   Elevations of all proposed buildings or alterations in sufficient
detail to meet the requirements of the planning commission.
      5.   Evidence of the ability and intent of the applicant to proceed with
actual construction in accordance with submitted plans within one year of the
date of approval of the variance.
      6.   Filing fees shall be deposited in accordance with procedures adopted
by the city.
   C.   Application Requirements: Each such application shall be signed by the
owner of the land and/or buildings affected by, or by his acknowledged agent.
In order for the planning commission to grant a variance, adequate evidence
demonstrating conformance to the following criteria shall be presented by the
applicant:
      1.   There are special circumstances or features, i.e., unusual shape,
configuration, exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary
situations or conditions applying to the property under consideration.
      2.   The special circumstance or extraordinary situation or condition
results in exceptional practical difficulties or exceptional undue hardships,
and where the strict application of the provision or requirement constitutes an
abridgment of property right and deprives the property owner of reasonable use
of property.
      3.   Such special circumstances or conditions do not apply generally to
other properties in the same zoning district.
      4.   The granting of the variance will not result in material damage or
prejudice to other properties in the vicinity, nor be detrimental to the public
interest, health, safety and general welfare.
      5.   The granting of the variance will not substantially impair the
intent or purpose of the zoning ordinance or effect a change of land use or
zoning classification.
      6.   The granting of the variance will not substantially impair affected
natural resources. (Ord. 474, 8-13-1996)
   D.   Hearing:
      1.   Notice: Upon the filing of an application, the city staff shall set
the matter, not later than thirty five (35) days thereafter, for a public
hearing. After the time and place have been established by the city staff, the
city shall send, by mail, notice of such time and place and purpose of hearing,
at least ten (10) days before the hearing to the owners of property within
three hundred feet (300') of the exterior limits of the property involved, as
shown by the latest assessment rolls of the city. Notice by mail to the last
known address of the real property owners, as shown by the assessor's records,
shall be sufficient. Applications must be filed at least twenty (20) days
before the planning commission hearing on the variance. Legal notice shall be
placed in a newspaper of general circulation within the city at least ten (10)
days prior to the date of the public hearing. The planning commission shall
comply with Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 241 "notice requirements" in
calling the meeting. (Ord. 367, 10-14-1986)
      2.   Evidence: The planning commission shall hear and consider evidence
and facts from any person at the public hearing, or shall consider written
communications from any person relative to the variance. The right to present
such evidence shall not be denied because of nonrequirements of notification as
herein stipulated. (Ord. 362, 4-9-1985)
   E.   Findings: The planning commission shall, within thirty (30) days from
the date of the hearing, return a decision. Any decision of the planning
commission to grant a variance shall adhere to variance criteria as set forth
in subsection C of this section. Whenever the planning commission denies a
variance, written notice of denial, including reasons therefor, shall be mailed
to the applicant at the address shown in the application. Failure to render
such a decision shall be deemed approval of the application. (Ord. 474, 8-13-
1996)
   F.   Conditions: The planning commission, in approving any variance, may
require conditions under which the lot or parcel may be used or the buildings
constructed, which in the planning commission's opinion will prevent material
damage or prejudice to adjacent properties. Any such conditions as required
must be complied with and violation of the same shall result in revocation of
the permission granted by variance. Further use shall constitute a violation of
this chapter and shall be punishable as herein provided. All variances shall
carry the following conditions: (Ord. 256, 4-44-1978)
      1.   Commencement within one year and completion within eighteen (18)
months. (Ord. 474, 8-13-1996)
      2.   Conformance to plans approved as a part of the variance.
      3.   Subject to review in two (2) years if determined necessary by the
planning commission.
   G.   Rehearing: Not later than five (5) days after the planning commission
renders its decisions, the applicant, or any person who was notified at the
hearing or who appeared and testified or presented written testimony at the
original public hearing, may apply for rehearing. As a basis for the request
for rehearing, such petition shall set forth in detail new facts or conditions
not previously known or considered. Applications for a rehearing shall be
accompanied by a fee prior to rehearing. Said fee shall be set by the city
council.
   H.   Appeal: The applicant or any person or entity with standing shall have
a right to appeal any decision made by the planning commission, in regard to an
application for a variance, to the city council as set forth in section
3-2-25 of this chapter. (Ord. 256, 4-11-1978)
3-2-23: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations: Any structure upon which construction is started, or any
structure which is altered, enlarged or repaired, or any use of land which is
begun or changed after enactment of this chapter, and which is in violation of
any of its provisions, may be declared a nuisance. Any court of competent
jurisdiction may order such nuisance abated and the owner or agent in charge of
such building or premises shall be adjudged guilty of maintaining a nuisance.
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, the owner of any
structure or land or part thereof, and any person, architect, builder,
contractor, plumber or agent employed in connection therewith, who has assisted
knowingly in the commission of any such violation, shall be guilty of a
separate offense, and upon conviction thereof, be liable to the penalties
herein provided.
   B.   Penalties: Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this code.
Each day that a violation is wilfully permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. The imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 256, 4-11-1978)
3-2-24: REPEAL AND SAVING CLAUSE:
Ordinance 78 and all amendments thereto are hereby repealed. All rights or
remedies of the city are expressly saved as to any and all violations of
ordinance 78 and all amendments thereto. As to all violations that have accrued
to the effective date of this ordinance, the court shall have all the powers
that existed prior to the effective date of this ordinance. All existing
violations of ordinance 78 and all amendments thereto, which may otherwise
become nonconforming uses under this ordinance, are hereby declared to be
violations of this ordinance in the same manner that they were violations of
ordinance 78. (Ord. 256, 4-11-1978)
3-2-25: APPEALS:
   A.   Time Limit; Fee: Any decision of the planning commission or any other
person appointed or employed by the city who is authorized to make
administrative decisions regarding the use of land, may be appealed in writing
to the city council by any person aggrieved by such a decision. All appeals
shall be filed, in writing specifying with particularity the grounds for
appeal, with the city clerk no later than ten (10) calendar days after the
decision. Appeals shall include payment of a filing fee in an amount
established by resolution of the city council and a statement therein of the
reasons why the decision should be amended, modified or reversed. All appeals,
once filed, may not be withdrawn from consideration and decision by the city
council. The city council shall hear and render a decision on any properly made
appeal within sixty (60) calendar days after the city clerk has received the
written appeal.
   B.   Hearing:
      1.   On appeals of planning commission decisions granting or denying
conditional use permits or variances, the city council shall hold a public
hearing prior to rendering any decision. After the time and place for the
public hearing has been established by the city clerk, notice of the hearing
shall be sent by mail at least ten (10) calendar days before the hearing to the
appellant, applicant, property owner, property owners located within three
hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries of the property involved, and
any person who presented oral or written testimony, if any, before the planning
commission. Said hearing notice shall also be published one time in a newspaper
of general circulation at least ten (10) calendar days before the hearing.
      2.   On appeals of all other decisions regarding the use of land, the
city clerk shall give notice of the time and place of the hearing by mailing a
notice of hearing at least ten (10) calendar days prior to the hearing to the
appellant, applicant, property owner, and any other person who presented oral
or written testimony.
      3.   The procedures pursuant to which the city council will hear an
appeal are as follows:
         a.   The appellant shall be first to provide comment and present the
grounds for appeal.
         b.   Other persons shall be given an opportunity to speak and provide
comment.
         c.   The city may respond to appellant's appeal, after which appellant
may present any rebuttal argument or evidence.
         d.   Appellant and the city are entitled to be represented by counsel,
present testimony, evidence and argument on all issues raised on appeal.
         e.   The city council may, if it appears helpful to a clear
understanding of the issues, consider evidence or other matters not raised at
the planning commission level or with the administrative officer.
   C.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision: The city council shall consider all
evidence presented to the planning commission or administrative officer at the
original hearing, including oral and written testimony, and any recommendations
and findings of the planning commission or administrative officer as shown by
the official record, and may affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the
planning commission or administrative officer. In reviewing a decision on an
appeal, the governing body will be guided by the statement of purpose
underlying the regulation of the improvement of land expressed in Nevada
Revised Statutes section 278.020. Decisions of the city council shall be
considered the final decision for the purpose of judicial review.
   D.   Judicial Review: Any person who:
      1.   Has appealed a decision to the city council in accordance with this
section; and
      2.   Is aggrieved by the decision of the city council, may appeal that
decision to the fourth judicial district court, in and for the county of Elko,
state of Nevada, by filing a petition for judicial review within twenty five
(25) days after the date of filing of notice of decision with the city clerk.
(Ord. 577, 12-11-2001)
3-2-26: AGREEMENTS CONCERNING DEVELOPMENT OF LAND:
   A.   Intent: This section applies only to developments of five (5) acres or
more in the aggregate or residential subdivisions with twenty five (25) or more
lots. The purpose of this section is to provide a mechanism for the development
of land which permits the developer to rely on existing city code provisions
and obtain limited deviation from city code requirements, while ensuring that
the city will receive certain commitments from developers consistent with the
overall intent of the applicable zoning codes.
   B.   Application: Upon application of any person having a legal or equitable
interest in land, the city may enter into an agreement with that person
concerning the development of that land.
      1.   Applications to enter into agreements concerning the development of
land must be filed with the city clerk. Applications shall be filed on a form
provided for such purpose and shall be complete.
      2.   Applications shall include payment of a filing fee in an amount
established by a schedule adopted by resolution of the city council and filed
in the office of the city clerk.
   C.   Content And Form Of Agreements: At a minimum, agreements concerning the
development of land shall include the following:
      1.   A description of the land which is the subject of the agreement.
      2.   The duration of the agreement.
      3.   The permitted uses of the land.
      4.   The density or intensity of use of the land.
      5.   The maximum height and size of proposed buildings.
      6.   Any provisions for the dedication of any portion of the land for
public use.
      7.   Provide for a period of time within which construction must commence
and provide for an extension of that deadline.
   D.   Commitments And Safeguards: The following commitments and safeguards
shall apply to any agreement concerning the development of land:
      1.   Unless the agreement otherwise provides, or permits or requires a
deviation from an otherwise applicable city code requirement, the ordinances,
resolutions or regulations applicable to that land and governing the permitted
uses of that land, density and standards for design, improvements and
construction are those in effect at the time the agreement is made.
      2.   Entering into an agreement concerning the development of land does
not prohibit the city from adopting new ordinances, resolutions or regulations
applicable to that land which do not conflict with those ordinances,
resolutions and regulations in effect at the time the agreement is made.
However, any subsequent action by the governing body must not prevent the
development of the land as set forth in the agreement. The governing body is
not prohibited from denying or conditionally approving any other plan for
development pursuant to any ordinance, resolution or regulation in effect at
the time of that denial or approval.
      3.   An agreement may include provisions which supersede limitations on
time for action on tentative or final maps or for presentation and recordation
of a final map or series of final maps.
   E.   Procedure: Consideration of an agreement concerning the development of
land by the planning commission:
      1.   The planning commission shall set a date for public hearing of the
application to enter into an agreement concerning the development of land. Such
public hearing shall be held after a public notice of time, date and place of
such hearing has been given in accordance with any requirements of Nevada
Revised Statutes. Such notice shall include a legal description of the land
which is the subject of the agreement, a statement of existing zoning and
current use of the property, and a general description of the proposed content
of the agreement.
      2.   Within forty (40) days after the conclusion of the public hearing,
the planning commission shall file a written report containing the commission's
recommendation to the city council, which shall include a finding of
conformance or nonconformance with the master plan.
      3.   Upon receipt of the planning commission's recommendation to the city
council, the council shall set a date for public hearing of the matter
concerning the agreement for the consideration of the city council, subject to
the same notice requirements contained within this section.
      4.   At the conclusion of the public hearing, or within thirty (30) days
thereafter, the city council may, if it finds that the provisions of the
agreement are consistent with the master plan, approve the agreement by
ordinance.
      5.   Within a reasonable time after approval of the agreement, the city
clerk shall cause the original agreement and a certified copy of the local
ordinance adopting the agreement to be filed with the county recorder for
record. Upon recordation, the agreement binds all parties and their successors
in interest for the duration of the agreement.
   F.   Amendment Or Cancellation:
      1.   The agreement for development of land may be amended or canceled, in
whole or in part, by mutual consent of the parties to the agreement or their
successors in interest, except that if the governing body determines, upon a
review of the development of the land held at least once every twenty four (24)
months, that the terms or conditions of the agreement are not being complied
with, it may cancel or amend the agreement without the consent of the breaching
party.
      2.   Notice of intention to amend or cancel any portion of the agreement
shall be subject to any notice requirements required by Nevada Revised
Statutes. The governing body, after conducting a public hearing, may approve
any amendment to the agreement by ordinance if the amendment is consistent with
the master plan. The original of the amendment must be filed for recording with
the county recorder. (Ord. 753, 7-10-2012)
3-2-27: OPERATION OF FACILITIES UTILIZING EXPLOSIVES:
   A.   Conditional Use Permit Required: Operation of a facility where an
explosive, or other similar substances listed in Nevada Revised Statutes
section 459.3816 will be used, manufactured, processed, transferred or stored,
shall first obtain a conditional use permit therefor from the city council.
   B.   Application; Hearing: An application for a conditional use permit must
be filed with the planning commission. The planning commission shall, within
ninety (90) days after the filing of an application, hold a public hearing to
consider the application.
   C.   Notice Requirements:
      1.   The planning commission shall, at least thirty (30) days before the
date of the hearing, cause notice of the time, date, place and purpose of the
hearing to be sent by mail to or, if requested by a party to whom notice must
be provided pursuant to this subsection, by electronic means if receipt of such
an electronic notice can be verified, to:
         a.   The applicant;
         b.   Each owner or tenant of real property located within one thousand
feet (1,000') of the property in question;
         c.   The property owner, as listed on the county assessor's records,
of each of the thirty (30) separately owned parcels nearest the exterior
boundary of the property in question, to the extent this notice does not
duplicate the notice given pursuant to subsection C1b of this section;
         d.   If a mobile home park or multiple-unit residence is located
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property in question, each tenant of
that mobile home park or multiple-unit residence;
         e.   Any advisory board that has been established for the affected
area by the governing body;
         f.   The administrator of the division of environmental protection of
the state department of conservation and natural resources;
         g.   The state fire marshal; and
         h.   The administrator of the division of industrial relations of the
department of business and industry; and
      2.   The notice required by subsection C1 of this section must:
         a.   Be written in language that is easy to understand;
         b.   Include a physical description or map of the property in question
and a description of all explosives, and all substances that will be located at
the facility; and
         c.   Be published in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city or county in which the property in question is located.
   D.   Consideration By Planning Commission:
      1.   In considering the application, the planning commission shall
consult with:
         a.   Local emergency planning committees, if any;
         b.   The administrator of the division of environmental protection of
the state department of conservation and natural resources;
         c.   The state fire marshal;
         d.   The administrator of the division of industrial relations of the
department of business and industry; and
         e.   The governing body of any other city or county that may be
affected by the operation of the facility; and
      2.   The planning commission shall consider fully the effect the facility
will have on the health and safety of the residents of the city, county or
region.
   E.   Recommendation: The planning commission shall, within a reasonable time
after the public hearing, submit to the governing body its recommendations for
any actions to be taken on the application. If the planning commission
recommends that a conditional use permit be granted to the applicant, it shall
include in its recommendations such terms and conditions for the operation of
the facility as it deems necessary for the protection of the health and safety
of the residents of the city, county or region.
   F.   Hearing; Decision: The governing body shall, within thirty (30) days
after the receipt of the recommendations of the planning commission, hold a
public hearing to consider the application. The governing body shall:
      1.   Cause notice of the hearing to be given in the manner prescribed by
subsection C of this section; and
      2.   Grant or deny the conditional use permit within thirty (30) days
after the public hearing. (Ord. 577, 12-11-2001)
3-2-28: HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS AND GUIDELINES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the intent of this section to recognize that certain
areas of the city are characterized by steep terrain, native vegetation,
natural drainage courses and other physical features, and to establish
standards of development for these areas that help to protect the public
health, safety and welfare by minimizing potential for erosion, sedimentation,
flooding and landslides, while at the same time protecting and enhancing the
visual quality of the city's natural landscape. Specific regulations and
guidelines are intended to address the following:
      1.   To protect the public and property from hazards and problems
associated with storm water runoff, flooding and erosion.
      2.   To minimize the threat and consequential damage of landslides in
hillside areas.
      3.   To minimize the threat and consequential damage of fire in hillside
areas.
      4.   To control and minimize the infestation of noxious weeds into the
community and outlying neighboring areas.
      5.   To control and mitigate dust and other nuisances that may have
adverse affects on neighboring properties and the air quality of the community.
      6.   To provide for safe and efficient pedestrian and vehicular access
and circulation, including transportation linkages to outlying areas.
      7.   To enhance the visual and aesthetic quality of the city through the
use of grading, revegetation and development techniques that help to improve
the appearance of slopes exposed to roadways, preserve prominent natural
features and vistas and provide for adequate open space in hillside areas.
      8.   To offer, promote and encourage a variety of alternative development
designs and concepts appropriate for hillside areas.
   B.   Definitions:
   AVERAGE SLOPE: Average slope shall mean and be determined by the use of the
following formula:
         AS = .00229 (I) (L)
          A
      AS = Average slope in percent.
      .00229 = The conversion factor of square feet to acres.
      I = Contour interval in feet. The contour interval may not exceed ten
feet (10').
      L = Summation of the length of all contour lines, in feet, within the
parcel.
      A = Total number acres in the parcel.
   BUILDABLE LOT AREA: That portion of land within a lot or development site,
exclusive of building setback area, and manufactured or natural slope area in
excess of thirty percent (30%) gradient.
   CAP: A concrete or cement feature placed on top of a wall that promotes
watershed and limits infiltration of water into concrete cells.
   CLEARING: The removal of vegetation and topsoil or other surface materials
from a site.
   CONSTRUCTION: Any grading or clearing of land, installation of improvements,
erection or placement of structures, or assembly of equipment or materials to
be used in any of those activities.
   CUT: The removal of earth material by artificial or mechanical means.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or any division of land.
   EROSION: The process whereby soil particles are detached and transported by
water, wind, ice or gravity.
   EXCAVATION: The mechanical removal of earth material.
   FILL: The deposit of earth material by artificial or mechanical means.
   GRADIENT: The vertical rise of a slope over a horizontal distance, expressed
as a percentage (rise over run).
   GRADING: Any excavating, cutting, filling or other earth moving operation.
   HILLSIDE AREA: Any parcel having an average slope of fifteen percent (15%)
or greater.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Roads, buildings, tennis courts, roofs, driveways,
patios, decks, parking lots and other similar water shedding surfaces.
   MANUFACTURED SLOPE: Any slope created through cut, fill or excavation and
which is steeper than 5:1.
   NATURAL SLOPE: The form of the land surface within a hillside area as it
exists before clearing or grading.
   NATURAL VEGETATION: Plant materials which exist on the site before clearing
or grading.
   OPEN SPACE: Land area which is not covered by buildings, parking lots,
accessory structures or other similar impervious surfaces.
   RETAINING WALL HEIGHT: The vertical height as measured from the lowest
finished grade to the top of the retaining wall.
   REVEGETATION: The stabilization of disturbed or graded soils after
construction by replanting with indigenous plant species or other drought
tolerant, low water consumptive plant materials appropriate for the climatic
zone.
   RUNOFF: That part of precipitation which flows over the land without
filtering into the soil.
   SEDIMENTATION: The process of depositing soil particles detached and
transported by erosion.
   SLOPE: A natural slope or manufactured slope steeper than 5:1.
   C.   Development Standards:
      1.   Slopes Adjacent To Streets And Roadways:
         a.   Manufactured slopes shall not be steeper than 3:1.
         b.   Maximum continuous slope height shall not exceed twenty feet
(20'). Continuous slope heights may be broken by bench areas having a minimum
horizontal dimension of not less than ten feet (10'); and provided said bench
areas are placed within the middle one-third (1/3) of the slope.
         c.   Retaining wall heights shall not exceed ten feet (10').
         d.   No slope or retaining wall may be placed or constructed in a
street right of way.
         e.   No retaining wall may be placed or constructed within a public
utility, access or drainage easement which abuts a public street right of way.
         f.   Slopes five feet (5') or less in height shall observe a two and
one-half foot (21/2') setback from the back edge of sidewalk. Slopes greater
than five feet (5') in height shall observe a five foot (5') setback from the
back edge of sidewalk.
         g.   Retaining walls adjacent to streets and roadways must be capped
with an architecturally compatible concrete or cement material.
         h.   Guard railings, when required by the uniform building code, shall
be installed on the top of any retaining wall.
         i.   All manufactured slopes adjacent to streets and roadways shall be
subject to an erosion control and revegetation program.
      2.   Other Interior Slopes:
         a.   Manufactured slopes shall not be steeper than 2:1.
         b.   Maximum continuous slope height shall not exceed thirty feet
(30'). Continuous slope heights may be broken by bench areas having a minimum
horizontal dimension of not less than fifteen feet (15'); and provided said
bench areas are placed within the middle one-third (1/3) of the slope.
         c.   Retaining wall heights for walls abutting interior property lines
shall not exceed six feet (6'). Retaining wall heights for other walls shall
not exceed twenty feet (20').
         d.   Retaining walls greater than six feet (6') in height shall
observe an interior property line setback equivalent to the height of the
retaining wall.
         e.   The toe of any slope shall observe an interior property line
setback equivalent to one-half (1/2) of the height of the slope.
         f.   The top of any slope shall observe an interior property line
setback equivalent to one-fifth (1/5) of the height of the slope.
         g.   All manufactured interior slopes shall be subject to an erosion
control and revegetation program.
      3.   Lot Dimensions:
         a.   For all residential zoning districts subject to a six thousand
(6,000) square foot minimum lot size or greater, a minimum buildable lot area
of three thousand (3,000) square feet shall be required.
         b.   For hillside area subdivisions, minimum residential lot size
shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet, exclusive of any manufactured slope
area contained within the lot.
         c.   For hillside area subdivisions, minimum interior side yard
setbacks shall be ten feet (10').
      4.   Exceptions:
         a.   Manufactured slopes intended and designed to be located within a
public street right of way and associated with the construction or widening of
the roadway or other related public improvements.
         b.   Minor deviations from maximum manufactured slope heights
associated with rounding, meandering or blending tops or bottoms of slope
sections with adjacent ungraded areas.
      5.   Modification Of Standards: Regulations contained within this section
may be varied or modified by the planning commission, where just cause and
circumstance warrants, in conjunction with a review of a conditional use
permit, subdivision preliminary plat, final plat or an application for site
plan review, pursuant to subsection
3-2-3C6 of this chapter.
   D.   Erosion Protection, Slope Stabilization, Slope Revegetation: Any
development requiring a grading permit shall be required to submit a specific
area restoration and landscape plan to address erosion, slope stabilization and
revegetation for the review and approval of the engineering and planning
departments.
      1.   Slopes Adjacent To Streets And Roads:
         a.   Landscaping improvements shall be required to include the
following material: ground cover consisting of plant material, appropriate seed
mix or landscape rock, gravel or comparable material; shrubs, consisting of not
less than one minimum two (2) gallon sized planting for each fifty (50) square
feet of slope area; trees consisting of not less than one minimum fifteen (15)
gallon sized planting for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of slope area.
(Note: Tree plantings may be clustered.)
         b.   Installation of permanent irrigation system.
         c.   Slope revegetation permanently established.
      2.   Interior Slopes:
         a.   Installation of appropriate seed mix with jute mat, or
installation of rip rap, landscape rock, gravel or comparable material.
         b.   Satisfy uniform building code requirements for paved interceptor
drains and terrace swales.
         c.   Drains down the face of slopes are to be discouraged; but, if
used, are to include rip rap or concrete three feet (3') wide by one foot (1')
deep, or other acceptable means. Thickness and size of rip rap or concrete is
to be based on water velocity.
         d.   Application of seed mix during fall months (September through
December) with or without installation of an irrigation system.
         e.   Slope revegetation permanently established.
      3.   Nonslope Areas Affected By Clearing, Grading Or Excavation In Excess
Of One Acre:
         a.   Installation of native grass mix (crested wheat).
         b.   Installation of temporary irrigation system or application of
seed mix during fall months (September through December) without installation
of irrigation system.
         c.   Revegetation permanently established on affected areas.
      4.   Performance Guarantee:
         a.   Revegetation of slopes and other areas affected by clearing,
grading or excavation are considered permanently established when more than
fifty percent (50%) of area coverage has been achieved.
         b.   Revegetation of slopes and other areas affected by clearing
grading or excavation must be permanently established in accordance with one of
the following time frames:
            (1)   Prior to final occupancy of the building or premises.
            (2)   Within two (2) years after issuance of final occupancy of the
building or the premises subject to execution of a performance agreement with
the city to include bonding or other form of security to guarantee completion
of the required work.
            (3)   Prior to final certification of grading compliance.
            (4)   Within two (2) years after completion of grading activity
subject to execution of a performance agreement with the City to include
bonding or other form of security to guarantee completion of the required work.
   E.   Development Guidelines: The following items are recommended guidelines
and standards to help achieve the purpose of this section:
      1.   Locate property lines at tops of slopes, when feasible.
      2.   Vary steepness of the slope.
      3.   Meander tops and toes of slopes.
      4.   Round and blend top and bottom sections of slopes with adjacent
ungraded area.
      5.   Lay back top one quarter section of the slope.
      6.   Use of terracing and retaining or slough walls when appropriate.
      7.   Establish thirty foot (30') fire protection zone surrounding all
combustible structures in hillside areas.
      8.   Fire protection zones should include fire resistant landscaping and/
or hardscape material.
      9.   Increase side yard building setbacks in hillside subdivisions to
fifteen feet (15').
      10.   Minimize steepness of slopes adjacent to streets as a means of
improving access for emergency and fire personnel.
      11.   Recommend and encourage the installation of drought tolerant, low
maintenance ground cover, shrubs and trees in combination with installation of
a permanent drip type irrigation system to promote low water usage. (Ord. 579,
2-26-2002)
3-2-29: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS AND MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, marijuana
establishments and medical marijuana establishments are not allowed, and shall
be unlawful as a permitted use, conditional use or accessory use in any zoning
district within the incorporated area of the City of Elko. For purposes of this
section, the term "marijuana establishment" shall have the definition ascribed
to it in Nevada Revised Statutes 453D.030, as amended from time to time, and
the term "medical marijuana establishment" shall have the definition ascribed
to it in Nevada Revised Statutes 453A.116, as amended from time to time.
   B.   The prohibitions of marijuana establishments and medical marijuana
establishments, respectively, are not intended to interfere with the individual
rights of persons to the lawful use and possession of marijuana as permitted by
chapters 453A and 453D of the Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 825, 2-13-2018)
ARTICLE A. SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS ZONING ORDINANCE
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Title
3-2A-2: Definitions
3-2A-3: Zoning Of Sexually Oriented Business Uses
3-2A-4: Injunction
3-2A-5: Exemption From Location Restrictions
3-2A-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known and may be cited as the ELKO SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 439, 4-12-1994)
3-2A-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ACCESSORY SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE: A. The offering of retail goods for sale
which are classified as sexually oriented business uses on a limited scale and
which are incidental to the primary activity and goods and/or services offered
by the establishment. Examples of such items include the sale of adult
magazines, the sale and/or rental of adult motion pictures, the sale of adult
novelties, and the like.
   B.   Dancing or live entertainment characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas",
if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional activity of the
business operation.
   C.   Occasional activity as used in connection with an accessory sexually
oriented use means dancing or live entertainment characterized by an emphasis
on presentation of "specific sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"
if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional activity of the
business operation as herein regulated.
   PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PRINCIPAL SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE: The offering of goods and/or services which
are classified as sexually oriented business uses as a primary or sole activity
of a business or establishment and include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Sexually Oriented Adult Video And/Or Adult Bookstore: A building or
portion of a building used for the barter, rental or sale of items consisting
of printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audio tape, videotape or motion
picture film if such building or portion of a building is not open to the
public generally but only to one or more classes of the public, excluding any
minor by reason of age or if a substantial or significant portion of such items
are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   B.   Sexually Oriented Barbershop: Any barbershop which is licensed to cut
hair, but features sexual exhibits or displays:
1. Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
2. Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
3. Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   C.   Sexually Oriented Beauty Salon: Any beauty salon which is licensed to
cut hair, or hairstyling or manicuring, but features sexual exhibits or
displays:
1. Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
2. Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
3. Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   D.   Sexually Oriented Body Painting Studio: An establishment or business
which provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether
transparent or nontransparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is
wholly or partially nude in terms of "specified anatomical areas".
   E.   Sexually Oriented Cabaret: A building or portion of a building used for
providing dancing or other live entertainment, if such building or portion of a
building excludes minors by virtue of age and if such dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   F.   Sexually Oriented Companionship Establishment: A companionship
establishment which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the
service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between
an employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
   G.   Sexually Oriented Conversation/Rap Parlor: A conversation/rap parlor
which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation talk or discussion, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
   H.   Sexually Oriented Health/Sport Club: A health/sport club which excludes
minors by reason of age, or if such club is distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   I.   Sexually Oriented Hotel Or Motel: A hotel or motel from which minors
are specifically excluded from patronage and wherein material is presented
which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
   J.   Sexually Oriented Massage Parlor, Health Club Or Studio: A massage
parlor or health club which restricts minors by reason of age, and which
provides the services of massage, if such service is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
   K.   Sexually Oriented Mini-Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of
a building with a capacity for less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting
material if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice
excludes minors by virtue of age, or if such material is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" for observation by patrons therein.
   L.   Sexually Oriented Modeling Studio: An establishment whose major
business is the provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided
with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such
customers and who engage in "specified sexual activities" or display "specified
anatomical areas" while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted by such customers.
   M.   Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Arcade: Any place to which the public
is permitted or invited wherein coin or slug operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image reproducing devices are maintained to show
images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas".
   N.   Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of a
building with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used for presenting
material if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice
excludes minors by virtue of age or if such material is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" for observation by patrons therein.
   O.   Sexually Oriented Novelty Business: A business which has as a principal
activity the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
   P.   Sexually Oriented Sauna: A sauna which excludes minors by reason of
age, or which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose
of bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
   Q.   Sexually Oriented Soda Pop Or Nonalcoholic Beverage Clubs: A night
club, bar, restaurant or other commercial establishment that does not serve
alcoholic beverages but features sexual exhibits or displays:
1. Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
2. Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
3. Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   R.   Sexually Oriented Steam Room/Bathhouse Facility: A building or portion
of a building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if such building or portion of a
building restricts minors by reason of age or if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS USES: Sexually oriented business uses include
adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture
theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities,
adult companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult
health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion
picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body
painting studios, "soda pop" or nonalcoholic beverage club, adult barbershops,
adult beauty salons, and other premises, enterprises, establishments,
businesses or places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which
there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" which are capable
of being seen by members of the public. Activities classified as obscene as
defined by Nevada Revised Statutes section 201.235 et seq., are not included.
As used in this article, for zoning purposes, "sexually oriented business uses"
do not include houses of prostitution which are zoned, licensed, controlled and
operated under title 4, chapter 9 of this code.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. Less than completely and opaquely covered
human genitals, pubic region, buttock, anus or female breast(s) below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral
copulation, anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical
stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a
sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a
sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts or
conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, sapphism; or
   B.   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence; or
   C.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or
masturbation; or
   D.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or
female breast; or
   E.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, clad in
undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restrain of any such persons; or
   F.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented contact
with an animal by a human being; or
   G.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
(Ord. 439, 4-12-1994)
3-2A-3: ZONING OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS USES:
   A.   General: "Sexually oriented business uses", as defined in section
3-2A-2 of this article, shall be subject to the following general provisions:
      1.   Activities classified as obscene as defined in Nevada Revised
Statutes section 201.235 et seq., are not permitted and are prohibited.
      2.   Sexually oriented business uses, either principal or accessory,
shall be prohibited from locating in any building which is also utilized for
residential purposes.
      3.   Principal sexually oriented business uses, except sexually oriented
cabarets, nightclubs or bars, shall be prohibited from locating in any building
which is also used to dispense or consume alcoholic beverages.
      4.   A sexually oriented business use which does not qualify as an
accessory use shall be classified as principal sexually oriented use.
   B.   Principal Sexually Oriented Uses:
      1.   A person commits an offense if that person operates or causes to be
operated a principal sexually oriented business in any zoning district other
than the areas zoned light industrial, general industrial or restricted
commercial, as defined and described in the general zoning ordinance, chapter 2
of this title.
      2.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a principal sexually oriented business in a light or general
industrial zoned district within one thousand feet (1,000') of:
         a.   A church; or
         b.   A public or private elementary or secondary school; or
         c.   A public or private daycare center, preschool, nursery,
kindergarten or similar use; or
         d.   A public park.
This distance restriction does not apply to the location of a sexually oriented
business in a restricted commercial zoned district.
      3.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a principal sexually oriented business in a light or general
industrial zoned district within five hundred feet (500') of any existing
single- or multiple-family dwelling structure. This distance restriction does
not apply to the location of a sexually oriented business in a restricted
commercial zoned district.
      4.   For the purposes of subsections B2 and B3 of this section,
measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure
used as a part of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted,
to the nearest property line of the premises of a church, a public or private
elementary or secondary school, a public or private daycare center, preschool,
nursery, kindergarten or school bus stop or similar use, or to the nearest
boundary of an affected public park, residential district or residential lot.
The presence of city, county or other political boundaries shall be irrelevant
for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements of this
article.
      5.   Any principal sexually oriented business that fails to comply with
subsection B1, B2 or B3 of this section on the date of the adoption hereof, but
which was lawfully operating before this article took effect, shall not be
deemed to be in violation of this article when this article takes effect and
shall be deemed a nonconforming use. Any such nonconforming use may be allowed
to continue; provided, however, that such a nonconforming use may not be
extended, enlarged or altered and may not be changed to any other nonconforming
principal sexually oriented business use.
It shall be unlawful for any person to continue any such nonconforming use more
than one year after its passage when such nonconforming use has been declared
to constitute a nuisance or to be detrimental to public health, safety or
welfare by a majority vote of the city council. This section shall not be
construed as limiting the right of the city or any person to abate a nuisance
under any existing laws or ordinances.
A nonconforming sexually oriented business use which is operationally abandoned
or discontinued for a period of six (6) consecutive months or more shall be
considered abandoned and shall not be resumed.
      6.   A principal sexually oriented business lawfully operating is not
rendered in violation of this article by the location, subsequent to the grant
or renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a church, public or
private elementary or secondary school, public park, residential district or
residential lot within one thousand feet (1,000') or five hundred feet (500'),
whichever is applicable, of the principal sexually oriented business. This
provision applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply
when an application for a license is submitted after a license has been revoked
or not renewed.
      7.   Principal sexually oriented business uses shall, in addition to
other sign requirements established by this code, also adhere to the following
sign regulations:
         a.   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the type of business which is being conducted.
         b.   Shall not contain material classified as advertising as to
building content or activities.
         c.   Shall comply with the requirements of size and number for the
district in which they are located.
   C.   Accessory Sexually Oriented Business Uses And Location Thereof:
      1.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses shall:
         a.   Comprise no more than ten percent (10%) of the floor area of the
establishment in which it is located and comprise no more than twenty percent
(20%) of the gross receipts of the entire business operation; and
         b.   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise; or
         c.   Not involve any dancing or live entertainment characterized by an
emphasis on the presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas", unless such live entertainment is only presented as an
occasional activity of the business operation. To qualify as an accessory
sexually oriented business use, said activity or event shall be limited to no
more than ten (10) consecutive days taking place at minimum thirty (30) day
intervals following a similar activity or event and such activities or events
occurring no more than four (4) times within a calendar year.
      2.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses shall be restricted from
and prohibit access to minors by the physical separation of such items from
areas of general public access:
         a.   Movie Rentals: Display areas shall be restricted from general
view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in
clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation
or shall be in catalogs under the direct control and distribution of the
operation.
         b.   Magazines: Publications classified or qualifying as sexually
oriented business uses shall not be physically accessible to minors and shall
be covered with a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any material
other than the publication title.
         c.   Other Uses: Accessory sexually oriented business uses not
specifically cited shall comply with the intent of this section subject to the
approval of the chief of police.
      3.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses shall be prohibited from
both internal and external advertising and signage of sexually oriented
materials and products.
      4.   Accessory sexually oriented business uses activities shall be
prohibited at any public show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical or
other performance or exhibition presented to the general public where minors
are admitted.
      5.   A person commits an offense if that person operates or causes to be
operated an accessory sexually oriented business use in any zoning district
other than the areas zoned light industrial, general industrial, general
commercial, convenience commercial or restricted commercial, as defined and
described in the general zoning ordinance, chapter 2 of this title. (Ord. 439,
4-12-1994)
3-2A-4: INJUNCTION:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business use
without having a valid permit due to locational restrictions is subject to a
suit for injunction as well as prosecution for the criminal violation. Such
violation shall be punishable by a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
and/or thirty (30) days' imprisonment, and if an injunction must be sought,
attorney fees and costs will be assessed at the discretion of the court against
the sexually oriented business use. (Ord. 439, 4-12-1994)
3-2A-5: EXEMPTION FROM LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Request: If the city denies the issuance of a license to an applicant
because the location of the sexually oriented business use is in violation of
section
3-2A-3 of this article, then the applicant may, not later than ten (10)
calendar days after receiving notice of the denial, file with the city clerk a
written request for an exemption from the locational restrictions of section
3-2A-3 of this article.
   B.   Hearing: If the written request is filed with the city clerk within the
ten (10) day limit, the city council shall hear and consider the request. The
city council shall set a date for the hearing within sixty (60) days from the
date the written request is received.
   C.   Conduct Of Hearing: The city council shall hear and consider evidence
offered by any interested person. The formal rules of evidence do not apply.
   D.   Findings: The city council may, in its discretion, grant an exemption
from the locational restrictions of section
3-2A-3 of this article if it makes the following findings:
      1.   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business use will not
have a detrimental effect on nearby properties or be contrary to the public
safety or welfare; and
      2.   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business use will not
downgrade the property values or quality of life in the adjacent areas or
encourage the development of blight; and
      3.   The location of a sexually oriented business use in the area will
not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation, nor will it
interfere with any efforts of neighborhood renewal or restoration; and
      4.   All other applicable provisions of this article and the city code
will be observed.
   E.   Validity Of Exemption: If the city council grants the exemption, the
exemption is valid for two (2) years from the date of city council action. Upon
the expiration of an exemption, the sexually oriented business use is in
violation of the locational restrictions of section
 3-2A-3 of this article until the applicant applies for and receives another
exemption.
   F.   Reapplication Upon Denial: If the city council denies the exemption,
the applicant may not reapply for an exemption until at least twelve (12)
months have elapsed since the date of the city council action. (Ord. 439, 4-12-
1994)
CHAPTER 3
DIVISIONS OF LAND
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose And Intent
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Stages Of Subdivision Planning And Approval
3-3-4: Preapplication Stage (Stage I)
3-3-5: Tentative Map Stage (Stage II)
3-3-6: Content And Format Of Tentative Map Submittal
3-3-7: Final Map Stage (Stage III)
3-3-8: Content And Format Of Final Map Submittal
3-3-9: General Requirements For Subdivision Design
3-3-10: Street Location And Arrangement
3-3-11: Street Design
3-3-12: Block Design
3-3-13: Lot Planning
3-3-14: Easement Planning
3-3-15: Street Naming
3-3-16: Street Lighting Design Standards
3-3-17: Responsibility For Public Improvements
3-3-18: Construction Plans
3-3-19: Construction And Inspection
3-3-20: Required Improvements
3-3-21: Agreements To Install Improvements
3-3-22: Performance And Maintenance Guarantees
3-3-23: Park Land Dedications
3-3-24: Parcel Maps
3-3-25: Modification Of Standards
3-3-26: Reversions To Acreage
3-3-27: Prohibition Against Sale In Violation
3-3-28: Mergers And Resubdivision Of Land
3-3-29: Violations And Penalties
3-3-30: Appeals Of Certain Decisions Regarding Use Of Land
3-3-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly growth and harmonious
development of the City; to ensure adequate traffic circulation through
coordinated subdivision street systems in relation to major thoroughfares,
adjoining subdivisions, and public facilities to achieve individual property
lots of optimum utility and livability; to secure adequate provisions for water
supply, drainage, sanitary sewerage, and other health requirements; to
facilitate reservation of adequate sites for schools, recreation areas, and
other public facilities; to promote the conveyance of land by accurate legal
description and to provide logical procedures for the achievement of this
purpose; safeguard the public health, safety and general welfare; and to ensure
development in conformance with the City master plan. In its interpretation and
application, this chapter is intended to provide a common understanding and a
sound and equitable working relationship between public and private interests
so that both independent and mutual objectives can be achieved in the division
of the land. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
All terms defined in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 278, to include Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.010 through 278.0195, are incorporated herein by this
reference unless the terms are otherwise defined in this chapter.
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall, for the
purpose of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section, unless their context clearly indicates that they are intended to
have some other meaning.
Words used in the present tense include the future; the plural includes the
singular; the word "shall" is always mandatory; the word "may" denotes a use of
discretion in making a decision; and the words "used" or "occupied" shall be
considered to be followed by the words "or intended, arranged, or designed to
be used or occupied".
   AGREEMENT TO INSTALL IMPROVEMENTS: An agreement that satisfies the
requirements of section
 3-3-21 of this chapter and other applicable provisions of this chapter,
typically requiring a subdivider to install public improvements, dedicate
rights-of- way and perform other acts for the benefit and protection of the
City and the public in relation to a subdivision.
   ALLEY: A passage or way, open to public travel and dedicated to public use,
affording generally a secondary means of vehicular access to abutting lots and
not intended for the general traffic circulation.
   BLOCK: A piece or parcel of land, or group of lots, entirely surrounded by
natural or artificial barriers, such as public rights-of-way, streams or
watercourses, railroads, parks, or a combination thereof.
   BUILDING: Any structure, regardless of whether it is affixed to real
property that is used or intended for supporting or sheltering any human use or
occupancy.
   BUILDING LINE: A line demarcating the area between a building or other
structure and the street right-of-way line beyond which no building or
structure or portion thereof shall be erected, constructed, or otherwise
established.
   CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Elko.
   CODE: The Elko City Code.
   COMMISSION: The City of Elko Planning Commission.
   COMMUNICATION LINES: Conduit, cables, fiber and/or other apparatus for the
distribution and provision of telecommunications and/or broadband
communications.
   COMMUNICATION SERVICE LINES: Communication lines.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL: A decision by the Planning Commission or City Council
to approve a tentative map, provided certain specified conditions are
satisfied.
   CONSTRUCTION PLANS: Plans, profiles, cross-sections and other drawings
showing required details for the construction of subdivision improvements,
prepared in conjunction with the final map, and submitted by a properly
licensed engineer in compliance with standards of design and construction
approved by the City.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A street opening at one end and having a turnaround at the other
end.
   DEDICATION: The deliberate appropriation of land by its owner for any
general or public use, reserving unto himself no other right than such as are
compatible with the full exercise and enjoyment of the public uses to which the
property has been appropriated.
   DENSITY: A number, represented in units of lots per acre, calculated by
dividing the number of lots in the subdivision by the total acreage of the
subdivision.
   DEVELOPER: A real property owner who divides land into two (2) or more
parcels for transfer or development.
   DEVELOPMENT MASTER PLAN: A comprehensive long-term strategic planning
document for a subdivision prepared in accordance with section
3-3-4 of this chapter.
   EASEMENT: An interest in land that confers a right of use for a special
purpose.
   ENGINEER'S ESTIMATE: An estimate of the total cost of public improvements
prepared by the subdivider's engineer and provided to the City.
   EXCEPTION: Any parcel of land that is located within the exterior boundaries
of a subdivision but which is not included in the tentative or final map.
   FINAL MAP: A map prepared in accordance with the provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.325, 278.360 to 278.460, inclusive, 278.472, 278.4725 or
278.4955 and any applicable provisions of this Code, which, after approval and
certification by the City, is recorded with the Office of the Elko County
Recorder.
   FINAL MAP APPROVAL: Final or conditional authorization by the City Council
to obtain final map certification; provided, all applicable requirements of
this chapter, to include sections
3-3-21 and
3-3-22 of this chapter, must be satisfied prior to final map certification;
further provided, if final map approval is conditional, all conditions imposed
by the City Council in conjunction with the approval must by satisfied prior to
final map certification.
   FINAL MAP CERTIFICATION: Unconditional approval of the final map by the City
Council as evidenced by certification on the map by the Mayor of the City of
Elko. Final map certification constitutes authorization to record the map with
the Elko County Recorder.
   FULL FRONTAGE: All lot lines of any lot, parcel or tract of property
adjacent to a road, street, alley or right-of-way, to include lots, parcels or
tracts containing multiple borders or edges, such as corner lots.
   GRADING: The removal of the vegetative cover from the surface of any land,
and is a result of activity associated with new construction.
   LED: Light-emitting diode.
   LOT: A distinct part or parcel of land which has been divided, including the
following:
   A.   Corner Lot: A lot abutting on two (2) or more intersecting streets.
   B.   Double Frontage Lot: A lot abutting two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
   C.   Interior Lot: A lot having but one side abutting on a street.
   D.   Key Lot: An interior lot, one side of which is contiguous to the rear
line of a lot.
   LOT DEPTH: The shortest distance, measured on a line parallel to the axis of
the lot, between points on the front and rear lot lines.
   LOT LINE: A line bounding a lot, including the following types of lot lines:
   A.   Front Lot Line: The lot line coinciding with the street line; or, in
the case of a corner lot, the shorter of two (2) lot lines coinciding with
street lines; or, in the case of a double frontage lot, both lot lines
coinciding with street lines.
   B.   Rear Lot Line: The lot line opposite and farthest from the front lot
line; for a pointed or irregular lot, the rear lot line shall be an imaginary
line, parallel to and farthest from the front lot line, not less than ten feet
(10') long and wholly within the lot.
   C.   Side Lot Line: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line; in the
case of a corner lot, the lot line abutting the side street is designated as
the exterior side lot line; all other side lot lines are designated as interior
side lot lines.
   LOT WIDTH: A. In the case of a rectangular lot or a lot abutting on the
outside of a street curve, the distance between side lot lines measured
parallel to the street or to the street chord and measured on the street chord.
   B.   In the case of a lot abutting on the inside of a street curve, the
distance between the side lot lines measured parallel to the street or the
street chord at the rear line of the dwelling, or, where there is no dwelling,
thirty feet (30') behind the minimum front setback line.
   MASTER PLAN: A comprehensive, long-term general plan for the physical
development of the City prepared in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes
278.150, et seq.
   OWNER: Any person who holds title to land or who is contractually obligated
to purchase land.
   PARCEL MAP: A map required for the division of land for transfer or
development into four (4) lots or less in the manner set forth in Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.461, 278.462, 278.463, 278.464 or 278.466, and this Code.
   PEDESTRIANWAY: A public or private walk through a block from street to
street or from a street to a school, park, recreation area or other public
facility.
   PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT: An agreement to install improvements.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTY: The financial security required to guarantee the
construction of public improvements and other matters as set forth in section
3-3-22 of this chapter.
   PERSON: A natural person, any form of business or social organization and
any other nongovernmental legal entity including, but not limited to, a
corporation, partnership, association, trust or unincorporated organization.
The term does not include a government, governmental agency or political
subdivision of a government.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Street work, utilities and other improvements to be
installed on land dedicated or to be dedicated for streets and easements as are
necessary for local drainage, local traffic and the general use of property
owners in the subdivision.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS: A set of standards adopted by the City Council
regulating the design and construction of public improvements. These standards
are contained in the latest edition of the "Standard Specifications for Public
Works Construction" also known as the "Orange Book", which is distributed to
the cities and counties of northern Nevada by the Regional Transportation
Commission of Washoe County.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES: Underground, aboveground or overhead facilities furnishing
to the public, electricity, gas, steam, communications, water, drainage, sewage
disposal, flood control, irrigation or refuse disposal, owned and operated by
any person, firm, corporation, Municipal department or board duly authorized by
State or Municipal regulations. The term "public utilities", as used herein,
may also refer to such persons, firms, corporations, departments or boards, as
the context indicates.
   REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS: Enhancements to land to make the land more usable for
public and/or private purposes, as more specifically set forth in section
 3-3-20 of this chapter.
   RIGHTS-OF-WAY: All public and private rights-of-way and all areas required
for public use in accordance with any master plan or parts thereof.
   SETBACK LINE: Building line.
   STREET: Any existing or proposed street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane,
parkway, place, bridge, viaduct or easement for public vehicular access; or, a
street shown in a map heretofore approved pursuant to law; or, a street in a
map duly filed and recorded in the County Recorder's Office. A street includes
all land within the street right-of-way, whether improved or unimproved, and
includes such improvements as pavement, shoulder, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
parking space, bridges, viaducts, lawns and trees. For purposes of this
chapter, the following definitions apply to specific types of streets:
Alley: A public way providing secondary vehicular access and service to
properties which also abut a street.
Arterial And Minor Arterial Streets: A general term describing large major
streets, including freeways, expressways and interstate roadways, and State
and/or County highways having City and regional continuity.
Collector Residential And Local Residential Streets: City streets serving the
primary function of providing access to abutting property:
   A.   Cul-De-Sac Street: A short collector residential and local residential
street having one end permanently terminating in and including a vehicular
turning area.
   B.   Marginal Access Street: A collector residential and local residential
street parallel to and abutting an arterial street which provides access to
abutting property, intercepts other collector residential and local residential
streets, and controls access to the arterial street.
Collector Street: A street generally with limited continuity serving the
primary function of moving traffic between arterial streets and local
residential streets, and the secondary function of providing access to abutting
properties.
   STREET LINE: A line demarcating the limits of a street right-of- way.
   STREET, PRIVATE: A nondedicated, privately owned right-of-way or limited
public way that affords the principal means of emergency and limited vehicular
access and connection to and from the public street system to properties
created through the division of land.
   STREET, PUBLIC: A dedicated public right-of-way that is part of the public
street system and which affords the principal means of emergency and general
vehicular access to abutting property.
   SUBDIVIDER: A developer who commences or is engaged in the process required
by Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 278 and this chapter for dividing land into
parcels or creating a subdivision.
   SUBDIVIDER'S ENGINEER: A professional engineer, properly licensed by the
State of Nevada and retained, contracted or employed by the subdivider for the
purpose of satisfying the requirements of section
3-3-21 of this chapter, and to oversee and certify the subdivision in the
manner required by this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION: Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to
be divided into five (5) or more lots, parcels, sites, units or plots, for the
purpose of any transfer or development, or any proposed transfer or
development, unless exempted by Nevada Revised Statutes 278.320 or any other
applicable statute.
   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENT: An improvement to land that a subdivider is
required to construct and complete at its own expense, pursuant to the
requirements of this chapter and an agreement to install improvements.
   SUBDIVISION REVIEW COMMITTEE: A committee consisting of representatives of
the City Manager's Office, the City Engineering Department, the City Utility
Department, the City Planning Department, the City Development Department, the
City Public Works Department, the City Fire Department, and the Planning
Commission Chair or Vice Chair.
   TENTATIVE MAP: A map made to show the design of a proposed subdivision and
the existing conditions in and around it.
   TENTATIVE MAP APPROVAL: Approval of a tentative map by the City Council.
Tentative map approval constitutes authorization to proceed with preparation of
construction plans and the final map.
   TRACT: An area of land proposed to be divided pursuant to this chapter.
   TRANSPORTATION COMPONENT OF THE MASTER PLAN: A plan adopted by the Planning
Commission and City Council which provides for development of a system of major
streets and highways. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-3: STAGES OF SUBDIVISION PLANNING AND APPROVAL:
Any person who divides or proposes to divide land into five (5) or more lots,
parcels, sites, units or plots, for the purpose of any transfer or development,
or any proposed transfer or development, unless exempted under chapter 278 of
the Nevada Revised Statutes or this Code, must follow the three-stage approval
process outlined in this chapter. These stages, among other things, set forth
specific requirements pertaining to the preparation, submission and review of,
and official action on, maps and other documents.
These stages are as follows:
   A.   Stage I - Preapplication Stage: During stage I, the subdivider provides
preliminary information about the proposed subdivision to the City, some of
which is provided to City staff in a conference held to discuss land use,
street and lot arrangement, lot sizes, buildable lot areas, conformity with the
master plan, easements, the provision of utilities, storm drainage, street
improvements and other issues pertinent to the proposed development.
   B.   Stage II - Tentative Map Stage: Stage II includes preparation,
submission, revision, and Planning Commission and City Council action on the
tentative map. During this stage, the City will review the tentative map
submittal to ensure that it conforms to all applicable requirements. At the
conclusion of this stage, the City Council determines whether to approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the tentative map. The City uses the
tentative map submittal to evaluate the subdivision. Approval of the tentative
map permits the subdivider to proceed with stage III, but does not authorize
the subdivider to commence construction activities.
   C.   Stage III - Final Map Stage: Stage III includes the final design and
engineering of the subdivision, official action on the construction plans, and
official action on the final map. During this stage, except as otherwise
permitted in this chapter, the subdivider must post security for completion and
maintenance of public improvements, and the subdivider and the City must enter
into a performance agreement. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-4: PREAPPLICATION STAGE (STAGE I):
   A.   Overview And General Requirements: The preapplication stage of
subdivision planning (stage I) includes an investigatory period that takes
place prior to submittal of the tentative map by the subdivider. During this
stage, the subdivider must meet with the City to discuss and provide general
information about the proposed subdivision, and the City will provide the
subdivider with general information about City subdivision requirements. During
this stage, the City will also determine whether a change in zoning will be
required for the proposed subdivision. If the City determines that a zoning
change is required for the proposed subdivision, the subdivider must initiate
the necessary application for a change of zoning district boundaries. This
process must be commenced prior to the submission of the tentative map (stage
II). In addition, during stage I the subdivider and the City shall satisfy the
following requirements:
      1.   Conference: During stage I, the subdivider shall schedule and attend
a conference with the Subdivision Review Committee for the purpose of
discussing the proposed subdivision. At least five (5) business days prior to
the conference, the subdivider shall provide the City with plans, sketches and
other documentation showing proposed land uses, street and lot configuration,
proposed lot sizes and the proposed density of the development. At the meeting,
the subdivider and/or his/her authorized representative shall present the
Subdivision Review Committee with tentative proposals regarding water supply,
sewage disposal, storm drainage, street improvements and any potential changes
to zoning district boundaries.
      2.   General Information Provided: During the conference with the
Subdivision Review Committee, the City will provide general information to the
subdivider regarding the requirements of this chapter, to include required
procedures, design and improvement standards, and tentative and final map
requirements, together with the following:
         a.   Check existing zoning of the location of the proposed subdivision
and of abutting properties, and determine whether a change of zoning district
boundaries is necessary or desirable.
         b.   Determine conformance of the proposed subdivision to the land use
component of the Master Plan.
         c.   Examine the adequacy of parks and other public facilities.
         d.   Determine the relationship of the site to major streets, utility
systems and adjacent land uses, and determine whether there are any potential
problems related to topography, utilities, drainage or flooding.
         e.   Determine Fire Department access and suppression requirements.
         f.   Determine whether a Development Master Plan must be approved by
the City prior to consideration of a tentative map.
   B.   Development Master Plan: The Planning Commission may, in its
discretion, determine that the proposed subdivision has certain characteristics
that necessitate the preparation of a Development Master Plan. These
characteristics may include size, impact on neighborhoods, density, topography,
utilities, and/or existing and potential future land uses. If a Development
Master Plan is required, it must be submitted to the Planning Commission for
review and possible approval at least twenty one (21) days prior to the
Planning Commission meeting at which the Development Master Plan will be
reviewed.
      1.   Preparation: The Development Master Plan shall be prepared on a
sheet twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36"), shall be accurate in
accordance with industry standards, and shall clearly indicate:
         a.   General street patterns, with particular attention to the
location and general alignment of collector streets and to the maximization of
convenient circulation throughout the neighborhood.
         b.   General locations and sizes of schools, parks and other public
facility sites.
         c.   Locations of shopping centers, multi-family residential units and
other proposed land uses.
         d.   Methods proposed for sewage disposal, water supply and storm
drainage.
      2.   Approval: A tentative map must be consistent with a Development
Master Plan that encompasses its territorial limits. The Development Master
Plan shall establish the general approach to the subdivision design in the
tentative map. Accordingly, the subdivision must be compatible with and not
frustrate the goals and policies set forth in the approved Master Plan. If
development of a subdivision is proposed to take place in several stages, the
Development Master Plan shall be submitted as supporting data for each
tentative map. The Development Master Plan shall be kept up to date by the
subdivider as modifications occur or become necessary. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-5: TENTATIVE MAP STAGE (STAGE II):
The tentative map stage (stage II) includes preparation, submission, review,
and Planning Commission and City Council action on the tentative map. The
subdivider can help expedite processing of the tentative map by submitting all
information needed to determine consistency with this Code and the Elko Master
Plan.
   A.   Zoning Amendments: The tentative map shall be designed to meet the
specific requirements of the zoning district in which it is located. However,
in the event a change of zoning district boundaries is necessary, an
application for a change in zoning consistent with section
3-2-21 of this title shall be submitted and processed in conjunction with the
tentative map. If a change in zoning district boundaries is required, the City
will not continue processing the tentative map until the application for change
of zoning district boundaries is submitted.
The application for change of zoning district boundaries shall be heard by the
Planning Commission at the same meeting as the tentative map is considered, but
shall be acted upon as a separate item. The application for change of zoning
district boundaries shall be heard prior to the action item for possible
approval of the tentative map. When a tentative map constitutes only one unit
of a larger development intended for progressive maps, the change of zoning
district boundaries may be limited to the area contained in the tentative map
application. Any required change of zoning district boundaries shall have been
approved by the City Council prior to tentative map approval. A change of
zoning district boundaries required under this section must, without
limitation, conform to all applicable master plan(s) adopted by the City.
   B.   Sanitary Sewerage, Water Supply, Storm Drainage And Solid Waste
Disposal: As a prerequisite to tentative map review by the Planning Commission,
the subdivider shall provide adequate information to enable the City to
determine whether it conforms to this Code, to include, without limitation, all
applicable requirements for public improvements, such as grading, installation
of a sanitary sewer and sewerage disposal, water supply, storm drainage, solid
waste disposal and the provision of other public utilities to the proposed
subdivision.
   C.   Tentative Map Submittal: The following requirements apply to submission
of the tentative map for review and filing of the tentative map:
      1.   Tentative Map Submittal; Application: Three (3) copies of the
tentative map and any required supporting information and/or data in readable
pdf format (unless otherwise requested by the City), prepared in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter, together with any required filing fee
(collectively referred to as the "tentative map submittal"), shall be filed
with the City Planning Department at least forty two (42) calendar days prior
to the Planning Commission meeting at which the recommendation to approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the tentative map will be considered. Upon
receipt of the tentative map submittal, the City Planning Department will
record the date of receipt and filing. The tentative map submittal shall be
deemed the subdivider's application for approval of the tentative map.
      2.   Initial Review Of Tentative Map Submittal For Completeness Upon
Filing: Upon filing, the City will perform an initial review of the tentative
map submittal to determine if it is complete and satisfies the requirements of
the Nevada Revised Statutes, the Nevada Administrative Code and section
3-3-6 of this chapter. The tentative map submittal must be consistent with the
information provided by the subdivider to the City at the preapplication stage
(stage I) meeting. The Planning Commission will not consider the application
for tentative map approval unless adequate information has been submitted to
permit the City to determine that the tentative map complies with this Code.
Upon request by the City, the subdivider shall furnish additional copies of any
documents required by the City to perform its review.
      3.   Information Required Under Nevada Administrative Code For Review Of
Tentative Map: In addition to any other requirements set forth in this Code,
without limitation, a subdivider shall submit the following documents or other
information to the City:
         a.   A map showing the topographic features of the subdivision,
including contours at intervals of two feet (2') for slopes of ten percent
(10%) or less and intervals of five feet (5') for slopes of over ten percent
(10%).
         b.   Two (2) copies of the map showing the tentative design of the
subdivision, including the arrangement of lots, the alignment of roads and
easements.
         c.   A statement of the type of water system to be used and the water
source, for example, private wells or a public water system.
         d.   Unless water for the subdivision is to be supplied from an
existing public water system, a report of the analyses, performed pursuant to
NAC 278.390, of four (4) samples taken in or adjacent to the subdivision from
different wells. The analyses must show that the water meets the standards
prescribed in NAC 445A.450 to 445A.492, inclusive.
         e.   A map of the 100-year floodplain for the applicable area. The map
must have been prepared by recognized methods or by an appropriate governmental
agency for those areas subject to flooding.
         f.   A description of the subdivision in terms of 40-acre parts of a
designated section, township and range, or any other description which provides
a positive identification of the location of the subdivision.
         g.   A map of the vicinity of the subdivision, showing the location of
the proposed subdivision relative to the City of Elko or a major highway.
         h.   The names and addresses of the owners and developers of the
subdivision.
         i.   A master plan showing the future development and intended use of
all land under the ownership or control of the developer in the vicinity of the
proposed subdivision.
      4.   Filing; Acceptance Or Rejection: If, following the initial review,
the tentative map submittal is determined to conform to the foregoing
requirements, the City will accept the tentative map submittal for filing and
will assign it a file number. Otherwise, the City will reject the tentative map
submittal and inform the subdivider of the deficiencies that resulted in the
rejection. If the subdivider does not correct an incomplete tentative map
submittal within ninety (90) calendar days from the date of filing with the
City, the tentative map submittal will automatically expire and may not be re-
filed without payment of a new filing fee.
      5.   Filing Fee: The subdivider shall, at the time of filing a tentative
map submittal, pay to the City a filing fee based upon the number of lots shown
on the tentative map. The filing fee shall be set by resolution by the City
Council.
   D.   Tentative Map Review By Departments: Upon filing, the tentative map
will be distributed and reviewed as follows:
      1.   Departmental Review Of Tentative Map Submittals: Unless the
tentative map submittal is rejected in accordance with subsection C2 of this
section, following the initial review, the Planning Department will transmit
copies of the tentative map submittal to the City Engineering, Utility, Public
Works, Fire and Development Departments for their respective reviews. In
reviewing the tentative map submittal, these departments will each make a
determination as to the completeness and adequacy of the tentative map
submittal and its conformity to the requirements of this Code, to include any
standardized codes adopted by reference. If any reviewing department determines
that a tentative map submittal is incomplete, inadequate or noncompliant with
this Code, the application will be rejected and the subdivider will be notified
of the deficiencies that resulted in the rejection.
      2.   Distribution Of Tentative Map Submittals To Other Governmental
Entities, Irrigation Ditch Owners And Utilities: If, following the foregoing
departmental review, the City determines that the tentative map submittal is
complete, adequate and in conformity with the requirements of this Code and the
stage I submittal, the City Planning Department will transmit copies of the
tentative map submittal for review to the following, if required by Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 278 or this Code: a) the Division of Water Resources
and the Division of Environmental Protection of the State Department of
Conservation and Natural Resources; b) the District Board of Health acting for
the Division of Environmental Protection to review and certify proposed
subdivisions and to conduct construction or installation inspections; c) if the
subdivision is subject to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 704.6672,
the Public Utilities Commission of Nevada; d) the Board of Trustees for the
Elko County School District; e) the Board of Trustees for any general
improvement district or irrigation district in which the subdivision is
located; f) the owner of an irrigation ditch located within the proposed
subdivision to the extent required under Nevada Revised Statutes 278.3485; g)
the Nevada Department of Transportation, if the subdivision encompasses or is
adjacent to any State roads, highways or rights-of-way; h) Elko County, if the
proposed subdivision is adjacent to property located outside the Elko City
Municipal boundaries; i) any public utilities that are reasonably likely to
provide service to the subdivision. All comments received in response to the
foregoing distributions will be provided to the Planning Commission and the
City Council at the respective meetings during which the application is
considered.
      3.   Planning Commission Review: The Planning Commission shall review the
tentative map submittal for compliance with applicable provisions of the Nevada
Revised Statutes, the Nevada Administrative Code and this Code, to include this
chapter and this title, and shall consider the recommendations of City
departments, non-City governmental agencies and others that have reviewed the
tentative map submittal pursuant to this chapter. It shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider to provide any necessary data and any other
information necessary for the Planning Commission to conduct a comprehensive
review of the proposed subdivision.
      4.   Public Hearing; Notices: Prior to taking any action to recommend
approval, conditional approval or disapproval of a tentative map, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing to receive information about the
proposed subdivision and to consider modifications to the tentative map. The
public hearing shall be set not later than sixty (60) days from the date a
complete tentative map submittal that satisfies the requirements of this Code
is filed with the City. At least ten (10) calendar days prior to the public
hearing, notices of the public hearing shall be sent by mail to all property
owners adjacent to the area proposed to be subdivided. The names and addresses
of the adjacent property owners shall be determined by examining the latest
assessment rolls of the Elko County Assessor. Notice by mail to the last known
addresses of the real property owners as shown by the Elko County Assessor's
records shall be sufficient for purposes of this subsection. Legal notice shall
be placed in a newspaper of general circulation within the City at least ten
(10) calendar days prior to the date of the public hearing.
      5.   Modifications To Tentative Maps: In the event the Planning
Commission requires modifications to the tentative map prior to making a
recommendation of approval or conditional approval, the Planning Commission
shall so inform the subdivider. The Planning Commission may, in its discretion,
provide recommendations to the subdivider regarding the correction of any
deficiencies in the tentative map submittal. The Planning Commission may, in
its discretion, table or continue a public hearing on a tentative map for a
period of time sufficient to permit the subdivider to make any required
modifications to the tentative map submittal. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in
the event the Planning Commission requests that a subdivider make modifications
to a tentative map submittal, the subdivider must present to the Planning
Commission a modified tentative map submittal that complies with the Planning
Commission's request no more than sixty (60) calendar days from the date of the
request. Notwithstanding any other provision in this chapter, the failure of a
subdivider to present a properly modified tentative map submittal to the
Planning Commission in accordance with the preceding sentence shall result in
the automatic expiration of the application for tentative map approval and the
subdivider shall not be entitled to any refund or credit of the filing fee.
   E.   Action On Tentative Map By Planning Commission And City Council: Upon
review by City and other agencies and entities as set forth in the preceding
subsection, the Planning Commission and City Council will take action on the
tentative map as follows:
      1.   Planning Commission Recommendation: Unless modifications to the
tentative map are required pursuant to subsection D of this section, after
accepting a tentative map submittal as a complete application, the Planning
Commission shall, within sixty (60) days of the date the tentative map
submittal is filed, recommend approval, conditional approval or disapproval of
the tentative map in a written report filed with the City Council.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless a longer time is provided in a
development agreement entered into pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
278.0201, the time limit for acting and reporting on a tentative map may be
extended by mutual consent of the subdivider and the Planning Commission;
provided, if no action is taken within the time limits set forth in Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.010 to 278.630, inclusive (subject to any permitted
extensions), a tentative map as filed shall be deemed to be approved without
conditions, and the Planning Commission shall certify the tentative map as
approved. If the Planning Commission recommends conditional approval or
disapproval of a tentative map, the Planning Commission's report to the City
Council shall either state the conditions under which the tentative map would
have been approved or state that approval was withheld because the land
proposed to be subdivided is not suitable for the proposed development, stating
the reasons why the land was not considered suitable.
      2.   Action By City Council To Approve, Conditionally Approve Or
Disapprove Tentative Map; Factors Considered: Except as otherwise provided in
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 278 and this chapter, the City Council shall
approve, conditionally approve or disapprove a tentative map within sixty (60)
days from the date of receipt of the Planning Commission's recommendations.
Before approving a tentative map, the City Council shall make such findings as
are not inconsistent with the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes sections
278.010 through 278.630, inclusive, or this Code, which findings shall include
consideration of the following factors:
         a.   Environmental and health laws and regulations concerning water
and air pollution, the disposal of solid waste, facilities to supply water,
community or public sewage disposal and, where applicable, individual systems
for sewage disposal;
         b.   The availability of water which meets applicable health standards
and is sufficient in quantity for the reasonably foreseeable needs of the
subdivision;
         c.   The availability and accessibility of utilities;
         d.   The availability and accessibility of public services such as
schools, police protection, transportation, recreation and parks;
         e.   Conformity with the zoning ordinances and the City's master plan,
except that if any existing zoning ordinance is inconsistent with the City's
master plan, the zoning ordinance takes precedence;
         f.   General conformity with the City's master plan of streets and
highways;
         g.   The effect of the proposed subdivision on existing public streets
and the need for new streets or highways to serve the subdivision;
         h.   Physical characteristics of the land, such as floodplain, slope
and soil;
         i.   The recommendations and comments of those entities and persons
reviewing the tentative map pursuant to this chapter and Nevada Revised
Statutes 278.330 to 278.3485, inclusive;
         j.   The availability and accessibility of fire protection, including,
but not limited to, the availability and accessibility of water and services
for the prevention and containment of fires, including fires in wild lands; and
         k.   The submission by the subdivider of an affidavit stating that the
subdivider will make provision for payment of the tax imposed by chapter 375 of
Nevada Revised Statutes and for compliance with the disclosure and recording
requirements of subsection 5 of Nevada Revised Statutes 598.0923, if
applicable, by the subdivider or any successor in interest.
      3.   Approval Of Tentative Map Without Conditions: The City Council may
approve the tentative map without conditions; provided, the approval must
include findings that the tentative map meets all requirements of this chapter
and the applicable requirements set forth in the Nevada Revised Statutes and
Nevada Administrative Code.
      4.   Approval Of Tentative Map With Conditions: The City Council may
approve the tentative map with conditions, in which event the City Council
shall, as a requisite to final approval, require the subdivider to submit proof
that the conditions have been satisfied to either or both City staff and/or the
City Council at a subsequent meeting. The City Council may place a deadline on
the time required to satisfy the conditions, after which, unless: a) the
subdivider has submitted proof to the City that the conditions have been
satisfied, b) the subdivider and the City have entered into a development
agreement pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.0201 and this chapter that
extends the time for satisfying the conditions, or c) the City has granted an
extension of time to satisfy the conditions consistent with this chapter, the
tentative map will be automatically deemed disapproved.
      5.   Disapproval Of Tentative Map: The City Council may disapprove a
tentative map, in which event the City Council shall state the reasons for the
disapproval. In the event a tentative map is disapproved, any new filing of a
tentative map for the same property, or any part thereof, shall follow the
procedure set forth in this chapter for a new tentative map application, to
include payment of a new filing fee.
   F.   Limited Authorization To Proceed Upon Approval With Conditions: If the
City Council approves a tentative map with conditions, the subdivider may
commence preparing a final map and engineering construction plans; provided,
nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted as a waiver of any conditions
imposed by the City Council or a commitment that the City will approve a final
map or construction plans.
   G.   Intent To Serve Letters: Upon approval of a tentative map with or
without conditions, the City Utility Department shall provide a water and sewer
"intent to serve" letter to the applicable State agencies.
   H.   Construction Of Subdivision Improvements: Notwithstanding any other
provision contained herein, approval of a tentative map, with or without
conditions, does not constitute authorization to commence any construction
activities associated with the subdivision to include, without limitation,
public improvements. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-6: CONTENT AND FORMAT OF TENTATIVE MAP SUBMITTAL:
   A.   Form And Scale: The tentative map must be graphically depicted on one
or more plan sheets with supporting data either placed directly on the
tentative map or attached to the tentative map in drawings, spreadsheets or
other documents that comply with the requirements of this chapter and are
consistent with industry standards. All maps accompanying the tentative map
shall be drawn to the same standard engineering scale; provided, the scale
shall not be more than one hundred feet (100') to one inch (1"). Whenever
practicable, the plan scale shall result in an overall sheet measuring twenty
four inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36").
   B.   Identification Data: The tentative map shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Proposed subdivision name, location and section, township and range,
with reference by dimension and bearing to a section corner or quarter-section
corner.
      2.   Name, address, telephone number and email address of subdivider(s).
      3.   Name, address, telephone number, email address and Nevada State
Board of Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors license number for each
professional engineer or land surveyor who prepared the tentative map.
      4.   Scale.
      5.   North point.
      6.   Date of initial preparation and dates of any subsequent revisions.
      7.   A small scale location map showing the relationship of the tract to
existing community facilities which serve or influence it, including: arterial
streets, railroads, shopping centers, parks and playgrounds, and churches.
      8.   Legal description defining the boundaries of the proposed
subdivision.
   C.   Physical Conditions: The tentative map shall contain the following
information about existing physical conditions:
      1.   Topography shown with contours at intervals of no more than two feet
(2') and corresponding to the coordinate system maintained by the City.
Topographic information shall be adequate to show the character and drainage of
the land.
      2.   Location of water wells, streams, private ditches, washes and other
water features, including direction of flow, and the location and extent of
areas subject to frequent periodic or occasional inundation.
      3.   The location of flood zones designated by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) and/or any special flood hazard areas.
      4.   Within or adjacent to the proposed subdivision, the locations,
widths and names of all streets, railroads, utility rights-of-way of public
record, public areas, permanent structures that will remain after development
of the subdivision, and Municipal corporate boundaries.
      5.   Dimensions of all subdivision boundaries.
      6.   Gross and net acreage of the subdivision.
   D.   Recorded Map Information: The tentative map shall indicate the title or
description, book and page number(s) of each recorded map for property adjacent
to the proposed subdivision, to include property adjacent to boundary roads,
streets and rights-of-way.
   E.   Existing Zoning: The tentative map shall indicate the existing zoning
classification of the proposed subdivision and adjacent properties.
   F.   Proposed Improvements And Other Features: The tentative map shall show
the following planned improvements and other features within and, where
indicated, adjacent to the subdivision:
      1.   Street layout, including location and width of each street, right-
of-way, alley, sidewalk, pedestrianway and easement, together with access
routes to adjacent existing subdivisions (including routes through parcels that
are not subdivided), the proposed names of all streets, and the approximate
grades of all rights-of-way.
      2.   Lot layout with consecutively numbered lots, indicating the
dimensions and area of each lot, and the total number of lots.
      3.   Location, width and proposed use of easements.
      4.   Location, extent and proposed use of all land to be dedicated or
reserved for public use, including school sites or parks.
      5.   Locations and boundaries of all proposed zoning districts.
   G.   Proposed Deed Restrictions: All proposed deed restrictions shall be
indicated on or appended to the tentative map.
   H.   Preliminary Grading Plan: The subdivider shall provide to the City a
preliminary grading plan indicating areas proposed for cut-and-fill, the type
and estimated quantity of material to be graded, the estimated finished grades
(which must be adequate to establish the general grading trend), the proposed
methods of erosion control, and the general location of and specifications for
any manufactured (cut or fill) slopes.
   I.   NPDES Permit Compliance: The subdivider shall comply with all
applicable provisions of the City's National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES) general permit for discharges from small Municipal separate
storm sewer systems, permit no. NV040000.
   J.   Utility Methods And Requirements:
      1.   Sewage Disposal: The subdivider shall provide the City with a
proposed design for sewage disposal that connects to the City sewer system.
      2.   Water Supply: The subdivider shall provide the City with information
sufficient to demonstrate adequate volume and quality of water from the City
water system.
      3.   Storm Drainage: The subdivider shall provide the City with
preliminary drainage calculations and a proposed layout of the storm drainage
system, including the locations of outlets. The proposed storm drainage system
shall comply with the City's NPDES permit requirements, this Code and all
applicable Federal and State laws and regulations.
      4.   Communication, Electrical And Natural Gas Lines: The subdivider
shall provide the City with a proposed layout for the locations of
communication lines, electrical lines and natural gas lines.
      5.   Traffic Impact Study: The City may, in its discretion, require a
traffic impact study if it determines that additional traffic in the area due
to the subdivision may exceed existing roadway capacities, warrant traffic
signal improvements, warrant the construction of additional travel lanes or
impact State highways. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-7: FINAL MAP STAGE (STAGE III):
   A.   Overview: The final map stage (stage III) includes the final design and
engineering of the subdivision, and the preparation, submission and review of
and official action on the final map and construction plans.
   B.   Requirements For Presentation Of Final Map Or Series Of Final Maps;
Extensions Of Time:
      1.   Unless a longer time is provided in an agreement entered into
pursuant to this chapter, or unless the time is extended by mutual agreement of
the subdivider and the City Council, the subdivider shall present to the City
Council within four (4) years after the approval of a tentative map: a) a final
map, prepared in accordance with the tentative map, for the entire area for
which a tentative map has been approved; or b) the first of a series of final
maps covering a portion of the approved tentative map. If the subdivider elects
to present a successive map in a series of final maps, each covering a portion
of the approved tentative map, the subdivider shall present to the City Council
on or before the second anniversary of the date on which the subdivider
recorded the first in the series of final maps: 1) a final map, prepared in
accordance with the tentative map, for the entire area for which the tentative
map has been approved; or 2) the next final map in the series of final maps
covering a portion of the approved tentative map. If the subdivider fails to
comply with the provisions of the preceding sentence, all proceedings
concerning the subdivision are terminated.
      2.   The City Council may grant an extension of not more than two (2)
years for the presentation of any final map after the 2-year period for
presenting a successive final map has expired.
      3.   Any request for an extension of time to present a final map, to
include a map presented in a series of final maps, shall be submitted in
writing to the City prior to the expiration of time for presenting the final
map.
   C.   Pre-Submission Requirements: Before a final map is submitted to the
City for approval, the following requirements must be satisfied:
      1.   Zoning: The final map shall meet all requirements of the zoning
district in which it is located, and any necessary changes to zoning district
boundaries shall have been adopted by the City Council;
      2.   Preparation Of Final Map: The subdivider shall prepare a final map
that does not materially differ from the approved tentative map and conforms to
all applicable requirements of the Nevada Revised Statutes, the Nevada
Administrative Code and this chapter.
   D.   Utility Easements: The subdivider shall obtain a letter or letters from
all public utilities with utility easements located within the proposed
subdivision indicating approval of the subdivision, which approvals shall be
indicated in an affidavit on the final map.
   E.   Proposed Agreement To Install Improvements: The City shall provide to
the subdivider a proposed agreement to install improvements prepared in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   F.   Final Map Submittal; Filing: The final map submittal shall consist of
three (3) copies and a readable electronic file in pdf format of the final map
and any required supporting information and/or data, and a proposed agreement
to install improvements (to include exhibits thereto), prepared in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter. The final map submittal shall be filed
with the City Planning Department at least forty two (42) calendar days prior
to the Planning Commission meeting at which the final map will be considered.
   G.   Review Of Final Map:
      1.   Review By City Departments: Upon receipt of the final map submittal,
the City Planning Department shall record the receipt and date of filing, and
shall thereafter transmit copies of the final map to the City Engineering,
Utility, Public Works, Fire and Development Departments for their respective
reviews. In reviewing the final map submittal, these departments shall each
make a determination as to the completeness and adequacy of the final map
submittal and its conformity to the requirements of this Code, to include any
standardized codes adopted by reference. If any reviewing department determines
that a final map submittal is incomplete, inadequate or noncompliant with this
Code, the application will be rejected and the subdivider will be notified of
the deficiencies that resulted in the rejection. If the subdivider does not
correct an incomplete final map submittal within ninety (90) calendar days from
the date of filing with the City, the final map submittal will automatically
expire and may not be re-filed without payment of a new filing fee.
      2.   Distribution Of Final Map Submittals To Other Governmental Entities,
Irrigation Ditch Owners And Utilities: If, following the foregoing departmental
review, the City determines that the final map submittal is complete, adequate
and in conformity with the requirements of this Code and the stage II
submittal, the City Planning Department will transmit copies of the final map
submittal for review to: a) the Bureau of Water Pollution Control Nevada
Division of Environmental Protection of the State Department of Conservation
and Natural Resources; b) if the subdivision is subject to the provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes 704.6672, the Public Utilities Commission of Nevada;
and c) the Division of Water Resources of the State Department of Conservation
and Natural Resources. All comments received in response to the foregoing
distributions shall be provided to the Planning Commission and the City Council
at the respective meetings during which the application is under consideration.
      3.   Review By Planning Commission: The Planning Commission shall review
the final map for conformity with the tentative map, this Code and the approved
construction plans, and shall thereafter make a recommendation to the City
Council to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the final map.
   H.   Final Map Approval, Certification And Recordation:
      1.   Upon a recommendation by the Planning Commission to approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the final map, the City shall, within sixty
(60) days, place the item on the agenda for the meeting of the City Council.
      2.   During the meeting at which the final map is presented to the City
Council, the City Council shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove
the final map.
      3.   If the City Council disapproves the final map, it shall state the
reasons for the disapproval and the same shall be placed in the minutes and
communicated to the subdivider.
      4.   Prior to a decision by the City Council to approve the final map,
the City Council shall: a) accept or reject on behalf of the public any parcel
of land offered for dedication for public use in conformity with the terms of
the offer of dedication, b) if applicable, it shall determine that a public
street, easement or utility easement that will not remain in effect after a
merger and re-subdivision of parcels conducted pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 278.4925, has been vacated or abandoned in accordance with Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.480, c) find that the final map substantially complies
with the tentative map and all conditions have been met; and d) approve an
agreement to install improvements that satisfies the requirements of this
chapter.
      5.   Following approval of the final map by the City Council, the City
Clerk shall place upon the final map a certificate, signed by the Mayor and the
City Clerk, stating that: a) the City Council approved the map; b) the City
Council accepted or rejected on behalf of the public any parcel of land offered
for dedication for public use in conformity with the terms of the offer of
dedication; c) if applicable, the City Council determined that a public street,
easement or utility easement that will not remain in effect after a merger and
re-subdivision of parcels conducted pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
278.4925, has been vacated or abandoned in accordance with Nevada Revised
Statutes 278.480; d) the final map substantially complies with the tentative
map and all conditions have been met; and e) a performance agreement is in
place that satisfies the requirements of this chapter.
      6.   Upon approval of a final map with or without conditions, the City
Utility Department shall provide a water and sewer "intent to serve" letter to
the applicable State agencies.
      7.   If the City Council conditionally approves a final map, the
conditions shall be satisfied before the final map is certified. The City
Council may, in its discretion, direct that the conditions be satisfied within
a specified period of time, after which the conditional approval shall expire
and the final map shall be automatically deemed disapproved.
      8.   The City shall not issue any building permits for a subdivision
until certification and recordation of the final map.
      9.   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection H9, the City shall
not issue any certificates of occupancy prior to completion, certification and
acceptance by the City Council of the required improvements as shown on the
construction plans and the State has authorized the City to place the
subdivision utilities into service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon
application by the subdivider, the City Council may waive or modify
requirements applicable to one or more individual improvements in order to
permit the earlier issuance of one or more certificates of occupancy upon a
showing that completion of the improvements is delayed due to inaction on the
part of a Federal or State agency and based on proof of no fault of the
subdivider. Nothing herein shall be interpreted as permitting the waiver or
modification of any requirement contained in Federal Statutes or regulations,
the Nevada Revised Statutes or the Nevada Administrative Code.
      10.   Following certification, the City Clerk shall cause the approved
final map to be presented to the Elko County Recorder for recording. (Ord. 834,
11-27-2018)
3-3-8: CONTENT AND FORMAT OF FINAL MAP SUBMITTAL:
The final map submittal shall contain the following information and comply with
the following requirements and standards:
   A.   Form And Content: The final map, including affidavits, certificates and
acknowledgments, shall be clearly and legibly drawn with black, waterproof
India ink upon Mylar of good quality. Each sheet shall be twenty four inches by
thirty two inches (24" x 32") in size. A marginal line shall be drawn
completely around each sheet showing an entirely blank margin of one inch (1")
at the bottom, top and right edges, and two inches (2") on the left edge on the
twenty four inch (24") dimension. The scale of the map shall be not less than
one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100'). The sheet number and the total number
of sheets comprising the map shall be so stated on each sheet, and the sheet
number in relation to each adjoining sheet shall be clearly shown. The title
sheet shall state the location of the property being subdivided with references
to maps which have been previously recorded or by referring to the National
Coordinate System or a comparable and generally recognized method of mapping
managed and maintained by the National Geodetic Survey or other Federal agency.
Copies of the final map shall be reproduced in blue line or black line prints
on a white background.
   B.   Identification Data And Other Information: The final map shall contain
the following identifying and other information:
      1.   Name of subdivision and location by section, township, range and
County.
      2.   Name, address and license number of the professional land surveyor,
licensed in the State of Nevada, who prepared the final map.
      3.   Scale, north point and date of map preparation.
   C.   Survey Data: The final map shall contain the following survey
information:
      1.   Boundaries of the tract fully balanced and closed, showing all
bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey in the field, with all
dimensions expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
      2.   Any exceptions within the map boundaries located by bearings and
distances expressed in feet and decimals thereof, determined by an accurate
survey in the field.
      3.   Location and description of cardinal points to which all dimensions,
angles, bearings and similar data on the map are referenced, and a subdivision
traverse tied by course and distance to a section corner or quarter-section
corner.
      4.   Location and description of all physical encroachments upon the
boundaries of the tract.
   D.   Descriptive Data: The final map shall contain the following
descriptions:
      1.   Names (where applicable); right-of-way lines; courses, lengths and
widths of all streets, alleys, pedestrianways and utility easements; radii,
points of tangency and central angles of all curvilinear streets and alleys;
and radii of all rounded street line intersections.
      2.   All drainageways, which shall be designated as such.
      3.   All utility and public service easements, including designation of
whether for public access or utilities.
      4.   Locations and dimensions of all lots, parcels and exceptions.
      5.   All residential lots numbered consecutively throughout blocks.
      6.   Locations, dimensions, bearings, radii, arcs, and central angles of
boundaries of all sites to be dedicated to the public, including each
designation of proposed use.
      7.   Location of all adjoining subdivisions with name, date, and book and
page number of recordation noted, or if unrecorded, so noted, along with the
names of adjoining landowners of unsubdivided property.
      8.   Any private deed restrictions to be imposed upon the final map, or
any part hereof, written on or attached to the map and each copy thereof.
   E.   Dedication And Acknowledgment: The final map shall contain the
following information regarding dedications:
      1.   Statement of dedication of all streets, alleys, sidewalks,
pedestrianways, and easements for public purposes by the person holding title
of record, by persons holding title as vendees under land contract, and by
spouses of such persons. If lands to be dedicated are mortgaged, the mortgagee
shall also sign the map. Dedication shall include a written description by
section, township and range of the tract. If the map contains private streets,
public utilities shall be deemed to have reserved the right to install and
maintain utilities in such street rights-of- way.
      2.   Execution of a dedication acknowledged and certified by a notary
public.
   F.   Additional Information: The final map shall contain the following
additional information:
      1.   Where the centerline has been established for any street, highway,
alley or public way within an adjoining subdivision, all monuments along the
portion of the street, highway, alley or public way within the proposed
subdivision shall be located with reference to the foregoing centerline, which
centerline and monuments shall be shown on the final map.
      2.   The centerline of each highway, street, alley or way within the
proposed subdivision and width on each side of the centerline, showing the
width to be dedicated. All centerlines shall be shown with the corresponding
bearing and length of each radius, the central angle and the length of each
curve within the proposed subdivision.
      3.   The location of monuments or other evidence formed upon the ground
and used in determining the boundaries of the subdivision. If other
subdivisions adjoin the tract, the map shall show corners of such adjoining
subdivisions sufficiently identified in such a manner as to locate precisely
the limits of the proposed subdivision.
      4.   The length and bearing of each block line, lot line and boundary
line; the length, radius and central angle of each curve or the length of curve
and that portion of the central angle lying within each lot. The foregoing data
shall be shown in a manner satisfactory to the City.
      5.   Each City boundary line crossing or adjoining the subdivision with
adequate ties to monuments set or found within the subdivision.
      6.   Section lines, one-quarter (1/4) section lines and one- sixteenth
(1/16) section lines crossing or adjoining the subdivision boundaries.
   G.   City To Check: The City will independently review and check the
following information in the final map submittal:
      1.   The City shall check the final map for accuracy of dimensions, the
placing of monuments, the existence of survey records referenced on the final
map, and the conformance of the final map to the tentative map. The final map
shall be accompanied by:
         a.   A worksheet showing the closure of the exterior boundaries of the
proposed subdivision and of the closure of lots and blocks therein;
         b.   A complete set of construction plans showing site grading, lot
grading, street sections, centerline and curb grades, water infrastructure,
water meters, sanitary sewer and storm drain locations and invert grades and
elevations, street lighting, and other private or public improvements required
by the City. The construction drawings must be stamped and dated by a licensed
professional engineer, qualified to practice the discipline of civil
engineering, and so registered in the State of Nevada;
         c.   Construction plans for manholes, catch basins and other
appurtenant structures; and
         d.   An engineer's estimate of quantities and costs required to
complete the improvements. Labor costs shall be based on prevailing wages in
accordance with the requirements of Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 338 and
local rates. The City will check the engineer's estimate and shall thereupon
approve or disapprove the estimate based upon its accuracy. Upon approval by
the City, the engineer's estimate shall provide the basis for the calculating
of the performance guaranty required under section
3-3-22 of this chapter.
      2.   The City will check the final map to determine whether it satisfies
the minimum allowable error of closure of one per ten thousand (1/10,000).
   H.   Required Certifications: The following certifications shall appear on
the final map:
      1.   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
record title interest in the land subdivided, consenting to the preparation and
recordation of the final map. A lien for State, County, Municipal or local
taxes and for special assessments or beneficial interest under deeds of trust,
or trust interests under bond indentures shall not be deemed to be an interest
in land for the purpose of this section.
      2.   A certificate, signed and acknowledged as above, offering for
dedication for certain specified public uses (subject to such reservations as
may be contained in any such offer of dedication) those certain parcels of land
which the parties desire so to dedicate. The certificate may state that any
certain parcel or parcels are not offered for dedication; but a local ordinance
may require as a condition precedent to the approval of any final map that any
or all of the parcels of land shown thereon and intended for any public use
shall be offered for dedication for public use, except those parcels other than
streets intended for the exclusive use of the lot owners in such subdivision,
and for the use of their licensees, visitors, tenants and servants.
      3.   A certificate for execution by the Clerk of each approving Governing
Body stating that the body approved the map and accepted or rejected on behalf
of the public any parcels of land offered for dedication for public use in
conformity with the terms of the offer of dedication.
      4.   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
record title in the land subdivided, evidencing their grant of permanent
easements for utility installations and access, as designated on the final map,
together with a statement approving such easements, signed by each public
utility company or agency in whose favor the easements are created or whose
utility services are to be required for the mapped parcels.
      5.   A certificate by the licensed professional land surveyor responsible
for the survey and final map, which certificate must be in the following form:
         SURVEYOR'S CERTIFICATE
I (name of licensed professional land surveyor), a Professional Land Surveyor
licensed in the State of Nevada, certify that:
1. This map represents the results of a survey conducted under my direct
supervision at the instance of (Owner, Trustee, Etc.).
2. The lands surveyed lie within (sections, township, range, meridian, and, if
required by the City Council, a description by metes and bounds for any
subdivision which is divided into lots containing 5 acres in area or less) and
the survey was completed on (date);
3. This map complies with the applicable state statutes and any local
ordinances in effect on the date that the governing body gave its final
approval.
4. The monuments depicted on the map are of the character shown, occupy the
positions indicated and are of sufficient number and durability.
(OR)
4. The monuments depicted on the map will be of the character shown and occupy
the positions indicated by .............................. (a day certain) and
an appropriate financial guaranty will be posted with the governing body before
recordation to ensure the installation of the monuments.
(Date, name of surveyor, license number and stamp)
      6.   A certificate by the appropriate City official stating that he or
she has examined the final map, that the subdivision as shown thereon is
substantially the same as it appeared on the tentative map, and any approved
alterations thereof, that all applicable provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 278, inclusive, and of any requirements of this Code applicable at the
time of approval of the tentative map have been complied with, that he or she
is satisfied that the final map is technically correct and that the monuments
as shown are of the character and occupy the positions indicated or that the
monuments have not been set and that a proper performance guaranty has been
deposited guaranteeing their setting on or before a day certain. The foregoing
certificate shall be dated, signed and certified by a licensed professional
land surveyor or a licensed professional engineer qualified by the State of
Nevada to practice the discipline of civil engineering.
      7.   A certificate by the Division of Environmental Protection of the
State Department of Conservation and Natural Resources stating as follows:
This final map is approved by the Division of Environmental Protection of the
State Department of Conservation and Natural Resources and is approved
concerning sewage disposal, water pollution, water quality and water supply
facilities in accordance with the Nevada Revised Statutes. This approval
predicates (community, individual) water supply and (community, individual)
sewage disposal.
      8.   A copy of the review by the Division of Environmental Protection of
the State Department of Conservation and Natural Resources required by
subsection H7 of this section shall be furnished to the subdivider who, in
turn, shall provide a copy of such review to each purchaser of land prior to
the time the sale is completed. No statement of approval or review as required
in subsection H7 of this section shall be deemed a warranty or representation
by the City in favor of any person as to the safety or quantity of such water.
      9.   A certificate by the Division of Water Resources of the State
Department of Conservation and Natural Resources as follows:
Division of Water Resources Certificate: This final map is approved by the
Division of Water Resources of the Department of Conservation and Natural
Resources concerning water quantity subject to the review of approval on file
in this office.
      10.   The City Council shall not approve any final map for a subdivision
served by the City Municipal water system unless the subdivider has submitted
plans which provide for the installation of water meters or other devices which
will measure the quantity of water delivered to each water user in the
subdivision. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-9: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISION DESIGN:
   A.   Conformance With Master Plan And Other Requirements: Every subdivision
shall conform to the requirements and objectives of the City master plan, this
title, and all other applicable ordinances and regulations of the City,
together with all other applicable planning documents or plans approved or
adopted by the City Council (to include, without limitation, the Airport Master
Plan, Wellhead Protection Plan, Development Feasibility, Land Use, Water
Infrastructure, Sanitary Sewer Infrastructure and Annexation Report) and
together with the statutes and regulations of the State of Nevada, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   B.   Provision Of Public Facility Sites: Whenever the Statutes of the State
permit the dedication of school sites or parks, the City Council may require
the subdivider to dedicate such sites.
   C.   Land Unsuitability: No land shall be subdivided which is determined by
the Planning Commission to be unsuitable for use by reason of flooding,
concentrated runoff, inadequate drainage, adverse soil or rock formation,
extreme topography, erosion susceptibility or similar conditions which are
likely to prove harmful to the health, safety and general welfare of the
community or the future property owners. The Planning Commission, in applying
the provisions of this section, shall state the particular facts upon which its
conclusions are based, and shall also define any conditions under which the
land may, in its opinion, become suitable for the proposed development. Land
located within any floodway as designated on the City flood insurance rate maps
shall be deemed unsuitable for development. Any subdivider proposing
development of land that is deemed unsuitable for development shall have the
right to present evidence to the City Council contesting such determination of
unsuitability, whereupon the City Council may affirm, modify or withdraw the
restriction. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-10: STREET LOCATION AND ARRANGEMENT:
   A.   Conformance With Plan: Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces part
of a street designated in a street and highway plan adopted by the City, such
street shall be mapped in conformance therewith.
   B.   Layout: Street layout shall provide for the continuation of such
streets as necessary to provide traffic and pedestrian access throughout the
community and as the Planning Commission may designate.
   C.   Extensions: Certain proposed streets, as designated by the Planning
Commission, shall be extended to the tract boundary to provide future
connection with adjoining unmapped lands. Such extensions shall generally not
be farther apart than the maximum permitted length of a block, as hereinafter
provided.
   D.   Arrangement Of Residential Streets: Residential streets shall be so
arranged as to discourage their use by traffic originating outside the
immediate neighborhood.
   E.   Protection Of Residential Properties: Lots intended for single-family
residential use shall not front or have access from arterial streets, except as
otherwise permitted by the City due to site-specific conditions. Where a
proposed subdivision abuts an existing or proposed arterial street, the
Planning Commission may require marginal access streets or reverse property
frontage with nonaccess easements abutting the arterial street, or such other
treatment as may be justified for protection of residential properties from the
nuisance and hazard of high volume traffic, and for protection of the traffic
function of the arterial street.
   F.   Parallel Streets: Where a residential subdivision abuts the right-of-
way of a railroad, a limited access highway, or a commercial or industrial land
use, the Planning Commission may require the design and construction of a
street approximately parallel to such right-of-way or use at a location and
configured in such a manner as to take into account approach grades, drainage,
bridges and future grade separation.
   G.   Topography: Streets shall be so arranged in relation to topography as
to produce desirable lots, provide for maximum utility and streets of
reasonable gradient, and facilitate adequate surface drainage.
   H.   Alleys: Alleys, if any, shall be aligned and arranged in a manner that
minimizes backtracking and single-tier service by trash collection forces, and
that avoids the facing of residences directly into alley openings.
   I.   Half-Streets: Half-streets are prohibited unless approved by the
Planning Commission where necessary to provide a right-of-way in the manner
indicated on the official street and highway plan, to complete a street pattern
already begun, or to ensure reasonable development of an adjoining unmapped
parcel. Where a mapped half-street exists in a location abutting to residential
lots, the remaining half-street shall be mapped within the subdivision.
   J.   Dead End Streets: Dead end streets in excess of six hundred eighty feet
(680') in length are prohibited unless a modification is granted by the
Planning Commission in locations necessary for future street connection to
adjacent unmapped lands. This foregoing qualified prohibition shall also apply
to cul-de-sacs.
   K.   Intersection Design: Whenever any proposed street or highway requires a
separation of grades or any special form of intersection design at its
intersection with any street, highway or railway, the subdivision shall be
designed to conform to any plan adopted by the City for the intersection design
and all lots within the subdivision shall, when necessary, be provided with
suitable access from another public way. Any street or highway intersecting
another street or highway shall intersect it at any angle as close to a right
angle as is practicable. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-11: STREET DESIGN:
   A.   Right-Of-Way Widths: Right-of-way widths for streets and roads are as
follows:
      1.   Arterial streets: One hundred feet (100').
      2.   Minor arterial streets: Eighty feet (80').
      3.   Collector streets: Seventy feet (70').
      4.   Collector residential streets: Sixty feet (60').
      5.   Local residential streets: Fifty feet (50').
      6.   Collector rural residential streets: Seventy feet (70').
      7.   Local rural residential streets: Sixty feet (60').
   B.   Rural Roads: All rural roads shall conform to the following
requirements and standards:
      1.   All infrastructure associated with a rural road shall be constructed
at the time of road development; including but not limited to culvert
installation and pedestrian way, sidewalk or pathway construction.
      2.   All rural roads shall include a minimum ten foot (10') wide public
utility and slope easement located on one or both sides of the road right-of-
way; provided, the City may, in its discretion, increase the required width of
the foregoing easement if warranted under the circumstances.
      3.   Rural roads which are projected through a traffic study or similar
analysis to serve more than six hundred (600) average daily vehicle trips shall
satisfy the collector rural residential street design standard.
      4.   Pedestrian ways, sidewalks or pathways associated with rural roads
shall be constructed of concrete or asphalt. Sidewalks or pathways shall be
constructed on both sides of the road and outside of the public utility and
slope easement(s).
      5.   On-street parking on rural roads, except for temporary or emergency
parking, is prohibited, and the subdivider shall install appropriate signage to
notify the public of this prohibition.
      6.   To minimize excessive culvert installation and associated
maintenance, access approaches for rural roads shall be limited to either: a)
one driveway, not to exceed thirty feet (30') in width or b) two (2) separated
driveways, each of which shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in width. Culvert
installation is required at the time of roadway construction and, without
limitation, shall not be deferred.
      7.   Rural roads are prohibited in subdivisions not meeting the criteria
set forth in subsection
3-2-5A5b of this title.
      8.   Rural roads are prohibited in areas within capture zones as
delineated in the City's Wellhead Protection Plan.
      9.   Maximum cul-de-sac length for rural roads may be increased in
dimension to serve no more than twenty (20) residential dwelling units;
provided, under no circumstance shall such cul-de-sacs exceed a length of one
thousand three hundred sixty feet (1,360').
   C.   Private Streets: Private streets within a subdivision shall satisfy the
requirements and standards applicable to streets with local street
classifications, functions and characteristics. Private streets shall only
serve an area contained entirely within the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision and shall provide access to the public street system at an
intersection, the design of which shall be subject to the review and approval
by the City. All private streets shall conform to the following requirements
and standards:
      1.   Minimum total width for private streets accessing five (5) or more
lots: Fifty feet (50').
      2.   Minimum total width for private streets accessing four (4) or fewer
lots: Thirty two feet (32').
      3.   Minimum paved section for private streets accessing five (5) or more
lots: Forty feet (40').
      4.   Minimum paved section for private streets accessing four (4) or
fewer lots: Twenty six feet (26').
      5.   All residential private streets accessing twenty (20) or fewer lots
shall have a four foot (4') wide sidewalk on at least one side of the street.
      6.   All residential private streets accessing more than twenty (20) lots
shall have four foot (4') wide sidewalks on both sides of the street.
      7.   All commercial and industrial private streets accessing four (4) or
fewer lots shall have a five foot (5') wide sidewalk on at least one side of
the street, or as otherwise determined as part of an approved concept
development plan.
      8.   All commercial and industrial private streets accessing more than
four (4) lots shall have five foot (5') wide sidewalks on both sides of the
street, unless otherwise provided in a development plan entered into between
the subdivider and the City.
      9.   All private streets shall provide for adequate storm drainage and
employ the use of curb and gutter sections to convey runoff, the design of
which shall be subject to the review and approval of the City.
      10.   Parking spaces, inclusive of back up areas as required by section
3-2-17 of this title, shall not be located within a private street, unless
otherwise provided in a development plan entered into between the subdivider
and the City.
      11.   All infrastructure associated with private streets shall be
constructed at the time of street development.
   D.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sac streets shall terminate in a circular right-of-
way not less than fifty feet (50') in radius with an improved turning circle
with a radius of at least forty five feet (45'). The Planning Commission may
approve a functionally equivalent form of turning space if justified by unusual
conditions. The maximum length of cul-de-sac streets, as measured along the
centerline of the street and between the centerline of the intersecting street
and the center point of the cul-de-sac, shall not exceed six hundred eighty
feet (680').
   E.   Marginal Access Streets: Marginal access streets shall conform to all
applicable requirements and standards set forth in this Code.
   F.   Alleys: Where permitted or required, alleys shall have a minimum width
of twenty feet (20') and shall conform to the following requirements and
standards:
      1.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment should be
avoided; provided, where such features are necessary, corners shall be cut off
ten feet (10') on each side to permit safe vehicular movement.
      2.   Dead end alleys are prohibited.
      3.   "Half" alleys are prohibited.
   G.   Dead End Streets: Dead end streets are only permitted with the approval
of the City, which approval, if given, may contain conditions applicable to the
subsequent development of the street; provided, if a dead end street is
approved by the City, the street shall include easements permitting the
subsequent construction of a temporary turning circle with a fifty foot (50')
radius or a functionally equivalent design.
   H.   All Streets: The design and construction of all streets within the
City, including both public and private streets, shall conform to the public
improvement standards set forth in section
3-3-17 of this chapter.
   I.   Model Code Standards: All streets shall conform to any model codes
adopted by reference in this Code, to include the Fire Code.
   J.   Street Grades: Streets shall be designed and constructed subject to the
following grade requirements and standards:
      1.   Maximum Grades:
         a.   Arterial and minor arterial streets: Maximum grades will be
determined by the City based on site-specific conditions.
         b.   Collector streets: No more than seven percent (7%).
         c.   Collector residential and local residential streets: No more than
nine percent (9%).
      2.   Minimum Grades: New asphalt streets with concrete gutters shall have
a minimum longitudinal slope of 0.50 percent. Minimum grades for the
rehabilitation of existing streets will be determined by the City based on
site-specific conditions.
      3.   Exceptions: The Planning Commission may, in its discretion, grant an
exception to the minimum and maximum grade requirements contained in this
subsection if the cost to the subdivider substantially outweighs the public
benefit.
   K.   Vertical Curves: Streets shall be designed and constructed subject to
the following vertical curve requirements and standards:
      1.   Arterial And Minor Arterial Streets: Vertical curves standards for
arterial and minor arterial streets will be determined by the City based on
site-specific conditions.
      2.   Collector And Local Streets: Collector and local streets will be
designed and constructed with minimum k values of 30 for crests and 40 for sag
curves. Vertical curves are not required when the algebraic difference between
the two (2) slopes is less than two percent (2%).
   L.   Horizontal Alignment: Streets shall be designed and constructed subject
to the following horizontal alignment requirements and standards:
      1.   Horizontal alignment standards for arterial and minor arterial
streets will be determined by the City based on site-specific conditions.
      2.   When tangent centerlines deflect from each other by more than ten
degrees (10°) and less than ninety degrees (90°), they shall be connected by a
curve having a minimum centerline radius of two hundred feet (200') for
collector streets, or one hundred feet (100') for collector residential and
local residential streets.
      3.   Between reverse curves, there shall be a tangent section of
centerline not less than one hundred feet (100') long.
      4.   Streets shall intersect arterial streets at ninety degree (90°)
angles. Intersecting collector streets, collector residential streets and local
residential streets typically intersect at ninety degree (90°) angles, but in
no case shall such an angle of intersection be less than seventy five degrees
(75°).
      5.   Street jogs are prohibited unless the City grants an exception based
on site-specific conditions.
      6.   Local residential streets or collector residential streets
intersecting a collector street or arterial street shall have a tangent section
of centerline at least one hundred fifty feet (150') in length measured from
the right-of-way line of the more major street, except that no such tangent
shall be required when the local residential or collector residential street
curve has a centerline radius greater than four hundred feet (400') measured
from a center located on the more major street right-of-way line.
      7.   Street intersections with more than four (4) legs and Y-type
intersections with legs meeting at acute angles are prohibited.
      8.   Intersections of street lines shall be rounded by a circular arc
having a minimum tangent length of fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-12: BLOCK DESIGN:
   A.   Maximum Length Of Blocks: Within the following maximums, blocks shall
be as long as reasonably possible to achieve the greatest possible street
economy, and to reduce the expense and increased safety hazard arising from
excessive street intersections. Maximum block length, measured along the
centerline of the street and between intersecting street centerlines, shall not
exceed one thousand three hundred sixty feet (1,360').
   B.   Sidewalks Or Pedestrianways: Sidewalks or pedestrianways with a right-
of-way width of eight feet (8') are required if the Planning Commission
determines they are essential for pedestrian circulation within the subdivision
or will enhance access to schools, playgrounds or other community facilities.
Rights-of-way for sidewalks and pedestrianways may be used for utility purposes
so long as those purposes do not unreasonably interfere with pedestrian
traffic.
   C.   Hillside Areas: Subdivisions or portions of subdivisions with hillside
areas must satisfy the applicable requirements set forth in section
3-2-28 of this title. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-13: LOT PLANNING:
   A.   Lot Width, Depth And Area: Except as otherwise provided in this
section, lot width, depth and area shall comply with all applicable zoning
requirements, shall be appropriate for the location and character of the
proposed subdivision, shall comply with the provisions of any development
agreement entered into pursuant to section
 3-2-26 of this title, and shall be appropriate for the type and extent of
public improvements being installed. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence,
where steep topography, unusual soil conditions or drainage problems render the
cost of complying with these requirements excessive in light of the benefit to
the public, the Planning Commission may, in its discretion, permit a greater
lot width, depth and/or area than is otherwise allowed for the zoning district
or which would otherwise be required under this section.
   B.   Lot Depth And Width: Lot depths shall be at least one hundred feet
(100') and widths at least sixty feet (60'); provided, the Planning Commission
may, in its discretion, permit narrower lot widths on cul-de-sacs upon a
showing of good cause by the subdivider.
   C.   Building Setback: Minimum building setbacks shall conform to all
applicable requirements set forth in this Code.
   D.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be at or near right angles or
radial to street lines, unless the Planning Commission, in its discretion,
permits a different alignment upon a showing of good cause by the subdivider.
   E.   Accessibility: Every lot shall abut a public street or private street
that is connected to the public street system.
   F.   Prohibitions: Single-family residences are not permitted on double
frontage lots, except that, subject to the approval of the Planning Commission
for good cause shown, such lots may be permitted in locations abutting an
arterial street so long as all dwellings front on local or collector streets
and there is no access from the arterial street. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-14: EASEMENT PLANNING:
Utilities shall be placed underground unless the Planning Commission approves a
modification to permit overhead utilities based on unique site conditions, in
which event the Planning Commission may impose conditions on the modification.
The following easement requirements shall apply to all new subdivisions:
   A.   Utility Easements:
      1.   Where alleys are shown on a final map, utility easements four feet
(4') wide on each side of each alley shall be dedicated for aerial overhang.
Where alleys are not shown on the final map, utility easements six feet (6')
wide on each side of rear lot lines shall be delineated on the final map and
offered for dedication. In addition, guy and anchor easements one foot (1')
wide on each side of a side lot line and thirty five feet (35') in length
measured from the rear lot line, in locations selected by the City, or as
required by the serving utility, shall be shown on the final map and dedicated.
      2.   Utility easements five feet (5') wide adjacent to each side of side
lot lines, and where service to street lighting is required, one foot (1'), on
each side of such lot lines, or as required by the serving utilities, shall be
shown on the final map and dedicated.
   B.   Underground Utilities: Where all utilities are underground:
      1.   Rear Lot Lines: Where alleys are shown on the final map,
corresponding easements required by the serving utilities shall be shown on the
final map and dedicated. Where alleys are not shown on the final map, utility
easements five feet (5') wide along each side of rear lot lines shall be shown
on the final map and dedicated.
      2.   Side Lot Lines: Easements for utilities and lot drainage on all side
lot lines shall be shown on the final map and dedicated. All utility service
lines, including service lines for gas, electricity, telephone, communications,
and street lighting shall be channeled in easements five feet (5') wide on each
side of the lot line separating pairs of lots to the extent required by the
serving utilities.
      3.   Street Rights-Of-Way: Easements for utilities and lot drainage on
lot lines abutting street rights-of-ways shall be shown on the final map and
dedicated. All such easements shall be a minimum of seven and one-half feet
(71/2') wide.
   C.   Lots Facing Curvilinear Streets: For lots with fronts facing
curvilinear streets and alleys, easements for overhead utilities shall consist
of either:
      1.   A series of straight lines with points of deflection not less than
one hundred twenty feet (120') apart, such points of deflection always
occurring at the junction of side and rear lot lines on the side of the
exterior angle; or
      2.   A curvilinear easement, provided the minimum radius of the
centerline shall be not less than eight hundred feet (800').
   D.   Public Drainage Easement: Where a stream or major surface drainage
course abuts or crosses the subdivision, the subdivider shall show on the final
map and dedicate a public drainage easement sufficient to permit widening,
deepening, relocating or protecting the drainage course. The subdivider's
engineer shall provide the City with sufficient information about the drainage
to evaluate the adequacy of the easement.
   E.   Easement Land Not Considered And Considered In Minimum Lot Area
Calculation: Land within a public street or drainage easement, or land within a
utility easement for major power transmission lines or pipelines, shall not be
included in the calculation of the minimum required lot area. However, land
included in utility easements to be used for distribution or service purposes
within the subdivision, and land included in the five foot (5') wide and seven
and one-half foot (71/2') wide drainage easements along lot lines and street
rights-of-way, shall be included in the calculation of the minimum required lot
area.
   F.   Lots Backing Onto Arterial Streets: Lots arranged to back of arterial
streets, railroads, canals or Commercial or Industrial Districts, as provided
in this chapter, shall have a minimum depth of one hundred ten feet (110'), the
rear one foot (1') of which shall be recorded as a nonaccess private easement.
   G.   Water And Sewer Utility Lines: Municipal water and sewer utility lines
shall be installed within the City street rights- of-way, unless otherwise
approved by the Planning Commission and/or the City Council based on special
circumstances. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-15: STREET NAMING:
At the tentative map stage (stage II), the subdivider shall propose names for
all streets in the subdivision. A street name may be disapproved by the
Planning Commission, in which event the subdivider must receive approval from
the Planning Commission for a new street name. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-16: STREET LIGHTING DESIGN STANDARDS:
   A.   Requirements: Street lighting shall be installed in a subdivision in
accordance with the following requirements:
      1.   The subdivider shall install streetlights, shall make all necessary
arrangements with the appropriate utility company for the installation of
streetlights, and shall bear all costs relating to the purchase and placement
of streetlights. Streetlights shall be installed by a properly licensed
contractor possessing a valid City business license.
      2.   Street lighting plans are prepared by the utility company providing
electricity to the subdivision. Once prepared, the subdivider shall submit the
street lighting plans to the City for review. Street lighting plans must show
the location of each streetlight, the corresponding power source and the size
of luminaries measured in watts or lumens.
      3.   The City will not accept any public improvements or issue a
certificate of occupancy for any part of a subdivision until all street
lighting within each construction phase is complete and fully operational.
      4.   Requests for street lighting in previously developed areas must be
approved by the City for location and installation prior to being submitted to
the utility company for design engineering.
      5.   Once the street lighting has been installed and operational,
approval by the City will constitute acceptance of the street lighting and the
City will then be responsible for the energy costs and maintenance thereafter.
   B.   Design Standards: All streetlight installations shall be designed in
accordance with the following minimum design standards:
      1.   All luminaries shall be LED luminaires with a minimum of one hundred
watt (100 W) equivalent LED for residential areas and a minimum of two hundred
watt (200 W) equivalent LED for commercial/industrial areas or approved equal.
      2.   A streetlight shall be placed at each street intersection and shall
be situated to properly illuminate the intersection.
      3.   A streetlight shall be placed at each proposed U.S. Postal Service
gang box location.
      4.   Streetlights shall be placed between intersections at midblock
locations with a minimum spacing of three hundred fifty feet (350') and maximum
of five hundred feet (500') between all lights.
      5.   A streetlight shall be placed at the end of each cul-de-sac. (Ord.
834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-17: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
The design, construction and financing of all public improvements, such as but
not limited to, grading, sidewalks, curbs, streetlights, gutters, pavements,
sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains, fire hydrants, drainage structures
and monuments shall be the responsibility of the subdivider and shall conform
to public improvement standards established by the City; provided, however,
that the subdivider may satisfy such requirements by participating in an
improvement district approved by the City. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-18: CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
The subdivider shall contract with or otherwise utilize a properly licensed
professional engineer to prepare a complete set of construction plans for the
construction of all required subdivision improvements. The construction plans
shall include (unless otherwise waived if permitted under this chapter) all
infrastructure necessary for the construction of the subdivision including, but
not limited to: streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, drainage, water, wastewater
and protection of important environmental features. The construction plans
shall be based on, consistent with and prepared in conjunction with the final
map. Construction plans shall not be prepared until stage III of the
subdivision planning and approval process, and must be approved by the City and
all State and Federal agencies with approval authority, prior to certification
and recordation of the final map. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-19: CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Inspections; Performance Agreement; Permits Required: The following
requirements apply to improvements constructed in public rights-of-way:
      1.   All improvements constructed in public rights-of-way shall be
subject to inspection by the City and must be approved by the City prior to
certification and recordation of the final map.
      2.   Construction of improvements in public rights-of-way shall not
commence until the subdivider has entered into a performance agreement with the
City in accordance with sections
3-3-21 and
3-3-22 of this chapter.
      3.   Construction of improvements in public rights-of-way shall not
commence until all Federal, State, and local approvals and permits have been
issued for such construction.
   B.   Underground Utilities: All underground utilities to be placed in
streets shall be constructed prior to the surfacing of such streets. Service
stubs for underground utilities to be connected to lots shown on the final map
shall be installed with sufficient length to avoid disturbing street
improvements at the time service connections are made. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-20: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys within the subdivision shall
be graded, drained and surfaced to cross sections, grades, standards, and
profile approved by the City. If there are existing streets adjacent to the
subdivision, proposed streets within the subdivision shall be fully improved to
the intercepting paving line of the existing streets. Temporary dead end
streets serving more than four (4) lots shall be designed and constructed with
a graded all-weather, temporary turning circle, subject to any additional
requirements imposed by the City based upon site conditions. The subdivider
shall construct adequate permanent culverts and bridges at all points within
the subdivision where watercourses are crossed by streets or alleys. Culverts
and bridges shall, without limitation, conform to all applicable requirements
of this Code and be constructed to the full width of the dedicated street or
alley.
   B.   Curbs: Curbs shall be constructed of Portland cement concrete. The
construction of curbs, gutters and valley gutters shall be subject to any
additional standards required by the City, which standards may be imposed based
on site conditions.
   C.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be four feet (4') wide in all locations
adjacent to residential or local streets, and five feet (5') wide in all
locations adjacent to streets classified as collector, minor arterial,
arterial, or major arterial. Sidewalks shall be constructed on both sides of
all streets unless the requirement is waived pursuant to a specific provision
of this Code permitting such a waiver.
   D.   Pedestrianways: Pedestrianways shall be constructed of Portland cement
concrete or asphalt. All pedestrianways shall be constructed to a width, line
and grade approved by the City based on site conditions.
   E.   Street Name Signs: The subdivider shall install street name signs at
all street intersections before the time the street pavement is ready for use.
Design, construction, location and installation of street name signs shall
conform to all applicable standards adopted by the City.
   F.   Stormwater Drainage: The design and construction of public streets and
alleys, and the grading of private properties, shall provide for adequate
disposal of stormwater. Existing major drainage courses shall be maintained and
dedicated as public drainageways. The type, extent, location and capacity of
drainage facilities shall be designed by the subdivider's engineer and approved
by the City. The subdivider shall install stormwater drainage facilities to the
grade, in the locations, to the depths and of the materials shown on plans and
specifications approved by the City. Storm and surface water drain pipes and
mains, together with catch basins, shall be designed and constructed to provide
discharge in a manner and at a place approved by the City. The design and
construction of stormwater drainage facilities shall conform to all applicable
requirements of this Code, to include the requirements of title 9, chapter 8,
"Postconstruction Runoff Control And Water Quality Management", of this Code.
   G.   Sanitary Sewerage:
      1.   The subdivider shall install public sanitary sewers in the
subdivision. Sanitary sewers shall be connected to a public sewer system.
Sewers, connections and related apparatus shall be constructed in accordance
with plans, profiles, and specifications approved by the Nevada Division of
Environmental Protection and the City, and in accordance with approved City
standards and State of Nevada requirements. The subdivider shall install
sanitary sewers to the grade, in the locations, to the depth and of the
material shown on plans and specifications approved by the City. The subdivider
shall connect each lot in the subdivision to sanitary sewer mains at locations
specified by the City.
      2.   The subdivider shall install manholes in conjunction with the
installation of sanitary sewer mains at the points, in the manner and according
to specifications approved or provided by the City.
   H.   Water Supply:
      1.   The subdivider shall design and construct the water supply system in
such a manner as to ensure that each lot is supplied with safe, pure and
potable water in sufficient volume and pressure for domestic use and fire
protection, and that conforms to all applicable State and City standards and
requirements. The subdivider shall install, to grade, all water mains and lines
with the materials that are shown on plans and specifications approved by the
City. Connections from said mains and lines shall be installed to each lot in
said subdivision. The construction plans shall show the locations of shutoff
valves to each block and lot. All proposed water systems shall connect to the
City Municipal water system.
      2.   Water meter boxes and water meters shall be installed on all lots.
Water meter boxes shall conform to all applicable standards and specifications
set by the City, and shall be subject to approval by the City.
   I.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall conform to all applicable standards
and specifications set by the City (to include, without limitation, the Fire
Code, section
6-1-1 of this Code), and shall be subject to approval by the City.
   J.   Power, Communications, And Gas Utilities:
      1.   The subdivider shall install or arrange for the installation of the
following utilities: electric power and communication lines. These utilities
shall be installed in all subdivisions. All electric distribution facilities
shall be installed underground, except in unusual situations involving short
extensions of overhead facilities existing on abutting subdivisions, which
extensions are only permitted if approved by the City Council. All underground
electric distribution lines and communication lines shall be installed in
accordance with General Order no. 9 issued by the Public Utilities Commission
of Nevada. A minimum of two (2) one and one-half inch (1 ½") conduits are
required for current and future communication infrastructure.
      2.   In addition to the utilities listed in subsection J1, above, the
subdivider shall install or arrange for the installation of natural gas unless
waived by the Development Manager or other person designated by the City
Council based on the following criteria:
         a.   The utility that provides natural gas is not required to supply
natural gas to the subdivision; and
         b.   All other required utilities are shown on the approved
construction plans for the subdivision.
A waiver granted under this subsection J2 shall not prohibit the future
installation of natural gas infrastructure to any property located within the
development and the subdivider shall reserve sufficient easements to permit
such future installations by either the natural gas provider or individual
property owners.
   K.   Survey Monuments: Permanent monuments shall be installed in accordance
with standards set by the City at all corners, angle points, points of curve
and street intersections. After all improvements in the subdivision have been
installed, the subdivider shall have a registered land surveyor check the
locations of monuments and certify their accuracy. Monuments shall be at or
near boundary corners. Monuments shall be set at intermediate points of
approximately one thousand feet (1,000') or at such lesser distances as may be
necessary by reason of topography or culture to ensure accuracy in the
reestablishment of any point or line without unreasonable difficulty. All
monuments shall be permanently and visibly marked with the license number of
the registered land surveyor under whose supervision the survey was made, and a
description of such monument shall be shown on the final map. The subdivider
shall set monuments at street intersections and at the beginning and ending of
each curve, unless the intersection of tangents of said centerline falls within
the street right-of-way, in which event the City may permit the subdivider to
establish a monument at the intersection in lieu of monuments at the beginning
and end of the curve.
   L.   Lot Corner Staking: Five-eighths inch (5/8") reinforcing steel with a
cap having a mark for the exact point and stamped "PLS" followed by the number
of the professional land surveyor's license shall be set at all corners, angle
points and points of curve for each subdivision lot prior to final acceptance
of the subdivision. The cost for lot corner staking, under the direction of a
professional land surveyor, shall be included as part of the public
improvements and shall be a line item on the "engineer's estimate of the costs
of the public improvements".
   M.   Street Lighting: Street lighting shall be installed on all streets and
at all locations designated by the City within the subdivision in conformity
with section
3-3-16 of this chapter, to include City standards for materials, design and
construction. The subdivider will bear all costs for the design and
installation of streetlights.
   N.   Stormwater Discharge And Land Disturbance: All construction activities
that have the potential to create a land disturbance of greater than one acre
shall comply with State construction site stormwater general permit
requirements and the City's National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
general permit for discharges from small Municipal separate storm sewer
systems. This requires developers and/or contractors to obtain a State
stormwater discharge permit and City grading permit for these projects. The
subdivider shall provide construction site stormwater erosion protection for
all construction. Permanent stormwater erosion measures meeting the minimum
requirements of the City stormwater management plan will be enforced.
   O.   Full Frontage: The subdivider must construct and install all required
public utilities across the full frontage of property at the time of
development of the subdivision.
   P.   Site Grading: The subdivider shall:
      1.   Ensure that the subdivision is constructed with sufficient site
grading for the required improvements;
      2.   Ensure that each lot area is buildable; and
      3.   Ensure that there is adequate site drainage control. (Ord. 834, 11-
27-2018; amd. Ord. 871, 6-28-2022)
3-3-21: AGREEMENTS TO INSTALL IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Provisions And Requirements Of Agreement To Install Improvements:
Except as otherwise provided in this section, no more than thirty (30) calendar
days after the later of the approval of the final map or the approval of a
proposed agreement to install improvements by the City Council, prior to the
commencement of construction of subdivision improvements, and prior to
certification of the final map, the subdivider shall enter into and have on
file with the City an agreement to install improvements, fully executed by the
subdivider and the City, containing the following provisions:
      1.   That the engineer's estimate must be approved by the City;
      2.   That the total engineer's estimate must be an amount no less than
the full cost of the following improvements:
         a.   Improvements required under section
3-3-20 of this chapter;
         b.   Improvements shown on the construction plans prepared and
approved in accordance with section
3-3-18 of this chapter;
         c.   The cost of required inspection and testing by a properly
licensed engineer to oversee the quality assurance and quality control
necessary to ensure certification for the construction of the approved
construction plans;
         d.   The cost to replace any existing streets, utilities or other
improvements that are included in the required improvements as shown on the
construction plans;
         e.   The cost to prepare the as-built drawings and any associated
documents; and
         f.   Incidental expenses associated with the foregoing work.
      3.   One of the following provisions, at the election of the subdivider:
         a.   That the subdivider will complete the subdivision improvements
with its own resources, subject to terms and conditions approved by the City in
the agreement to install improvements; provided, during the construction of
subdivision improvements, the subdivider may, at its option, guarantee
performance of the remaining subdivision improvements with a performance
guaranty that conforms to subsection A3b of this section and section
3-3-22 of this chapter; or
         b.   That the subdivider will guarantee the completion of the
subdivision improvements by providing to the City a performance guaranty that
satisfies the requirements of section
3-3-22 of this chapter, and that a performance guaranty given in the form of a
bond or irrevocable letter of credit shall not expire or be released by the
issuer prior to completion of all required subdivision improvements and written
authorization by the City permitting the performance guaranty to expire or be
released.
      4.   That all subdivision improvements identified in the agreement to
install improvements shall be completed within a specified period, not to
exceed two (2) years, to the satisfaction of the City.
      5.   That in the event the required subdivision improvements are not
completed within the specified period to the satisfaction of the City, the City
may, with City Council approval, complete or cause to be completed the
improvements and thereafter recover from the subdivider the full cost and
expenses therefor.
      6.   That approved construction plans are appended to the agreement to
install improvements as an exhibit.
      7.   That the construction plans and all required improvements shall be
approved by the City, applicable State and Federal agencies prior to the
commencement of construction.
      8.   That the subdivider shall, at its own expense, use the services of a
licensed professional engineer to: a) oversee the construction of the
subdivision, b) provide to the City copies of all test results required under
the specifications for the project and c) provide the City with a stamped
certification that the subdivision was constructed in conformity with the
approved construction plans.
      9.   That the subdivider shall pay the cost of inspection, testing and
surveying all subdivision improvements and, further, that if the City
determines the subdivider is not performing adequate surveying, inspection and/
or testing through the use of a properly licensed professional engineer or land
surveyor (as appropriate), the City may then, in its discretion, order the
subdivider to immediately stop work; and that the City may thereafter hire a
properly licensed professional engineer and/or land surveyor to perform the
remaining surveying, inspection and/or testing, the cost of which shall be
reimbursed to the City by the subdivider upon demand and prior to final
acceptance of the subdivision improvements by the City.
      10.   That the subdivider's engineer shall provide to the City as- built
drawings of all subdivision improvements, and further, that the as-built
drawings shall be submitted both in digital format and on paper, the paper
version to be wet-stamped by the subdivider's engineer prior to submittal to
the City.
      11.   That the subdivider shall use qualified and properly licensed
contractors for the construction of all required improvements, to include all
subdivision improvements shown on the construction plans.
      12.   That the parties acknowledge the City Council will only accept the
subdivision improvements if: a) the subdivider's engineer certifies that the
subdivision improvements are complete and b) the City independently confirms
that the subdivision improvements are complete.
      13.   That the subdivider shall provide the City with a maintenance
guaranty that satisfies the requirements of section
3-3-22 of this chapter, and that the one year maintenance period shall commence
on the date the City Council accepts the subdivision improvements.
      14.   That the subdivider's breach of the agreement to install
improvements shall constitute a default, including, without limitation, the
following:
         a.   Subdivider's failure to complete construction of subdivision
improvements within time stated in the agreement to install improvements;
         b.   Subdivider's failure to timely cure any defect in the subdivision
improvements;
         c.   Subdivider's insolvency, appointment of a receiver, or the filing
of any petition in bankruptcy, either voluntary or involuntary, which
subdivider fails to discharge within thirty (30) days; or
         d.   Subdivider fails to perform any other obligation under the
agreement to install improvements.
      15.   That in the event of a default by the subdivider: a) the City may
thereafter draw upon any performance guaranty provided to the City to complete
the subdivision improvements and mitigate the City's damages (if applicable),
in addition to any other remedies available to the City; b) the subdivider
shall promptly, but in no case more than thirty (30) days after written notice
from the City, dedicate all remaining undedicated and required rights-of- way
for the continuation of existing streets into the subdivision; and c) the City
may record all deeds of dedication for rights-of-way for the continuation of
existing streets into the subdivision.
      16.   That in the event of a default by the subdivider, the City reserves
all remedies available to it at law and in equity.
      17.   That upon a determination by the City that specific improvements
have been satisfactorily constructed and completed, funds may be released from
the performance guaranty (if applicable) either by refunding a portion of a
cash deposit to the subdivider or by authorizing a reduction of a bond or other
form of non-cash guaranty, so long as the foregoing release of funds does not
exceed ninety percent (90%) of the value of the completed improvements that
have been certified by the subdivider's engineer and approved by the City. The
foregoing determination by the City shall be subject to the appeal rights set
forth in section
3-3-30 of this chapter.
   B.   Additional Provisions: Notwithstanding any other requirements set forth
in this section, the agreement to install improvements may also contain any of
the following provisions and/or requirements:
      1.   That the construction of improvements shall take place in specified
stages.
      2.   That the time to complete construction may be extended by the City,
in its discretion, subject to specified conditions.
   C.   Modifications, Extensions: At the written request of the subdivider,
the terms and conditions, to include time frames and deadlines, contained in an
executed agreement to install improvements may be modified by the City Council
upon a demonstration of good cause by the subdivider, so long as the
modification does not frustrate the purposes of this Code or relieve the
subdivider of the requirement to construct or compensate the City for
constructing the required subdivision improvements. The subdivider shall, at
the time of filing the written request for modification of the agreement to
install improvements, pay a filing fee to the City in an amount established by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-22: PERFORMANCE AND MAINTENANCE GUARANTEES:
   A.   Completion Or Guaranty: To ensure that subdivision improvements are
properly completed at the subdivider's expense, the subdivider shall either: 1)
complete the subdivision improvements with its own resources according to the
agreement to install improvements and other terms and conditions approved by
the City, in which event the subdivision improvements must be certified by the
City as complete prior to certification of the final map; or 2) provide the
City with a performance guaranty.
   B.   Performance Guarantees: In the event the subdivider does not complete
the subdivision improvements with the subdivider's own resources, the
subdivider shall provide a performance guaranty to the City, subject to the
following requirements:
      1.   Provisions: Prior to execution of an agreement to install
improvements pursuant to section
3-3-21 of this chapter and prior to approval of the final map by the City
Council, the subdivider shall provide the City with a performance guaranty,
subject to approval by the City, in an amount deemed sufficient by the City to
cover the full cost of: a) remaining improvements required under section
 3-3-20 of this chapter in the construction plans prepared and approved in
accordance with section
3-3-18 of this chapter; b) remaining improvements identified in engineering
inspections; c) the cost to replace any existing streets, utilities or other
improvements that may be damaged during construction of the required
subdivision improvements; d) the cost to prepare the as-built drawings and any
associated documents; e) the cost for the services of a licensed professional
engineer to oversee the construction of the subdivision and f) identified
incidental expenses associated with the foregoing work. The performance
guaranty shall be in one of the following forms:
         a.   Performance Bond: A performance or surety bond executed by a
surety company authorized to do business in the State of Nevada, approved by
the City Attorney as to form, and having a length of term not exceeding twenty
four (24) months from the date of final map recordation.
         b.   Deposit Of Funds: A deposit of cash with the City, or a certified
check or negotiable bonds made payable to and deposited with the City or an
escrow agent or trust company approved by the City Attorney; provided, any
decision by the City Attorney not to approve an escrow agent or trust company
is subject to review by the City Council.
         c.   Irrevocable Letter Of Credit: An irrevocable letter of credit in
favor of the City issued by a financial institution insured by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).
         d.   Combinations: Upon approval by the City based on a showing of
good cause by the subdivider, a combination of the forms of performance
guaranty listed in this subsection, so long as the combination provides the
City with at least the same level of protection against default as any single
one of the listed forms of guaranty.
      2.   Penalty In Case Of Default: In the event the subdivider fails to
complete all required subdivision improvements in accordance with terms of the
agreement to install improvements, the City may, in its sole discretion,
complete the work at its own expense and thereafter reimburse itself for the
cost and expense thereof from the performance guaranty.
      3.   Maintenance Guaranty: The subdivider shall provide the City with a
maintenance guaranty to ensure the maintenance, adequacy and condition of all
improvements required by the agreement to install improvements for a period of
not less than one year after the improvements are accepted by the City. The
maintenance guaranty may be in any form permitted in subsection B1 of this
section for a performance guaranty and shall be in an amount equal to ten
percent (10%) of the total cost of the required subdivision improvements. The
City shall not accept the subdivision improvements until the subdivider
provides the maintenance guaranty.
      4.   Reduction Of Maintenance Guaranty: Once a maintenance guaranty has
been delivered to the City, the City shall not thereafter release any funds
from or reduce the amount of the maintenance guaranty except upon written
certification by the City that all required maintenance has been performed in
conformance with the agreement to install improvements; provided, in no event
shall the release of funds exceed the amount of the maintenance guaranty.
      5.   Improvement District Financing Through Special Assessments: If not
all of the properties abutting a public street within any given block are under
the control of the subdivider, and the street abutting those properties is not
fully improved in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, the
subdivider may petition the City Council for the creation of an improvement
district for the construction of the required improvements and for the special
assessment of the cost thereof against abutting properties in accordance with
chapter 268 of the Nevada Revised Statutes; provided, however, that the
subdivider shall thereupon enter into an agreement with the City pursuant to
which it agrees to be responsible for any difference between the cost of such
improvements and the maximum amount which the City can specially assess against
the property to be subdivided, and to furnish any necessary waivers to permit
assessment of the entire cost of such improvements. Any such agreement pursuant
to the preceding sentence shall be in a form approved by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-23: PARK LAND DEDICATIONS:
The City may require the dedication of land for the development of park,
playground and recreational facilities, payment in lieu of dedication, or
Residential Tax (to the extent permitted under Nevada law), in accordance with
the recreation and open space element of the Elko Master Plan. (Ord. 834, 11-
27-2018)
3-3-24: PARCEL MAPS:
   A.   Required: A person who proposes to divide any land into four (4) or
fewer lots shall file a parcel map application with the City and, upon approval
by the City, the applicant shall thereafter file the parcel map with the Office
of the County Recorder, unless such recordation is not required under Nevada
law.
   B.   Public Improvements: Public improvements may be required by the City as
a condition of approval of a parcel map, but such requirements shall not exceed
those that would be required under section
3-3-20 of this chapter if the proposed division of land were a subdivision.
   C.   Public Improvements: For parcel maps, the City Council shall require,
as a condition of approval of a parcel map, the design and construction of all
improvements (to include off-site improvements) that are consistent with the
uses of the existing property and surrounding land, and that are reasonably
necessary to ensure the adequacy of site grading; parcel ingress/egress; street
alignment, surfacing and width; water quality; water drainage; water supply;
sewerage; and the protection of public health and safety.
   D.   Dedications: If the proposed parcels are located in areas where public
improvements do not exist, the City Council shall require the dedication of
rights-of-ways and/or easements to the extent necessary to serve the best
interests of the public.
   E.   Parcel Or Lot Design: Lot width, depth and area shall comply with the
zoning requirements appropriate for the location and character of development
proposed, including the requirements set forth in sections
3-2-26 and
 3-2-28 of this title, and appropriate for the type and extent of public
improvements being installed. However, where steep topography, unusual soil
conditions or drainage problems exist or prevail, the City may require
increased lot width, depth and/or area that exceeds the minimum requirements of
the particular zoning district.
   F.   Construction Plans: The subdivider shall use a licensed professional
engineer to prepare a complete set of construction plans for all required
public improvements. The construction plans shall be based on and prepared in
conjunction with the parcel map. The foregoing construction plans must be
approved by the City prior to recordation of the parcel map.
   G.   Second Or Subsequent Parcel Maps: When considering whether to approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove a second or subsequent parcel map involving
land that has been divided by a parcel map which was recorded within the five
(5) years immediately preceding the acceptance of the second or subsequent
parcel map as a complete application, the following criteria shall be
considered:
      1.   Environmental and health laws and regulations concerning water and
air pollution, the disposal of solid waste, facilities to supply water,
community or public sewage disposal and, where applicable, individual systems
for sewage disposal;
      2.   The availability of water which meets applicable health standards
and is sufficient in quantity for the reasonably foreseeable needs of the
property being divided into parcels;
      3.   The availability and accessibility of utilities;
      4.   The availability and accessibility of public services, such as
schools, police protection, transportation, recreation and parks;
      5.   Conformity with the zoning ordinances and master plan, except that
if any existing zoning ordinance is inconsistent with the master plan, the
zoning ordinance shall apply;
      6.   General conformity with the City's master plan of streets and
highways;
      7.   The effect of the proposed division of land into parcels on existing
public streets and the need for new streets or highways to serve the land being
divided;
      8.   Physical characteristics of the land, such as floodplain, slope and
soil;
      9.   The recommendations and comments of those entities reviewing the
parcel map pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278.330 through
278.348, inclusive; and
      10.   The availability and accessibility of fire protection, including,
but not limited to, the availability and accessibility of water and services
for the prevention and containment of fires, including fires in wild lands.
      11.   For any other second or subsequent parcel map, any reasonable
public improvement shall be required, but not more than would be required under
section
3-3-20 of this chapter if the parcel were a subdivision.
   H.   Review And Approval Of Parcel Map:
      1.   Upon the filing of an application by a person proposing to divide
land into parcels, except as otherwise provided in this section, the City
Planning Department shall approve the parcel map, or waive the requirement of a
parcel map or survey for a parcel map, without further action by the Planning
Commission or City Council, unless the parcel map includes an offer of
dedication of a street right-of-way to the City or is associated with a request
to modify subdivision ordinance standards or regulations. Except as otherwise
provided in the preceding sentence, the City Planning Department shall review
the parcel map and within sixty (60) days after filing shall approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the parcel map.
      2.   A parcel map which includes an offer of dedication of a street
right-of-way to the City or a modification of ordinance standards or
regulations respecting the division of land shall be referred to the Planning
Commission and the City Council for review and consideration, and formal
acceptance of the offer of dedication and/or any modification of standards or
regulations. The Planning Commission shall consider the parcel map within sixty
(60) days after filing and shall thereupon make a recommendation to the City
Council to approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the formal acceptance
of the offer of dedication and/or any modification of standards or regulations.
The City Council shall then consider and take action upon the formal acceptance
of the offer of dedication and/or any modification of standards or regulations
no later than thirty (30) days after action by the Planning Commission, taking
into account the recommendation of the Planning Commission.
   I.   Exceptions:
      1.   A parcel map is not required when the division of land into parcels
is for the express purpose of:
         a.   Creation or realignment of a public right-of-way by a public
agency;
         b.   Creation or realignment of an easement;
         c.   An adjustment of the boundary line between two (2) abutting
parcels or the transfer of land between two (2) owners of abutting parcels,
which does not result in the creation of any additional parcels, if such an
adjustment is approved pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.5692 and is made
in compliance with the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 278.5693;
         d.   The purchase, transfer or development of space within an
apartment building or an industrial or commercial building;
         e.   Carrying out an order of any court or dividing land as a result
of an operation of law.
      2.   A parcel map is not required for any of the following transactions
involving land:
         a.   The creation of a lien, mortgage, deed of trust or any other
security instrument;
         b.   The creation of a security or unit of interest in any investment
trust regulated under the laws of this State or any other interest in an
investment entity;
         c.   Conveying an interest in oil, gas, minerals or building
materials, which is severed from surface ownership of real property;
         d.   Conveying an interest in land acquired by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to chapter 408 of the Nevada Revised Statutes;
         e.   Filing a certificate of amendment pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 278.473.
   J.   Survey Not Required: If a survey is not required for the preparation of
a parcel map, the map must be prepared by a registered land surveyor, but the
certificate upon the map may include substantially the following:
This map was prepared from existing information (identifying it and stating
where filed or recorded), and the undersigned assumes no responsibility for the
existence of monuments or corrections of other information shown on or copied
from any such prior document.
   K.   Fee: The applicant shall, at the time of filing the parcel map, pay a
filing fee to the City in an amount established by resolution of the City
Council.
   L.   Information Required: The parcel map shall contain the following
information and meet the following requirements:
      1.   The parcel map shall be legibly drawn in black, waterproof India ink
on tracing cloth or produced by the use of other materials of a permanent
nature generally used for such purpose in the engineering profession. The size
of each sheet shall be twenty four inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32"). A
marginal line shall be completely drawn around each sheet leaving an entirely
blank margin of one inch (1") at the top, bottom and right edges, and of two
inches (2") at the left edge along the twenty four inch (24") dimension.
      2.   A parcel map must indicate the owner of any adjoining land or right-
of-way if owned by the person dividing the land.
      3.   If a survey is required, the parcel map shall also show:
         a.   All monuments found, set, reset, replaced or removed, describing
the claim, size and location and other data relating thereto;
         b.   Bearing or witness monuments, basis of bearings, bearing and
length of line and scale of map;
         c.   Name and legal description of tract or grant in which the survey
is located and ties to adjoined tracts;
         d.   Memorandum of oaths;
         e.   Signature of surveyor;
         f.   Date of survey;
         g.   Signature of the owner or owners of the land to be divided;
         h.   Any easements granted or dedications made;
         i.   Any other data necessary for the intelligent interpretation of
various items in the location of the points, lines and areas shown; and
         j.   Provision and date for installation of all required improvements.
      4.   The following certificates shall appear on a parcel map before it
can be recorded:
         a.   A certificate for execution by the Clerk of each approving
Governing Body stating that the body approved the map;
         b.   A certificate by the surveyor responsible for the parcel map
giving the date of the survey on which the map is based and stating that the
survey was made by him or under his direction and setting forth the name of the
owner who authorized him to make the survey, and that the parcel map is true
and complete as shown. The certificate shall also state that the monuments are
of the character and occupy the positions indicated or that they will be set in
such positions at such time as agreed upon under the provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 278. The certificate shall also state that monuments
are or will be sufficient to enable the survey to be retraced;
         c.   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties having any
record title in the land to be divided into parcels evidencing their grant of
permanent easements for utilities installations and access, as designated on
the parcel map;
         d.   A statement approving such easements, signed by each public
utility company or agency in whose favor the easements are created or whose
utility services are to be required for the mapped parcel; and
         e.   A statement that it shall be the responsibility of the applicant
to obtain the approvals of all serving utility companies as to the location of
any utility easements shown on the parcel map.
      5.   The following data shall accompany a parcel map at the time it is
submitted:
         a.   Name, address and telephone number of the persons requesting
approval of the parcel map and the owner or owners of the land;
         b.   Name, address and telephone number of the person who prepared the
map;
         c.   Legal description of the original parcel. It shall be sufficient
to give the Recorder's book and page number of the deed and the Assessor's
parcel number;
         d.   Proposed use of each parcel;
         e.   Source of water supply and proposed method of sewage disposal for
each parcel;
         f.   A copy of all survey computations shall accompany the parcel map;
and
         g.   A vicinity map.
      6.   The subdivider shall file the following copies of the parcel map
with the City at the time of filing:
         a.   One hard copy that is 24" x 36" in size;
         b.   One reproducible hard copy that is 81/2" x 11" in size; and
         c.   A legible electronic copy in PDF format.
   M.   Recording: A parcel map approved pursuant to this section and section
3-3-25 of this chapter, shall be recorded in the Office of the Elko County
Recorder within two (2) years after the date when the map was approved or
deemed approved by the City.
   N.   Prohibitions Of Parcels: Parcel maps that are determined by the City to
fall into one or more of the following categories shall not be approved by the
City:
      1.   One or more of the proposed parcels are not reasonably capable of
being developed due to site conditions.
      2.   The parcels are proposed in an attempt to eliminate frontage or
required public improvements.
      3.   The proposed parcels are detrimental to the health, safety and/or
welfare of the public. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-25: MODIFICATION OF STANDARDS:
   A.   Permitted: Upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission that
there exist extraordinary conditions of topography, land ownership, or adjacent
development, or other circumstances not provided for in this chapter, that
prevent or unreasonably restrict the ability of a person to develop land, the
City Council may thereafter modify the provisions of this chapter, or any other
provision in this Code, in such manner and to the minimum extent necessary to
carry out the intent of this chapter; provided, this paragraph shall not permit
the modification of the process for satisfying the substantive requirements of
this chapter.
   B.   Complete Neighborhood Plan: In the case of a plan and program for a
complete neighborhood development, the City Council may modify the provisions
of this chapter in such manner as it deems necessary and desirable to provide
for adequate space and the development of improvements for the circulation,
recreation, light, air and service needs of the tract when fully developed and
populated. The City Council may further require such restrictions on the
neighborhood development, through the use of deed restrictions, restrictive
covenants and conditions and the like, as may be necessary to assure conformity
to and the achievement of the plan and program.
   C.   Additional Requirements: In modifying a standard or requirement
pursuant to this section, the City Council may impose such additional
requirements as it determines are necessary to best achieve the purpose of the
standard or requirement being modified. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-26: REVERSIONS TO ACREAGE:
   A.   Application: Except as otherwise provided in Nevada Revised Statutes
section 278.4925, an owner or Governing Body desiring to revert any recorded
subdivision map, parcel map, map of division into large parcels, or part
thereof, to acreage or to revert the map or portion thereof, or to revert more
than one map recorded under the same tentative map if the parcels to be
reverted are contiguous, shall submit a written application accompanied by a
map of the proposed reversion which contains the same survey dimensions as the
recorded maps or maps filed with the City Planning Department. The application
must specifically describe the requested change.
   B.   Review: At its next regular meeting, or within a period of not more
than thirty (30) days after the filing of the map of reversion, whichever
occurs later, the City Council shall review the map of reversion and approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove the map.
   C.   Applicability Of Fees: Except for the provisions of this section,
Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278.4955, 278.496 and 278.4965, and any
provision of this Code relating to the payment of fees in conjunction with
filing, recordation or checking of a map of the kind offered, no other
provision of Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278.010 through 278.630,
inclusive, applies to a map made solely for the purpose of reversion of a
former map or for reversion of any division of land to acreage.
   D.   Recording: Upon approval of the map of reversion, it must be recorded
in the Office of the Elko County Recorder.
   E.   Street Or Easement Included: At the time a map of reversion is
submitted and presented for recording, it must conform with provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278.4955, 278.496 and 278.4965. If the map
includes the reversion of any street or easement owned by a city, a county or
the State, the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes section 279.480 must be
followed and satisfied before the map of reversion is approved by the City.
   F.   Fee: The owner shall, at the time of filing the map of reversion, pay a
filing fee to the City in an amount established by resolution of the City
Council. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-27: PROHIBITION AGAINST SALE IN VIOLATION:
No person, firm, corporation or other legal entity shall hereafter sell or
offer for sale any lot, or piece or parcel of land which is within a tract of
land proposed to be divided into two (2) or more lots, or pieces or parcels of
land, until after a final map thereof has been approved and certified by the
City, and recorded with the Elko County Recorder in accordance with provisions
of the Nevada Revised Statutes and this chapter. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-28: MERGERS AND RESUBDIVISION OF LAND:
   A.   Permitted: An owner of two (2) or more contiguous parcels may merge and
resubdivide the land into new parcels or lots without reverting the preexisting
parcels to acreage.
   B.   Recording Required: Parcels merged without reversion to acreage
pursuant to this section must be resubdivided and recorded on a final map,
parcel map or map of division into large parcels, as appropriate, in accordance
with Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278.320 through 278.4725, inclusive, and
this Code. The recording of the resubdivided parcels or lots on a final map,
parcel map or map of division into large parcels, as appropriate, constitutes
the merging of the preexisting parcels into a single parcel and the
simultaneous resubdivision of that single parcel into parcels or lots of a size
and description set forth in the final map, parcel map or map of division into
large parcels, as appropriate.
   C.   Street Easements And Utility Easements: With respect to a merger and
resubdivision of parcels pursuant to this section, the owner of land conducting
the merger and resubdivision shall ensure that street easements and utility
easements, whether public or private, that will remain in effect after the
merger and resubdivision, are delineated clearly on the final map, parcel map
or map of division into large parcels, as appropriate, on which the merger and
resubdivision is recorded.
   D.   Security Credit: If the City Council requires an owner of land to post
security to secure the completion of improvements to two (2) or more contiguous
parcels and those improvements will not be completed because of a merger and
resubdivision conducted pursuant to this section, the City Council shall credit
on a pro rata basis the security posted by the owner of land toward the same
purposes with respect to the parcels as merged and resubdivided. (Ord. 834, 11-
27-2018)
3-3-29: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction therefor, be punished as
provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this Code. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable
as such hereunder. The imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with all requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
3-3-30: APPEALS OF CERTAIN DECISIONS REGARDING USE OF LAND:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this
chapter, any person who is aggrieved by: 1) a decision of a person appointed or
employed by the City who is authorized to make administrative decisions
regarding the use of land or 2) a decision of the Planning Commission, may
appeal the decision to the City Council by filing a notice of appeal with the
City Clerk within thirty (30) days of receiving notice of the decision. The
notice of appeal shall contain the following information: the name of the
appellant, the location of the property to which the decision relates, the date
on which the appellant was notified of the decision, a summary of the decision
being appealed and a statement of reason why the decision is being appealed.
The failure of the aggrieved person to file a notice of appeal in the manner
stated in this section shall result in a waiver of the aggrieved person's right
to appeal. The filing of a notice of appeal shall not stay the action of the
City pending the outcome of the appeal. The City Council may by resolution
establish a fee for the filing of an appeal.
   B.   Investigation By City Council: Following the filing of a notice of
appeal, the City Council may, in its discretion, appoint a committee of the
City Council or an independent Hearing Officer to investigate the notice of
appeal, report findings of fact and make a recommendation for disposition to
the City Council.
   C.   Hearing Before City Council: The City Council shall conduct a hearing
on the appeal within forty five (45) days from the date the notice of appeal is
filed with the City Clerk. The hearing shall be open to the public and shall be
conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
   D.   Purposes: In reviewing the decision, the City Council will be guided by
the following purposes:
      1.   That, for the purpose of promoting health, safety, morals, or the
general welfare of the community, the City Council is authorized and empowered
to regulate and restrict the improvement of land and to control the location
and soundness of structures.
      2.   That regulations, restrictions and controls pertaining to the
improvement of land, and the control of the location and soundness of
structures, must take into account:
         a.   The potential impairment of natural resources and the total
population which the available natural resources will support without
unreasonable impairment; and
         b.   The availability of and need for affordable housing in the
community, including affordable housing that is accessible to persons with
disabilities.
   E.   Hearing Procedures: The procedures pursuant to which the City Council
shall hear an appeal pursuant to this section are as follows:
      1.   The appellant shall first describe the decision being challenged,
state the grounds for the appeal and present a summary of the appellant's
argument.
      2.   The appellant may then testify, submit documents and/or call
witnesses in support of the appeal.
      3.   The City shall then state the grounds for opposing the appeal.
      4.   The City may submit documents and/or call witnesses in opposition to
the appeal.
      5.   The appellant may then present a rebuttal argument, witnesses and/or
documents. The failure of an appellant to provide argument, witnesses and/or
documents on rebuttal shall not be considered by the City Council in deciding
the appeal.
      6.   The appellant and the City, respectively, may present closing
arguments.
      7.   Appellant and the City are entitled to be represented by counsel,
and present testimony, evidence and argument on all issues raised on appeal.
      8.   The City Council may, if it appears helpful to a clear understanding
of the issues, consider matters not raised at the hearing.
      9.   All testimony by the appellant and the parties' witnesses shall be
under oath.
      10.   The rules of evidence shall not apply.
      11.   The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem may limit testimony or other proffered
evidence that is duplicative, unnecessarily argumentative or not reasonably
related to the matter being appealed.
      12.   The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem may terminate the hearing upon finding
that sufficient testimony, documents and arguments have been presented to
enable the City Council to fully deliberate and decide the appeal; provided,
the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem shall first request from the appellant a summary of
all remaining matters he or she intends to present at the hearing.
   F.   Decision By City Council: At the conclusion of the hearing, the City
Council shall make a final decision that is consistent with the requirements of
this title to affirm, modify or reverse the decision appealed from and shall
within sixty (60) days thereafter file a notice of decision with the City Clerk
stating the decision. The foregoing decision of the City Council shall be a
final decision for the purpose of judicial review.
   G.   Judicial Review: Any person who has appealed a decision to the City
Council in accordance with this section and is aggrieved by the decision of the
City Council may appeal that decision to the Fourth Judicial District Court in
and for the County of Elko, State of Nevada, by filing with that court a
petition for judicial review within twenty five (25) days after the date the
notice of decision is filed with the City Clerk. (Ord. 834, 11-27-2018)
CHAPTER 4
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
3-4-1: Created; Appointment; Members; Compensation; Term; Removal; Vacancies
3-4-2: Meetings, Records, Quorum And Voting
3-4-3: Chairperson, Vice Chairperson And Secretary
3-4-4: Employees
3-4-5: Expenditures
3-4-6: Master Plan
3-4-7: Subject Matter Of Master Plan
3-4-8: Coordination Of Master Plan
3-4-9: School Sites
3-4-10: Commission To Promote Public Interest In Master Plan; Powers
3-4-11: Form Of Master Plan
3-4-12: Adoption Of Master Plan And Amendments By The Commission
3-4-13: Adoption Of Master Plan By Governing Council
3-4-14: Governing Body To Put Adopted Master Plan Into Effect
3-4-15: Acquisition And Abandonment Of Streets, Parks And Construction Of
Public Buildings
3-4-16: Land Use, Classifications And Districts
3-4-17: Changes Of Land Use Classification; Notice And Hearing (Rep. by Ord.
533, 10-12-1999)
3-4-18: Jurisdiction Of Planning Commission
3-4-19: Words And Terms Defined
3-4-20: Additional Powers And Duties
3-4-21: City Officials
3-4-22: Financial Limitations
3-4-23: Annual Report
3-4-1: CREATED; APPOINTMENT; MEMBERS; COMPENSATION; TERM; REMOVAL; VACANCIES:
   A.   Created; Membership; Appointment: There is hereby created a Planning
Commission in and for the City, to be known as the Elko Planning Commission.
This commission shall consist of seven (7) members. The members of the
commission shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City
Council. The members must not be members of the governing body of the city or
county. Members shall be eligible for reappointment.
   B.   Compensation: All members of the commission shall serve as such without
compensation excepting reasonable traveling expenses made necessary in the
fulfillment of their duties.
   C.   Terms: The terms of the members first appointed shall be three (3)
years for two (2) members, two (2) years for two (2) members and one year for
two (2) members. The Mayor shall designate the terms of the respective members
first appointed at the time of appointment. Thereafter, the term of each member
shall be four (4) years or until his successor takes office.
   D.   Removal: Members may be removed, after public hearing, by a majority
vote of the City Council for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance of
office.
   E.   Vacancies: Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of
term shall be filled for the unexpired term.
   F.   Absences From Meetings: Absence of an appointed member for four (4)
consecutive regular meetings without the formal consent of the Planning
Commission shall be deemed to constitute a retirement of that appointed member,
and the vacancy thus created shall be filled thereafter by the Mayor by the
appointment of a successor to fill the unexpired term of office. (Ord. 210, 11-
13-1973; amd. Ord. 845, 10-22-2019)
3-4-2: MEETINGS, RECORDS, QUORUM AND VOTING:
   A.   Meetings: The Planning Commission shall hold at least one regular
meeting in each month. Other meetings may be provided for in its rules.
   B.   Rules: It shall adopt rules for transaction of business and shall keep
a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which
record shall be a public record. Rules may be amended from time to time.
   C.   Quorum: A majority of the appointed Planning Commission members shall
constitute a quorum for all meetings, to include public hearings.
   D.   Voting Requirements:
      1.   A majority vote of the appointed Planning Commission members present
and participating in any agenda item shall be required to approve the
corresponding action for that item. To be present and participating at a
meeting, a Planning Commission member must be either: a) physically present at
the meeting or b) participating by means of electronic communication with
access to all written materials for that agenda item that are available to the
other Planning Commission members.
      2.   An abstention from voting by a Planning Commission member shall not
be counted in the determination of the motion as a vote in favor of any action
but shall be noted on the record.
      3.   In the event of a tie vote, the motion shall not pass. (Ord. 836,
11-27-2018)
3-4-3: CHAIRPERSON, VICE CHAIRPERSON AND SECRETARY:
   A.   Election; Term: At the first regular meeting in January of each
calendar year, members of the Planning Commission shall meet in regular session
and organize by electing from their members a Chairperson, and from their
members a Vice Chairperson, and from their members a Secretary. The term of the
Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary shall be one year, with eligibility
for reelection.
   B.   Chairperson Duties: It shall be the duty of the Chairperson to preside
over all meetings of the Planning Commission. In the absence of the
Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall preside, and in the absence of the
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson, a Chairperson Pro Tempore may be elected to
preside.
   C.   Records: It shall be the duty of the Secretary to attest that records
of all proceedings of the Planning Commission, are being kept as required by
this chapter or by the laws of the State. (Ord. 533, 10-12-1999)
3-4-4: EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Authority: In addition to electing its Chairperson, Vice Chairperson
and Secretary, the Planning Commission may create and fill such other offices
and subcommittees.
   B.   Other: The Planning Commission may also recommend to the City Council
the appointment or contract of such employees, planners, engineers, architects
and other consultants for such services as it may require and deem necessary
for its work. (Ord. 533, 10-12-1999)
3-4-5: EXPENDITURES:
The expenditures of the Planning Commission, exclusive of gifts, shall be with
the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the City Council, which shall
provide the funds, equipment and accommodations necessary for the commission's
work. (Ord. 210, 11-13-1973)
3-4-6: MASTER PLAN:
   A.   Preparation: The Planning Commission shall prepare and adopt a
comprehensive long term general plan for the physical development of the City,
which in the commission's judgment bears relation to the planning thereof.
   B.   Adoption By City Council: The plan must be known as the master plan,
and must be so prepared that all or portions thereof may be adopted by the City
Council, as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278.010 through
278.630, inclusive, as a basis for the development of the City, County or
region for such reasonable period of time next ensuing after the adoption
thereof as may practically be covered thereby. (Ord. 533, 10-12-1999)
3-4-7: SUBJECT MATTER OF MASTER PLAN:
   A.   Basis For Development: The master plan, with the accompanying charts,
drawings, diagrams, schedules and reports, shall include subject matter or
portions thereof as are appropriate to the City and as may be made the basis
for the physical development thereof in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes
section 278.160.
   B.   Other Plans And Reports: The Planning Commission may prepare and adopt,
as part of the master plan, other and additional plans and reports dealing with
such other subjects as may in its judgment relate to the physical development
of the City and nothing contained in this chapter or in Nevada Revised Statutes
sections 278.010 through 278.630, inclusive, shall be deemed to prohibit the
preparation and adoption of any such subject as a part of the master plan.
(Ord. 533, 10-12-1999)
3-4-8: COORDINATION OF MASTER PLAN:
The Planning Commission may prepare and adopt all or any part of the master
plan or any subject thereof for all or any part of the City; but master
regional plans shall be coordinated with similar plans of adjoining regions,
and master county and city plans within each region shall be coordinated so as
to fit properly into the master plan for the region. (Ord. 210, 11-13-1973)
3-4-9: SCHOOL SITES:
   A.   Notice To School Board Of Plan Preparation: The planning commission
shall, during the formulation of plans for community design and public
buildings, notify the board of trustees of the Elko County school district of
the preparation of such plans to the end that adequate and properly located
school sites may be provided for.
   B.   Notice Of Plan For Future Construction: When the board of trustees of a
school district develops a plan for the future construction of one or more
schools, it shall notify each city, county or regional planning commission any
part of whose territory will be served by a proposed school. The notice must
include the grades to be taught, the number of pupils to be accommodated, and
the area to be served. The board shall notify each commission of any change in
or abandonment of its plan. (Ord. 533, 10-12-1999)
3-4-10: COMMISSION TO PROMOTE PUBLIC INTEREST IN MASTER PLAN; POWERS:
   A.   Recommendations To City Council: The planning commission shall endeavor
to promote public interest in and understanding of the master plan or official
plans and regulations relating thereto. As a means of furthering the purpose of
a master plan, the commission shall annually make recommendations to the
governing body for the implementation of the plan.
   B.   Consultation With Other Agencies: It also shall consult and advise with
public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic, educational,
professional and other organizations, and with citizens generally with relation
to the carrying out of such plans.
   C.   Entrance Upon Land: The planning commission, and its members, officers
and employees, in the performance of their functions, may enter upon any land
and make examinations and surveys and place and maintain necessary monuments
and marks thereon.
   D.   Generally: In general, the planning commission shall have such power as
may be necessary to enable it to fulfill its functions and carry out the
provisions of this chapter and of Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278.010
through 278.630, inclusive. (Ord. 210, 11-13-1973)
3-4-11: FORM OF MASTER PLAN:
The master plan shall be a map, together with such charts, drawings, diagrams,
schedules, reports, ordinances or other printed or published material, or any
one or a combination of any of the foregoing, as may be considered essential to
the purpose of Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278.010 through 278.630,
inclusive. (Ord. 210, 11-13-1973)
3-4-12: ADOPTION OF MASTER PLAN AND AMENDMENTS BY THE COMMISSION:
   A.   Hearing; Notice: Before adopting the master plan, or any part of it, or
any substantial amendments thereof, the planning commission shall hold at least
one public hearing thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall be
given at least by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city, at least ten (10) days before the date of the hearing.
   B.   Adoption By Resolution: The adoption of the master plan, or of any
amendments, extensions or additions thereof, shall be by resolution of the
planning commission carried by the affirmative votes of not less than two-
thirds (2/3) of the total membership of the commission. The resolution shall
refer expressly to the maps, descriptive matter and other matter intended by
the commission to constitute the plan, or any amendment, addition or extension
thereof, and the action taken shall be recorded on the map and plan and
descriptive matter by the identifying signatures of the secretary and
chairperson of the commission.
   C.   Amendments, Extensions Or Additions: No plan or map hereafter shall
have indicated thereon that it is a part of the master plan until it shall have
been adopted as part of the master plan by the planning commission as herein
provided for the adoption thereof, whenever changes, conditions or future
studies by the commission require such amendments, extensions or additions.
   D.   Certification To City Council: An attested copy of any part, amendment,
extension of or addition to the master plan adopted by the planning commission
shall be certified to the city council. (Ord. 210, 11-13-1973)
3-4-13: ADOPTION OF MASTER PLAN BY GOVERNING COUNCIL:
   A.   Adoption: Upon receipt of a certified copy of the master plan, or of
any part thereof as adopted by the planning commission, the city council may
adopt such parts thereof as may practicably be applied to the development of
the city for a reasonable period of time next ensuing.
   B.   Endorsement And Certification: The part shall thereupon be endorsed and
certified as master plans thus adopted for the territory covered, and are
hereby declared to be established to conserve and promote the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   C.   Hearing; Notice: Before adopting any plan or part thereof, the city
council shall hold at least one public hearing thereon, notice of the time and
place of which shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city at least ten (10) days before the date of hearing.
   D.   Changes Or Additions To Plan: No change in or addition to the master
plan, or any part thereof, as adopted by the planning commission, shall be made
by the city council in adopting the same until the proposed change or addition
shall have been referred to the planning commission for a report thereon and an
attested copy of the report shall have been filed with the city council.
Failure of the planning commission to so report within forty (40) days, or such
longer period as may be designated by the city council, after such reference
shall be deemed to be approval of the proposed change or addition. (Ord. 210,
11-13-1973)
3-4-14: GOVERNING BODY TO PUT ADOPTED MASTER PLAN INTO EFFECT:
   A.   Whenever the city council shall have adopted a master plan, or part
thereof for the city, or for any major section or district thereof, the city
council shall, upon recommendation of the planning commission, determine upon
reasonable and practical means for putting into effect the master plan, or part
thereof, in order that the same will serve as a pattern and guide for that kind
of orderly physical growth and development of the city or county which will
cause the least amount of natural resource impairment and will conform to the
adopted population plan, where required, and as basis for the efficient
expenditure of funds thereof relating to the subject of the master plan.
   B.   The city council may adopt and use such procedures as may be necessary
for this purpose. (Ord. 210, 11-13-1973)
3-4-15: ACQUISITION AND ABANDONMENT OF STREETS, PARKS AND CONSTRUCTION OF
PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
Whenever the city council has adopted a master plan, or one or more subject
matters thereof, for the city, or for a major section or district thereof, no
street, square, park or other public way, ground or open space may be acquired
by dedication or otherwise, except by bequest, and no street or public way may
be closed or abandoned, and no public building or structure may be constructed
or authorized in the area for which the master plan or one or more subject
matter thereof has been adopted by the city council unless the dedication,
closure, abandonment, construction or authorization is approved in a manner
consistent with the requirements of the city council. (Ord. 533, 10-12-1999)
3-4-16: LAND USE, CLASSIFICATIONS AND DISTRICTS:
   A.   Authority: For any or all of the purposes of this chapter and of Nevada
Revised Statutes sections 278.010 through 278.630, inclusive, the city council
may divide the city into districts of such number, shape and area as may be
deemed best suited to carry out the purposes of this chapter and of Nevada
Revised Statutes sections 278.010 through 278.630, inclusive. Within such
districts it may regulate and restrict the erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of the buildings, structures or land.
   B.   Regulations In Accordance With Master Plan: Such regulations shall be
made in accordance with the master plan for land use and shall be designed to:
      1.   Preserve the quality of air and water resources.
      2.   Promote the conservation of open space and the protection of other
natural and scenic resources from unreasonable impairment.
      3.   Provide for recreational needs.
      4.   Protect life and property in areas subject to floods, landslides and
other natural disasters.
      5.   Conform to the adopted population plan, if required by Nevada
Revised Statutes section 278.170.
      6.   Develop a timely, orderly and efficient arrangement of
transportation and public facilities and services.
      7.   Ensure that the development on land is commensurate with the
character and the physical limitations of the land.
      8.   Take into account the immediate and long range financial impact of
the application of particular land to particular kinds of development, and the
relative suitability of such land for such development.
      9.   Promote health and the general welfare.
      10.   Ensure the development of an adequate supply of housing for the
community, including the development of affordable housing.
      11.   Ensure the protection of existing neighborhoods and communities,
including the protection of rural preservation neighborhoods.
   C.   Considerations: Such regulations shall be made with reasonable
consideration, among other things, to the character of the district and its
peculiar suitability for particular uses, and with a view to conserving the
value of the buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land
throughout the city. (Ord. 533, 10-12-1999)
3-4-17: CHANGES OF LAND USE CLASSIFICATION; NOTICE AND HEARING:
(Rep. by Ord. 533, 10-12-1999)
3-4-18: JURISDICTION OF PLANNING COMMISSION:
The jurisdiction of the planning commission shall be within the limits of the
city and all areas hereafter annexed or added to the city. (Ord. 210, 11-13-
1973)
3-4-19: WORDS AND TERMS DEFINED:
So far as applicable to this chapter, the definitions set out in Nevada Revised
Statutes section 278.010 are adopted as part of this chapter. (Ord. 210, 11-13-
1973)
3-4-20: ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The planning commission shall have the following additional
powers and duties:
      1.   To confer with and advise the city council upon all matters which
may be referred to it by the mayor or the city council.
      2.   To recommend to the city council the leasing, sale, exchange, use or
other disposition of city owned property for planning and zoning purposes.
   B.   Powers Limited: Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, or by the
laws of the state, the powers and duties of the planning commission are of an
advisory nature only, and the commission shall not have any powers or duties
which conflict with or supersede the powers and duties of other city
commissions, councils, council members or officials. (Ord. 210, 11-13-1973)
3-4-21: CITY OFFICIALS:
All officers and employees of the city shall cooperate with the planning
commission and render all reasonable assistance. (Ord. 210, 11-13-1973)
3-4-22: FINANCIAL LIMITATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, neither the planning commission
nor any member thereof shall incur any financial liability in the name of the
city. (Ord. 210, 11-13-1973)
3-4-23: ANNUAL REPORT:
The planning commission shall render annually a full report of its work to the
city council. (Ord. 210, 11-13-1973)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE HOME PARKS, MOBILE HOME, MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISIONS AND RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE PARKS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Intent
3-5-2: Districts
3-5-3: Definitions
3-5-4: Uses Permitted And Minimum Standards
3-5-5: Storage And Temporary Commercial Office Use
3-5-6: Application To Existing Areas
3-5-7: Modification Of Standards
3-5-1: INTENT:
Within selected geographical areas that are designated for mobile homes on the
city general plan map, adopted by the city council on January 15, 1974, or
zoned RMH on the zoning map, the city council, through conditional use permits,
after review by the planning commission, may regulate by districting, the
proposed mobile home residential use, manufactured home residential use, and
recreational vehicle parks. When such districts are designated, the provisions
of this chapter shall prevail over any requirements underlying by virtue of the
zoning previously adopted. Within the commercial zoning districts, the
appropriate provisions of this chapter shall apply to recreational vehicle (RV)
parks approved by the planning commission through conditional use permits.
(Ord. 398, 4-24-1990)
3-5-2: DISTRICTS:
Four (4) separate districts for residential mobile homes, manufactured homes
and RV parks are contemplated by this chapter:
   RMH-1: Areas suitable for development, placement and occupancy of mobile
homes for residential purposes on rented or leased sites in mobile home parks.
   RMH-2: Areas suitable for development, placement and occupancy of mobile
homes for residential purposes on individually owned lots in mobile home
subdivisions.
   RMH-3: Areas suitable for development, placement and occupancy of
manufactured homes for residential purposes on individually owned lots in
manufactured home subdivisions.
   RMH-4: Areas in commercial zones approved by a conditional use permit for
development of recreational vehicle parks. (Ord. 398, 4-24-1990)
3-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the following
meaning unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context:
   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS: Includes the following: garage, carport and awning.
(See definition of Service Building.)
   CABANA: Any portable, demountable or permanent cabin, room, enclosure or
other building erected, constructed or placed on any mobile home or
manufactured home lot or mobile home space, on the same lot or space as a
mobile home or manufactured home and adjacent to the mobile home or
manufactured home.
   CAMPING TRAILER: A vehicular portable unit mounted on wheels and constructed
with collapsible partial side walls that fold for towing by another vehicle and
unfold at the campsite to provide temporary living quarters.
   EXPANSION: Any increase in or addition to commercial uses on the property,
excluding any uses requiring a conditional use permit.
   FULL FRONTAGE: All lot lines of any lot, parcel or tract of property
adjacent to a road, street, alley or right of way, to include lots, parcels or
tracts containing multiple borders or edges, such as corner lots.
   GROSS TRAILER AREA: The total plan area of a travel trailer measured to the
maximum horizontal projection of exterior walls when in the setup mode.
   LOT: A distinct part or parcel of land divided with the intent to transfer
ownership or for the placement of mobile homes or manufactured homes.
   A.   Depth: Distance between the front and rear lot lines measured in the
mean direction of the side lot lines.
   B.   Front Line: Narrowest lot dimension fronting a street.
   C.   Frontage Width: Distance between the side lot lines measured at the
front line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure which is: a) built on a chassis or frame; b)
designed for and set on a permanent foundation; c) capable of being drawn or
carried by a motor vehicle; d) used as a dwelling when permanently connected to
utilities; e) in an RMH-3 district, containing not less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet of usable living area; and f) structural engineering
bulletin number on frame. This definition is intended to include mobile homes
which meet the above criteria.
   MOBILE HOME: A vehicular structure which is: a) built on a chassis or frame;
b) designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation; c) self-
propelled, or capable of being drawn or carried by a motor vehicle; d) used as
a dwelling when permanently connected to utilities; e) in an RMH-2 district,
containing not less than five hundred eighty (580) square feet of usable living
area; and f) chassis built under national mobile home safety standards. This
definition is intended to include mobile homes as buildings, structures and
residences, where applicable, within all provisions of this code.
   MOBILE HOME OR MANUFACTURED HOME LOT: A portion of land within a mobile home
or manufactured home subdivision used or intended to be used for parking of one
mobile or one manufactured home, including required yards and parking area,
attached or detached accessory building and open space.
   MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel or tract of land having as its principal use the
rental, leasing or occupancy of space by mobile homes on a permanent or
semipermanent basis, including accessory buildings or uses customarily
incidental thereto.
   MOBILE HOME, RV OR MANUFACTURED HOME SETBACK: Distance between the property
line and the nearest portion of a mobile home, RV or manufactured home on the
property.
   A.   Front: Setback from front line to nearest part of the mobile home, RV
or manufactured home.
   B.   Rear: Setback from rear line to nearest part of the mobile home, RV or
manufactured home.
   C.   Side: Setback from side line to nearest part of the mobile home, RV or
manufactured home.
   MOBILE HOME, RV OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision of land
platted in conformance with the Nevada Revised Statutes and applicable city of
Elko ordinances for the purpose of providing mobile home, RV or manufactured
home lots.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE: A portion of land within a mobile home park used or
intended to be used for the parking of one mobile home, including required
yards and parking area, attached or detached accessory buildings and open
space.
   A.   Depth: Distance between the front and rear space lines measured in the
mean direction of the side space line.
   B.   Front Line: Narrowest dimension fronting on a street.
   C.   Frontage Width: Distance between the side space lines measured at the
front line.
   D.   Rear Line: Space line or lot line farthest away from the front line and
which runs parallel or approximately parallel to the front line.
   E.   Side Line: Space line or lot line which runs perpendicular to or
approximately perpendicular to the front line.
   MOTOR HOME: A vehicular unit designed to provide temporary living quarters
for recreational or travel use built on or permanently attached to a self-
propelled motor vehicle chassis or on a chassis cab or van which is an integral
part of the completed vehicle.
   OCCUPIED AREA: The total lot area covered by a mobile home, RV or
manufactured home and accessory buildings and structures on a mobile home, RV
or manufactured home lot or space.
   RECONSTRUCTED: The rebuilding, constructing again or restoration of any part
of an existing mobile home or RV park which has been destroyed or deteriorated.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV): A vehicular type unit primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational or travel use which either has its
own motive power or is mounted on or towed by another vehicle. The basic
entities are: travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper and motor home of
such size or weight as not to require special highway movement permits when
towed by a motorized vehicle and containing not more than three hundred twenty
(320) square feet of living area.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK (RVP): A plot of land upon which recreational
vehicle sites are located to provide for occupancy by recreational vehicles
owned or operated by the general public as temporary living quarters for
recreational or vacation purposes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) SITE: A plot of ground within a recreational
vehicle park set aside for the accommodation of a recreational vehicle on a
temporary basis.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) STAND: That area of a recreational vehicle site
intended for the placement of a recreational vehicle.
   SERVICE BUILDING: A structure or portion thereof that is used to house
sanitary facilities, such as water closets or lavatories. It may include other
facilities for the convenience of the owner or the occupants of the mobile home
or recreational vehicle park. (See definition of Accessory Buildings.)
   SHALL: Indicates a mandatory requirement.
   SHOULD: Indicates a recommendation or that which is advised but not
required.
   TRUCK CAMPER: A portable unit constructed to provide temporary living
quarters for recreational, travel or camping use, consisting of a roof, floor
and sides designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of a pickup
truck. (Ord. 741, 8-9-2011)
3-5-4: USES PERMITTED AND MINIMUM STANDARDS:
   A.   Uses Permitted:
Accessory buildings.
Community recreation buildings and facilities, laundry, car wash, boat or
storage facilities serving the mobile home or RV park; provided, however, that
the architectural design of all non-mobile home structures shall be subject to
approval by the planning commission prior to issuance of any conditional use
permit, and all applicable state and city requirements.
Management offices (RMH-1 and RMH-4 only). One or more single-family dwellings
or mobile homes used exclusively for office and living quarters by the operator
or manager of the mobile home or RV park. The architectural design of a non-
mobile home office shall be subject to approval by the planning commission
prior to the issuance of any conditional use permit.
Mobile homes, manufactured homes, RVs. One mobile home, manufactured home or RV
per space, including doublewide or expandable mobile home units.
Residential uses.
   B.   Standards for Development; Requirement:
      1.   Minimum Overall Area:
         a.   RMH-1: Two (2) acres;
         b.   RMH-2: One acre;
         c.   RMH-3: One acre;
         d.   RMH-4: Two (2) acres.
      2.   Maximum Building Height: The height of any building shall in no
manner be such as to create a nuisance or safety hazard for air traffic into
and about the Elko Municipal Airport.
      3.   Minimum Net Space Area: Minimum net space area for each mobile home,
RV or manufactured home:
         a.   RMH-1: Four thousand (4,000) square feet;
         b.   RMH-2: Six thousand (6,000) square feet;
         c.   RMH-3: Six thousand (6,000) square feet;
         d.   RMH-4: One thousand two hundred sixty five (1,265) square feet.
      4.   Minimum Frontage Width: Minimum mobile home, RV or manufactured home
space frontage width:
         a.   RMH-1: Forty feet (40');
         b.   RMH-2: Sixty feet (60');
         c.   RMH-3: Sixty feet (60');
         d.   RMH-4: Twenty three feet (23').
      5.   Minimum Setback, Public Street: Minimum setback of any building,
mobile home, RV or manufactured home from a bordering public street line is
fifteen feet (15'), except that garages and carports shall be set back twenty
feet (20') from the front lot line.
      6.   Minimum Setback, Internal Street: Minimum setback from internal
street in mobile home parks is twelve feet (12'), except that garages and
carports shall be set back twenty feet (20') from the front lot line.
      7.   Minimum Side, Rear Setbacks, Separations: Minimum side and rear
setbacks or separation for each mobile home, RV or manufactured home lot, where
such side and rear does not border on public or internal streets:
         a.   RMH-1: Five feet (5') from space side line; seven and one- half
feet (71/2') from space rear line.
         b.   RMH-2: Five and one-half feet (51/2') from side property line;
ten feet (10') from rear property line.
         c.   RMH-3: Five and one-half feet (51/2') from side property line;
ten feet (10') from rear property line.
         d.   RMH-4: Ten feet (10') separation between units or structures.
      8.   Property Development Standards for Accessory Buildings:
         a.   Building Height: The maximum building height for all accessory
buildings shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet, or the building height
requirements contained within the City of Elko Airport Master Plan, whichever
is the most restrictive.
         b.   Building Setbacks:
            (1)   Permanent and Non-Permanent Accessory Buildings:
               (A)   Front: Fifteen (15) feet except that garages and carports
shall be set back twenty (20) feet from any street from which they are
accessed.
               (B)   Rear: Five (5) feet
               (C)   Interior Side: Five (5) feet
               (D)   Exterior Side: Five (5) feet except that garages and
carports shall be set back twenty (20) feet from any street from which they are
accessed.
         c.   Building Area: The cumulative square feet of all accessory
buildings shall be limited to a maximum area of ten percent (10%) of the lot
area or one thousand, two hundred (1,200) square feet.
         d.   Detached guesthouses are permitted with the exception of RMH 3
and RMH 4 districts, so long as they conform to all yard requirements
applicable to the principal building.
         e.   The minimum distance between all buildings on the parcel shall be
five (5) feet.
         f.   No building or structure shall be located on any easement.
      9.   Expandable Sections, Separation Requirements: Expandable sections of
a mobile home, manufactured home or RV shall be considered a part of the mobile
home, RV or manufactured home proper for setback or separation requirements.
      10.   Underground Utilities: All utilities shall be placed underground.
      11.   Other Statutes and Regulations Applicable: Where applicable, all
site preparation, construction, mobile home, RV and manufactured home
installation, utility connections and occupancy shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the Nevada statutes and regulations of this code and
ordinances.
   C.   Transportation Systems Requirements:
      1.   Access; Alignment and Grading Of Streets: All mobile home, RV or
manufactured home spaces shall be provided with safe and convenient vehicular
access from public or private streets. Alignment and grading of streets shall
be properly adapted to topography.
      2.   Street Surfacing: All streets shall have a paved all weather surface
approved by the city engineer and drained in a manner approved by the city
engineer.
      3.   Paved Curb Section: All streets shall have a paved, back of curb to
back of curb section not less than:
         a.   RMH-1: Forty two feet (42') in width;
         b.   RMH-2: Fifty feet (50') in width;
         c.   RMH-3: Fifty feet (50') in width;
         d.   RMH-4: Twenty feet (20') in width with off street parking.
      4.   Curb/Gutter Sections; Sidewalk: All streets shall require curb/
gutter sections on both sides and have a five foot (5') paved sidewalk:
         a.   RMH-1: At least one side of street;
         b.   RMH-2: Both sides of street;
         c.   RMH-3: Both sides of street;
         d.   RMH-4: On both sides of dedicated public streets.
      5.   Off Street Parking: A minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces
per mobile home or manufactured home space shall be required. One per RV site
shall be required on streets twenty feet (20') in width.
      6.   Emergency Vehicular Access: In all districts, adequate provisions
for emergency vehicular access during inclement weather shall be provided on
internal streets.
      7.   Storm Drainage: Adequate storm drainage shall be provided and shall
be reviewed by the city engineer for his approval.
      8.   Signs and Lighting: All streets shall be properly signed and
lighted. Lighting systems to be approved by the city engineer.
   D.   General Requirements:
      1.   Paving: All vehicle parking spaces and driveways shall be paved with
a hard surface material.
      2.   Recreation or Open Space Area: The planning commission shall require
mobile home and RV parks to have at least one recreation area or usable open
space accessible from all spaces, the cumulative size of which recreation area
shall not be less than:
         a.   A minimum of two hundred (200) square feet of outdoor recreation
area per mobile home space or fifty (50) square feet per RV site shall be
provided, exclusive of required yards or setback area. The minimum size for any
single outdoor recreation area shall be two thousand four hundred (2,400)
square feet in mobile home parks and one thousand two hundred (1,200) square
feet in RV parks, with a minimum width of twenty four feet (24').
         b.   Parks catering to family use shall provide larger recreation
areas and adequate playgrounds. A minimum of three hundred (300) square feet of
outdoor recreation area per mobile home space or seventy five (75) square feet
per RV site shall be provided, exclusive of required yards or setback areas.
All recreation areas and landscaping plans shall be approved prior to issuance
of a conditional use permit by the planning commission.
      3.   Pedestrianways: When included as additions to required sidewalks,
pedestrianways shall have a minimum width of four feet (4') and shall be
surfaced in concrete or hard surface material.
      4.   Water Supply: An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of
water for domestic purposes shall be provided to each mobile home or
manufactured home space or lot and RV site, and proof of the same shall be
provided to the planning commission before approval of any conditional use
permit. Such supply of water shall be in conformance with any applicable Nevada
statutes and regulations and city ordinances, and furnished through a pipe
distribution system directly connected to the city water service.
      5.   Sewerage Facilities: An adequate and safe sewer system shall be
provided to each mobile home, manufactured home or RV space, lot or site. Such
sewer system shall be in conformance with any applicable Nevada statutes and
regulations and city ordinances, and directly connected through a pipe
collection system to the city sewer facilities.
      6.   Refuse and Garbage: Storage, collection and disposal of garbage and
refuse shall be in conformance with any applicable Nevada statutes and
regulations and city ordinances. In mobile home and RV parks, one metal
dumpster with lid per twenty five (25) spaces located no more than one hundred
fifty feet (150') from mobile home lots and RV sites shall be required.
      7.   Fuel Supply and Storage: Installation of liquid petroleum gas or
fuel oil containers within a mobile home or manufactured home subdivision or
mobile home or RV park shall be in conformance with any applicable Nevada
statutes and city ordinances.
      8.   Fire Protection: In every mobile home or RV park, mobile home
subdivision or manufactured home subdivision, fire hydrants shall be installed
as may be required by the fire department.
      9.   Tie Downs: Tie downs for all mobile homes shall be provided in
accordance with state fire marshal regulations and applicable Nevada statutes
and regulations. Tie downs shall not be required on RV sites.
      10.   Skirting:
         a.   Skirting shall be of durable materials suitable for exterior
exposures, and be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation
instructions. It shall be secured, as necessary, to assure stability, to
minimize vibrations, to minimize susceptibility to wind damage and to
compensate for possible frost heave.
         b.   If combustion air for heat producing appliance is taken from
within the under floor area, ventilation shall be adequate to assure proper
operation of the appliances.
         c.   Use of combustible material (such as hay, straw, cardboard, etc.)
shall be prohibited.
      11.   Fences: Mobile home and RV parks adjacent to residential zones
shall be fenced with a solid view screening decorative fence not more than six
feet (6') nor less than three feet (3') in height around the entire boundary of
the park. However, no such fence over three feet (3') in height shall be
allowed within thirty feet (30') of the intersection of any two (2) streets.
The design and construction materials of said fence shall be subject to
approval by the planning commission prior to the issuance of any conditional
use permit. (RMH-1 and RMH-4 districts only.)
      12.   Floodplain: No mobile home or manufactured home subdivision, mobile
home or RV park which is proposed to be constructed below the 100-year
floodplain elevation of the Humboldt River and other drainage as defined by the
U.S. army corps of engineers, shall be approved by the planning commission.
      13.   Grading, Erosion Protections; Avoidance Of Visual Scars On
Hillsides; Protection Of Underground Utility Lines: Whenever it may be
necessary for the developer of a mobile home, manufactured home subdivision,
mobile home or RV park to cut and fill, or to alter the contours of the land in
any way, he shall comply with the provisions of the city building code.
      14.   Management: The holder of a valid city business license for the
operation of a mobile home or RV park shall be responsible for compliance with
this chapter and other applicable ordinances (e.g., section
5-1-1 of this code) or Nevada statutes and regulations. He/she shall maintain
the mobile home or RV park in a neat, orderly and sanitary condition at all
times. (RMH-1 and RMH-4 districts only.)
      15.   Signs: All signs for the mobile home or RV park, including the
height, size, location, appearance and illumination of such signs, shall be
subject to approval of the planning commission prior to the issuance of any
conditional use permit. No signs will be installed without approval of said
sign by the planning commission. The applicant shall submit a plan showing the
locations of such signs and architectural elevations showing the heights,
shapes, size and manner of illumination of the signs. (RMH-1 and RMH-
4 districts only.)
      16.   Landscaping: Exposed ground surfaces in the park shall be covered
with stone, screening or other materials or protected with a vegetative growth
in a well kept manner, either of which is capable of preventing soil erosion
and eliminating objectionable dust. (RMH-1 and RMH-4 districts only.)
      17.   Plan: A copy of the final approved plan for the mobile home or RV
park shall be conspicuously posted on the site near office, or as designated by
the fire department and the license holder shall be responsible for maintenance
of the park as per the final approved plan thereafter. (RMH-1 and RMH-
4 districts only.)
      18.   Space Numbering: All spaces shall be numbered, and such number
shall be posted in a place clearly visible and conspicuous from the internal
street. (RMH-1 and RMH-4 districts only.)
      19.   Electrical: All mobile home parks shall comply with the national
electrical code, article 550, part B. All recreational vehicle parks shall
comply with the national electrical code, article 551, part B.
      20.   Public Telephone: At least one public telephone is required for a
mobile home or RV park.
      21.   Dump Stations: Permitted dump stations in RV parks shall meet all
applicable Nevada statutes and regulations and city requirements.
      22.   Fuel Cylinders: No extra or empty fuel cylinders are allowed to be
stored on RV sites. Fuel cylinders being used shall comply with the latest
edition of NFPA 58 (standard for the storage and handling of liquefied
petroleum gases).
      23.   Other Requirements: Where this code does not address a particular
problem, the use of the latest edition of NFPA 501A (manufactured home
installations, sites and communities), 501D (recreational vehicle parks and
campgrounds) and 501C (fire safety criteria for recreational vehicles) will be
used. Wherever 501A, 501D and 501C and this code differ, the requirements which
are more stringent shall apply.
   E.   Additional Requirements for Mobile Home Subdivision Utilizing Small
Lots and Homeowners' Associations in RMH-2 or RMH-3 Residential Mobile Home
Districts: All mobile home subdivisions shall be subject to issuance of a
conditional use permit, following review by the planning commission.
Applications and procedures shall be in the manner provided by this title.
Additionally, such subdivisions shall comply with Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 278, the subdivision and other applicable ordinances and regulations of
the city and any health regulations of the state health department. In addition
to all applicable requirements set forth in subsections A through D of this
section, all mobile home subdivisions shall be required to conform to the
following standards:
      1.   Development Requirements: Development requirements shall be as
follows:
         a.   Minimum overall area: Two (2) acres;
         b.   Minimum lot area: Four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet;
         c.   Minimum lot width: Forty five feet (45');
         d.   Minimum setback from bordering public street line: Fifteen feet
(15'), except that garages and carports shall be set back twenty feet (20')
from the front lot line;
         e.   Minimum setback from internal street: Twelve feet (12'), except
that garages and carports shall be set back twenty feet (20') from the front
lot line;
         f.   Minimum setback from property line: Seven and one-half feet (71/
2');
         g.   Minimum distance between mobile home sides or side and end:
Fifteen feet (15'); between ends: Fifteen feet (15');
         h.   Expandable sections of a mobile home or attached accessory
building shall be considered a part of the mobile home proper for setback
requirements.
      2.   Street System:
         a.   All mobile home lots shall be provided with safe and convenient
vehicular access from public or private streets. Alignment and gradient of
streets shall be properly adapted to topography.
         b.   All streets shall be paved and drained in a manner approved by
the public works department. Streets shall have a designed structural section
based on traffic volumes and soil conditions, but in no event shall the
asphaltic pavement be less than two inches (2") in thickness, placed on a base
material at least six inches (6") thick and approved by the public works
department.
         c.   Access to mobile home subdivisions shall be designed to minimize
congestion and traffic hazards and provide for safe movement of traffic at the
entrance or exits to adjoining streets.
         d.   All interior streets shall have a paved section not less than
forty feet (40') in width, back of curb to back of curb, and a right of way not
less than fifty feet (50').
         e.   All streets shall be properly signed and lighted. Lighting system
is to be approved by the public works department and shall provide a minimum
level of lighting approved by the city engineer.
         f.   Adequate provisions for snow removal and snow storage areas shall
be provided.
         g.   All streets shall have four foot (4') concrete paved sidewalks on
both sides of street.
      3.   General Requirements:
         a.   Pavement of Spaces and Driveways: All vehicle parking spaces and
driveways shall be paved.
         b.   Covering Of Ground Surfaces: Exposed ground surfaces in all other
parts of the mobile home subdivision shall be covered with stone, screening or
other material or protected with a vegetative growth in a well kept manner,
either of which is capable of preventing soil erosion and eliminating
objectionable dust.
         c.   Refuse and Garbage: Storage, collection and disposal of garbage
and refuse shall be in conformance to any applicable Nevada statutes and
regulations, and regulations of the city and state health departments1.
         d.   Fuel Supply and Storage: Installation of liquified petroleum gas
or fuel oil containers within a mobile home subdivision shall be in conformance
to any applicable Nevada statutes and regulations, and city ordinances, and to
the satisfaction of the fire department.
         e.   Fire Protection: In every mobile home subdivision there shall be
installed, and properly maintained, fire hydrants as required by the fire
department.
         f.   Fences: Mobile home subdivisions shall be fenced with a screened
fence not more than six feet (6') nor less than four feet (4') in height around
the entire boundary of the subdivision, subject to waiver in specific cases by
the planning commission at its discretion.
         g.   Variations: The planning commission, as part of the conditional
use permit procedure, may vary the above requirements in its recommendation to
the city. (Ord. 771, 3-26-2013; amd. Ord. 860, 5-25-2021)
3-5-5: STORAGE AND TEMPORARY COMMERCIAL OFFICE USE:
Trailer, manufactured home, recreational vehicle and mobile home sales lots may
have one and only one mobile home, recreational vehicle or manufactured home
used for dwelling purposes, properly connected to utilities. An additional
mobile home, recreational vehicle or manufactured home used for office quarters
properly connected to utilities may be permitted, subject to the granting of a
temporary use permit by the planning commission pursuant to subsection
3-2-3C5 of this title. (Ord. 613, 3-9-2004)
3-5-6: APPLICATION TO EXISTING AREAS:
   A.   Provisions of this chapter shall apply to the expanded or reconstructed
area of those mobile home, RV or manufactured home subdivisions, and mobile
home and RV parks whose existing area is reconstructed or expanded after the
effective date hereof amending this chapter.
   B.   This chapter does not apply to existing mobile home subdivisions or
mobile home and RV parks, except in the case of when the existing area is
expanded or reconstructed, then that portion of the subdivision or park being
expanded or reconstructed shall be made to conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
   C.   Mobile homes not established on any lot or tract of land not permitted
by any provision of this code are not governed by this chapter. Only an
existing mobile home used for dwelling purposes by the owner of the premises
may be removed or replaced without having to conform to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 398, 4-24-1990)
3-5-7: MODIFICATION OF STANDARDS:
The planning commission, as part of the conditional use permit review pursuant
to section
3-2-18 of this title, and where just cause or circumstance warrants, may vary
or modify the standards and requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 534, 12-14-
1999)
CHAPTER 6
RESERVED
CHAPTER 7
MOVEMENT OF BUILDINGS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Title
3-7-2: Consent Required
3-7-3: Application And Procedure
3-7-4: Public Hearing
3-7-5: Exceptions
3-7-6: Action On Application
3-7-7: Designation Of Route And Time
3-7-8: Duties Of Permittee
3-7-9: Bond Requirements
3-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as MOVEMENT OF BUILDINGS. (Ord. 265, 11-28-1978)
3-7-2: CONSENT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to move or cause to be moved any building
or structure of any kind or description to any lot, piece or parcel of land
within the city, or within three (3) miles of any exterior boundary of the
city, or over, along or across any highway, street or alley in the city, unless
the consent of the city council for such moving has been obtained prior to the
move, except as hereinafter provided in this chapter. (Ord. 265, 11-28-1978)
3-7-3: APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE:
Except as provided in section
 3-7-4 of this chapter, any person who owns, has any interest in, possesses or
controls any building or structure of any kind or description and who desires
or intends to move any such building or structure in, upon, over, along, across
or through any public highway, street or alley within the city, or within three
(3) miles of any exterior boundary of the city, shall first file a written
application with the building inspector requesting the review by and
recommendation of the planning commission and consent of the city council to
such move and the issuance of a permit pursuant hereto. The application filed
with the building inspector shall set forth the following:
   A.   Description; Current Location: A description of and the location of the
building or structure proposed to be moved, giving street number, if any,
construction, materials, dimensions, and condition of exterior, interior,
plumbing and wiring;
   B.   New Location: The proposed new location of such building or structure;
   C.   Route: The route over which it is proposed to move the building or
structure, and the proposed date of and the estimated time necessary to
complete the move;
   D.   Use: The purpose for which the building or structure is to be used in
its new location;
   E.   Description Of Work: A description of the alteration, repair,
remodeling and other type of work that is to be performed upon the building or
structure with a specification of the type of exterior finish that will be on
the building or structure upon completion;
   F.   Cost Estimate: An accurate estimate of the cost of moving such building
or structure and completion of the work on the building or structure and the
previous and new locations required by this chapter. (Ord. 265, 11-28-1978)
3-7-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Required; Notice: The application shall be presented to the planning
commission at its next regular meeting after the filing of the application, and
the planning commission shall set the matter for public hearing. The city clerk
shall give notice of the time, place and purpose of such hearing by mailing a
notice thereof not less than ten (10) days prior to the date of such hearing to
each property owner owning property within three hundred feet (300') of the
exterior limits of the parcel of property onto which the building or structure
is to be moved. For the purposes of this chapter, "property owner" shall mean
the taxpayer shown upon the latest assessment rolls of Elko County as being
taxable for the property, the address on the assessment roll to be the address
used for mailing of notice.
   B.   Decision Of Planning Commission; Recommendation: The planning
commission shall file a written report with the city council that the
application be granted as requested, granted subject to specific conditions, or
denied. The planning commission recommendation shall be transmitted to the city
clerk and a copy mailed to the applicant. Failure by the planning commission to
file a report with the city council shall be deemed approval by the planning
commission. (Ord. 265, 11-28-1978)
3-7-5: EXCEPTIONS:
If the building or structure to be moved is to be moved more than three (3)
miles beyond the city limits; or if said building or structure to be moved was
constructed pursuant to a permit issued by the building inspector's office and
in conformity with all current building codes of the city within a period of
sixty (60) days prior to the date specified for moving; or if said building or
structure is a new building constructed or prefabricated outside the city
limits which has never been occupied or used for the purpose for which it is
designed and which satisfied all applicable requirements of the current
building or construction codes of the city; or if said building contains under
four hundred (400) square feet of floor space and has not or is not now used
for human habitation, then, in any of these events, the detailed application,
notices and the public hearing provided for in sections
3-7-3 and
3-7-4 of this chapter shall be dispensed with and an application for a moving
permit shall be made directly to the building inspector, which shall set forth
sufficient information to establish that the applicant is entitled to a permit
without a public hearing. If in the opinion of the building inspector the
applicant is entitled to a permit without public hearing pursuant to this
section, then, upon payment of a filing fee as set by resolution of the city
council, all other costs incurred by the city and the filing of the bond as
required by section
3-7-8 of this chapter, the building inspector shall issue a moving permit to
the applicant, subject to the terms and provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 290,
8-26-1980)
3-7-6: ACTION ON APPLICATION:
The city council shall, after the presentation of the application, receipt of
the planning commission recommendations, the public hearing and the
consideration of all statements and materials submitted to it, either grant the
application and consent to the move and authorize the issuance of a removal
permit, subject to payment of a filing fee as set by resolution of the city
council, all costs of publication and mailing, other costs incurred by the
city, and the posting of a bond as required by section
3-7-8 of this chapter, or shall deny such application and refuse to consent to
the moving and the issuance of a permit therefor. (Ord. 290, 8-26-1980)
3-7-7: DESIGNATION OF ROUTE AND TIME:
If a permit is issued, the building inspector shall designate the streets over
which the building or structure may be moved so as to minimize congestion and
traffic hazards on public streets and shall set the time within which the same
shall be moved. (Ord. 265, 11-28-1978)
3-7-8: DUTIES OF PERMITTEE:
Every permittee under this chapter shall:
   A.   Move the building or structure only over the streets designated by the
building inspector.
   B.   Comply with all building, fire and construction codes, and any zoning
ordinances, and all other applicable ordinances and laws upon relocating the
building or structure in the city, or within three (3) miles of the exterior
boundaries of the city.
   C.   Remove all rubbish and materials and fill all excavations to existing
grade at the original building site so that the premises is left in a safe and
sanitary condition, if the original site is within the city or within three (3)
miles of the city limits.
   D.   Remove all building material, rubbish and scraps from the new site and
fill in the site to existing grade so that the new site is in a safe, sanitary
and orderly condition.
   E.   Complete the moving of said building or structure, the repair,
remodeling and alteration of such building or structure as necessary to bring
it into compliance with the requirements of this title, as amended, and all
other applicable codes and ordinances relating to buildings and construction
within the city, and perform all of the duties of the permittee under the terms
of this section within six (6) months from the date of the issuance of the
permit hereunder; provided, the city council may, for good cause shown, extend
this completion date. (Ord. 265, 11-28-1978)
3-7-9: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Conditions: Prior to the issuance of any removal permit pursuant to
this section, the applicant shall file with the city clerk a bond, approved as
to form by the city attorney, in the reasonable amount set by the city council
at the time of approval of the application in cases acted on by such council or
by the building inspector in cases acted on by him pursuant to this section,
which bond shall be conditioned:
      1.   The moving of the building or structure; the necessary repairs,
remodeling and alteration of such building or structure as necessary to bring
it into compliance with all applicable building and construction codes, fire
codes and zoning ordinances of the city; and the removal of all rubbish and
materials from both the old and new building locations and the filling of all
holes, trenches, and excavations to grade at both the old and new locations of
the building; and all other work required of the permittee under this section;
and shall be completed within the time set by the city council; and
      2.   The permittee shall pay for all damages that may accrue to the
highway, streets or alleys, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, fire hydrants and water
or sewer pipes in the city, or to any property of any person, in the moving of
said building or structure; and
      3.   The permittee will pay all damages and costs and expenses necessary
for the removal of, or the changing of, any telephone, telegraph, electric
power, television or any other wires used for public convenience or utilities
in the city, and all damages for the removal of any poles from the streets,
sidewalks or alleys in the city; and
      4.   The permittee shall pay all other damages, costs or expenses
incurred by the city or any person, who in any manner is damaged during the
process of moving such building or structure.
   B.   Right To Sue And Collect: Said bond may be sued upon and collected upon
by the city or any person or legal entity in any manner damaged by the moving
of such building or structure. (Ord. 265, 11-28-1978)
CHAPTER 8
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
3-8-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Facts, Purpose And Methods
3-8-2: Definitions
3-8-3: General Provisions
3-8-4: Administration
3-8-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
3-8-6: Variance Procedures
3-8-7: Map Revision/Amendment Procedures
3-8-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACTS, PURPOSE AND METHODS:
   A.   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the state of Nevada in
Nevada Revised Statutes 278.020, 244A.057, and 543.020 confers upon local
government units authority to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the city
council of the city of Elko does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
   B.   Finding Of Fact:
      1.   The flood hazard areas of city of Elko are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      2.   These flood losses are caused by structures that are inadequately
elevated, floodproofed, or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effects
of obstructions in areas of special flood hazards, which increase flood heights
and velocities, also contribute to flood losses.
   C.   Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      1.   Protect human life and health;
      2.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      3.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      4.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      5.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazards;
      6.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
      7.   Ensure potential buyers are notified of property located in areas of
special flood hazards;
      8.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards assume
responsibility for their actions; and
      9.   Maintain qualifying standards for participation in the national
flood insurance program.
   D.   Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses: To accomplish its purposes, this
chapter includes methods and provisions to:
      1.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
      2.   Require that land uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      3.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, alluvial fans, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel
floodwaters;
      4.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
      5.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 736, 6-14-2011)
3-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure used solely for parking (2 car detached
garages or smaller) or limited storage (small, low cost sheds).
   ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ALLUVIAL FAN: A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan shaped
deposit of clay, silt, sand, gravel, and boulders that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and deposited on the valley floor.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar land form which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows: active processes of erosion, sediment transport, deposition,
and unpredictable flow paths.
   ANCHORING: A series of methods used to secure a structure to its footings or
foundation wall so that it will not be displaced by flood or wind forces.
   APEX: The highest point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which
the flow path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and
alluvial fan flooding can occur.
   APPEAL: A request for a review of the local floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provisions of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Designated zones AO and AH on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA).
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD RELATED EROSION HAZARD: The land within a community
which is most likely to be subject to severe flood related erosion losses. This
area may be designated as zone E on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
   AREA OF SPECIAL MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) HAZARD: The area subject to severe
mudslides (i.e., mudflows). This area is designated as zone M on the flood
insurance rate map (FIRM).
   BASE FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. (Also called the "100-year flood".)
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The height in relation to mean sea level expected to
be reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the
floodplain of riverine areas.
   BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides. A subgrade crawl space is considered a basement unless it
meets the minimum technical requirements defined in FEMA technical bulletin 11-
01 (crawlspace construction for buildings located in special flood hazard
areas, 2001) and the community has adopted the standards of FEMA technical
bulletin 11-01.
   BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
   COMMUNITY: Any state or area or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian
tribe or authorized tribal organization, or authorized native organization,
which has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for
the areas within its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS): A program developed by FIA to provide
incentives for those communities in the regular program that have gone beyond
the minimum floodplain management requirements to develop extra measures to
provide protection from flooding.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (CLOMA): A letter from FEMA stating that
a proposed structure that is not to be elevated by fill would not be inundated
by the base flood if built as proposed.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): Procedures by which contractors,
developers and communities can request review and determination by the federal
insurance administrator of scientific and technical data for a proposed
project, when complete and functioning effectively would modify the elevation
of individual structures and parcels of land, stream channels, and floodplains
on the FIRM.
   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (Based On Fill) (CLOMR-F): A letter from
FEMA stating that a parcel of land or proposed structure that is to be elevated
by fill would not be inundated by the base flood if fill is placed on the
parcel as proposed or the structure is built as proposed.
   CRITICAL STRUCTURES: Any structure for which even a slight chance of
flooding would reduce or eliminate its designed function of supporting a
community in an emergency. Fire stations, hospitals, municipal airports, police
stations, communication antennas or towers, eldercare facilities (retirement
homes), fuel storage facilities, schools designated as emergency shelters,
fresh water and sewage treatment facilities are some examples of critical
structures.
   DATE OF CONSTRUCTION: The date that the building permit was issued provided
the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date.
   DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel of a stream and the portion of the
adjoining floodplain designated by a regulatory agency to be kept free of
further development to provide for unobstructed passage of flood flows.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials located within the area of special flood hazard.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM): The official map, in digital
format, on which the federal emergency management agency or federal insurance
administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community. The DFIRM is the legal
equivalent of the FIRM in communities where a DFIRM is available (see
definition of Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)).
   DRY FLOODPROOFING: A floodproofing method used to design and construct
buildings so as to prevent the entrance of floodwaters.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The elevation certificate is required in order to
properly rate post-FIRM buildings, which are buildings constructed after
publication of the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), for flood insurance zones
A1-A30, AE, AH, A (with BFE), VE, V1-V30, V (with BFE), AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-
A30, AR/AH, and AR/AO. The elevation certificate is not required for pre-FIRM
buildings unless the building is being rated under the optional post-FIRM flood
insurance rules.
   ENCLOSURE: That portion of an elevated building below the lowest elevated
floor that is either partially or fully shut in by rigid walls.
   ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, excavation,
fill, buildings, permanent structures or development, storage of equipment and
materials, or any other physical object placed in the floodplain, that hinders
the passage of water or otherwise affects flood flows.
   EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away of any landmass. This peril
is not per se covered under the program. (See definition of Flood Related
Erosion.)
   EXPANSION TO A MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK: The preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA): The federal agency under which
the national flood insurance program (NFIP) is administered.
   FEDERAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION (FIA): The government unit, a part of
federal emergency management agency (FEMA) that administers the national flood
insurance program (NFIP).
   FLASH FLOOD: A flood that crests in a short period of time and is often
characterized by high velocity flows. It is often the result of heavy rainfall
in a localized area.
   FLOOD CONTROL: Keeping floodwaters away from specific developments or
populated areas, areas by the construction of flood storage reservoirs, channel
alterations, dikes and levees, bypass channels, or other engineering works.
   FLOOD, FLOODING OR FLOODWATERS: A general and temporary condition of partial
or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of
floodwaters; the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source and mudslides (i.e., mudflows) and the condition resulting from
flood related erosion.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by
the administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as zones A,
M, and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): Official map on which the federal emergency
management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated both the
areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community. Includes digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM) in communities
where a DFIRM is available (see definition of Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map
(DFIRM)).
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONE DESIGNATIONS: The zone designations indicating the
magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community. See definition
of Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA).
Zone A: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; base flood
elevations are not determined.
Zone A1-30 And Zone AE: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; base flood elevations are determined.
Zone AO: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; with flood
depths of one to three feet (3') (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain);
average depths are determined. For areas of alluvial fan flooding, velocities
are also determined.
Zone AH: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; flood
depths of one to three feet (3') (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
Zone AR: Special flood hazard areas that result from the decertification of a
previously accredited flood protection system that is in the process of being
restored to provide a 100-year or greater level of flood protection.
Zones AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, And AR/A: Special flood hazard areas that
result from the decertification of a previously accredited flood protection
system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-year or
greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these areas
will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
Zone A99: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood to be
protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction; no base flood elevations determined.
Zone B And Zone X (Shaded): Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject to the 100-
year flood with average depths of less than one foot (1') or with contributing
drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by levees from the
base flood.
Zone C And Zone X (Unshaded): Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
Zone D: Areas in which flood hazards are undetermined.
Zone E: Area of special flood related erosion hazards.
Zone M: Area of special mudslide or mudflow hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the federal
insurance administration that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance rate
map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD RELATED EROSION: The collapse or subsidence of land along a stream or
wash, the shore of a lake or other body of water as a result of undermining
caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or
suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of water,
accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as
a flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and
unforeseeable event which results in flooding.
   FLOOD RELATED EROSION PRONE AREA: A land area adjoining the shore of a lake
or other body of water, which due to the composition of the shoreline or bank
and high water levels or wind driven currents, is likely to suffer flood
related erosion damage.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The community official designated by title to
administer and enforce the floodplain management regulations. The floodplain
administrator for the city of Elko is defined in subsection
3-8-4A, "Designation Of The Local Floodplain Administrator", of this chapter to
be the city engineer or designated staff member.
   FLOODPLAIN AND FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by waters from any source. (See definition of Flood, Flooding Or
Floodwaters.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
plans, regulations and ordinances.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: This chapter, and any federal, state or
local regulations plus community zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a
grading and erosion control) and other applications of police power which
control development in flood prone areas to prevent and reduce flood loss and
damage.
   FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and
their contents. Refer to FEMA technical bulletins TB-1 (openings in foundation
walls and walls of enclosures, 2008), TB-3 (non-residential floodproofing -
requirements and certification, 1993), and TB-7 (wet floodproofing
requirements, 1993) for guidelines on dry and wet floodproofing.
   FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation. Also referred to as
"regulatory floodway".
   FOOTING: The enlarged base of a foundation wall, pier, or column, designed
to spread the load of the structure so that it does not exceed the soil bearing
capacity.
   FOUNDATION: The underlying structure of a building usually constructed of
concrete that supports the foundation walls, piers, or columns.
   FOUNDATION WALLS: A support structure that connects the foundation to the
main portion of the building or superstructure.
   FRAUD/VICTIMIZATION: Related to variances of this chapter, the variance
granted must not cause fraud on or victimization to the public. In examining
this requirement, the city council will consider the fact that every newly
constructed building adds to government responsibilities, and remains a part of
the community for fifty (50) to one hundred (100) years. Buildings permitted to
be constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during all those
years to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the
property and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs,
inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages bring.
Additionally future owners may be unaware of the risk potential to the property
due to flood damage and the extremely high rates for flood insurance.
   FREEBOARD: A margin of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only marina facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and boat building and boat repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY: The local governing unit, county or municipality that is
empowered to adopt and implement regulations to provide for public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HARDSHIP: Related to variances of this chapter. The exceptional hardship
would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The city council
requires the variance be exceptional, unusual, and pertain only to the property
involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional.
Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal
preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule,
qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved
through other means without granting a variance, even if the alternative is
more expensive, or requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the
parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places (a
listing maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior or
directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
   HYDRAULICS: The science that deals with practical applications of water in
motion.
   HYDRODYNAMIC LOADS: Forces imposed on structures by floodwaters due to the
impact of moving water on the upstream side of the structure, drag along its
sides, and eddies or negative pressures on its downstream side.
   HYDROLOGY: The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
earth's surface and underground.
   HYDROSTATIC LOADS: Forces imposed on a flooded structure due to the weight
of the water.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): The procedure by which any owner or lessee
of property who believes his property has been inadvertently included in a
special flood hazard area can submit scientific and technical information to
the federal insurance administrator for review to remove the property from said
area. The administrator will not consider a LOMA if the information submitted
is based on alteration of topography or new hydrologic or hydraulic conditions
since the effective date of the FIRM.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (Based On Fill) (LOMR-F): A letter from FEMA stating
that an existing structure or parcel of land that has been elevated by fill
would not be inundated by the base flood.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): An official revision to a currently effective
FIRM. An LOMR officially changes flood zone, floodplain and floodway
designations, flood elevations and planimetric features.
   LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system, which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basement. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that the enclosure does
not violate applicable nonelevation design requirements.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME): A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term "manufactured home" does not include "recreational vehicles".
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE: For the purposes of determining substantial improvement,
market value pertains only to the structure in question. It does not pertain to
the land, landscaping or detached accessory structures on the property. For
determining improvement, the value of the land must always be subtracted.
Market value shall be determined by estimating the cost to replace the
structure in new condition and adjusting that cost figure by the amount of
depreciation which has accrued since the structure was constructed.
   A.   The cost of replacement of the structure shall be based on a square
foot cost factor determined by reference to a building cost estimating guide
recognized by the building construction industry.
   B.   The amount of depreciation shall be determined by taking into account
the age and physical deterioration of the structure and functional obsolescence
as approved by the floodplain administrator, but shall not include economic or
other forms of external obsolescence.
Use of replacement costs or accrued depreciation factors different from those
contained in recognized building cost estimating guides may be considered only
if such factors are included in a report prepared by an independent
professional appraiser and supported by a written explanation of the
differences.
   MOBILE HOME: Having the same meaning as the definition of Manufactured Home
(Mobile Home).
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW): A condition where there is a river, flow or
inundation of liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover, and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is in progress,
and will be recognized as such by the federal insurance administrator only if
the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that
occurs.
   MUDSLIDE PRONE AREA: An area with land surfaces and slopes of unconsolidated
material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a potential for
mudflows.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD): As corrected in 1929, is a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the
floodplain. Flood elevations on flood insurance rate maps published for Nevada
communities prior to 2007 were typically referenced to NGVD 29.
   NATURAL GRADE: The grade unaffected by construction techniques such as fill,
landscaping, or berming.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: Buildings for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974,
whichever is later, including any subsequent improvements.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads is completed on or after the effective
date of these floodplain management regulations adopted by the city of Elko.
   NONRESIDENTIAL: Includes, but is not limited to: small business concerns,
churches, schools, farm buildings (including grain bins and silos), poolhouses,
clubhouses, recreational buildings, mercantile structures, agricultural and
industrial structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room
rentals for less than six (6) months' duration.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD): A vertical control used as a reference
for establishing various elevations within the floodplain based upon the
general adjustment of the North American datum of 1988. Flood elevations on
digital flood insurance rate maps for Nevada communities are referenced to NAVD
88.
   OBSTRUCTION: Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation,
channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel
refuse, fill, structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or
projecting into any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the
direction and/or velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its
propensity to snare or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its
likelihood of being carried downstream.
100-YEAR FLOOD: Having the same meaning as the definition of Base Flood.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISIONS (PMR): A reprinted NFIP map incorporating changes to
floodplains, floodways, or flood elevations. Because of the time and cost
involved to change, reprint, and redistribute an NFIP map, a PMR is usually
processed when a revision reflects large scope changes.
   PONDING HAZARD: A flood hazard that occurs in flat areas when there are
depressions in the ground that collect "ponds" of water. The ponding hazard is
represented by the zone designation AH on the FIRM.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION: Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
of the community or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION: Construction or substantial improvement which started
on or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the initial
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) of the community, whichever is later.
   PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE: A single-family dwelling in which at the time of loss,
the named insured or the named insured's spouse has lived for either: a) eighty
percent (80%) of the calendar year, or b) eighty percent (80%) of the period of
ownership, if less than one year.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: A structure used for the principal use of the property
as distinguished from an accessory use.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY: A defect in a community's floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management regulations.
   PROPER OPENINGS FOR ENCLOSURES (Applicable To Zones A, A1-A30, AE, AO, AH,
AR, And AR Dual): All enclosures below the lowest floor must be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of two (2) openings, with
positioning on at least two (2) walls, having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding must
be provided.
   PUBLIC SAFETY/NUISANCE: Related to variances of this chapter. The granting
of a variance must not result in anything which is injurious to safety or
health of the entire community or neighborhood, or any number of persons, or
unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any
navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle built on a single chassis, four hundred
(400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river including
tributaries, stream, brook, etc.
   SHEET FLOW AREA: Having the same meaning as the definition of Area Of
Shallow Flooding.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Darkly shaded area on a flood hazard
boundary map (FHBM) or a flood insurance rate map (FIRM) that identifies an
area that has a one percent (1%) chance of being flooded in any given year
(100-year floodplain). Over a thirty (30) year period, the life of most
mortgages, there is at least a twenty six percent (26%) chance that this area
will be flooded. The FIRM identifies these shaded areas as FIRM zones A, AO,
AH, A1-A30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, AR/AO, V, V1-V30, and
VE. See definition of Flood Insurance Risk Zone Designations.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and other proposed
new development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date of the permit. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground and
includes gas or liquid storage tanks and manufactured homes.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Includes:
   A.   Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the cost of
restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred; or
   B.   Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2) separate
occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five percent
(25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred. This is
also known as "repetitive loss".
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other proposed new development of a structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
"start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which
have incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
   VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development in a special
flood hazard area, without an elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the North American
vertical datum (NAVD) of 1988, or (other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur. (Ord. 736, 6-14-2011)
3-8-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Lands To Which This Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of city of Elko.
   B.   Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard: The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance administration (FIA)
of the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) in the flood insurance study
(FIS) dated November 16, 1995, and accompanying flood insurance rate maps
(FIRM) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFM), dated November 16, 1995,
and all subsequent amendments and/or revisions, are hereby adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter. The FIS and attendant mapping is the
minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may be supplemented by
studies for other areas which allow implementation of this chapter and which
are recommended to the city council by the floodplain administrator. The FIS,
FIRMs and FBFMs are on file at the Elko engineering department located at 1755
College Parkway, Elko, NV 89801.
   C.   Compliance: No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed,
located, extended, converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms
of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions
of this chapter by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisoned
for not more than six (6) months, or both, for each violation, and in addition
shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein shall
prevent the city of Elko from taking such lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
   D.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and other ordinances, easement,
covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposed the more
stringent restrictions or that imposing the higher standards, shall prevail.
   E.   Interpretation: The interpretation and application of this chapter, all
provisions shall be:
      1.   Considered as minimum requirements;
      2.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      3.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   F.   Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of
special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from
flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part
of the city of Elko, any officer or employee thereof, the state of Nevada, or
the federal insurance administration, federal emergency management agency, for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   G.   Declaration Of Public Nuisance: Every new structure, building, fill,
excavation or development located or maintained within any area of special
flood hazard after August 1, 1983, in violation of this chapter is a public
nuisance per se and may be abated, prevented or restrained by action of this
political subdivision.
   H.   Abatement Of Violations: Within thirty (30) days of discovery of a
violation of this chapter, the floodplain administrator shall submit a report
to the city council which shall include all information available to the
floodplain administrator which is pertinent to said violation. Within thirty
(30) days of receipt of this report, the city council shall either:
      1.   Take any necessary action to effect the abatement of such violation;
or
      2.   Issue a variance to this chapter in accordance with the provisions
of section
3-8-6, "Variance Procedures", of this chapter; or
      3.   Order the owner of the property upon which the violation exists to
provide whatever additional information may be required for their
determination. Such information must be provided to the floodplain
administrator within thirty (30) days of such order, and he shall submit an
amended report to the city council within twenty (20) days. At their next
regularly scheduled public meeting, the governing body shall either order the
abatement of said violation or they shall grant a variance in accordance with
the provisions of section
3-8-6, "Variance Procedures", of this chapter.
      4.   Submit to the administrator of federal insurance administration a
declaration for denial of insurance, stating that the property is in violation
of a cited statute or local law, regulation or ordinance, pursuant to section
1316 of the national flood insurance act of 1968 as amended.
   I.   Unlawful Acts:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to divert, retard or obstruct the flow
of waters in any watercourse whenever it creates a hazard to life or property
without securing the written authorization of the floodplain administrator.
Where the watercourse is a delineated floodplain, it is unlawful to excavate or
build any structure affecting the flow of waters without securing written
authorization of the floodplain administrator.
      2.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a class 2 misdemeanor. (Ord. 736, 6-14-2011)
3-8-4: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Designation Of The Local Floodplain Administrator: The Elko city
engineer or designated staff member is hereby appointed local floodplain
administrator to administer and implement this local ordinance by granting or
denying floodplain development permits in accordance with its provisions.
   B.   Establishment Of Development Permit: A floodplain development permit is
hereby established for all construction and other development to be undertaken
in areas of special flood hazard in the city of Elko for the purpose of
protecting its citizens from increased flood hazards and ensuring new
development is constructed in a manner that minimizes its exposure to flooding.
It shall be unlawful to undertake any development in an area of special flood
hazard, as shown on the flood insurance rate map enumerated in subsection
3-8-3B, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter, without a valid floodplain development permit. Applications for a
permit shall be made on forms furnished by the local floodplain administrator
and may include, but not be limited to: plans in duplicate drawn to scale
showing the nature, location, dimensions, and elevation of the area in
question, existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
   C.   Permit Application: The applicant shall provide at least the following
information, where applicable. Additional information may be required on the
permit application forms.
      1.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all residential and nonresidential structures
whether new or substantially improved to be located in zones A, A1-A30, AE, and
AH, if base flood elevations data are available.
      2.   In zone AO the proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the lowest floor (including basement) and the elevation of the highest adjacent
grade of all residential and nonresidential structures whether new or
substantially improved.
      3.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, to which any
new or substantially improved nonresidential structure will be floodproofed.
      4.   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in
the state of Nevada that any utility floodproofing meets the criteria in
subsection
3-8-5B, "Standards For Utilities", of this chapter.
      5.   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in
the state of Nevada that any nonresidential floodproofed structures meet the
criteria in subsection
3-8-5A5, "Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements", of this chapter.
      6.   When a watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, the applicant must submit the maps, computations, and
other materials required by the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) to
process a letter of map revision (LOMR) and pay any fees or other costs
assessed by FEMA for processing the revision.
      7.   A technical analysis, by a professional engineer licensed in the
state of Nevada, showing the proposed development located in the special flood
hazard area will not cause physical damage to any other property.
      8.   When there is no base flood elevation data available for zone A from
any source, the base flood elevation data will be provided by the permit
applicant for all proposed development of subdivisions, manufactured home and
recreational vehicle parks in the special flood hazard areas, for all
developments of fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever is less.
   D.   Duties And Responsibilities Of The Local Floodplain Administrator:
Duties and responsibilities of the local floodplain administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Permit Application Review: The floodplain development permit will
not be issued by the local floodplain administrator until the following has
been accomplished:
         a.   Review all applications for completeness, particularly with the
requirements of subsection C, "Permit Application", of this section, and for
compliance with the provisions and standards of this chapter.
         b.   Review all subdivision and other proposed new development,
including manufactured home and recreational vehicle parks to determine whether
the proposed development site will be reasonably safe from flooding. When the
proposed building site is located in the special flood hazard area, all new
construction and substantial improvements will meet the applicable standards of
subsection
 3-8-5A, "Standards Of Construction", of this chapter.
         c.   Determine whether any proposed development in the special flood
hazard area may result in physical damage to any other property to include
stream bank erosion and any increase in velocities or that it does not
adversely affect the carrying capacity of the areas where base flood elevations
have been determined but a floodway has not been designated. For purposes of
this chapter, "adversely affects" means the cumulative effect of the proposed
development when combined with all other existing and anticipated development
will increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one-half
foot (1/2') at any point. To assist the local floodplain administrator in
making this determination, the permit applicant may be required to submit
additional technical analyses.
         d.   Ensure all other required state and federal permits have been
received.
         e.   For construction on an existing structure, determine if proposed
construction constitutes substantial improvement or repair of a substantially
damaged structure.
      2.   Use Of Other Flood Data:
         a.   When the federal emergency management agency has designated
special flood hazard areas on the community's flood insurance rate maps (FIRM)
but has neither produced water surface elevation data nor identified a
floodway, the local floodplain administrator shall attempt to obtain, review
and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, including data developed pursuant to
subsection D6, "Retaining Floodplain Development Documentation", of this
section, as criteria for requiring new construction, substantial improvements
or other proposed development meets the requirements of this chapter.
         b.   When base flood elevations are not available, the local
floodplain administrator may use flood information from any other authoritative
source, such as historical data, to establish flood elevations within the
special flood hazard areas. This information shall be submitted to the city
council for adoption.
         c.   When base flood elevations are not available from any other
source, base flood elevations shall be obtained using one of two (2) methods
from the FEMA publication, FEMA 265, "Managing Floodplain Development In
Approximate Zone A Areas - A Guide For Obtaining And Developing Base (100-Year)
Flood Elevations", dated July 1995.
      3.   Alteration Of Watercourses: Prior to issuing a permit for any
alteration or relocation of watercourse the local floodplain administrator
must:
         a.   Have processed letter of map revision (LOMR).
         b.   Notify all adjacent communities, Nevada's national flood
insurance program coordinator, and submittal of evidence of such notification
to the federal insurance administration, and the federal emergency management
agency.
         c.   Determine that the potential permit recipient has provided for
maintenance within the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity is not diminished.
      4.   Inspections: The local floodplain administrator or designee shall
make periodic inspections throughout the period of construction to monitor
compliance with the requirements of the floodplain development permit or any
variance provisions.
      5.   Stop Work Orders: The local floodplain administrator shall issue, or
cause to be issued, a stop work for any floodplain development found
noncompliant with the provisions of this chapter or conditions of the
development permit and all development found ongoing without a floodplain
development permit. Disregard of a stop work order shall subject the violator
to the penalties described in subsection
3-8-3C, "Compliance", of this chapter.
      6.   Retaining Floodplain Development Documentation: The local floodplain
administrator shall obtain and retain for public inspection and have available
for the national flood insurance program coordinator or the federal emergency
management agency representative conducting a community assistance visit, the
following:
         a.   Floodplain development permits and certificates of compliance.
         b.   Elevation certificates with record of certification required by
subsection
3-8-5A4, "Lowest Floor Certification Requirements", of this chapter.
         c.   Certifications required by subsection
3-8-5A5, "Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements", of this chapter.
         d.   Elevation certificates with record of certification required by
subsection
 3-8-5A6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this chapter.
         e.   Elevation certificates with record of certification of elevation
required by subsection
 3-8-5C, "Standards For Subdivisions", of this chapter.
         f.   Certification required by subsection
3-8-5G, "Floodways", of this chapter.
         g.   Variances issued pursuant to section
3-8-6, "Variance Procedures", of this chapter.
         h.   Notices required under subsection D3, "Alteration Of
Watercourses", of this section.
         i.   Reports required by subsection
 3-8-5H, "Mudslide (i.e., Mudflow) Prone Areas", of this chapter.
      7.   Map Determinations: The local floodplain administrator may make map
interpretations where needed, in writing with appropriate documentation, as to
the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard and
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions.
      8.   Appeals: The city council of the city of Elko shall hear and decide
appeals when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      9.   Submission Of New Technical Data To FEMA: When the city of Elko base
flood elevations either increase or decrease resulting from physical changes
affecting flooding conditions, as soon as practicable, but not later than six
(6) months after the date such information becomes available, the city of Elko
will submit the technical or scientific data to FEMA. Such submissions are
necessary so that upon confirmation of the physical changes affecting flooding
conditions, risk premium rates and floodplain management requirements will be
based upon current data.
      10.   Nonconversion Of Enclosed Areas Below The Lowest Floor: To ensure
that the areas below the BFE shall be used solely for parking vehicles, limited
storage, or access to the building and not be finished for use as human
habitation without first becoming fully compliant with the floodplain
management ordinance in effect at the time of conversion, the floodplain
administrator shall:
         a.   Determine which applicants for new construction and/or
substantial improvements have fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that
are five feet (5') or higher;
         b.   Enter into a "nonconversion agreement for construction within
flood hazard areas" or equivalent with the city of Elko. The agreement shall be
recorded with the Elko County recorder as a deed restriction. The nonconversion
agreement shall be in a form acceptable to the floodplain administrator and
county counsel; and
         c.   Have the authority to inspect any area of a structure below the
base flood elevation to ensure compliance upon prior notice of at least seventy
two (72) hours. (Ord. 736, 6-14-2011)
3-8-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
   A.   Standards Of Construction: In all areas of special flood hazard the
following standards are required:
      1.   Anchoring:
         a.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy.
         b.   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of
subsection E, "Standards For Manufactured Homes", of this section.
      2.   Construction Materials And Methods: All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed:
         a.   With materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
         b.   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
         c.   Ensure electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities are designed or located so
as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding;
         d.   Within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
      3.   Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor: Residential construction,
new or substantial improvements, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement:
         a.   In zone AO, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height
two feet (2') above the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or elevated
at least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified.
         b.   In zone A, elevated two feet (2') above the base flood elevation,
as determined by this community.
         c.   In all other zones, elevated two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation.
      4.   Lowest Floor Certification Requirements: Upon completion of the
structure, the elevation of the lowest floor including basement shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and verified by the
community building inspector to be properly elevated. The certification shall
be provided to the floodplain administrator using the current FEMA elevation
certificate.
      5.   Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements: Nonresidential
construction shall either be elevated to conform with subsection A3, "Elevation
Requirements For Lowest Floor", of this section or together with attendant
utility and sanitary facilities:
         a.   Will be floodproofed below the elevation recommended under
subsection A3, "Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor", of this section so
that the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the
passage of water;
         b.   Will have the structural components capable of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
         c.   Will be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the standards of subsection A3, "Elevation Requirements For
Lowest Floor", of this section are satisfied. The certification shall be
provided to the floodplain administrator.
      6.   Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor: All new construction
and substantial improvements with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
(excluding basements) that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage, and which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement
shall follow the guidelines in FEMA technical bulletins TB-1 (openings in
foundation walls and walls of enclosures, 2008) and TB-7 (wet floodproofing
requirements, 1993) and must either be certified by a licensed professional
engineer or architect to meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         a.   Must have a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding;
         b.   The bottom of all such openings will be no higher than one foot
(1') above the lowest adjacent finished grade.
Openings may be equipped with louvers, valves, screens or other coverings or
devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
      7.   Crawl Space Construction: This subsection applies to buildings with
crawl spaces up to two feet (2') below grade. Below grade crawl space
construction in accordance with the requirements listed below will not be
considered basements.
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Crawl
space construction is not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than
five feet (5') per second unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design
professional, such as a registered architect or professional engineer;
         b.   The crawl space is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such,
must have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. For guidance on flood openings, see
FEMA technical bulletin TB-1 (openings in foundation walls and walls of
enclosures, 2008);
         c.   Crawl space construction is not permitted in V zones. Open pile
or column foundations that withstand storm surge and wave forces are required
in V zones;
         d.   Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with
materials resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation
walls of the crawl space used to elevate the building, but also any joists,
insulation, or other materials that extend below the BFE; and
         e.   Any building utility systems within the crawl space must be
elevated above BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate
within the system components during flood conditions.
         f.   Requirements for all below grade crawl space construction, in
addition to the above requirements, to include the following:
            (1)   The interior grade of a crawl space below the BFE must not be
more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent exterior grade (LAG), shown
as D in figure 3 of FEMA technical bulletin 11-01 (crawlspace construction for
buildings located in special flood hazard areas, 2001);
            (2)   The height of the below grade crawl space, measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the crawl space foundation wall
must not exceed four feet (4') (shown as L in figure 3 of technical bulletin
11-01, crawlspace construction for buildings located in special flood hazard
areas, 2001) at any point;
            (3)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event, not to exceed seventy two (72) hours; and
            (4)   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed
five feet (5') per second for any crawl space. For velocities in excess of five
feet (5') per second, other foundation types should be used.
      8.   Garages And Low Cost Accessory Structures:
         a.   Attached Garages:
            (1)   A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed
with the garage floor slab below the BFE, must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of floodwater in accordance with subsection A6, "Requirements
For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this section. Areas of the garage below
the BFE must be constructed with flood resistant material in accordance with
subsection A2a of this section.
            (2)   A garage attached to a nonresidential structure must meet the
above requirements or be floodproofed. For guidance on below grade parking
areas, see FEMA technical bulletin TB-6 (below- grade parking requirements,
1993).
         b.   Detached Garages And Accessory Structures:
            (1)   "Accessory structures" used solely for parking (2 car
detached garages or smaller) or limited storage (small, low cost sheds), as
defined in section
3-8-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, may be constructed such that its floor
is below the base flood elevation (BFE), provided the structure is designed and
constructed in accordance with the following requirements:
   (A) Use of the accessory structure must be limited to parking or limited
storage;
   (B) The portions of the accessory structure located below the BFE must be
built using flood resistant materials;
   (C) The accessory structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
   (D) Any mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory structure must be
elevated or floodproofed to or above the BFE;
   (E) The accessory structure must comply with floodplain encroachment
provisions in subsection G, "Floodways", of this section; and
   (F) The accessory structure must be designed to allow for the automatic
entry of floodwaters in accordance with subsection A6, "Requirements For Areas
Below The Lowest Floor", of this section.
            (2)   Detached garages and accessory structures not meeting the
above standards must be constructed in accordance with all applicable standards
in subsection A6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this
section.
   B.   Standards For Utilities:
      1.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      2.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters or discharge from the systems
into floodwaters. Sanitary sewer and storm drainage systems for buildings that
have openings below the base flood elevation shall be provided with automatic
backflow valves or other automatic backflow devices that are installed in each
discharge line passing through a building's exterior wall.
      3.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   C.   Standards For Subdivisions:
      1.   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood
hazard area and the elevation of the base flood.
      2.   All subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed
structures and pads. If the site is filled above the base flood, the final
lowest floor and pad elevation shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor and provided to the floodplain administrator.
      3.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      4.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
      5.   All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
      6.   Additionally all subdivision proposals will demonstrate, by
providing a detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses that the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one
foot (1') at any point within the community.
   D.   Standards For Critical Structures: Critical structures are not
authorized in a special flood hazard area, unless:
      1.   All alternative locations in flood zone X have been considered and
rejected.
      2.   All alternative locations in flood zone shaded X have been
considered and rejected.
If the floodplain manager determines the only practical alternative location
for the development of a new or substantially improved critical structure is in
a special flood hazard area he must:
      1.   Give public notice of the decision and reasons for the elimination
of all alternative locations.
   E.   Standards For Manufactured Homes:
      1.   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved,
within zones A, AH, AE, and on the community's flood insurance rate map, on
sites located:
         a.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         b.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         c.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         d.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site
upon which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of
a flood:
            (1)   Shall be elevated on a permanent foundation so that the
lowest floor will be elevated at least two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not to be limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to
ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      2.   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on
sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A, AH,
and AE on the community's flood insurance rate map that are not subject to the
provisions of subsection D, "Standards For Critical Structures", of this
section will be elevated so that either:
         a.   The bottom of structural frame or the lowest point of the
manufactured home is at least two feet (2') above the base flood elevation; or
         b.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
      3.   Within zone A, when no base flood elevation data is available, new
and substantially improved manufactured homes shall have the floor elevated at
least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade.
      4.   Within zone AO, the floor of all new and substantially improved
manufactured homes will be elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least
two feet (2') above the depth number specified on the FIRM, or at least three
feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
   F.   Standards For Recreational Vehicles: All recreational vehicles placed
on sites within the floodplain on the community's flood insurance rate map will
either:
      1.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
      2.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle
is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached
to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and
has no permanently attached additions; or
      3.   Will meet the permit requirements of subsection
3-8-4C, "Permit Application", of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring
requirements for manufactured homes in subsection E, "Standards For
Manufactured Homes", of this section.
   G.   Floodways: Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
velocity of floodwaters, which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion
potential, the following provisions apply:
      1.   If a floodway has not been designated within the special flood
hazard areas established in subsection
3-8-3B, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this
chapter, no new construction, substantial improvement, or other development
(including fill) shall be permitted within zones A1-30 and AE, unless it has
been demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point within the community.
      2.   In designated floodways located within the special flood hazard
areas established in subsection
3-8-3B, "Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard", of this chapter
encroachment shall be prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, storage of equipment or supplies, and any other development
within the adopted regulatory floodway; unless it has been demonstrated through
hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, performed in accordance with standard
engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not result in any
increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge, and the federal emergency management agency has issued a
conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR).
      3.   If subsections G1 and G2 of this section have been satisfied; all
proposed new development and substantial improvements will comply with all
other applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this section.
   H.   Mudslide (i.e., Mudflow) Prone Areas:
      1.   All permit applications will be reviewed by the floodplain
administrator to determine if the proposed development will be located within a
mudslide area.
      2.   The reviewing process will determine if the proposed site and
improvements will be reasonably safe from mudslide hazards. Factors to be
considered in making this determination include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         a.   Type and quality of soils.
         b.   Evidence of groundwater or surface water problems.
         c.   Depth and quality of any fill.
         d.   The overall slope of the site.
         e.   The weight that any proposed structure will impose on the slope.
      3.   When a proposed development is located in an area that may have
mudslide hazards, the following will be the minimum requirements:
         a.   A site investigation and further review be made by persons
qualified in geology and soils engineering.
         b.   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction, and
substantial improvements are adequately designed and protected against mudslide
damages.
         c.   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction and
substantial improvements do not aggravate the existing hazard by creating
either on site or off site disturbances.
         d.   Drainage, planting, watering, and maintenance be such as not to
endanger slope stability.
      4.   When a proposed development is determined to be within a mudslide
hazard area, the following requirements will include, but not be limited to:
         a.   Adopting and enforcing a grading ordinance in accordance with
data supplied by the federal emergency management agency.
         b.   Regulate the location of foundation systems and utility systems
of new construction and substantial improvements.
         c.   Regulate the location, drainage and maintenance of all
excavations, cuts and fills and planted slopes.
         d.   Provide special requirements for protective measures including,
but not necessarily limited to, retaining walls, buttress fills, subdrains,
diverted terraces, and benching.
         e.   Require engineering drawings and specifications to be submitted
for all corrective measures, accompanied by supporting soils engineering and
geology reports.
   I.   Flood Related Erosion Prone Areas:
      1.   All permit applications will be reviewed by the floodplain
administrator to determine if the proposed development will be located within a
special flood related erosion hazard area.
      2.   The reviewing process will determine if the proposed site
alterations and improvements will be reasonably safe from flood related erosion
and will not cause flood related erosion hazards or otherwise aggravate the
existing flood related erosion hazard.
      3.   When the proposed development is found to be in the path of flood
related erosion or to increase the erosion hazard, require the improvement to
be relocated or adequate protective measures to be taken which will not
aggravate the existing erosion hazard.
      4.   When it has been determined the proposed development is in a special
flood related erosion hazard, as delineated zone E on the community FIRM,
require:
         a.   A setback for all new development from the lake, bay, riverfront
or other body of water, to create a safety buffer consisting of a natural
vegetative or contour strip. This buffer will be designated according to the
flood related erosion hazard and erosion rate, in conjunction with the
anticipated "useful life" of structures, and depending upon the geologic,
hydrologic, topographic and climatic characteristics of the community's land.
The buffer may be used for suitable open spaces purposes, such as for
agricultural, forestry, outdoor recreation and wildlife habitat areas, and for
other activities using temporary and portable structures only.
   J.   Alluvial Fan Advisory:
      1.   Alluvial fans present a unique flood hazard environment where the
combination of sediment, slope, and topography create an ultra hazardous
condition for which elevation on fill will not provide reliable protection.
Active alluvial fan flooding is characterized by flow path uncertainty combined
with abrupt deposition and erosion. As a result, any area of an alluvial fan
may be subject to intense flood hazards.
The technology of mathematically modeling the hydrodynamics of water and debris
flows for alluvial fans is still in the early development stage. The federal
emergency management agency (FEMA) has formulated a mapping procedure for the
purpose of defining the likelihood of flood hazards on inundated alluvial fan
zones to be used for flood insurance purposes and general floodplain
regulation, referred to as the FEMA alluvial fan methodology.
An active alluvial fan flooding hazard is indicated by three (3) related
criteria:
         a.   Flow path uncertainty below the hydrographic apex;
         b.   Abrupt deposition and ensuing erosion of sediment as a stream or
debris flow loses its competence to carry material eroded from a steeper,
upstream source area; and
         c.   An environment where the combination of sediment availability,
slope, and topography creates an ultra hazardous condition for which elevation
on fill will not reliably mitigate the risk.
Inactive alluvial fan flooding is similar to traditional riverine flood
hazards, but occurs only on alluvial fans. It is characterized by flow paths
with a higher degree of certainty in realistic assessments of flood risk or in
the reliable mitigation of the hazard. Counter to active alluvial fan flooding
hazards, an inactive alluvial fan flooding hazard is characterized by
relatively stable flow paths. However, areas of inactive alluvial fan flooding,
as with active alluvial fan flooding, may be subject to sediment deposition and
erosion, but to a degree that does not cause flow path instability and
uncertainty.
An alluvial fan may exhibit both active alluvial fan flooding and inactive
alluvial fan flooding hazards. The hazards may vary spatially or vary at the
same location, contingent on the level of flow discharge. Spatially, for
example, upstream inactive portions of the alluvial fan may distribute flood
flow to active areas at the distal part of the alluvial fan. Hazards may vary
at the same location, for example, with a flow path that may be stable for
lower flows, but become unstable at higher flows.
More detailed information can be found at FEMA's website: "Guidelines For
Determining Flood Hazards On Alluvial Fans" at http://www.fema.gov/.
      2.   The NFIP does not allow for the removal of land from the floodplain
based on the placement of fill (LOMR-F) in alluvial fan flood hazard areas. The
NFIP will credit a major structural flood control project, through the LOMR
process, that will effectively eliminate alluvial fan flood hazards from the
protected area. Details about map revisions for alluvial fan areas can be found
in the code of federal regulations at title 44, part 65.13. (Ord. 736, 6-14-
2011)
3-8-6: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   Nature Of Variances: The variance criteria set forth in this section
are based on the general principal of zoning law that variances pertain to a
piece of property and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for
a parcel of property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying
with the requirements of this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to
the applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants, or the property owners.
It is the duty of the city council to help protect its citizens from flooding.
This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of insuring a
structure built below flood level are so serious that variances from the flood
elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite rare. The
long term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can only be met
if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance guidelines provided
in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that must be
met before a variance can be properly granted. The criteria are designed to
screen out those situations in which alternatives other than a variance are
more appropriate.
If, upon review, the administrator of FEMA determines that community practices
indicate a pattern of issuing variances that is inconsistent with the
objectives of sound floodplain management, the community may be suspended from
the national flood insurance program.
   B.   Appeal Board:
      1.   In passing upon requests for variances, the city council shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and:
         a.   The danger of materials being swept onto other lands and injuring
others;
         b.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         c.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
         d.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         e.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         f.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         h.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         i.   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site;
         k.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and
bridges.
      2.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
         a.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage;
         b.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. It is recommended that a copy of the notice shall be
recorded by the floodplain administrator in the office of the Elko County
recorder and shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears as an exception
on the title of the affected parcel of land.
      3.   The floodplain administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in its biennial report submitted to the federal insurance
administration, federal emergency management agency.
   C.   Conditions For Variances:
      1.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of sections
3-8-4, "Administration", and 3-8-5, "Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction", of
this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-
half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
      2.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of
"historic structures", as defined in section
3-8-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
      3.   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway
if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the "minimum necessary" considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief. "Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation
from the requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to
an elevation requirement, this means the city council need not grant permission
for the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the
applicant proposed, but only to that elevation which the city council believes
will both provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
         a.   Showing of good and sufficient cause such as renovation,
rehabilitation, or reconstruction. Variances issued for economic
considerations, aesthetics, or because variances have been used in the past are
not good and sufficient cause.
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional "hardship", as defined in section
3-8-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, to the applicant.
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create a nuisance, as defined in section
3-8-2 of this chapter, cause fraud or victimization, as defined in section
3-8-2 of this chapter, of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      6.   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvement, and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use provided that the provisions of subsections C1
through C5 of this section are satisfied and that the structure or other
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood and does not result in additional threats to public safety and does not
create a public nuisance.
      7.   Upon consideration of all the factors of subsection B, "Appeal
Board", of this section and the purposes of this chapter, the city council may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this chapter.
      8.   The city council shall maintain the records of all appeal actions
and report any variance to the federal emergency management agency upon
request.
      9.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest flood
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation. (Ord. 736, 6-14-2011)
3-8-7: MAP REVISION/AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Letters Of Map Revision/Amendment: National flood insurance program
regulations provide procedures to remove property from the 100-year floodplain
or from a special flood hazard area. Amendments and revisions to community
flood insurance rate maps cannot adversely impact the floodplain or floodway
delineations of the level of the 100-year flood.
There are several procedures provided whereby the federal insurance
administrator will review information from the community, an owner, or a lessee
of property where it is believed the property should not be included in a
special flood hazard area.
Submissions to FEMA for revisions to effective flood insurance studies (FISs)
by individual and community requesters will require the signing of application/
certification forms. These forms will provide FEMA with assurance that all
pertinent data relating to the revision is included in the submittal. They will
also assure that: 1) the data and methodology are based on current conditions;
2) qualified professionals have assembled data and performed all necessary
computations; and 3) all individuals and organizations impacted by proposed
changes are aware of the changes and will have an opportunity to comment on
them. FEMA procedures permit the following types of request:
A request for a revision to the effective FIS information (FIRM, FBFM, and/or
FIS report) is usually a request that FEMA replace the effective floodplain
boundaries, flood profiles, floodway boundaries, etc., with those determined by
the requester. Before FEMA will replace the effective FIS information with the
revised, the requester must: 1) provide all of the data used in determining the
revised floodplain boundaries, flood profiles, floodway boundaries, etc.; 2)
provide all data necessary to demonstrate that the physical modifications to
the floodplain have been adequately designed to withstand the impacts of the
one percent (1%) annual chance flood event and will be adequately maintained;
3) demonstrate that the revised information (e.g., hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses and the resulting floodplain and floodway boundaries) are consistent
with the effective FIS information.
Requests for amendments or revisions to FEMA maps must be reviewed and
submitted to FEMA by the city council of the city of Elko with the applicant
for a map amendment or revision required to prepare all the supporting
information and appropriate FEMA forms.
The scientific or technical information to be submitted with these requests may
include, but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   An actual copy of the recorded plat map bearing the seal of the
appropriate recordation official, county clerk or recorder of deeds, indicating
the official recordation and proper citation, deed or plat book volume and page
number, or an equivalent identification where annotation of the deed or plat
book is not the practice.
      2.   A topographical map showing:
         a.   Ground elevation contours in relation to the NGVD (national
geodetic vertical datum).
         b.   The total area of the property in question.
         c.   The location of the structure or structures located on the
property in question.
         d.   The elevation of the lowest adjacent grade to a structure or
structures.
         e.   An indication of the curvilinear line which represents the area
subject to inundation by a base flood. The curvilinear line should be based
upon information provided by an appropriate authoritative source, such as a
federal agency, department of water resources, a county water control district,
a county or city engineer or designated staff member, a federal emergency
management agency flood insurance study, or a determination by a registered
professional engineer.
      3.   A copy of the FHBM or FIRM indicating the location of the property
in question.
      4.   A certification by a registered professional engineer or licensed
land surveyor that the lowest grade adjacent to the structure is above the base
flood elevation.
      5.   The completion of the appropriate forms in the federal emergency
management agency's packets, amendments and revisions to national flood
insurance program maps (MT-1 FEMA form 81-87 series and MT-2 FEMA form 81-89
series). (Ord. 736, 6-14-2011)
CHAPTER 9
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Title
3-9-2: Adoption Of International Building Code, Appendix H
3-9-3: Purpose
3-9-4: Definitions
3-9-5: General Provisions
3-9-6: Exempted Signs
3-9-7: Permitted Freestanding Signs
3-9-8: Temporary Signs
3-9-9: Off Premises And On Premises Signs
3-9-10: Abandoned Signs
3-9-11: Modification Of Standards
3-9-12: Illumination
3-9-13: Administration And Enforcement
3-9-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF ELKO SIGN
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 608, 10-28-2003)
3-9-2: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE, APPENDIX H:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
signs, that certain code known as the international building code, appendix H,
entitled "Signs", recommended by the International Code Council, Inc., being
particularly the latest edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except
such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, such to become
effective upon the effective date hereof. One copy of the latest edition being
adopted shall be approved by the city council and placed on file in the office
of the city clerk. From the date on which such filed edition of said code shall
take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of
the city. The code is hereby adopted as the rules and regulations for the
governing of signs. In the event any of the provisions of the latest edition of
the international building code, appendix H, conflict with any of the
provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall govern and be
controlling. (Ord. 639, 9-13-2005)
3-9-3: PURPOSE:
It is the intent of this chapter to promote and protect the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city by establishing standards to ensure the
placement of safe, effective signage throughout the city. Specific regulations
and standards are intended to address the following:
   A.   To ensure that signs erected within the city are constructed of safe,
durable materials and secured in a manner adequate to withstand physical
stresses.
   B.   To protect and enhance property values and create an attractive
economic and business climate.
   C.   To protect and enhance the physical beauty and appearance of the
community.
   D.   To reduce sign or advertising distractions and obstructions that may
adversely affect or conflict with traffic control signs, signals and other
traffic control devices.
   E.   To reduce visual clutter along streets and roadways thus providing each
sign user an opportunity for effective identification and advertising by
addressing the quantity, height and area of freestanding signs on all sites.
(Ord. 608, 10-28-2003)
3-9-4: DEFINITIONS:
   ABANDONED SIGN: A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a bona fide
business, service, product or activity and which has been operationally
discontinued for a period of two (2) years.
   BLANKETING: The partial or complete shutting off of the face of one sign by
another sign.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A sign designed for the purpose of guiding and directing
pedestrians or vehicular traffic to a specific site.
   FREESTANDING SIGN: A sign supported permanently upon the ground by footings,
poles, pylons and not attached to any building.
   OFF PREMISE SIGN: A sign which advertises a business, activity, use, product
or service and is located off the property providing the business, activity,
use, product or service.
ON PREMISE SIGN: A sign which advertises a business, activity, use, product or
service and is located on the same property providing the business, activity,
use, product or service.
   PORTABLE SIGN: A sign not permanently affixed to the ground or to a building
or structure that is designed easily to be moved from place to place.
   SIGN: Any commercial communication device intended to attract attention to
and advertise a business, service, activity or product. Such definition
includes any letters, figures, symbols, trademarks or other copy meant to aid
in such advertisement.
   TEMPORARY SIGN: A sign (including a portable sign), pendant, valance or
advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas or other light material (with
or without frames), intended to be displayed for a limited period of time only.
(Ord. 608, 10-28-2003)
3-9-5: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Permit Required; Application: No sign shall hereafter be erected,
reerected, constructed, reconstructed or altered without first having obtained
a sign permit from the city building department. Application for a sign permit
shall be made upon forms provided by the city and shall be accompanied by such
information as may be required to ensure conformance with regulations contained
within this chapter.
   B.   Placement Restrictions:
      1.   No sign shall be placed within any utility, access or drainage
easement.
      2.   No permanent sign or sign foundation shall be placed within any
public street right of way without first having obtained approval of a
revocable permit to occupy the right of way from the city council, or
authorized city personnel.
      3.   No sign shall be erected or placed that shall impede the safe
movement of vehicles and/or pedestrians, or obstruct any signs for traffic
control, direction to public facilities, or for regulatory notice, warning or
other public purposes. No sign shall obstruct the view of a fire hydrant.
      4.   No signs shall be attached to any public utility poles or
structures, nor traffic control devices, posts or signs.
   C.   Airport Restrictions: All sign heights and locations shall be subject
to Elko regional airport airspace restrictions as set forth by part 77 of the
federal aviation regulations. (Ord. 608, 10-28-2003)
3-9-6: EXEMPTED SIGNS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all signs erected in the city,
except for the following, which shall be exempt from conformance with
provisions contained within this chapter:
   A.   Construction signs having an area not in excess of forty eight (48)
square feet, provided such signs are erected no more than sixty (60) days prior
to construction, are confined to the site of construction, and are removed not
more than thirty (30) days after completion of construction and prior to
occupancy.
   B.   Government signs for traffic control, for direction to public
facilities, or for regulatory notice, warning or other public purposes.
   C.   Real estate signs, provided they are removed within seven (7) days of
the sale, rental or lease of the subject property; and provided, that such
signs not exceed more than thirty two (32) square feet of area, shall not be
illuminated and shall be set back at least ten feet (10') from all property
lines.
   D.   Permitted special event (election) signs as outlined in Nevada Revised
Statutes.
   E.   Political signs, provided they are located and removed in accordance
with Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 608, 10-28-2003)
3-9-7: PERMITTED FREESTANDING SIGNS:
   A.   Specified: Each property, lot or parcel of record within any commercial
or industrial zoning district of the city is permitted the following:
      1.   One freestanding sign on each street frontage, except that a
gasoline service station may have one additional trade name or pricing sign if
the premises has only one street frontage and except that an automotive
dealership may have one sign for each new car dealership. Frontage along a
freeway or interstate highway is not considered street frontage.
      2.   Directional or instructional signs which do not advertise a
business, other than the business logo but which identify restrooms, public
telephones, walkways or signs providing direction, such as parking lot
entrances and exit signs and those of a similar nature. Directional signs are
limited to one sign per driveway approach and shall not exceed an area of six
(6) square feet.
      3.   Off premise signs shall observe a minimum separation distance of six
hundred feet (600').
   B.   Sign Height:
      1.   The maximum height of a freestanding sign shall be twenty five feet
(25') if located on property abutting a street right of way having a twenty
five (25) mile per hour or less speed limit.
      2.   The maximum height of a freestanding sign shall be thirty five feet
(35') if located on property abutting a street right of way having a speed
limit greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour.
      3.   The maximum height of a freestanding sign shall be forty five feet
(45') if located on property within one hundred feet (100') of the Interstate
Route 80 right of way.
   C.   Sign Area:
      1.   The maximum area of a freestanding sign shall be two (2) square feet
of sign area for every one linear foot of building frontage facing the adjacent
street.
      2.   The maximum sign area of a freestanding sign proposed on vacant,
undeveloped land shall be one square foot for every one foot (1') of property
frontage along the adjacent street.
   D.   Nonpermitted Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs, other than
exempted signs and signs authorized as part of an approval of a conditional use
permit for a medical office use, professional office use, multi-family
residential use or similar conditional use, are not permitted in any
residential zoning district. (Ord. 608, 10-28-2003)
3-9-8: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   A.   Permitted; Requirements: Temporary signs may be placed in any
commercial or industrial zoning district of the city, subject to the following
requirements and other applicable provisions stated in this chapter:
      1.   Each lot or parcel of record may have two (2) temporary signs, each
sign not to exceed sixteen (16) square feet in size, or one temporary sign, not
to exceed thirty two (32) square feet in size.
      2.   No temporary sign shall obstruct or impair the use of the public
sidewalk by pedestrians or impair the use of public or private streets or
driveways, traffic control signs, bus stops, fire hydrants, or any other type
of street furniture, or otherwise create a hazard, including a tripping hazard.
      3.   A temporary sign shall be designed to be stable under all weather
conditions, including high winds.
      4.   A temporary sign may be internally illuminated.
      5.   A temporary sign shall be placed only with the consent of the
property owner.
      6.   A temporary sign may be placed for a period of time of up to sixty
(60) days at which time the sign shall be removed or replaced.
      7.   No temporary sign shall be placed without first having obtained a
sign permit or sign clearance from the city planning or building department.
      8.   No temporary signs shall be placed within the public street right of
way except for areas improved with sidewalk or landscaping, provided the sign
is set back a minimum of three feet (3') from the curb face of the roadway and
a minimum unobstructed sidewalk area five feet (5') in width is maintained for
pedestrian use, and provided the temporary sign is removed from the sidewalk at
dusk.
   B.   Placement In Residential Districts Prohibited: Temporary signs, other
than exempted signs, are not permitted in any residential zoning district.
(Ord. 608, 10-28-2003)
3-9-9: OFF PREMISES AND ON PREMISES SIGNS:
Off premises and on premises signs are permitted in any commercial or
industrial zoning district in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
but are not permitted in any residential zoning district. (Ord. 608, 10-28-
2003)
3-9-10: ABANDONED SIGNS:
All abandoned signs and abandoned sign support structures shall be removed by
the property owner or owner of the premises within three (3) months after
abandonment. (Ord. 608, 10-28-2003)
3-9-11: MODIFICATION OF STANDARDS:
In any zoning district, the planning commission, upon demonstration of just
cause, may modify any or all of the provisions contained within this chapter
under the variance procedures contained within section
3-2-22 of this title. Additionally, the planning commission may include the
following criteria when evaluating and considering a modification of sign
regulations contained within this chapter:
   A.   Blanketing of the proposed sign by other signs or structures in the
area.
   B.   Multiple businesses on the same property or multiple tenants within the
same building.
   C.   Topographic features, such as grade differential between the subject
property and the adjacent roadway. (Ord. 608, 10-28-2003)
3-9-12: ILLUMINATION:
All signs shall be designed and installed to direct and shield light away from
any residential district and adjacent streets, in accordance with section
3-2-3 of this title. Techniques, such as use of opaque sign backgrounds, may be
required to control illumination spillover and meet this objective. (Ord. 608,
10-28-2003)
3-9-13: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The administration and enforcement of this chapter shall be the
responsibility of the city building and planning departments.
   B.   This chapter is not intended to conflict with or supersede other
sections of the city code pertaining to the installation of signs. In the event
of a conflict, the most stringent provision shall prevail. (Ord. 608, 10-28-
2003)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Business Regulations And License   1
Reserved   2
Gaming   3
Slot Machines; Gaming   4
Elko Liquor Control Code   5
Transient Lodging Tax   6
Wrecking Yards; Junk   7
Elko Television Code   8
Brothels   9
Licensing And Regulation Of Sexually
Oriented Businesses   10
Airport Passenger Facility Charge   11
Prohibition Of Advertising Obscenity   12
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS REGULATIONS AND LICENSE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Short Title
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: License Required
4-1-4: License Application
4-1-5: Approval, Denial Of Application; Issuance Of License By City Clerk
4-1-6: Transfer Of License
4-1-7: Exemptions From Licenses And License Fees
4-1-8: Establishment Of License Fees
4-1-9: Payment Of License Fees
4-1-10: Renewal Of License
4-1-11: Record Of License
4-1-12: Duties Of Licensee And Inspection Authority Of City Personnel
4-1-13: Grounds For Suspension, Cancellation Or Revocation Of License
4-1-14: Procedure For Suspension, Cancellation Or Revocation Of License
4-1-14-1: Penalty
4-1-15: Solicitors, Temporary Merchants And Peddlers License
4-1-16: Special Event Vendor Business License
4-1-17: Auction
4-1-18: Banks, Savings And Loan Associations And Other Banking
4-1-19: Traveling Show
4-1-20: Home Occupations
4-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ELKO BUSINESS LICENSE CODE.
(Ord. 507, 5-26-1998)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following words shall have the meanings set forth in this chapter:
   AUCTION SALE: A sale of property by public outcry to the highest bidder.
   AUCTIONEERS: Any person who shall by public outcry, sell or offer to sell to
the highest bidder at public offering, any goods, merchandise, livestock, real
estate or interest in real estate, security or any personal property at any
place within the City where any and all persons who choose to do so are
permitted to attend and offer bids; or any person who shall advertise or in any
other manner hold himself out as an auctioneer for public patronage.
   BUSINESS: Any commercial enterprise, trade, occupation, calling, profession,
vocation or activity conducted by any person, or the person's agent or
employee, for the purpose of gain, benefit or advantage, either direct or
indirect.
   CITY: City of Elko.
   CITY COUNCIL: Elko City Council.
   COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY: Any rented or leased nonresidential unit or
units of commercial or industrial property.
   COMMERCIAL TRAVELER: Any person traveling either by foot, motor vehicle, or
any other type of conveyance, from business to business, taking or attempting
to take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery to said business for
their use or resale by them in the normal course of their business.
   COMMUNICATION/UTILITY COMPANY: Any business that provides gas, geothermal
and/or electric power, telecommunication services, broadband access and/or
services, cable television communication services or telephone/telegraph
communication services.
   EMPLOYEE: A person in the service of another under any appointment or
contract of hire, express or implied, oral or written, where the employer has
the power or right to control and direct the employee in the material details
of how the work is to be performed.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any business conducted in or upon any premises, including any
buildings, improvements, equipment and facilities used or maintained in
connection with such business.
   FARMER'S MARKET: A special event that primarily features booths, tables or
stands where vendors sell unprocessed fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy products
and non-alcoholic beverages.
   FARMER'S MARKET VENDOR: A business that operates a physical retail market
featuring foods sold directly to consumers at a farmer's market.
   FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS: The premises within the City limits where a
business is conducted from day to day and regularly kept open for the purpose
of conducting business. The term "regular place of business", as used in this
chapter, has the same meaning as "fixed place of business".
   GOODS: Personal property that can be sold, including merchandise and wares.
   GROSS REVENUES: The total amount of revenues received in the business of
offering any service.
   GROSS SALES RECEIPTS: A. The total amount received from the sale of goods
within the Municipal boundaries of the City, regardless of the destination of
the goods; and
   B.   The total amount charged or received for the performance of any act,
service or employment of any nature, whether or not such service, act or
employment is performed as part of or in connection with the sale of goods.
   HOME OCCUPATION: A business customarily carried on in a business
establishment that is permitted to be carried out in a residence as long as the
use as a business is incidental to the primary residential purpose and the
residential character of the property is not changed.
   HOME SALES PARTY: A party or social gathering held at a residence for the
purpose of selling merchandise to the attendees.
   INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR: A person who provides service to another for
remuneration, is conclusively presumed to be an "independent contractor" for
State wage and hour purposes pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 608.0155 and
is not an "employee" as that term is defined in this section.
   LICENSE FEE: Any monies required by law to be paid to obtain or renew a
business license.
   PERSON: Except where otherwise indicated, a natural person, any form of
business or social organization and any other nongovernmental legal entity
including, but not limited to, a sole proprietorship, limited liability
company, corporation, partnership, association, trust or unincorporated
organization, or a government, governmental agency or political subdivision of
a government.
   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY: Any rented or leased residential unit or units,
excluding commercial or industrial property. Residential rental houses,
duplexes, triplexes, apartment houses, hotels, boarding and rooming houses are
all included within this definition.
   RETAIL BUSINESS: Every business conducted for the purpose of selling or
offering for sale any goods, other than as a part of a "wholesale business", as
defined in this section.
   SOLICITOR OR PEDDLER: Any person traveling either by foot, motor vehicle, or
any other type of conveyance, from place to place, or from house to house, or
from street to street, taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of
goods of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be
furnished or performed in the future; or carrying, conveying or transporting
goods, offering and exposing the same for sale.
   SPECIAL EVENT: An organized event, whether indoor or outdoor: a) that is
held on public property or streets, non-profit organization property, or non-
residential private property; b) that can reasonably be expected to cause a
public gathering; c) where two (2) or more vendors are present or where the
public is charged admission for entry; and d) that is not part of the normal
course of business at the location.
   TEMPORARY MERCHANT: Any person who engages in a temporary business of
selling and delivering goods or providing services; and who may, in furtherance
of such purposes, hire, lease, use or occupy any building, structure, tent,
room in a hotel, shop or other place for the exhibition and sale of such goods
or the provision of such services, either privately or at public auction.
   TRAVELING SHOW: Any circus, carnival, concert, exhibition or any show
intending to exhibit in the open air or under a tent, in a public or private
hall, club room, assembly hall or theater where moveable scenery, theatrical
equipment or props are used in a performance or exhibition.
   UNIT: A unit of commercial or residential rental property is any separate
rental space (whether within a building or ground space) of commercial,
industrial or residential property.
   VENDOR: Any person offering goods and/or services for sale to the public.
   WHOLESALE BUSINESS: Every business conducted solely for the purpose of
selling goods in wholesale lots to retail merchants for resale. (Ord. 831, 6-
26-2018)
4-1-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, either
directly or indirectly, to conduct or commence any business, trade, calling,
profession or occupation or to use in connection therewith any vehicle,
premises, machine or device, in whole or in part, in the City without first
procuring a business license and keeping said license in effect at all times in
compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Fixed Place Of Business Required; Exception: A business license shall
be issued only if the applicant has a fixed place of business from which the
business will be conducted, unless specifically stated otherwise in this title.
Once the license is issued, the licensee shall not engage in business from any
other premises other than the one for which the license was issued, excluding
"service oriented" professionals.
   C.   Responsibility For Compliance: The agents or other representatives of
any absentee person who is doing business in the City shall be personally
responsible for the compliance of their principals and of the business they
represent within this chapter, without relieving their principal of such
responsibility.
   D.   Business License Types:
      1.   Regular Business License: All businesses not defined below shall
require a regular business license.
      2.   Apartment Business License: Every person in the business of
conducting an apartment house shall obtain a business license.
      3.   Hotel, Motel, Boarding And Rooming House Business License: Every
person in the business of conducting the business of renting rooms shall obtain
an annual business license.
      4.   Mobile Home Park, Trailer Park Business License: Every person in the
business of conducting the business of renting spaces for mobile homes and/or
trailers shall obtain an annual business license.
      5.   Childcare License: Every person in the business of providing
childcare services, including, but not limited to, those operating a childcare
facility, childcare center or childcare group home as defined by Nevada Revised
Statutes, shall obtain an annual business license.
      6.   Residential Facility For Groups License: Every person in the
business of providing a residential facility that furnishes food, shelter,
assistance and limited supervision to any aged, infirm, mentally retarded or
handicapped person as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes section 449.017 shall
obtain an annual business license.
      7.   Communication/Utility Company Business License: Every person in the
business of selling gas and/or electric power, cable television services or
telephone communication services shall obtain an annual business license. (Ord.
517, 9-8-1998)
      8.   Residential Rentals Property: Every person, firm, corporation, or
association in the business of renting or leasing of three (3) or more
residential rental units shall obtain an annual business license.
      9.   Commercial Rentals Property: Every person, firm, company,
corporation or association in the business of renting or leasing of two (2) or
more commercial rental units shall obtain an annual business license. (Ord.
531, 8-24-1999)
4-1-4: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Every person required to procure a business license under the provisions of
this chapter shall submit an application to the City Clerk or his/her designee.
   A.   Information Required: The application shall require, at least, the
following information:
      1.   The name of the person to whom the license is to be issued.
      2.   The location for which the license is sought.
      3.   The type or kind of business to be conducted under this license.
      4.   The dates when the license is proposed to become effective.
      5.   The signature of the owner of the property, if other than the
applicant.
      6.   Supplemental child support information as required by the State.
      7.   Proof of licensing and/or certification of the state permitting the
business, where applicable.
      8.   Proof of an approved inspection by the State Health Department,
where applicable.
      9.   Proof of approval to conduct business by the State Department of
Taxation.
      10.   Verification by the following City departments that the fixed place
of business has met all applicable Building and Fire Codes and has met all
applicable zoning requirements:
         a.   Building Department;
         b.   Fire Marshal;
         c.   Planning Department.
   B.   State License Required: No license to conduct any business or
occupation in the City which is regulated and/or licensed under any provision
of the Nevada Revised Statutes shall be issued unless and until the appropriate
State licenses have been obtained.
   C.   Confidentiality: All business license applications filed pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall be confidential and shall not be subject
to public inspection. It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to preserve and
keep the applications so that the contents thereof may not become known except
to the person charged with the administration of this chapter. (Ord. 507, 5-26-
1998)
4-1-5: APPROVAL, DENIAL OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE BY CITY CLERK:
The City Clerk shall have the right and power to approve or deny all
applications for a business license.
   A.   Conditions For Denial: An application for a business license shall be
denied if the City Clerk determines that any one or more of the following
exists:
      1.   The application contains false, fraudulent or misleading material
statement or information; or
      2.   The business for which the license is applied for is unlawful under
any ordinance, code, rule or law of the City, State or Federal government; or
      3.   The business for which the license is applied for involves any act,
the commission of which is made unlawful or is prohibited by any ordinance,
rule, code or law of the City, State or Federal government; or
      4.   The applicant is indebted to the City for any unpaid license fee.
   B.   Notification Of Denial: Upon any denial of an application for a
business license, the City Clerk or his/her designee shall notify the applicant
in writing and state the reason(s) for the denial. Such notification shall be
delivered to the applicant personally or by mail at the address indicated on
the application.
   C.   Approval; Fee, Issuance: Upon approval of an application for a business
license, the City Clerk or his/her designee shall collect the appropriate
business license fee and issue the business license.
   D.   Appeal: Every applicant denied a business license by the City Clerk
shall have the right to appeal the decision to the City Council. (Ord. 517, 9-
8-1998)
4-1-6: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   Validity: No license shall be valid except for the location and owner
for which the original application therefor was made and the license issued.
   B.   New Business Location: In such cases that a business changes location,
however does not change the ownership or character of the business, the
licensee may apply to transfer the existing business license to the new
location. Verification by the following City departments that the new place of
business has met all applicable Building and Fire Codes and has met all
applicable zoning requirements is required prior to approval:
      1.   Building Department;
      2.   Fire Marshal;
      3.   Planning Department.
   C.   New Business Owner: In such cases that a business is sold to or assumed
by a new owner, the new owner must make application for a business license.
(Ord. 517, 9-8-1998)
4-1-7: EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSES AND LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Charitable Organization: No business license fee shall be required of
any institution, corporation, organization or association organized for
charitable civic purposes.
   B.   Nonprofit Organization: No business license fee shall be required of
any nonprofit organization so registered with the Secretary of State of the
State of Nevada.
   C.   Commercial Traveler: No business license shall be required of any
"commercial traveler", as defined in section
4-1-2 of this chapter.
   D.   Home Sales Parties: No business license shall be required of any person
hosting a "home sales party", as defined in section
4-1-2 of this chapter.
   E.   Residential And Commercial Rentals: No business license is required for
a person who owns a residential or commercial rental if the rental is managed
by a person who holds a City business license as a State licensed property
manager.
   F.   Farmer's Market Vendors: No business license fee shall be required for
a farmer's market vendor at a farmer's market. (Ord. 831, 6-26-2018)
4-1-8: ESTABLISHMENT OF LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Regular Business License Fees; Examples:
      1.   Rates Established: Unless exempted by the provisions of section
4-1-7 of this chapter, the rates or amounts of business license fees for all
businesses and professions shall be established by resolution of the City
Council. The rates shall be established based on the yearly gross sales
receipts or revenues of the business or profession, unless the rate is
established by some other method as set forth in this chapter. In the case of
businesses making sales and rendering services, the gross revenue from both
sales and services shall be considered the equivalent of gross sales.
      2.   Examples: The following are examples of businesses and professions
whose business license fees shall be established based on yearly gross sales or
revenues; however, the list is for elaboration purposes only and is not
intended to be an all inclusive list. The list of examples is as follows:
      Accountant
      Amusement machines
      Amusement park
      Animal kennels
      Appraisers
      Architects
      Arts
      Attorneys
      Automobile, bicycles sales and repairs/rentals
      Bail bond broker
      Barbershops
      Beauty parlors
      Bond securities
      Bookstores
      Bricks and adobe sale and manufacturing
      Building and loan associations
      Building maintenance
      Building supplies
      Buses
      Business machines and supplies
      Cabinet or carpentry shops
      Car wash
      Childcare
      Chiropodist
      Chiropractor
      Clothing stores
      Coin operated amusement machines
      Collection, finance and insurance agencies
      Computer sales and services
      Concrete and cement products
      Consultants
      Contractors
      Convalescent homes
      Cosmetologist
      Crafts/hobby shops
      Dairies and ice cream parlors
      Dance teachers
      Dealer in gasoline, motor fuel and/or oil
      Delivering
      Dental laboratories
      Dentist
      Department stores
      Detective service
      Diesel/motor vehicle fuel sales
      Doctor
      Drive-up
      Eating establishments
      Engineer
      Engineers, civil
      Engineers, mining
      Entrepreneur
      Equipment leasing
      Equipment rentals
      Express companies
      Exterminator
      Fabric shops
      Finance companies
      Florist
      Fuel oil sales
      Funeral homes and cemeteries
      Furniture stores
      Garage (auto repair and supplies)
      General repair shop
      Gift and novelty shop
      Grocery store/food products
      Grooming shops (animal)
      Hardware stores
      Health studios
      Hospital supplies and clinics
      Hospitals
      Hotel dining rooms
      Hypnotist
      Ironworks
      Janitorial service
      Jewelry stores
      Jukeboxes
      Junk dealers
      Laundries and laundromats
      Leather goods and services
      Linen rental services
      Loan agent
      Machine shops
      Massage parlors
      Medical facilities
      Medical labs
      Microfilming
      Mobile food vendors
      Mortician
      Motion picture production
      Music machines
      Music teachers
      New/used shops
      Newspapers/publishers
      Nonresident
      Paint store
      Pawnshops
      Pest control
      Pet shops
      Petroleum products
      Photographers and studios
      Physicians
      Public transportation
      Recycling companies
      Residential facility for groups
      Restaurants
      Sales
      Sales of musical instruments
      Sales, repairs and rental
      Service machines
      Service stations (auto)
      Shoe stores and repair shops
      Skating rink
      Slot machines sales and repairs
      Soft drink sales and bottling plants
      Spas
      Sporting goods store
      Stage lines
      Stockbroker
      Subcontractors
      Surgeons
      Tailoring and dressmaking
      Taxies
      Teachers
      Television sales and services
      Upholstery shops
      Vending machines
      Veterinarians
      Wedding chapels
      Welding shops
      Yard maintenance
   B.   New Business; No Gross Established: If, at the time of filing an
application for a business license, no sales or services have been made or
performed by the applicants, the applicant shall pay the minimum fee
established by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Apartment Business License Fees: The business license fee shall be
established by resolution of the city council and shall be based upon the
number of apartment units, whether or not the person conducting such business
is a resident of the city.
   D.   Hotel, Motel, Boarding And Rooming House Business License Fees: The
business license fee shall be established by resolution of the city council and
shall be based upon the number of rooms.
   E.   Mobile Home Park, Trailer Park Business License Fees: The business
license fee shall be established by resolution of the city council and shall be
based upon the number of spaces.
   F.   Utility Business License Fees: The business license fee shall be
established by resolution of the city council and shall be based on gross
sales, but shall include a maximum fee. (Ord. 517, 9-8-1998)
   G.   Residential Rental Property License Fee: The business license fee for
residential rental property shall be established by resolution of the city
council and shall be based upon the number of residential rental units.
   H.   Commercial Rental Property License Fee: The business license fee for
commercial rental property shall be established by resolution of the city
council and shall be based upon the yearly gross receipts or revenues of the
commercial rental property units. (Ord. 531, 8-24-1999)
4-1-9: PAYMENT OF LICENSE FEES:
   A.   When Payable: All regular business license fees shall be paid in full
in advance upon the original issuance of the business license and annually
thereafter at the office of the city clerk in legal currency of the United
States.
   B.   Daily License: Daily licenses provided in this chapter shall be due and
payable in advance. The daily license shall cover a period of twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight of the next day.
   C.   Penalty:
      1.   If any license provided for by this chapter is unpaid for more than
thirty (30) days after the due date, a penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of
the annual fee shall be added and collected by the city clerk or his/her
designee.
      2.   If any license provided for by this chapter is unpaid for more than
sixty (60) days after the due date, a penalty of fifty percent (50%) of the
annual fee shall be added and collected by the city clerk or his/her designee.
   D.   City Attorney To Bring Suit For Delinquent License: The city council
may at any time direct the city attorney to bring a civil action in the name of
the city for the recovery of the applicable business license fee against any
person who engages in, conducts or carries on any business, game, profession or
exhibition for which a license is required by the provisions of this chapter
without procuring such license and paying the prescribed license tax.
   E.   Refunds: All licenses shall be issued for the period of time set forth
in this chapter and no licensee shall be entitled to a refund of any portion of
the fee paid by reason of the termination of the licensed activity prior to the
expiration of the time for which the license was issued. (Ord. 540, 10-5-2000)
4-1-10: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Application For Renewal: One month before the expiration date of any
business license, the city clerk or his/her designee shall send a business
license renewal application to all businesses licensed in the city. The
application and appropriate business license fee must be returned to the city
clerk's office prior to the expiration date of the business license. Failure to
notify any licensed business shall not be held to waive the requirement to file
a renewal application or pay the license fee, and the actual receipt of such
notice is in no way required.
   B.   Second Notice: One month after the expiration date of any license, the
city clerk or his/her designee shall send a second notice and include an
assessment of the twenty five percent (25%) penalty on the reported gross
revenues.
   C.   Third, Final Notice: Two (2) months after the expiration date of any
license, the city clerk or his/her designee shall send a third and final notice
and include an assessment of the fifty percent (50%) penalty.
   D.   Expiration Beyond Sixty Days: All expired licenses in excess of sixty
(60) days' delinquency shall be served with a notice of such penalty and intent
of city to publish in the local newspaper as operating without a business
license in accordance with the provisions set forth in this chapter.
   E.   Service Of Notice: A notice of delinquency shall be served upon a
licensee by delivery to the person at the business premises licensed, if the
person is present. If the person is not present, service may be made by
delivery to the person in actual charge of the premises at the time of service.
If the business is closed, service may be made by mailing by certified mail
with return receipt requested, the same to the person at the mailing address
for the business as the same is shown on the current business license and by
posting upon the front door. Delivery is effective upon a date of delivery or
posting and mailing, as the case may be.
   F.   Report Of Gross Revenues Of The Business Required:
      1.   Where the license fee for a renewed business license is calculated
upon the gross revenues of the business, the applicant must state, under oath,
the amount of business in terms of gross revenues which he did in the preceding
year.
      2.   In the case of business making sales and rendering services, the
gross revenue from both sales and services shall be considered the equivalent
of gross sales.
      3.   The city clerk or his/her designee may examine or cause to be
examined, the books and accounts of any business required to file a renewal
application for the purpose of verifying the amount of gross receipts reported
for such business.
      4.   Any person who wilfully files a false statement of gross sales/
receipts shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable as hereinafter in this
code provided.
   G.   Issuance Of Business License By City Clerk: Upon approval of the
application for renewal of a business license, and upon collection of the
appropriate business license fee, the city clerk or his/her designee shall
issue the business license to the applicant. (Ord. 540, 10-5-2000)
4-1-11: RECORD OF LICENSE:
The city clerk shall keep in his/her office, a record of all licenses issued
with the name or names of all parties to whom the license was issued, the
business name, the type, trade or profession license, the date for which said
license was issued, the date of its expiration, and the amount of license fee
received. (Ord. 540, 10-5-2000)
4-1-12: DUTIES OF LICENSEE AND INSPECTION AUTHORITY OF CITY PERSONNEL:
   A.   Duties Of Licensee: Every licensee under this chapter shall:
      1.   Ascertain and at all times comply with all federal, state, county
and/or municipal laws, ordinances and regulations applicable to such licensed
business.
      2.   Prominently display the business license in licensee's place of
business.
      3.   Permit all reasonable inspections of his business and examination of
his books by public authorities so authorized by law.
      4.   Avoid all unlawful, improper or unnecessary acts, practices or
conditions in the conduct of his business which do or may affect the public
health, morals or welfare or constitute a public nuisance.
      5.   Refrain from operating the licensed business in the city after
expiration of the license or in such cases where the license is revoked,
canceled or suspended.
   B.   Enforcement Duties: The city clerk, chief of police, city attorney, and
the regularly appointed police officers of the city shall enforce compliance
with this chapter.
      1.   Chief Of Police Additional Duties: In addition to any other duties
set out herein, the chief of police and his authorized representative may enter
any place of business, trucks, vehicles or other conveyances used for any
business purpose to ascertain whether or not the proper license has been issued
and paid for allowing the person to engage in business in the city.
      2.   City Clerk Additional Duties: In addition to any other duties
prescribed in this chapter, the city clerk or his/her designee shall:
         a.   Make diligent inquiry and examination as to all person required
to obtain a business license and pay a fee therefor; and
         b.   Maintain a city license register, in which shall be entered the
names of all persons to whom licenses are issued, the business, trade or
profession licensed, the time for which the license is valid, the date of its
issue, the date of its expiration, and the fee therefor; and
         c.   Request city council permission for an audit of any person or
business in the city, said audit to be performed by a qualified certified
public accountant to be appointed by the city; and
         d.   Make a written report of all persons who have failed to obtain a
license and pay the fee prescribed therefor, as provided in this chapter, and
issue a delinquency notice for a penalty; and
         e.   Report to the city attorney the name of the delinquent person or
persons if the fee and penalty are not paid within thirty (30) days from the
date of the notice.
      3.   City Attorney Additional Duties: In addition to any other duties
prescribed in this chapter, the city attorney may institute an action against
all persons operating without a valid business license under title 1, chapter 3
of this code.
   C.   Inspection Authority Of City Personnel: The city clerk, building
official, fire marshal, city planner and the chief of police, and their
respective designees, are authorized to make all investigations reasonably
necessary for the enforcement of this chapter and shall have the authority to
inspect licensees, their business records or premises to determine and enforce
compliance with this chapter. All persons authorized herein to inspect
licensees and businesses shall have the authority to enter, with or without a
search warrant, at all reasonable times, the following premises:
      1.   Those for which a license is required.
      2.   Those for which a license was issued and which, at the time of
inspections, are operating under said license.
      3.   Those for which the license has been revoked, canceled or suspended.
(Ord. 540, 10-5-2000)
4-1-13: GROUNDS FOR SUSPENSION, CANCELLATION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority: Any business license issued pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter may be suspended, canceled or revoked for good cause by the city
council.
   B.   Included Cause: Good cause for such suspension, cancellation or
revocation shall include, but is not limited to:
      1.   The existence of unsanitary conditions, noise, disturbances or other
conditions at, near or in the premises which causes or tends to create a public
nuisance or which may injuriously affect the public health, safety or welfare.
      2.   The commission of, or permitting or causing the commission of, any
act in the operation of the business which is prohibited by any ordinances,
rule or law of the city, state or federal government.
      3.   Fraudulent practices and misrepresentation in the operation of the
business.
      4.   Concealment or misrepresentation in procuring the business license.
      5.   The business for which the license has been issued is unlawful or is
prohibited by any ordinance, code, rule or law of the city, state or federal
government.
      6.   The license was issued by mistake or is in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter.
      7.   The premises used to conduct said business has been condemned,
declared a fire hazard or declared unsafe for business occupancy pursuant to
applicable building and fire codes.
      8.   The use of the premises for the business license violates the zoning
ordinances or regulations of the city. (Ord. 507, 5-26-1998)
4-1-14: PROCEDURE FOR SUSPENSION, CANCELLATION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Any business license issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may be
suspended, canceled or revoked in the manner provided in this section.
   A.   Authority: The city clerk may reject any application or cancel or,
after notice to the licensee, may revoke any license of a person who operates
or maintains a place of business in violation of any ordinance of the city or
violation of any state or federal law, or who does not first secure any
required federal state or city license.
   B.   Notice: Notice of the proposed suspension, revocation or cancellation
shall be made to the licensee not less than five (5) days prior to the
effective date of the suspension, revocation or cancellation. Such notice shall
be served as provided in subsection
 4-1-10E of this chapter, and shall include the reason for the action and shall
provide for a hearing before the city manager, at which time, the proposed
action to suspend, revoke or cancel shall be approved or denied.
   C.   Appeal Hearing: The licensee may submit a letter of appeal of the city
manager's action to suspend, revoke or cancel a business license to the city
council within ten (10) days of the action at which time the city council shall
proceed as follows:
      1.   The city council may, on its own motion or initiative, or upon
complaint of any person, institute proceedings to suspend, cancel or revoke a
business license.
      2.   Notice of intent to suspend, cancel or revoke said license shall be
mailed to the person holding the business license at the last address as shown
on the application or on any supplemental application.
      3.   Such notice shall set forth the alleged reasons for the proposed
suspension, cancellation or revocation.
      4.   The licensee shall, within ten (10) days of the date of mailing of
the notice of intent, or within ten (10) days of a decision by the city manager
to suspend, revoke or cancel a license, file with the city clerk a written
answer to the notice or a written notice of appeal.
      5.   After receipt of the written answer from the licensee, or written
notice of appeal, the city council shall fix a day and time for a hearing at
which the licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard. (Ord. 540, 10-5-
2000)
4-1-14-1: PENALTY:
   A.   A criminal action shall be governed by title 1, chapter 3 of this code.
   B.   Each day a business is operated without a license shall constitute a
separate offense for which criminal liability may be imposed. Notwithstanding
any grace periods or notice requirements of this chapter, the city may
prosecute an action for violation of this chapter at any time if a business
owner is operating without properly paid for and issued business license. (Ord.
540, 10-5-2000)
4-1-15: SOLICITORS, TEMPORARY MERCHANTS AND PEDDLERS LICENSE:
   A.   Application: Every person conducting the business of a solicitor,
temporary merchant and/or peddler in the city shall make application in writing
for a business license.
   B.   Contents Of Application: Such application shall contain and set forth
the following:
      1.   The name of the business.
      2.   The kind or type of sales.
      3.   The place where the sales are to occur.
      4.   The number of days for which the license should be issued.
      5.   The names of the persons owning or operating said business.
      6.   Written permission from the private property owner where the
business is to be conducted, if applicable.
      7.   Make of vehicles to be used, a description of same, together with
the license plate number or other means of identification, if applicable.
      8.   Proof of approval to conduct business by the state department of
sales tax.
      9.   Proof of an approved inspection by the state health department,
where applicable.
      10.   Approval by the police department.
      11.   Approval by the planning department.
   C.   Police Department Approval:
      1.   An applicant for a license under this section must file with the
chief of police, at the same time as filing the above referenced application
with the city clerk, a sworn application in writing on a form to be furnished
by the chief of police. In addition to the application, fingerprinting of the
applicant may be required.
      2.   At time of filing the application with the chief of police, an
investigation fee shall be paid by the applicant to the chief of police. Such
fee shall be set by resolution of the city council.
      3.   The police department shall perform a background investigation of
the applicant's criminal history and moral character as they deem necessary for
the protection of the public good. Such investigation may include, but is not
limited to, employment history, criminal record and any other pertinent
information or documents required by the police department or city clerk.
      4.   If, as a result of such investigation, the applicant's character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the chief of police
shall deny approval of the application and shall notify the applicant that his
application is denied.
      5.   In such case where the applicant is denied a business license, the
investigation fee shall not be refunded.
   D.   Planning Department Approval: Outdoor sales shall not interfere with
circulation or parking of vehicles in any required parking area.
An applicant for a license under this section must file a detailed site plan of
the property with the city planning department for review prior to obtaining a
license. The site plan must include the following:
      1.   All existing buildings and/or structures.
      2.   Location and configuration of existing parking area(s).
      3.   Size and location of the proposed display area.
      4.   Number of parking spaces displaced by the display area.
   E.   Idaho Street Restriction: Solicitors, temporary merchants and/or
peddlers shall not be allowed to display, sell or solicit merchandise for sale
within the Idaho Street right of way or within one hundred feet (100'),
measured from the centerline of the Idaho Street right of way, on either side
where there are no curb and gutter improvements.
      1.   Exception: An applicant may request a reduction of the required
setback of one hundred feet (100') from the centerline of Idaho Street subject
to the following:
         a.   Applicant must demonstrate the means and method(s) to control
ingress/egress to the property; and
         b.   Applicant must demonstrate the means and methods to provide that
all parking and backing movements will be conducted on the property; and
In no case shall the reduction of the required setback encroach within the
Idaho Street right of way.
   F.   Advertising: The applicant shall not use off premise or directional
signage.
   G.   Removal Upon Vacation: Any space occupied by a temporary merchant must
be completely cleared of all paraphernalia associated with the use as well as
all dirt or litter upon termination or vacation.
   H.   Conditional Use Permit: Temporary merchants who intend on displaying
merchandise for sale within the City for a period in excess of thirty (30) days
within any calendar year must first secure a conditional use permit pursuant to
the provisions of section
3-2-18 of this Code.
   I.   Business License Fee: Each solicitor, temporary merchant and/or
peddler, upon issuance of a business license, shall pay a license fee as
established by a resolution of the City Council. The business license fee shall
be based on the number of days the business is to be conducted. Solicitors,
temporary merchants and/or peddlers shall display at all times of operation,
all applicable permits, approved site plan and City business license.
   J.   City Park Restriction: No business license shall be issued for business
to be conducted within any City owned park and/or adjoining rights-of-way,
including, but not exclusively, streets, curbs, gutters or parks unless
allowable under the special events license provisions, sections
5-12-1 and
5-12-3 of this Code, or operating with a City concessionaire agreement.
   K.   Revocation: Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this Code
shall be cause for the immediate revocation of the license and shall be cause
for a twelve (12) month waiting period prior to reapplication. (Ord. 704, 3-24-
2009)
4-1-16: SPECIAL EVENT VENDOR BUSINESS LICENSE:
   A.   Application: Every organizer/sponsor of a special event must apply to
the City Clerk's Office for a special event vendor business license. In the
event there are two (2) or more organizers/sponsors of a single special event,
the organizers/sponsors shall jointly apply for the special event vendor
business license.
   B.   Issuance: The City Clerk shall issue a special event vendor business
license to the organizer/sponsor of a special event on behalf of the
participating vendors upon approval of the application. The special event
vendors business license may only be issued after the following criteria have
been met:
      1.   No special event vendor business license shall be issued for any
special event held on City-owned property, including public rights-of-way,
unless approved by the City Council pursuant to section
8-11-2 of this Code.
      2.   A special event vendor business license will be issued only after
the organizer/sponsor has provided a list of all participating vendors to the
City Clerk's Office, which list shall be appended to and incorporated into the
license.
   C.   No Fee Required For Certain Vendors: A vendor listed on a special event
vendors business license shall not be required to pay a license fee if the
vendor: 1) operates a place of business that is physically located within the
City or 2) normally conducts peddling operations or sales as a normal or
seasonal part of the vendor's business; provided, vendors that are subject to
either of the foregoing exceptions must obtain all other required business
licenses and pay all other required license fees for their operations or sales
prior to the special event. Vendors that are entitled to the foregoing
exceptions shall be so identified on the license application.
   D.   Discretion Of Organizer/Sponsor Of Event: This section shall not be
interpreted as restricting the lawful discretion of the organizer/sponsor of
any special event to determine which vendors may or may not participate.
   E.   Special Event Vendor Business License Fee: Except as otherwise provided
in this chapter, each vendor participating in a special event that is required
to obtain a special event vendor business license shall pay a fee to the City
in an amount established by resolution of the City Council. All fees required
pursuant to this subsection shall be collected from the vendors by the
organizer/sponsor(s) of the special event and shall thereafter be paid to the
Office of the City Clerk at the time the license application is submitted. No
additional business license fee shall be charged to the organizer/sponsor in
connection with the special event.
   F.   Transferability: A special event vendor business license is
nontransferable.
   G.   Investigation: The City Clerk may require a police investigation prior
to issuing a special event vendors business license if it appears: 1) that the
organizer/sponsor or a vendor failed to truthfully provide all information
required by this chapter or 2) that the proposed special event or a vendor's
proposed business activity at the special event violates any City ordinance, or
any Federal or State law. (Ord. 831, 6-26-2018)
4-1-17: AUCTION:
   A.   License Required: Every person or firm acting as an auctioneer or
holding or carrying on any auction within the City must obtain an auction
business license from the City Clerk.
   B.   Application: Every person conducting the business of an auction shall
make application in writing for a business license to the City Clerk.
   C.   Contents Of Application: Such application shall contain and set forth
at least the following:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The place where the auction will be conducted, including signature
approval from the property owner for the auction event.
      3.   The length of time for which the license is desired and the dates
when the auction will be conducted.
      4.   The name and address of the owner of the property to be sold at the
auction.
      5.   A short description of the items to be auctioned.
      6.   Proof of approval to conduct business from the State Department of
Taxation.
   D.   Business License Fee: Each person conducting an auction shall pay a
license fee as established by a resolution of the City Council.
   E.   Limitation On Location: No auction may be conducted upon any street
within the City, public right-of-way within the City or public property owned
by the City without prior permission of the City. (Ord. 507, 5-26-1998)
4-1-18: BANKS, SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS AND OTHER BANKING:
   A.   License Required: Every person or firm engaged in the banking business
or savings and loan association business must obtain a business license from
the City Clerk.
   B.   Application: The application must be made on a form provided by the
City Clerk.
   C.   Business License Fee:
      1.   Every bank, savings and loan institution and each branch thereof
shall pay a license fee as established by a resolution of the City Council.
      2.   At the beginning of each annual licensing period, each bank, savings
and loan institution, and each branch thereof, will submit with their
application a tabulation setting forth total deposits in the particular bank,
association or branch on the last day of each of the previous four (4) calendar
year quarters. The license fee will be based on the average of these quarterly
totals. (Ord. 507, 5-26-1998)
4-1-19: TRAVELING SHOW:
   A.   License Required: Every organizer/sponsor of a "traveling show", as
defined in section
4-1-2 of this chapter, shall obtain a traveling show business license from the
City Clerk. The City Clerk may require proof of inspection and approval by
Federal, State, County and/or Municipal authorities where required.
   B.   Business License Fee: Each person conducting a traveling show shall pay
a license fee as established by a resolution of the City Council. If the
performance is given in aid of any local educational or charitable purpose with
fifty percent (50%) or more of the proceeds going to charity, no license shall
be required.
   C.   Limitation On Locations: No traveling show may conduct business upon
any street, public right-of-way within the City or public property owned by the
City without prior permission, and where necessary, execution of an agreement
to conduct the business with the City. (Ord. 507, 5-26-1998)
4-1-20: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Home Occupation Defined: A home occupation is a business customarily
carried on in a business establishment, that is permitted to be carried out in
a residence as long as the use as a business is incidental to the primary
residential purpose and the residential character of the property is not
changed. Every person permitted to carry on a home occupation shall obtain an
annual business license.
   B.   License Required: Every person having a "home occupation", as defined
in section
4-1-2 of this chapter, shall obtain a business license from the City Clerk.
   C.   Approval Required: The City Clerk shall require approval by the
Planning Department prior to issuance of a home occupation business license.
   D.   License Fees: The business license fee shall be established by
resolution of the City Council. The rates shall be established based on the
yearly gross sales receipts or revenues of the business or profession unless
the rate is established by some other method as set forth in this chapter. In
the case of business making sales and rendering services, the gross revenue
from both sales and services shall be considered the equivalent of gross sales.
   E.   Limitation On Service Locations: No home occupation may conduct
business upon any street, public right-of-way within the City or public
property owned by the City without prior permission from the City. (Ord. 818,
4-25-2017)
CHAPTER 2
NONPUBLIC HOSPITAL LICENSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Short Title
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: License Required
4-2-4: License Application
4-2-5: Approval, Denial Of Application; Issuance Of License By City Clerk
4-2-6: Transfer Of License
4-2-7: Establishment Of Nonpublic Hospital License Fees
4-2-8: Uses Of Revenue By City; Limitations
4-2-9: No Charge To Patients
4-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as Nonpublic Hospital License. (Ord. 862, 6-22-
2021)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them:
 
CITY:                The City of Elko, Nevada.
CITY COUNCIL:        The Elko City Council.
                     Revenue earned by a Nonpublic Hospital for the provision
                     of routine services to patients from sources such as
                     Medicare, Medicaid, commercial insurance and private pay,
NET PATIENT REVENUE: minus contractual allowances and bad debt. The term "Net
                     Patient Revenue" does not include pass-through income,
                     crisis care revenue, physician billing revenue, or revenue
                     received from community support or fundraising.
                     An institution owned by a person that is primarily engaged
                     in providing, by or under the supervision of physicians,
NONPUBLIC HOSPITAL:  inpatient diagnostic and therapeutic services or
                     rehabilitation services. Institutions that do not provide
                     inpatient services are not "Nonpublic Hospitals" for
                     purposes of this Chapter.
                     Except where otherwise indicated, a natural person, any
                     form of business or social organization and any other
                     nongovernmental legal entity including, but not limited
                     to, a sole proprietorship, limited liability company,
PERSON:              corporation, partnership, association, trust or
                     unincorporated organization. For purposes of this Chapter,
                     the term "person" does not include a government,
                     governmental agency or political subdivision of a
                     government. (Ord. 862, 6-22-2021)
 
4-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any Nonpublic Hospital, either directly or indirectly,
to provide medical care or services in the City without procuring and
maintaining in effect a Nonpublic Hospital License. (Ord. 862, 6-22-2021)
4-2-4: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Every Nonpublic Hospital required to procure a license pursuant to this Chapter
shall submit an application to the City Clerk containing the following
information:
   A.   The name of the Nonpublic Hospital to whom the license is to be issued.
   B.   The location for which the license is sought.
   C.   A description of the medical care and services provided.
   D.   The date when the license is proposed to become effective.
   E.   The signature of a person authorized to submit the application on
behalf of the Nonpublic Hospital. (Ord. 862, 6-22-2021)
4-2-5: APPROVAL, DENIAL OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE BY CITY CLERK:
The City Clerk is hereby authorized to approve or deny all applications for
Nonpublic Hospital Licenses.
   A.   Conditions for Denial: An application for a Nonpublic Hospital License
shall be denied if the City Clerk determines that any one or more of the
following exist(s):
      1.   The application contains false, fraudulent or misleading material
statements or information; or
      2.   The activity for which the license is sought is unlawful under any
ordinance, code, rule or law of the City, State or Federal government; or
      3.   The applicant is indebted to the City for any unpaid license fee.
   B.   Notification of Denial: Upon any denial of an application for a
Nonpublic Hospital License, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant in
writing and state the reason(s) for the denial. Such notification shall be
delivered to the applicant personally or by mail at the address indicated on
the application.
   C.   Revocation: The City Clerk may revoke a Nonpublic Hospital License if
the licensee violates any provision of this Chapter.
   D.   Approval; Fee, Issuance: Upon approval of an application for a
Nonpublic Hospital License, the City Clerk shall collect the appropriate
Nonpublic Hospital License Fee required by this Chapter and issue the Nonpublic
Hospital License.
   E.   Appeal: Every applicant denied a Nonpublic Hospital License by the City
Clerk and any licensee whose Nonpublic Hospital License has been revoked shall
have the right to appeal the decision to the City Council by submitting a
notice of appeal to the City Manager within thirty (30) days of the denial or
revocation. The failure to timely submit a notice of appeal to the City Manager
shall be deemed a waiver of the applicant's or licensee's appeal rights. (Ord.
862, 6-22-2021)
4-2-6: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   A.   Validity: No Nonpublic Hospital License shall be valid except for the
location and owner for which the original application therefor was made and the
license issued.
   B.   New Business Location: If a Nonpublic Hospital changes location, but
does not change the ownership or character of the services provided, the
Nonpublic Hospital may apply to transfer the existing Nonpublic Hospital
License to the new location.
   C.   New Owner: If a Nonpublic Hospital is sold or otherwise transferred to
a new owner, the new owner must make application for a Nonpublic Hospital
License. (Ord. 862, 6-22-2021)
4-2-7: ESTABLISHMENT OF NONPUBLIC HOSPITAL LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Rates: Every Nonpublic Hospital shall pay to the City a Nonpublic
Hospital License Fee in an amount determined by resolution of the City Council
not to exceed six percent (6%) of the Nonpublic Hospital's Net Patient Revenue
as shown on or calculated from data contained in the hospital's Medicare Cost
Report submitted to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services for the
applicable period.
   B.   Payment of Fee: The Nonpublic Hospital License Fee shall be paid
following a resolution of the City Council setting the rate and payment
schedule. The rate and payment schedule may be amended from time-to-time by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 862, 6-22-2021)
4-2-8: USES OF REVENUE BY CITY; LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Nonpublic Hospital License Fees shall only be used for the following
purposes:
      1.   Funding intergovernmental transfers from the City to the State of
Nevada Department of Health and Human Services, Division of Health Care
Financing and Policy to provide the nonfederal share of Medicaid payments for
supplemental payments authorized under Medicaid State Plan Amendment 10-002C;
      2.   Refunding Nonpublic Hospital Fees collected in error from a
Nonpublic Hospital;
      3.   Refunding to a Nonpublic Hospital any portion of the Nonpublic
Hospital Fee the City receives from the State of Nevada Department of Health
and Human Services, Division of Health Care Financing and Policy that is not
used to fund the nonfederal share of Medicaid supplemental payment program
payments under State Plan Amendment 10-002C, or that cannot be used to fund the
nonfederal share of Medicaid supplemental payment program payments under State
Plan Amendment 10-002C; and
      4.   Reimbursing the City for its reasonable administrative costs to
perform the activities authorized under this Chapter, to include, without
limitation, legal fees incurred in preparing correspondence, documents,
ordinances and resolutions pertaining to this Chapter.
   B.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, with respect to an
intergovernmental transfer of funds by the City to provide the nonfederal share
of Medicaid payments for supplemental payments authorized under Medicaid State
Plan Amendment 10-002C, any funds received by the City as a result of the
transfer may not be used by the City to fund the nonfederal share of payments
available through Medicaid programs other than those outlined in State Plan
Amendment 10-002C.
   C.   The City shall not collect Nonpublic Hospital License Fees for the
purpose of raising general revenue nor shall the City collect any amount in
excess of that which is reasonably necessary to fund the uses specifically
authorized under this Chapter. (Ord. 862, 6-22-2021)
4-2-9: NO CHARGE TO PATIENTS:
A Nonpublic Hospital may not add any portion of the Nonpublic Hospital License
Fee as a charge or surcharge to a patient. (Ord. 862, 6-22-2021)
CHAPTER 3
GAMING
SECTION:
4-3-1: Locations
4-3-2: Sign Restrictions
4-3-1: LOCATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner, lessor or lessee,
employer or employee, whether for hire or not, to deal, play or carry on, open
or conduct in any capacity whatsoever, any gambling game or games, or game or
games of chance of any name, nature or description, mechanical or otherwise,
except slot machines, punchboards and theater lotteries based upon the sale of
tickets for admission, for money, property, checks, tokens, credit or any
representative of value within or without a building, on public or private
property within the following areas:
   A.   Along Idaho Street or the extension of the street as U.S. Highway 40,
in the city limits, defined and measured by line on each side of the street and
extension thereof, forty five feet (45') from private property lines bounding
Idaho Street and extension thereof, as the same appear on the official plats of
the city, and the additions thereto.
   B.   One hundred forty feet (140') on each side of Fifth Street bounded on
the north by the southerly end of the Fifth Street bridge across the Humboldt
River and bounded on the southeast by the projection of the west side line of
Ninth Street at the point where the Ninth Street intersects with the Fifth
Street, all of the area being south of the Humboldt River and situated in the
city, as more fully appears on the official plats of the city and additions
thereto. (Ord. 81, 9-5-1946)
4-3-2: SIGN RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, lessor or lessee, employer
or employee, whether for hire or not, to place or maintain any sign of any
name, nature or description, advertising games, gambling, gambling
establishments, casinos, intoxicating liquors, bars, saloons and cocktail
lounges of a size greater than twelve (12) square feet, in such a manner as to
extend over the private property lines bounding Idaho Street and the extension
thereof as U.S. Highway 40, or which shall parallel Idaho Street and the
extension thereof along or over the private property lines. (Ord. 81, 9-5-1946)
CHAPTER 4
SLOT MACHINES; GAMING
SECTION:
4-4-1: License Required
4-4-2: Gambling Devices
4-4-3: License Restrictions
4-4-4: Violation; License Revocation
4-4-5: Permitting Violation
4-4-6: Definition
4-4-7: Exceptions
4-4-8: Minors
4-4-9: Posting Of License
4-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person either as owner, lessee or employee,
whether for hire or not, to deal, operate, carry on, conduct, maintain or
expose for play any game of faro, monte, roulette, keno, fan-tan, twenty one,
blackjack, seven and a half, big injun, klondyke, craps, stud poker, draw
poker, or any banking or per played with cards, dice, or any mechanical device
or machine, for money, property, checks, credit, or any representative of
value; or any gambling game in which any person keeping, conducting, managing
or permitting the same to be carried on, receives, directly or indirectly, any
compensation or reward, or any percentage or share of the money or property
played, for keeping, running, carrying on, or permitting the game to be carried
on, or to play, maintain or keep any slot machine played for money, for checks
or tokens redeemable in money or property, without having first procured a
license for the same as hereinafter provided; and provided further, that no
alien, or any person except a citizen of the United States, shall be issued a
license, or shall directly or indirectly own, operate or control any game or
device so licensed. (Ord. 55, 7-1-1931)
4-4-2: GAMBLING DEVICES:
Any person desiring to conduct, operate or carry on any gambling game, slot
machine, or any game of chance enumerated or provided for in section
4-4-1 of this chapter shall, upon proper application to the city council, be
issued a license for each particular device or game or slot machine under the
following conditions and regulations:
   A.   Room, Premises Description: The person so applying for a license shall
furnish a complete description of the particular room and premises in which the
licensee desires to carry on or conduct such slot machine, device or game,
together with the location of the building, its street number, if such there
be, and any other information by which it may be definitely and readily located
and recognized;
   B.   Machine Identification: The person so applying for a license shall
state definitely the particular type of slot machine, together with the serial
number of the machine, or the particular game or device which the licensee
desires to carry on or conduct in the room and premises; and as so stated the
same shall be specifically described in and entered upon the license. (Ord. 55,
7-1-1931)
   C.   Fees: The license fees as set by resolution of the city council, shall
be paid to the city clerk for each of the following gambling games and devices:
      1.   Faro, monte, roulette, keno, fan-tan, twenty one, blackjack, seven
and a half, big injun, klondyke, craps and bingo.
      2.   Racehorse keno.
      3.   Racehorse book.
      4.   Stud poker and draw poker.
      5.   Each money slot machine, or for each handle on the money slot
machine. The license shall entitle the holder to carry on, conduct or operate
the specific slot machine, game or device for which the license is issued in
the particular room and premises described therein, but not for any other slot
machine, game or device than that specified therein, or the specified slot
machine, game or device in any other place than the room and premises so
described, for the quarter thereof succeeding the date of issuance of the
license; provided, that the licensee shall be entitled to carry on, conduct and
operate two (2) or more slot machines, games or devices mentioned in section
4-4-1 of this chapter in the same room, by paying the license herein provided
for, for each slot machine, game or device and otherwise complying with the
terms of this section.
      6.   Any and all other gambling games of every name, nature or
description, including bank or percentage games played with cards, dice or any
mechanical device or machine for money, property, checks, credit or any
representative of value. (Ord. 290, 8-26-1980)
4-4-3: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
Licenses shall be prepared by the city clerk and shall be issued and accounted
for as is by law provided in respect to other city licenses. Each license
issued or delivered by the city clerk to any person shall contain the name of
the licensee, and a particular description of the particular room and premises
in which the licensee intends to carry on, conduct or operate any one slot
machine, game or device mentioned in this chapter, and shall specify the
particular type of slot machine, together with the serial number of the machine
or the particular game or the particular device, by name; any license issued
under the provisions of this chapter shall not be transferable by the licensee
to any other person, and shall be valid only for the particular room and
premises described therein, and the specified slot machine, game or device for
which it was issued. No license money paid shall be refunded, whether the slot
machine, game or device for which any license was issued has voluntarily ceased
or has been revoked under the provisions of this chapter herein provided, or
for any other reason. (Ord. 55, 7-1-1931)
4-4-4: VIOLATION; LICENSE REVOCATION:
The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall act as an
immediate revocation of any and all licenses which may have been issued to the
violator, or which may have been issued for the particular room and premises in
which any such violation occurred, and no new or additional license or licenses
shall be issued to such violator for the room and premises in which the
violation occurred for a period of one year from the date of such revocation.
(Ord. 55, 7-1-1931)
4-4-5: PERMITTING VIOLATION:
Any person or persons who shall knowingly permit any of the slot machines,
games or devices mentioned in this chapter to be conducted, operated, dealt or
carried on in any house or building owned by him or her, in whole or in part,
except by a person who has received a license as herein provided, or his
employee, shall, upon conviction therefor, be punished as provided in title 1,
chapter 3 of this code. Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 261, 6-27-
1978)
4-4-6: DEFINITION:
The term "game" or "games" shall be construed to mean and include all games or
devices herein mentioned and any slot machine or slot machines played for money
or for checks or tokens redeemable in money or property. (Ord. 55, 7-1-1931)
4-4-7: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit social games played
solely for drinks or cigars served individually, or games played in private
homes or residences for prizes, or nickel in the slot machines operated solely
for cigars or drinks. (Ord. 55, 7-1-1931)
4-4-8: MINORS:
No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall be allowed to play any
licensed game, or slot machine or loiter about any room or premises wherein any
game or slot machine provided for in this chapter is operated or conducted, and
in any legal action it shall be no excuse for the licensee, employee or dealer
operating or conducting a licensed game to plead he believed the party to be
twenty one (21) years old or over; and any licensee, employee or dealer
operating or conducting any game who shall permit any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years to play at such game or games or permit any such person
to loiter about the room or premises in which such game or games may be
conducted or operated, shall be deemed guilty of a city offense and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this
code. (Ord. 290, 8-26-1980)
4-4-9: POSTING OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued for gambling games and slot machines of every character and
description shall be posted in a conspicuous place where such gambling games
and slot machines are installed, in order that they may be inspected by
authorized state, county, city and town officials. (Ord. 55, 7-1-1931)
CHAPTER 5
ELKO LIQUOR CONTROL CODE
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: License Required; Exceptions
4-5-3: Classes Of Licenses
4-5-4: Application For License; Information To Be Shown
4-5-5: Referral By Police Chief To City Council
4-5-6: Character And Business Responsibility
4-5-7: Liquor Sale Location
4-5-8: Status Of Fraternal, Social And Civic Clubs
4-5-9: Approval Or Denial Of Application By City Council
4-5-10: Issuance And Contents Of License
4-5-11: Posting Of License; Licenses Nontransferable; Change Of Location
4-5-12: Schedule Of Fees
4-5-13: City Council May Suspend, Restrict, Terminate Or Condition Any License;
Grounds; Procedure
4-5-14: Summary Suspension Of License; Grounds; Procedure
4-5-15: Reinstatement Of Licenses
4-5-16: Revocation Of License Through Nonuse And Continuation Of License
Following Death Of Licensee
4-5-17: Lighting Requirements
4-5-18: Property And Adjacent Area Cleanup
4-5-19: Sales To Minors Prohibited
4-5-20: Employment Of Certain Minors Prohibited And Certain Minors Permitted
4-5-21: Sale Or Furnishing Of Liquor To Minor, Aiding Minor To Purchase Or
Procure Liquor Prohibited
4-5-22: False Identification Prohibited
4-5-23: Purchase By Minor Prohibited
4-5-24: Possession By Minor Prohibited
4-5-25: Consumption By Minor Prohibited
4-5-26: Loitering By Minor Prohibited
4-5-27: Intoxication Of Licensee, Employees, Prohibited
4-5-28: Establishment To Be Clean And Orderly; Presence Of Certain Persons
Prohibited
4-5-29: Civil Judgment No Bar
4-5-30: Penalties
4-5-31: Separability
4-5-32: Posting Of Notice Required
4-5-33: Special Events Liquor License Or Special Events Beer And Wine Liquor
License
4-5-34: Consumption Or Possession Of Alcoholic Beverages In Designated Areas Of
City Parks
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed in this section, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: As used in this chapter, the term "alcoholic beverage"
shall have the same meaning as the term "liquor".
   APPEAL: The right of the licensee or applicant to request a hearing before a
specified city official or the city council upon denial of or any other action
adversely affecting a liquor license.
   APPLICANT: A natural person, partnership, association, firm, company,
corporation or other legal entity applying for a liquor license.
   APPLICATION FOR A LIQUOR LICENSE: A formal request, utilizing a form
provided by the city, that a person submits to the city for the purpose of
requesting a liquor license.
   BEER: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of any infusion or
decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any other similar product, or any
combination thereof, in water.
   BREWPUB: An establishment which manufactures beer and sells beer beverages
at retail and not made available for wholesale.
   BREWPUB LICENSE: A license issued by the city which permits the
manufacturing and sales of beer by the licensee at the premises specified in
the license for consumption on the licensee's premises.
   CATERER'S LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city which is only
effective if issued in addition to an existing retail liquor license, retail
beer and wine license, or brewpub license, permitting the giving, selling or
serving of beer, wine and liquor by the drink by the caterer licensee for
private events on the premises of the caterer or at specified locations within
the city of Elko.
   CHURCH: A building, structure or place owned or occupied by a religious
organization that is used primarily for religious worship.
   CITY: The city of Elko, Nevada.
   CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Elko, Nevada, or the said clerk's
deputy.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city.
   EXPIRATION: The date upon which a liquor license expires.
   FEE: Any monies required by law to be paid to obtain or renew a liquor
license.
   FRATERNAL, SOCIAL AND CIVIC CLUB LICENSE: A license issued by the city,
which permits the licensee therein designated to serve, sell or give liquors to
the licensee's bona fide members and their guests only for consumption of the
licensee's premises specified in the license. This license shall not permit the
licensee to conduct or operate any public bar or place for the sale, serving or
delivery of any liquor to the general public.
   INTOXICATION: A condition in which a person's mental and physical faculties
are impaired because of the ingestion of liquor or other substances so as to
diminish the person's ability to think and act in a way in which an ordinary
prudent person in full possession of his or her faculties and using reasonable
care would think and act in like circumstances.
   LICENSE: Unless otherwise stated, a liquor license.
   LICENSE CERTIFICATE: A document issued by the city stating that a person has
a liquor license, together with any conditions or restrictions which apply to
that liquor license.
   LIQUOR: Beer, wine, gin, whiskey, cordials, ethyl alcohol or rum, and every
liquor or solid, patented or not, containing one-half of one percent (0.5%) or
more of alcohol by volume and which is used for beverage purposes.
   LIQUOR LICENSE: Except as otherwise stated in this chapter or the license
certificate, a privilege granted by the city to an applicant pursuant to this
chapter permitting the applicant to give, sell or serve all or specified types
of liquor within the city limits while it is in effect, subject to any
conditions or restrictions contained in this chapter and/or the license
certificate.
   MINOR: A natural person, male or female, under the age of twenty one (21)
years.
   PACKAGE: Any container or receptacle used for holding liquor, which
container or receptacle is corked or sealed.
   PACKAGED LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city which permits the sale
of liquor in packages by the licensee at the premises specified in the license,
for consumption off the licensee's premises.
   PERSON: A natural person, partnership, association, company, corporation,
fraternal, civic or social clubs and all other types of organizations.
   PREMISES: A distinct and definite locality, including a room, shop, building
or other area with discrete boundaries.
   PRIVATE EVENT: A gathering in the city limits which is not open to the
public that will include the selling, serving or giving away of alcoholic
beverages.
   PUBLIC SCHOOL: A publicly funded school or preschool, specifically grades
prekindergarten through grade 12.
   QUARTER: One-fourth (1/4) of the year, beginning respectively on January 1,
April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each year.
   REGULAR LIQUOR LICENSE: A liquor license that is not a temporary liquor
license.
   RENEWAL: The granting of the privilege of a licensee to continue to use an
existing liquor license for a definite period of time.
   RETAIL: The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
   RETAIL BEER AND WINE LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city, which
permits the sale of beer and wine in packages, or by the drink by the licensee
at the premises specified in the license, for consumption on or off of the
licensee's premises.
   RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city, which permits the sale
of liquor, in packages, or by the drink by the licensee at the premises
specified in the license, for consumption on or off the licensee's premises.
   REVOCATION OF A LIQUOR LICENSE: The automatic cancellation of a liquor
license pursuant to this chapter.
   SACRAMENTAL: The use of liquor that is part of a formal religious act or
ceremony and that is considered sacred as a spiritual sign or symbol by that
religion.
   SAMPLE: An amount of liquor that is only of such quantity as is reasonably
necessary to provide a taste, not to exceed one- half (1/2) ounce of liquor.
   SERVER OF ALCOHOL: Any person who gives, sells or serves any liquor to
another person for consumption.
   SPECIAL EVENT: For purposes of this chapter only, an event consisting of a
gathering within the city limits at a location shown on the license application
or license certificate, open to the general public, which includes the selling,
serving or giving away of liquor.
   SPECIAL EVENTS BEER AND WINE LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city
which permits the sale, serving or giving away of beer and/or wine only by the
licensee at a special event, with the duration of said license not to exceed a
period of one week.
   SPECIAL EVENTS LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city which permits
the sale, serving or giving away of liquor by the licensee at a special event,
with the duration of said license not to exceed a period of one week.
   SUSPENSION OF A LIQUOR LICENSE: The temporary cancellation of a liquor
license by the city pursuant to this chapter.
   TERMINATION OF A LIQUOR LICENSE: The permanent cancellation of a liquor
license by the city pursuant to this chapter.
   WHOLESALE LIQUOR LICENSE: A license issued by the city, which permits the
sale of beer and wine only, or liquors in packages by the licensee, to a person
holding a valid, current, retail liquor license or a wholesale liquor license
issued by the city, but not the direct sale to a consumer or the general
public.
   WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by fermentation of the natural content
of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar and including,
without limitation, port, sherry and champagne. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The public health, safety, morals and welfare of the inhabitants of the
city require the regulation and control of all persons who sell, serve or give
away liquor, to include persons engaged in the business of liquor sales.
Obtaining a liquor license is a privilege subject to the regulations and
conditions which are or may be imposed pursuant to this chapter. A liquor
license may, without limitation, be revoked for violating such regulations or
conditions.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, keep for
sale, serve, give away, furnish or distribute, or cause or permit to be sold,
offered or kept for sale, served, given away, furnished or distributed, any
kind of liquor in the city limits, unless such person has first applied for,
paid all license fees for, received and is the holder in good standing of the
proper license or licenses required by this chapter; provided, however, that
this section shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Liquor served by a private family in its residence as part of its
family or social life;
      2.   The use of liquor for sacramental purposes;
      3.   Liquor used during church sponsored events and church sponsored
social gatherings held on church premises;
      4.   The use, sale or dispensing of liquor by any doctor, apothecary or
pharmaceutist who uses alcohol or liquor for or in compounding medicine or for
medicinal or scientific purposes;
      5.   The employees of a person who holds a valid, unexpired license
pursuant to this chapter, while acting within the course of his employment;
      6.   A private event, not open to the public, such as a company party or
a wedding. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-3: CLASSES OF LICENSES:
   A.   Specified: Under the provisions of this chapter, the following classes
of licenses may be issued to qualified applicants therefor:
      1.   Retail liquor license.
      2.   Retail beer and wine license.
      3.   Wholesale liquor license.
      4.   Wholesale beer and wine license.
      5.   Packaged liquor license.
      6.   Packaged beer and wine license.
      7.   Fraternal, social and civic club license.
      8.   Special events liquor license.
      9.   Special events beer and wine liquor license.
      10.   Caterer's liquor license. A caterer's liquor license shall only be
issued and is only valid if the applicant has a valid retail liquor, retail
beer and wine or brewpub license.
      11.   Brewpub license.
   B.   More Than One Class: Each person whose activities fall into more than
one class of liquor licenses, as defined in this chapter, must apply for and
receive a license for each class applicable before such person can operate in
such class.
   C.   Liquor License Additional: The liquor licenses required by this chapter
shall be in addition to any other licenses required by any person by the city
for conducting or carrying on any other business in connection with, or
separate from the activities licensed under this chapter.
   D.   Business Not Located In City Limits: A business not located in the city
limits that wishes to sell, serve or give away liquor in connection with
catering within the city limits may apply for a caterer's liquor license upon
proof of an existing retail liquor license issued by the city, by the county of
Elko, or by another governmental entity that subjects the licensee to
requirements that are the same as or substantially equivalent to the
corresponding requirements contained in this chapter. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INFORMATION TO BE SHOWN:
An application for the licenses required by this chapter shall be made to the
city council and filed with the city clerk. Each application shall:
   A.   Form: Be made on such form as the city council shall describe;
   B.   Name, Address Of Applicant: Include the name and address of the
applicant, who shall be all persons having an interest in the business to be
licensed. If the applicant is a partnership, the application shall include the
name and addresses of all partners. If the application is a corporation,
association or other organization, the application shall include the names and
addresses of all officers, directors, stockholders and all other persons having
an interest in the business to be licensed, and the address of the principal
place of business of the corporation, and the name and address of the person or
persons who shall have the active management of its business for which or in
connection with which a license is desired (listing of stockholders may be
dispensed with by the city council if stock has been sold to the general
public);
   C.   Classification; Location: Specify the class or classes of license
desired; the location, by street and number, of the premises for which the
license is sought and the name of the owner or owners of the premises where the
business is to be operated;
   D.   Child Support Information: Contain any child support information
required by the state of Nevada.
   E.   Department Of Taxation: Contain proof of any licensing or certificate
of good standing required by the Nevada department of taxation.
   F.   Health Department: Contain proof of approval by the Nevada state health
department with respect to any required inspections.
   G.   Industrial Insurance: Contain an affidavit verifying compliance with
Nevada Revised Statutes chapters 616A through 617 pertaining to industrial
insurance.
   H.   City Departments: Except for a caterer's liquor license, contain
verification by the city building department, fire marshal and planning
department that the licensee's fixed place of business has met all applicable
city code requirements.
   I.   Additional Information As Requested: Be supplemented by such additional
information or documents as the city council shall request from the applicant
at any time, it being the duty of the applicant to supply all such information
and documents;
   J.   Fee: Be accompanied by the quarterly license fee required for each
class of license for which application is made, which license deposit shall be
nonrefundable;
   K.   Signature And Verification: Be signed and verified by all persons who
shall conduct or have any interest in the business activities for which a
liquor license is required;
   L.   Corporations Or Organizations: In the case of corporations, clubs or
organizations with members, the application shall be verified by its president
or secretary or the person who shall actively manage or conduct the business or
activity for which a liquor license is required, if written authority from the
corporation to make such application is filed with the city clerk with the
application;
   M.   Acceptance Of Terms By Applicant: Contain a statement that if such
application is approved and a license issued, it will be accepted by the
applicant subject to the terms, conditions and provisions of this chapter, and
such other rules and regulations as may at any time hereafter be adopted or
enacted by resolution or ordinance by the city council, and shall include a
consent to and an acknowledgment of the power and authority of the chief of
police, or any other authorized representative of the city, to enter the
premises licensed and the principal office of any corporation, at any time
during business hours for the purpose of examining the premises, or the books
of account of said business, or the books and records of any corporate licensee
to ascertain the truth or veracity of the statements made on the application
and to determine if the terms, conditions and provisions of this chapter have
been and are being complied with;
   N.   Investigation: All liquor license applications shall be referred to the
chief of police for investigation. The chief of police shall cause an
investigation to be made of the moral character and business responsibility of
the person or persons applying for a license, and of all persons who will be
interested in the business for which a liquor license is required, and in the
case of a corporation, its officers, directors, stockholders and the person or
persons who shall have the management of the business for which or in
connection with which the license is desired, together with an investigation of
the location of the proposed place of business, and of such other matters as
may be necessary to the protection of the public good, welfare, safety, health
and morals of the inhabitants of the city. Upon completion of the
investigation, the chief of police shall render a report of the investigation
to the city council. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-5: REFERRAL BY POLICE CHIEF TO CITY COUNCIL:
The police chief or the police chief's designee shall present each application
to the city council at its first regular or special meeting after the filing of
the application, completion of the investigation and submission of all other
data as required in section
4-5-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-6: CHARACTER AND BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Required: No liquor license, except as otherwise provided in subsection
4-5-3D of this chapter, shall be issued to any person unless such person has an
established place of business, or in the case of a special events license, a
specific location under the control of such person for the period of the
license, within a zone or area permitting such type of business, activity or
license under this and all other ordinances of the city and unless each
applicant is a person of good moral character and satisfactory business
responsibility. In the event the applicant shall be a corporation or
association, the officers, directors, managing agent and all persons who shall
be active in the conduct of the business for which a liquor license is required
all must be persons of good moral character and satisfactory business
responsibility.
   B.   Felony Conviction: No liquor license shall be issued hereunder to any
person who has within ten (10) years from the date of the application been
convicted of a felony either in this state or in any other state of the United
States, or of any crime in any other state which is considered a felony under
the laws of the state; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply
to any person who has been so convicted, but whose rights of citizenship have
been restored or judgment of infamy has been removed by a court of competent
jurisdiction. In the case of any such conviction occurring after the license
has been issued and received, the license may immediately be revoked, if such
convicted felon be an individual licensee, and, if not, the partnership,
corporation or association with which he is connected shall immediately
discharge him, upon request of the city council, or their license may be
revoked.
   C.   Employee Felony Conviction: No person shall work or be employed in or
in connection with the liquor business of a licensee hereunder who has been, or
during employment is convicted of a felony unless the chief of police approves
such employment. If the licensee fails to discharge such employee upon request
by the chief of police, its license may be revoked. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-7: LIQUOR SALE LOCATION:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person or association to sell, serve, give away or distribute liquor within
one hundred feet (100') of any existing schoolhouse wherein public school is
conducted, as measured from the point of distribution to the nearest exterior
wall of a schoolhouse, provided, the foregoing prohibition shall not apply in
the event a schoolhouse is subsequently placed within one hundred feet (100')
of an existing business that sells, serves, gives away or distributes liquor.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person or association to sell, serve, give
away, or otherwise distribute any liquor outside the building described in the
application of any drive-in business; provided, however, the city council may,
for good cause shown, authorize the sale, service or other lawful distribution
of liquor in specified enclosed or defined areas under the supervision,
management and operation of a licensee; further provided, that the foregoing
prohibition shall not apply to liquor served adjacent to a building if
permitted by an outdoor dining permit.
   C.   No application shall be granted or license issued authorizing or
permitting the sale, service or distribution of any liquor within the
prohibited areas specified in this section. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-8: STATUS OF FRATERNAL, SOCIAL AND CIVIC CLUBS:
The city council shall be the sole judge as to whether or not any person, firm,
company, association, partnership or corporation applying for a license as a
fraternal, social or civic club, is a bona fide fraternal, social or civic club
such as to qualify for a license under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-9: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF APPLICATION BY CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   Authority: Except for temporary and special events liquor licenses, no
liquor license shall be valid unless and until it is approved by the city
council. The council may deny any application that fails to comply with the
requirements of this chapter or that the city council determines is reasonably
likely to result in a violation of this chapter if issued based upon such
factors as the responsibility of the applicant in light of previous violations.
   B.   Number Limited: The city council shall, by resolution, have the right
to limit the number of licenses which may be issued based upon population as
determined by any formula deemed sufficient by the city council, and to
determine where and under what conditions liquor may be sold, served, given
away or distributed within the city.
   C.   Probationary Period For New Licenses: Any new license issued to a
licensee shall be subject to an initial probationary period of six (6) months,
during which time the license may be immediately terminated or suspended by the
chief of police for any violation of this chapter or the certificate of
license; provided, in the event of a termination or suspension by the chief of
police, the licensee shall have an immediate right to appeal the decision of
the chief of police to the city manager; further provided, the licensee shall
have an additional right to appeal the decision of the city manager to the city
council at the next regularly scheduled meeting for which notice may be given
in accordance with the Nevada open meeting law. The licensee must provide
written notice to the city clerk within ten (10) days of any adverse decision
of the licensee's intent to appeal the decision, after which time all appeal
rights shall be deemed waived if such notice is not so given. The foregoing
probationary period and the requirements, terms and conditions applicable
thereto shall be in addition to and not in lieu of all other applicable
requirements in this chapter.
   D.   Fees: All licensee fees paid pursuant to this chapter are
nonrefundable, regardless of what action is taken by the city, to include the
denial of an application for a liquor license by the city council. If the city
council approves an application for a liquor license, the city council shall
authorize the city clerk to issue such license upon full payment in advance of
all license fees then required by this chapter. The license shall not be
effective until issued and delivered to the applicant by the city.
   E.   Majority Vote Required: It shall require a majority vote of all the
members of the city council present at the meeting to approve or deny an
application for a liquor license. Such action by the city council on any
application shall be final.
   F.   Agreement To Comply: Any liquor license issued pursuant to this chapter
shall constitute and be conclusive evidence of the applicant's agreement to
comply with the provisions of this chapter, and to comply with the terms,
conditions, representations and agreements set out in the application for a
liquor license and any license certificate issued to the applicant hereunder.
   G.   Compliance With Federal And State Law: Any liquor license issued by the
city must, in order to be valid, be at all times in compliance with all
applicable requirements of federal and state law, together with any amendments
thereto, including, without limitation, chapter 369 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes. In the event of a conflict between the requirements of this chapter
and the requirements of any applicable federal or state law, the requirements
of the applicable federal or state law shall prevail. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-10: ISSUANCE AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Certificate Of License: Upon the granting of any application pursuant
to this chapter, the applicant shall receive a liquor license certificate,
issued by the city clerk, pursuant and subject to the provisions of this
chapter, and any terms, conditions or restrictions contained in the license
certificate itself. The license certificate shall set forth, among other
things, the following:
      1.   The name of all persons to whom it is issued. If the license is
issued under a fictitious name, the license shall set forth, in addition to the
fictitious name, the name or names of each of the persons conducting the
business under the fictitious name. If it is issued to a corporation, the
license shall set forth, in addition to the name of the corporation.
      2.   The location, by street and number, of the premises for which the
license is issued;
      3.   The date of commencement, which will be the date of issuance and
date of termination which will be the last day of the quarter year in which it
was granted, subject to revocation, cancellation, suspension, restriction and
conditioning, pursuant to this chapter;
      4.   The particular class of liquor license and of liquors that the
licensee is authorized to sell.
   B.   Term: The license shall be for one quarter.
   C.   Renewal: The city clerk shall issue a renewal notice prior to the
expiration of the liquor license, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
The failure of the city clerk to notify any licensee of the requirement to file
a renewal application or to pay the license fee shall not relieve the licensee
of those or any other requirements, and the actual receipt of a renewal notice
is not a condition precedent to the need to apply for or the issuance of a
renewal. Subject to all provisions of this chapter, if at the end of a quarter
the licensee holds a valid, unexpired license which has not been revoked,
suspended, restricted, conditioned or terminated, such license shall
automatically renew for the next quarter without application to the city
council upon timely payment of the required license fees and penalties, if any,
within the time specified in this chapter; provided, no license shall
automatically renew if the licensee is not in compliance with all federal,
state and local requirements, including all city requirements. Such renewal
license, if renewed automatically pursuant to the preceding sentence, shall be
on the same terms and conditions as the original license and subject to all
provisions of this chapter as if granted after application to the city council.
   D.   Nonrenewal Due To Noncompliance: A license that is not renewed because
it does not comply with federal, state or local requirements, to include any
requirement contained in this chapter or the license certificate, or because of
nonpayment of any required fees, shall thereupon be automatically revoked.
   E.   Acceptance Of Conditions: Any licensee receiving a license pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to have accepted the same with
all the duties, obligations, restrictions, limitations and other provisions of
this chapter as part and parcel of said license, and subject to the faithful
compliance with the promises, agreements and representations set forth in the
application for such license, without other or further notice, and without each
or any of such provisions being specifically incorporated in the license
granted.
   F.   Temporary License: In special or unusual circumstances and in order to
prevent undue hardship, the city clerk, with approval of the chief of police,
may, upon application therefor, issue a "temporary license" pending the
processing of a regular liquor license; provided, however, that at the time any
such temporary license is issued by the city clerk, a full and complete
application for a regular liquor license shall be on file with the city clerk;
further provided, a temporary license shall only be issued if the licensee or
any business association with respect to which the licensee is an owner,
partner, member, officer, director or shareholder has not had a liquor license
revoked within five (5) calendar days of the date of application for the
temporary license; and, further provided, all required fees, to include
delinquent fees, shall have been paid. Such license shall be valid for thirty
(30) days or until approval or denial of the final application by the city
council for a regular liquor license, whichever occurs first. At least one
quarterly license fee pursuant to section
4-5-12 of this chapter must be paid at the time of issuance of the temporary
license.
   G.   Elko City Code Compliance: No liquor license may be issued or renewed
pursuant to this chapter if the applicant, licensee or licensed business is in
violation of any provision of this code which impacts the licensed business or
operation thereof. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-11: POSTING OF LICENSE; LICENSES NONTRANSFERABLE; CHANGE OF LOCATION:
Each license shall:
   A.   Be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for which it was
issued.
   B.   Be nontransferable, except that upon prior written consent of the city
council, the location of the premises for which it was issued may be changed,
provided there is no change in licenses.
   C.   Be authority for the person or persons specifically named as licensees
to transact the business or activity licensed thereunder. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-12: SCHEDULE OF FEES:
   A.   Payment Of Fees; Refunds: All fees may be paid up to one year in
advance; but in no event shall a fee be for less than a quarter. No refunds of
any portion of a license fee paid in advance shall be made nor shall any
portion of a fee paid in advance be transferable.
   B.   Sales Of Soft Drinks: A valid license under this chapter authorizes the
licensee to sell soft drinks in connection with the business for which the
license is issued.
   C.   Amount Set By Resolution: The schedule of fees to be paid for licenses
shall be set by resolution of the city council.
   D.   When Payable: License fees shall be due and payable January 1, April 1,
July 1 and October 1 of each year for each following quarter. Any license fee
which has not been paid on or before the fifth day of the month in which it
becomes due shall be increased by a penalty of ten percent (10%), which shall
be added to the fee and collected with the fee prior to the issuance of any
license hereunder. When any license fee is paid by mail, the postmarked date on
the envelope shall be presumed to be the date on which the license fee was
paid. If the license fee and penalty have not been paid on or before the
fifteenth day of the month in which the license fee becomes due, any right to
renew a license without application to the city council shall be forfeited and
shall forthwith terminate at the time of the close of the city office on the
fifteenth day of such month, and at such time the liquor license for the
business to which the delinquent license fee relates shall be automatically
revoked and the business shall immediately cease all liquor sales. This
provision shall not be construed to permit the operating of any business to
which this chapter applies for any length of time whatever without having in
full force and effect a proper license issued by the city with all fees
therefor fully paid, nor shall it be construed to extend the expiration date of
any license, nor to prevent the city council from taking any action to suspend,
restrict, condition or terminate the license for any reason permitted under
this chapter, including nonpayment of fees. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-13: CITY COUNCIL MAY SUSPEND, RESTRICT, TERMINATE OR CONDITION ANY LICENSE;
GROUNDS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Authority Of City Council: The city council may, upon its own motion,
and shall, upon the verified complaint in writing of any person, investigate
the action of any licensee under this chapter and shall have power to suspend
for such a period of time as they deem advisable or terminate a license or
place such restrictions and conditions upon a license as they shall deem
necessary or advisable, for any one of the following acts or omissions:
      1.   The failure to make timely payment of license fees and penalties, or
either of them; provided, however, no action by the city council shall be
necessary in the event of nonpayment of license fees and penalties on or before
the fifteenth day of the month in which they came due as provided in this
chapter; or
      2.   The misrepresentation of any material fact by the applicant in
obtaining a license under this chapter; or
      3.   If any one of the licensees named in a license violates or causes or
permits to be violated any of the provisions of this chapter; or
      4.   If any one of the licensees named in a liquor license violates or
causes or permits to be violated any provision in this code which adversely
affects the licensee's fitness to fulfill the requirements of the liquor
license or this chapter; or
      5.   If any manager, bartender, agent, servant, officer or employee of a
licensee hereunder violates or causes or permits to be violated any of the
provisions of this chapter, while acting in any way in connection with the
licensee's business; or
      6.   If any one of the licensees named in a license commits any act which
would be sufficient ground for the denial of an application by such licensee
for a license under this chapter; or
      7.   If any one of the licensees named in a license or any manager,
agent, bartender, servant, officer or employee of a licensee refuses to permit
the chief of police, or any police officer, or any other duly authorized
representative of the city, to visit and reasonably inspect every part and
portion of the licensee's premises, or refuses or fails to furnish the chief of
police, or any police officer or officer of the city, upon request with all
facts and information within his knowledge concerning any offense committed in
or about the premises and the parties involved and the witnesses thereto; or
      8.   If any one of the licensees named in a license violates any of the
agreements, conditions or terms contained in the application for a license,
this chapter or the license issued pursuant hereto; or
      9.   If any one of the licensees named in a license violates or causes or
permits to be violated any ordinance of the city or any law of the state or of
the United States Of America regulating the sale, serving or dispensing of
liquors or pertaining to the operation of the licensed business; or
      10.   If the licensee or any agent or employee thereof makes, causes or
permits a sale or sales of any kind of liquor other than that authorized by the
class of license the licensee holds.
   B.   Citation To Appear: Except in cases of the automatic cancellation or
revocation of a license as in this chapter provided, upon the filing with the
city council of a verified complaint charging a licensee with the commission,
within one year prior to the date of filing the complaint, of any act or
omission which is cause for cancellation, suspension, revocation, restriction
or conditioning of a license, the city council forthwith shall issue a citation
directing the licensee, within twenty (20) days after service thereof upon the
licensee, to appear by filing with the city council the licensee's verified
answer to the complaint showing cause, if any the licensee has, why his license
should not be terminated, suspended, restricted, or conditions placed thereon.
Service of the citation with a copy of the complaint shall be made upon the
licensee in one of the following manners:
      1.   By personal service upon any one or more of the persons named in the
license as a licensee, service upon one licensee being deemed service upon and
notice to all licensees named in the license, service to be made by the chief
of police or any police officer of the city or by the county sheriff, or his
deputy, or by any citizen of the United States over twenty one (21) years of
age; or
      2.   By mailing by depositing in the United States mail a copy of the
citation with a copy of the complaint enclosed in a sealed envelope with
postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed to the licensee at the latest address
of record in the city clerk's office. Service shall be deemed complete upon the
date of mailing. Without excluding other ways of proof, proof of service by
mailing and the date thereof may be made by an affidavit of mailing or by proof
of mailing by registered mail or certified mail.
      3.   In case a corporation is a licensee, then such service above
specified may be upon the president, or other head of the corporation, or the
secretary, or managing agent, or any other officer thereof. In case of service
by mailing, it may be addressed to the corporation or to any of the said
officers, or managing agent thereof at the latest address of record in the city
clerk's office.
Failure of the licensee to answer within the time specified shall be deemed an
admission by the licensee of the commission of the act or acts or omissions
charged in the complaint and a waiver of all defenses the licensee may have to
such charges. Upon such failure to answer, the city council shall revoke the
license and shall give notice of such revocation by mailing a copy thereof, by
United States mail in a sealed envelope with postage thereon fully prepaid,
addressed to the licensee at the latest address of record in the office of the
city clerk.
   C.   Hearing: Upon the filing of an answer by the licensee, the city council
shall fix the time and place for a hearing and give the licensee and the
complainant not less than two (2) days' notice thereof. The notice may be
served by depositing in the United States mail a copy of the notice enclosed in
a sealed envelope with postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed to the licensee
and to the complainant, respectively, at their latest address of record in the
office of the city clerk. With the notice to the complainant, there shall be
attached to or enclosed a copy of the answer. If either party has appeared by
an attorney, notice shall be given to the attorney instead of to the party. In
the event the city, the city council, the chief of police, the city attorney or
any other city officer or representative acting by or on behalf of the city is
the complainant, the notices to and service of answer upon the complainant
herein called for shall be dispensed with.
   D.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision: At the hearing, the complainant and the
licensee may appear in person or by attorney, or both, and present relevant
evidence and witnesses. After the hearing is concluded and the matter
submitted, the city council shall, at that meeting or at its next regularly
scheduled meeting after such submission, render its decision, which must be
made by the vote of a majority of the members present at the meeting:
      1.   Revoke or cancel the license;
      2.   Suspend the license for such a period of time as the city council
deems advisable;
      3.   Place such restrictions upon the license, the licensee and/or the
licensee's place of business as the city council deems advisable;
      4.   Make the license and the continued force and effect thereof
conditioned upon such terms and conditions as the city council shall deem
advisable.
If in the opinion of a majority of all the members elected as council members,
the charges set forth in the complaint have not been established or proved,
they shall dismiss the complaint.
   E.   Change In Time Restrictions: The city council, may, upon stipulation of
the complainant and the licensee, shorten or extend the times herein set in
connection with notices, pleadings and hearings. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-14: SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; GROUNDS; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Summary Suspension By Police Chief: The police chief may summarily
suspend any liquor license if the police chief determines that such suspension
is:
      1.   Reasonably necessary to prevent imminent harm to persons or property
due to one or more violations of this chapter by the licensee, including the
violation of one or more conditions or restrictions placed in a license
certificate; or
      2.   Reasonably necessary to prevent the continuation of flagrant and
intentional violations of this chapter upon the licensed premises by the
licensee or the licensee's managers, agents and/or employees, including the
violation of one or more conditions or restrictions placed in a license
certificate.
   B.   Duration: A summary suspension by the police chief shall be for only
such period as is reasonably necessary to prevent imminent harm to persons or
property and in no case shall exceed twelve (12) hours in duration.
   C.   Notice: Upon summary suspension by the police chief, the police chief
or the police chief's designee shall promptly provide the licensee or, if the
licensee is not available, the licensee's manager, with written notice setting
forth the appeal rights provided herein, together with contact information for
the mayor or mayor pro tem, which contact information shall include telephone
numbers and electronic mail addresses for the mayor or mayor pro tem.
   D.   Appeal: Any licensee aggrieved by a summary suspension by the police
chief shall have the right to immediately appeal the decision of the chief of
police to the mayor or the mayor pro tem, which appeal may be communicated to
the mayor or the mayor pro tem in writing, verbally, by electronic mail or by
telephone. The mayor or mayor pro tem, upon receiving actual knowledge of the
appeal from the licensee and the grounds therefor may affirm, modify or reverse
the decision of the police chief.
   E.   Liquor Sales Prohibited: During any period of suspension pursuant to
this paragraph, the licensee shall cease all liquor sales otherwise permitted
by the liquor license.
   F.   Summary Suspension By City Council: Notwithstanding any other provision
of this chapter, the city council may suspend summarily any license issued
pursuant to this chapter in cases which are determined to be of an aggravated
or flagrant violation of this chapter, or of the laws of the state relating to
liquors; provided, however, that the city council shall not summarily suspend
any license without first finding that such action is immediately necessary for
the protection of public health, welfare, safety and/or morals of the public.
Such order of suspension shall remain effective until further order of the city
council. In the event of a suspension by the city council without prior notice,
every licensee shall promptly be given notice in writing of the reason or
reasons for such suspension, which shall include a clear and concise
description of the acts or omissions upon which the suspension was based. The
licensee shall be given an opportunity to be heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the city council for which an agenda has not yet been
noticed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 241.020, at which hearing the
licensee may appear in person, or be represented by an attorney, or both, and
present a reasonable number of witnesses and other evidence to show cause, if
any there be, why the license should not be revoked, terminated, suspended or
conditioned. Notices shall be served and given, the answer filed, and the
hearing conducted in the manner and under the procedures provided in section 4-
5-13 of this chapter. The licensee may waive the time specified for a hearing
and such hearing may be held at any time agreed upon by the licensee and the
city council. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-15: REINSTATEMENT OF LICENSES:
Nothing herein shall prevent a person whose license has been previously
terminated or suspended from applying for a reinstatement of the license;
provided, the foregoing application for reinstatement shall not be submitted
within six (6) months of the date the previous license was terminated or
suspended. If a licensee has shown proper cause, the city council may, upon a
unanimous vote, reinstate any license which has been previously terminated or
suspended and may at such time also remove, change or modify all or any
restrictions or conditions which have been set pursuant to this chapter, or may
at such time impose any new restrictions or conditions upon the license it
deems appropriate. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-16: REVOCATION OF LICENSE THROUGH NONUSE AND CONTINUATION OF LICENSE
FOLLOWING DEATH OF LICENSEE:
   A.   Revocation Through Nonuse: In the event a holder of a license, other
than one prevented or prohibited from operating by city council action, shall
discontinue business for more than thirty (30) days without the specific
approval of the city council, such license shall be revoked automatically,
without action of the city council on the day following said thirty (30) day
period.
   B.   Continuation Following Death Of Licensee: In the event of the death of
a licensee, the personal representative of the estate of the deceased licensee
may continue to operate the business under the same license; provided, the
personal representative must promptly, but in no case more than thirty (30)
days after the death of the licensee, notify the city of the death of the
licensee, apply for a new license, and thereafter pay all fees when due and
otherwise comply with all requirements of this chapter. The continuation of a
liquor license following the death of a licensee pursuant to this chapter shall
in no event be for a period in excess of three (3) months. (Ord. 777, 9-10-
2013)
4-5-17: LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS:
At all times while any premises licensed hereunder is open for business, the
interior lighting therein shall be sufficient to make easily discernible upon
immediately entering the main entrance the appearance and conduct of all
persons and patrons in that portion of the premises where liquor is sold,
served, delivered or consumed. In no event shall the intensity of such interior
lighting be less than one foot (1') candlepower light when measured at a point
thirty inches (30") from the floor wherever persons and patrons are sitting or
standing within the premises. This section shall apply in all cases except in
licensed establishments where floorshows are permitted under city ordinance. In
such cases, the floor showroom lights may be dimmed only during the floorshow,
and at the conclusion of each floorshow the lighting must then immediately be
restored to the minimum standards of light intensity hereinbefore provided.
(Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-18: PROPERTY AND ADJACENT AREA CLEANUP:
All license holders shall remove all bottles, cans, trash, broken glass,
debris, and bodily fluids from adjoining city sidewalks, alleyways and rights
of way upon closing or by seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., whichever is earlier, on
each day licensee is open. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-19: SALES TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any bartender,
manager, agent, or any other person employed by any licensee to sell, serve,
give away, furnish or dispense any kind of liquor to any minor. For the purpose
of this section, a person shall be deemed to be employed by a licensee if he or
she purports to have the authority to make sales, whether actually receiving a
wage or not.
   B.   Defense: In any prosecution or proceeding for the suspension or
revocation of any license based upon a violation of subsection A of this
section, proof that the defendant licensee or his or her agent or employee,
demanded and was shown, immediately prior to furnishing any liquor to a person
under the age of twenty one (21) years, bona fide documentary evidence of
majority and identity of such person issued by a federal, state, county or
municipal government, or subdivision or agency thereof, including, but not
limited to, a motor vehicle operator's license, a registered certificate issued
under the federal selective service act, or an identification card issued to a
member of the armed forces, is a defense to the prosecution or proceeding for
the suspension or revocation of any license.
   C.   Written Record: In any case where a licensee, or any person employed by
a licensee, demands and is shown the documentary evidence of majority and
identity specified in subsection B of this section, the licensee shall, at the
time of being shown the documentary evidence, make a written record of at least
the following information appearing on the identification document shown, which
record shall be retained and reserved by the licensee for one year thereafter:
the type of card or evidence shown; the government or subdivision or agency
thereof issuing the evidence; the serial or identification number of the
document; and the person's full name, age or birth date and description as it
appears on the identification card. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-20: EMPLOYMENT OF CERTAIN MINORS PROHIBITED AND CERTAIN MINORS PERMITTED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to employ any minor to sell or handle any
liquor of any kind, or to permit any minor to handle such liquor in his or her
place of business in any way, except that a person who has attained the age of
sixteen (16) years but not yet eighteen (18) years, may be employed in a retail
food store for the sale or disposition of liquor if he or she is supervised by
a person who is eighteen (18) years of age or over, is an owner or employee of
the business which sells or disposes of the liquor, and is actually present at
the time the liquor is disposed of or sold, provided the liquor is in a sealed
or corked container or receptacle; further provided, however, that grocery
store, shopping center, and supermarket licensees affording "box boy" or other
delivery service from the place of sale to the purchaser's delivery truck or
other means of transporting the liquor, shall be responsible under the
foregoing prohibition only until the sale is completed. Notwithstanding the
foregoing prohibitions, minors may carry or transport liquors to the
purchaser's delivery truck or other means of transporting the liquor, in which
event such purchaser shall be deemed to have assumed full and complete
ownership of and responsibility for such liquor at the time of delivery to the
purchaser. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-21: SALE OR FURNISHING OF LIQUOR TO MINOR, AIDING MINOR TO PURCHASE OR
PROCURE LIQUOR PROHIBITED:
   A.   Every person who knowingly:
      1.   Sells, gives or otherwise furnishes liquor to any person under the
age of twenty one (21) years; or
      2.   Leaves or deposits any liquor in any place with the intent that the
same shall be procured by any person under the age of twenty one (21) years; or
      3.   Furnishes, gives or causes to be given any money or thing of value
to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years with the knowledge that
the money or thing of value is to be used by the person under the age of twenty
one (21) years to purchase or procure any liquor;
is guilty of a violation of this code.
   B.   Subsection A1 of this section does not apply to a parent, guardian or
physician of the person under the age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord. 777, 9-
10-2013)
4-5-22: FALSE IDENTIFICATION PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, regardless of age, to counterfeit,
forge, alter, erase or obliterate any card, writing, paper or document which
bears the age of the holder or purported holder thereof, with the intention
that such card, writing, paper or document should be used by a minor for the
purpose of obtaining any alcoholic beverage or liquor, or to sell, lend or give
away any such card, writing, paper or document to a minor which could be used
by a minor for the purpose of obtaining any alcoholic beverage or liquor.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to use or attempt to use or offer
any counterfeit, forged, erased or obliterated card, writing, paper or document
of the kind mentioned in subsection A of this section, or to verbally falsely
represent his or her age, or to use or attempt to use any other person's
identification documents, for the purpose of obtaining any alcoholic beverage
or liquor from any person within the city. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-23: PURCHASE BY MINOR PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any minor to purchase, obtain or receive in any manner
within the city any liquor or alcoholic beverage of any kind from any person;
except that at the direction and in the company of a parent or guardian, a
minor may consume an alcoholic beverage in the residence of such parent or
guardian; further, except that a minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for
the purpose of following the direction of a licensed medical practitioner; or
except that a minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of
participation in legitimate religious activities. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-24: POSSESSION BY MINOR PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any minor to have in his or her custody or possession
within the city any alcoholic beverage or liquor of any type or kind, except
any sealed alcoholic beverage in the regular course of his or her legitimate
employment. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-25: CONSUMPTION BY MINOR PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to consume any kind of alcoholic
beverage or liquor in or about the premises of any licensed establishment of
the city or elsewhere within the city.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any minor to be in possession of any kind of
alcoholic beverage or liquor through consumption anywhere in the city; except
that at the direction and in the company of a parent or guardian, a minor may
consume an alcoholic beverage in the residence of the parent or guardian;
except that minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of
following the direction of a licensed medical practitioner; or except that a
minor may consume an alcoholic beverage for the purpose of participation in
legitimate religious activities. Possession by consumption shall consist solely
of the assimilation of alcohol in the minor's body, and such crime shall not
require proof of possession or control prior to consumption or proof of the act
of swallowing an alcoholic beverage or liquor.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any minor who has consumed any kind of
alcoholic beverage or liquor at the direction and in the company of a parent or
guardian in the home, to leave the home and go out into the city while alcohol
is still present in the minor's body. Such a minor shall be guilty of
possession through consumption as provided for in subsection B of this section.
   D.   For purposes of this section, any peace officer may detain any minor
whom the officer encounters under circumstances which reasonably indicate that
the minor has committed or is committing one of the crimes enumerated in
subsections A through C of this section. At any time after this detention, the
minor so detained shall be arrested if probable cause for an arrest appears.
(Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-26: LOITERING BY MINOR PROHIBITED:
   A.   No minor shall spend time in or remain in the bar area of the premises
of any licensee hereunder where liquors of any kind are sold or served.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder, or the bartender,
manager, agent or any other employee of any licensee, to knowingly allow or
permit any minor to remain in the bar area of the premises of the licensee
where liquor of any kind is sold or served.
   C.   Nothing in subsections A and B of this section shall apply to:
      1.   The areas, other than the bar and gaming areas, of the
establishments wherein liquor of any kind is sold at a bar in an establishment
which operates and maintains dining tables or booths or lunch counters, or
hotel or motel accommodations, or other types of businesses separate from the
bar; or
      2.   Any grocery store or drugstore where liquor of any kind is not sold
by the drink for consumption on the premises. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-27: INTOXICATION OF LICENSEE, EMPLOYEES, PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee under the provisions of this chapter, or
any manager, bartender, servants, agents or other employees thereof, to be in
an intoxicated condition in or about the licensee's business premises while
performing his or her duties in connection with the business. (Ord. 777, 9-10-
2013)
4-5-28: ESTABLISHMENT TO BE CLEAN AND ORDERLY; PRESENCE OF CERTAIN PERSONS
PROHIBITED:
   A.   Every licensee shall conduct and maintain his premises in a clean and
orderly manner.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder, or any bartender,
manager, agent, employee of such licensee or any other person in charge of any
saloon or bar, to knowingly allow or permit any of the following persons to
remain on the licensee's premises or to sell or give, or to permit to be sold
or given any liquor to any of the following:
      1.   A person who is visibly intoxicated;
      2.   Any person having, carrying or exhibiting any knife, gun, pistol or
other deadly weapon;
      3.   Any person whose conduct is tumultuous or offensive, or who is
threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to fight, or fighting on or in
the immediate vicinity of the licensee's premises.
      4.   A person who provides liquor to another person who is visibly
intoxicated.
   C.   A person is visibly intoxicated if it can reasonably be determined
through direct observation that the person's mental and physical faculties are
impaired because of ingestion of liquor or drugs so as to diminish the person's
ability to think and act in a way in which an ordinary prudent person in full
possession of his or her faculties and using reasonable care, would think and
act in like circumstances.
   D.   Signs of visible intoxication may include, but are not limited to, one
or more of the following clues which appear from the circumstances, provided
they occur during or following the ingestion of liquor or drugs:
      1.   Mood changes;
      2.   Slurring or mistakes in speech;
      3.   Irrational or nonsensical statements;
      4.   Raised speaking voice;
      5.   Clumsiness;
      6.   Fumbling with change;
      7.   Loss of balance or coordination;
      8.   Swaying or staggering;
      9.   Confusion;
      10.   Lack of ability to hear or respond;
      11.   Bumping into or knocking over furniture;
      12.   Falling down;
      13.   Dozing while sitting at a bar or table;
      14.   Heavy eyelids;
      15.   Glassy eyes;
      16.   Crude behavior;
      17.   Vomiting;
      18.   Spilling drinks;
      19.   The inability to find one's mouth with drinking vessel;
      20.   Inappropriate sexual advances;
      21.   Aggression or belligerence; and/or
      22.   Inability to light a cigarette. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-29: CIVIL JUDGMENT NO BAR:
No civil judgment, or any act or suit by the city attorney, the city clerk or
the violator shall bar or prevent a prosecution for each and every violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-30: PENALTIES:
Every person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction therefor, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this
code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue, shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord.
777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-31: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-32: POSTING OF NOTICE REQUIRED:
Any licensee under the provisions of this chapter must post in a conspicuous
place in the premises for which the license is issued, the following notice to
customers:
   NOTICE TO CUSTOMERS
It is illegal for any bartender, manager, agent, employee or any other person
in charge of a saloon or bar to knowingly allow or permit a person who is
intoxicated to remain on the premises or to give or sell or to permit to be
sold any liquor to a person who is intoxicated.
ELKO LIQUOR CONTROL CODE
(Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-33: SPECIAL EVENTS LIQUOR LICENSE OR SPECIAL EVENTS BEER AND WINE LIQUOR
LICENSE:
   A.   Application: Any person in charge of giving away, selling or serving
liquor during a "special event" which is scheduled to be held in the
incorporated city limits, is open to the public and which is properly licensed
and/or permitted, may apply to the city clerk for a special events liquor
license or a special events beer and wine liquor license.
   B.   Procedures: The applicant for a special events liquor license or a
special events beer and wine liquor license shall follow the procedures set
forth in section
4-5-4 of this chapter with regard to the preparing and filing of an application
for such license.
   C.   Name Of Responsible Person: The applicant shall designate a person
responsible for serving alcohol during the event and shall provide the city
clerk with that person's name, address and telephone number.
   D.   Department Of Taxation: Contain proof of any licensing or certificate
of good standing required by the Nevada department of taxation.
   E.   Health Department: Contain proof of approval by the Nevada state health
department with respect to any required inspections.
   F.   City Departments: Contain verification by the fire marshal and police
department that the licensee's fixed place of business has met all applicable
city code requirements.
   G.   Fee: The application shall be accompanied by the appropriate license
fee for the period for which the special events liquor license or special
events beer and wine liquor license is sought.
   H.   Submission; Approval: The application shall be submitted to the city
clerk or the deputy clerk and must be approved by the chief of police or
assistant chief of police and either the city manager or assistant city manager
or the city clerk or deputy clerk prior to issuance of the license by the city
clerk or the city clerk's designee.
   I.   Caterer's Liquor License Substitution: A caterer's liquor license shall
not substitute for a special events liquor license or special events beer and
wine liquor license.
   J.   Restrictions And Conditions: The city may place appropriate
restrictions or conditions on a special event liquor license or a special event
beer and wine liquor license to the extent necessary for the protection of
public health, safety and welfare.
   K.   Appeal: If the special events liquor license or special events beer and
wine liquor license application is rejected, or if the applicant disagrees with
the restrictions or conditions placed on the license, the applicant shall have
the right of appeal to the city council within twenty (20) days thereof. (Ord.
777, 9-10-2013)
4-5-34: CONSUMPTION OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN DESIGNATED AREAS OF
CITY PARKS:
   A.   Authority To Install Signs Prohibiting Consumption Or Possession Of
Alcoholic Beverages: The city manager shall cause to be placed and maintained
signs and/or control devices in areas of the city park system as approved by
the city council to prohibit the consumption or possession of alcoholic
beverages.
   B.   Unlawful Consumption Or Possession Of Alcoholic Beverages: It is
unlawful for any person to consume or have in possession any alcoholic beverage
in any area of the city park system that has been designated by approved signs
or control devices prohibiting the consumption or possession of any alcoholic
beverage. (Ord. 777, 9-10-2013)
CHAPTER 6
TRANSIENT LODGING TAX
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Tax On Transient Lodging
4-6-3: License Required
4-6-4: Exemptions And Exceptions
4-6-5: Transient Lodging Tax To Be Collected From Lessee
4-6-6: Display Of Notice
4-6-7: Licenses
4-6-8: Authority To Collect Tax
4-6-9: Payment Of Tax, Interest And Penalties
4-6-10: Allocation And Use Of Transient Lodging Tax Funds
4-6-11: Examination Of Books And Records
4-6-12: Penalties And Interest
4-6-13: Uses And Purposes Of Transient Lodging Tax Proceeds
4-6-14: Refund
4-6-15: Forms, Costs And Required Reporting
4-6-16: Penalties
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless it is apparent from the context that another meaning is intended, the
following words when used herein shall have the following meanings:
   FOLIO: Document that summarizes or itemizes guest charges.
   LESSEE: Any person renting rooms, spaces or other accommodations from a
licensee.
   LICENSEE: Any person operating or conducting a transient lodging rental
business.
   RECREATION FACILITY OR RECREATION FACILITIES: A place, structure, area or
other facility used for community recreation, such as playgrounds, playing
fields or courts, beaches, lakes, rivers, swimming pools, dams constructed
across streams or rivers for the creation of swimming pools and recreational
reservoirs, gymnasiums, auditoriums, camps, parks, ski facilities, golf
courses, natural reservoirs, recreation grounds, fairgrounds, exposition
buildings, convention halls, field houses, amusement halls and recreation
centers.
   RENTAL BUSINESS: A. Rent: The act of permitting a person to use or occupy
any portion of a transient lodging rental business in exchange for
compensation, the act of using or occupying any portion of a transient lodging
rental business in exchange for compensation, or the compensation paid for such
use or occupancy. The terms "rent" and "lease" shall have the same meaning in
this chapter.
   B.   Transient Lodging: A form of lodging in which a room, space or other
accommodation is rented to a person for a period of less than twenty eight (28)
consecutive calendar days for use by the same tenant, to include any room,
space or other accommodation that is rented to the same tenant in successive
terms, the total of which consecutive terms is less than twenty eight (28)
consecutive calendar days, but not to include any room, space or other
accommodation that is rented to a tenant who is a natural person and who signs,
prior to the commencement of the tenancy, a Transient Occupancy Tax 28-Day
Exemption Form in the manner required by this chapter.
   C.   Transient Lodging Rental Business: Any business having one or more
rooms, spaces or other accommodations that provides transient lodging to
tenants in exchange for compensation. In the event a business rents a portion
of its rooms, spaces or other accommodations for terms of less than twenty
eight (28) days and another portion of its rooms, spaces or other
accommodations for terms of twenty eight (28) days or more, only those rooms,
spaces or other accommodations rented for terms of less than twenty eight (28)
days shall constitute a "transient lodging rental business".
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR: When used in this chapter, the Elko City Clerk.
   TAX ON TRANSIENT LODGING: A tax imposed herein on the rental of transient
lodging by the authority of the laws of Nevada and especially Nevada Revised
Statutes sections 268.095 and 268.096, and all amendments thereto.
   TENANT: The person actually occupying a room, space or other accommodation
in a transient lodging rental business, regardless of the method or means of
payment. (Ord. 627, 11-9-2004; amd. Ord. 828, 5-8-2018, eff. 7-1-2018)
4-6-2: TAX ON TRANSIENT LODGING:
Effective the month following the passage of this ordinance, there is hereby
fixed and imposed on every licensee operating a transient lodging rental
business within the City a Transient Lodging Tax in the total amount of fifteen
percent (15%) to be collected as follows:
   Fifteen percent (15%) of the gross income actually received, excluding the
Transient Lodging Tax, by each licensee in exchange for transient lodging
rentals, shall be paid as a tax on transient lodging. Complimentary transient
lodging (transient lodging which is provided at no cost to the occupant) is
nontaxable. To be considered complimentary transient lodging, the transient
lodging must be provided on an individual basis and not as part of any
established package, advertised or otherwise, which includes other products or
services. (Ord. 828, 5-8-2018, eff. 7-1-2018; amd. Ord. 875, 1-24-2023)
4-6-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, either for himself or for another
person, to commence or to carry on any transient lodging rental business
without first having procured a license from the Tax Administrator so to do;
provided, that a licensee may secure the license within ten (10) days of
commencement of business and the license shall be issued as of the date of the
commencement of business.
   B.   The Tax Administrator shall, upon receipt of an application for a
license, issue a license to such applicant who shall keep the same posted in
his place of business in a conspicuous place. (Ord. 627, 11-9-2004)
4-6-4: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS:
There shall be, and hereby is, exempted from the tax on transient lodging, each
rental by any person who rents transient lodging if:
   A.   The transient lodging is directly reserved and paid for by a Federal,
State or local governmental entity, to include a school district; provided, a
Governmental Agency Exemption Claim Form must be completed and retained in
accordance with the retention standards set forth in subsection
4-6-11B of this chapter; or
   B.   The tenant signs, prior to occupancy, a contract, lease, or other
written agreement, or signs a Transient Occupancy Tax 28 Day Exemption Form,
pursuant to which the tenant promises to stay at the subject transient lodging
facility for a period of at least twenty eight (28) days. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if the occupant does not stay at the transient lodging facility for
at least twenty eight (28) days, the operator shall pay to the City the
Transient Lodging Tax due for the period the room was occupied. Except as
otherwise provided in this chapter, no rental shall be deemed to have been made
for a period of twenty eight (28) days or more unless the room or rooms rented
to the tenant are continuously occupied by the tenant for twenty eight (28)
continuous calendar days without interruption. (Ord. 828, 5-8-2018, eff. 7-1-
2018)
4-6-5: TRANSIENT LODGING TAX TO BE COLLECTED FROM LESSEE:
Each licensee is, and shall be, required to add the amount of the Transient
Lodging Tax onto the amount of the transient lodging rentals due from each
lessee. The amount of the tax shall be displayed separately from the price of
the transient lodging rent on the registration card or other record of the
licensee. (Ord. 627, 11-9-2004)
4-6-6: DISPLAY OF NOTICE:
Each licensee shall prominently display in each room, space or other
accommodation rented or at the option of the licensee, in the lobby at or in
the immediate vicinity of the registration desk, a sign reading substantially
as follows:
NOTICE
This business is required by law to collect a fifteen percent (15%) transient
lodging tax on any rental of transient lodging of less than twenty eight (28)
days.
The Management
(Ord. 794, 5-12-2015, eff. 7-1-2015; amd. Ord. 875, 1-24-2023)
4-6-7: LICENSES:
Licenses required by this chapter shall be issued by the City Clerk. Such
licenses may be issued by the City Clerk on an annual calendar year basis; or
on a semiannual calendar year basis, the first period being from January 1
through June 30 of such year and the second period being from July 1 through
December 31 of such year; or on a quarterly basis, the first quarter commencing
January 1 and ending March 31, the second quarter commencing April 1 and ending
June 30, the third quarter commencing July 1 and ending September 30 and the
fourth quarter commencing October 1 and ending December 31. All licenses issued
shall be valid for the period of time specified in such license. No licenses
issued hereunder shall be transferable. There shall be no charge made to the
licensee for any license issued hereunder. (Ord. 627, 11-9-2004)
4-6-8: AUTHORITY TO COLLECT TAX:
The City Clerk is hereby authorized and empowered to collect the proceeds of
this Transient Lodging Tax, together with any and all interest and penalties in
connection therewith, and to enforce by all appropriate and lawful means the
provisions of this chapter, and to bring suit therefor as well as to proceed by
any appropriate criminal action. The City Clerk is also hereby authorized and
empowered to collect information related to daily occupancy and average daily
rate; however, such information shall be deemed confidential pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes section 268.490 (records; confidentiality). (Ord. 627, 11-9-
2004)
4-6-9: PAYMENT OF TAX, INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
Every licensee shall pay the Transient Lodging Tax to the City Clerk on or
before the fifteenth day of the month when such tax shall accrue and shall
submit the payment with a completed form supplied by the City entitled
"Operator's Transient Lodging Tax Return". Payment of the Transient Lodging Tax
shall become delinquent at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the fifteenth day of the
month. All electronic payments must be transmitted and received by the City
Clerk on or before five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the fifteenth day of the month.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, mailed payments postmarked on or before the
tenth day of the month will not be assessed delinquent fees. (Ord. 828, 5-8-
2018, eff. 7-1-2018)
4-6-10: ALLOCATION AND USE OF TRANSIENT LODGING TAX FUNDS:
The Transient Lodging Tax in the total amount of fifteen percent (15%) of the
gross income actually received, excluding the Lodging Tax, by each licensee for
transient lodging rentals pursuant to section
4-6-2 of this chapter shall be allocated and used by the City on the following
percentages under the following categories. The Transient Lodging Tax
allocation shall be reviewed annually by the City Council:
   A.   All proceeds from the gross income actually received, excluding the
Lodging Tax, by each licensee for transient lodging rentals for the Recreation
Transient Lodging Tax Fund in the amount of six and one-eighth percent (61/8%)
shall be deposited in a special fund in the City Treasury to be known as or
designated as the Recreation Fund.
   B.   All proceeds from the gross income actually received, excluding the
Lodging Tax, by each licensee for transient lodging rentals for the Elko
Convention and Visitors Authority Transient Lodging Tax Fund in the amount of
two and three-eighths percent (23/8%) shall be paid to the Elko Convention and
Visitors Authority as collected on and after July 1, 1998.
   C.   All proceeds from the gross income actually received, excluding the
Lodging Tax, by each licensee for transient lodging rentals in the amount of
one percent (1%), promotion of tourism Transient Lodging Tax, shall be paid as
follows:
      1.   Three-eighths (3/8) of all proceeds of the promotion of tourism
Transient Lodging Tax must be paid to the Department of Taxation for deposit
with the State Treasurer for credit to the fund for the promotion of tourism.
      2.   Five-eighths (5/8) of all proceeds of the promotion of tourism
Transient Lodging Tax must be deposited with the Elko County Recreation Board
created pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 244A.597, to be used to
advertise the resources of the County of Elko related to tourism, including
available accommodations, transportation, entertainment, natural resources and
climate, and to promote special events related thereto.
   D.   All proceeds from the gross income actually received, excluding the
Lodging Tax, by each licensee for transient lodging rentals for the Western
Folklife Center Transient Lodging Tax Fund in the amount of one-fourth of one
percent (0.25%) shall be paid to the Western Folklife Center Fund as collected
on and after July 1, 1998.
   E.   All proceeds from the gross income actually received, excluding the
Lodging Tax, by each licensee for transient lodging rentals for the
Agricultural District 4 Transient Lodging Tax, in the amount of one-half of one
percent (0.5%) shall be paid to Agricultural District 4 as collected on and
after July 1, 1998.
   F.   All proceeds from the gross income actually received, excluding the
Lodging Tax, by each licensee for transient lodging rentals for the marketing/
tourism promotion Transient Lodging Tax in the amount of one and one quarter
percent (1¼%) shall be paid to the Elko Convention and Visitors Authority on
the condition that it creates a separate marketing and tourism promotion fund
to account for all collections and expenditures made on and after July 1, 2001.
Effective January 1, 2033 the percentage of Transient Lodging Tax paid to the
Elko Convention and Visitors Authority Marketing Fund reverts back to one and
three fourths percent (1¾%).
   G.   All proceeds from the gross income actually received on or after April
1, 2025, excluding the Lodging Tax, by each licensee for transient lodging
rentals for the marketing/tourism promotion Transient Lodging Tax in the amount
of two and one quarter percent (2¼%) shall be paid to the Elko Convention and
Visitors Authority Facility Expansion Fund on the condition that it has a
Facility Expansion Fund to account for all collections and expenditures, and
the refinanced debt payments to Elko County and JP Morgan/Chase for the
Conference Center will be paid out of this Facility Expansion Fund. Any balance
remaining in the Facility Fund restricted for the Conference Center debt
balloon payment will be transferred to the ECVA Facility Expansion Fund without
restriction to the ECVA Conference Center debt balloon payment. Effective
January 1, 2033 the percentage of Transient Lodging Tax paid to the Elko
Convention and Visitors Authority Facility Fund will decrease to three-fourths
percent (¾%) and the condition that the refinanced debt payment for the
Conference Center be paid out of this Facility Expansion Fund will expire. No
portion may be used for salaries or benefits.
   H.   All proceeds from the gross income actually received on or after August
1, 2022, excluding the Lodging Tax, by each licensee for transient lodging
rentals for the marketing/tourism promotion Transient Lodging Tax in the amount
of one and one quarter of a percent (1.25%) shall be retained in the Recreation
Fund and designated for Air Alliance Airline Revenue Guarantee Program(s).
   I.   All recipients of the Transient Lodging Tax shall render to the City an
annual account showing in detail the use of all Transient Lodging Tax received
from the City. (Ord. 828, 5-8-2018, eff. 7-1-2018; amd. Ord. 873, 8-23-2022;
Ord. 875, 1-24-2023; Ord. 898, 4-8-2025, eff. 4-1-2025)
4-6-11: EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
The Tax Administrator and his duly authorized agent are empowered to examine
and audit the books, papers and records of any licensee or person operating a
transient lodging rental business and to make investigations in connection
therewith. Audits will cover a three (3) year period. The audit will be
conducted at no expense to the licensee.
   A.   Required Records: Each licensee is required to maintain daily records
which support amounts reported on the Operator's Transient Lodging Tax Returns.
These daily records shall include, without limitation, the following
information:
      1.   Total rooms available and occupied.
      2.   Total daily gross room receipts.
      3.   Total amount of Transient Lodging Tax collected.
      4.   Number of rooms, spaces or other accommodations provided for no
compensation.
      5.   Contract, lease, Transient Occupancy Tax 28-Day Exemption Forms or
rental agreement.
      6.   Government Agency Exemption Claim Forms.
      7.   Any and all documentation used to complete the Operator's Transient
Lodging Tax Return, to include all documents that support the calculations
shown on the return.
An acceptable record retention practice includes maintaining bound receipt
books, guest folios, registration cards, daily transaction reports, general
ledgers, cash journals, register and/or computer printouts, computerized
records, and any other books and records deemed reasonably necessary to support
all information supplied to the City as required by this chapter. Licensees
shall retain and provide all documents that support revenues and exemptions
reported to the City.
   B.   Retention Of Records: Every licensee shall keep all records which must
be maintained pursuant to this section for a period of not less than four (4)
years from the close of the accounting year to which the returns relate.
   C.   Availability Of Records: Upon written notification of a Transient
Lodging Tax audit, the licensee shall provide the City or City auditors with
all records supporting the Transient Lodging Tax returns filed with the City of
Elko during the audit period. These records shall be made available to the City
or City auditors at the transient lodging rental business or the offices of the
City of Elko within ten (10) business days of the date the notice is sent,
unless other arrangements are made with the City of Elko.
If the Transient Lodging Tax audit is conducted at the transient lodging rental
business, the licensee shall provide reasonable accommodations to the City
auditors. The City auditors may be City employees or independent contractors
acting on the City's behalf.
Auditors may make copies of all original records reviewed in the course of
conducting the audit. Auditors may request copies of records which must be
provided by the licensee either through copy, e-mail, CD or flash drive to be
retained as part of the audit work papers which substantiate the audit
findings.
Failure of a licensee to retain or refusal of a licensee to furnish any such
records required to be maintained pursuant to this section may provide grounds
for the assessment of a deficiency in the payment of the Transient Lodging Tax
for the period that is subject to the audit. The City may utilize any available
data or other information to calculate the correct Transient Lodging Tax for
the period being audited.
   D.   Failure To Cooperate With A Transient Lodging Tax Audit: Upon
determination by the City Clerk that a licensee is failing to cooperate with an
auditor conducting an audit of Transient Lodging Tax returns pursuant to this
section, the City Council may terminate, suspend or revoke the licensee's
business license pursuant to section
4-1-14 of this title. Failing to cooperate, as that term is used in this
subsection, includes refusing to provide sufficient information to the auditor
in order to conduct the audit.
   E.   Notice of Audit Determination: Following the completion of an audit
pursuant to this section, the City will provide a written determination of the
audit results to the licensee. The foregoing notice may be served personally,
by certified mail, and/or e-mail.
   F.   Time Limitation: If the City Clerk assesses an additional amount for
underpayment or nonpayment of Transient Lodging Tax, the licensee has thirty
(30) calendar days in which to pay the assessed amount and/or file a written
notice appeal of the findings with the City Clerk.
   G.   Appeals: Appeals of an assessment by the City Clerk pursuant to this
subsection shall be placed on a City Council agenda for consideration no later
than sixty (60) days from the date the notice of appeal is filed with the City
Clerk. The decision of the City Council to uphold the assessment, in whole or
in part, shall be deemed a final decision for purposes of judicial review. The
licensee shall thereafter have thirty (30) calendar days in which to file a
petition for judicial review with the Fourth Judicial District Court in and for
the County of Elko, State of Nevada.
Should the City Clerk determine that a credit for overpayment of a Transient
Lodging Tax is due, the credit will be refunded to the licensee within thirty
(30) calendar days from the date of the determination. (Ord. 828, 5-8-2018,
eff. 7-1-2018; amd, Ord. 875, 1-24-2023)
4-6-12: PENALTIES AND INTEREST:
If the Transient Lodging Tax is not paid on or before five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
on the fifteenth day of the month in which it becomes due, or if such day falls
on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, by five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the next
succeeding day not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, then the licensee shall
pay a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the unpaid, due and delinquent Transient
Lodging Tax, and the licensee shall also pay the costs of collection of the
tax, penalty, court costs and attorney fees. In addition, the licensee shall
pay interest on the amount due at the rate of 1.5 percent per month from the
date on which the tax became due until the date of payment. If payment of the
Transient Lodging Tax is not received within sixty (60) calendar days following
the fifteenth day of the month when due, the City may thereafter place a lien
on the property upon which the transient lodging rental business is located in
the manner set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes 268.095, as amended. If payment
of the Transient Lodging Tax is not received within seventy (70) calendar days
following the fifteenth day of the month when due, the City may terminate,
suspend or revoke the transient lodging rental business's business license in
the manner outlined in section
4-1-14 of this title. (Ord. 832, 6-26-2018)
4-6-13: USES AND PURPOSES OF TRANSIENT LODGING TAX PROCEEDS:
The City Council shall use the proceeds of the Transient Lodging Tax provided
by this chapter for the following use, uses, purpose or purposes, or any one or
more thereof, at such times, in such amounts and in such manner as they shall
determine, from time to time:
   A.   Recreation Fund Tax On Transient Lodging:
      1.   Operating and maintaining recreation facilities under the
jurisdiction of the City Council.
      2.   Improving, extending and bettering such recreation facilities.
      3.   Constructing, purchasing or otherwise acquiring such recreation
facilities.
      4.   Whenever any recreation facility is affected by or will be affected
by any flood control project being constructed or to be constructed under the
provisions of any Federal law if the City Council finds that such flood control
project will improve, better and protect such recreation facility, the City
Council shall have the power and authority to give assurances to and perform
any other acts required by and satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army that
the location and cooperation required for such flood control project by such
Federal law will be furnished by the City to the extent that the City Council
shall determine.
      5.   To establish, construct, purchase, lease, rent, acquire by gift,
grant, bequest, devise, or otherwise acquire, reconstruct, improve, extend,
better, alter, repair, equip, furnish, regulate, maintain, operate and manage
recreation facilities within or without the City, including personal property,
real property, lands, improvements and fixtures thereof, property of any nature
appurtenant thereto or used in connection therewith, and every estate, interest
and right, legal or equitable, therein, including terms for years.
      6.   To accept contributions, grants or other financial assistance from
the Federal government or any agency or instrumentality thereof, corporate or
otherwise, the State of Nevada or any of its political subdivisions, or from
any other source, for or in aid of any recreation facility within the area of
operation of the City Council, and to comply with such conditions, trust
indentures, leases or agreements as may be necessary, convenient or desirable.
      7.   To use such funds to pay the necessary expense of imposition,
collection and expenditure of this Transient Lodging Tax and the proceeds
thereof.
      8.   To use such proceeds to repay any loans, debts or bonded
indebtedness that the City Council may incur in connection with such recreation
facilities, and that in that connection to pledge this Transient Lodging Tax
and the proceeds thereof as security for the repayment of any such loans,
debts, obligations secured by bond, bonds, and other indebtedness which may be
incurred in connection with such recreation facilities.
      9.   For marketing and/or promotion of transportation services serving
the City.
   B.   Elko Convention And Visitors Authority On Transient Lodging Tax Fund:
To pay the proceeds thereof to the Elko Convention and Visitors Authority, to
be used by it for any lawful purposes, as it shall determine in carrying out
its powers under Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 227, as may be amended from
time to time.
   C.   Promotion of Tourism on Transient Lodging Tax Fund:
      1.   Three-eighths (3/8) of all proceeds of the tax must be paid to the
Department of Taxation for deposit with the State Treasurer for credit to the
fund for the promotion of tourism.
      2.   Five-eighths (5/8) of all proceeds of the tax must be deposited with
the Elko County Recreation Board created pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
sections 244A.597 and 244A.599 to be used to advertise the resources of the
County related to tourism, including available accommodations, transportation,
entertainment, natural resources and climate, and to promote special events
related thereto.
   D.   Western Folklife Center On Transient Lodging Tax Fund: To donate the
proceeds thereof to the Western Folklife Center, a Utah corporation licensed to
do business in the State of Nevada, to be used by it to help operate and
finance cultural and educational activities within the City relating to the
events and activities which said corporation engages in within the City.
   E.   Agricultural District 4 On Transient Lodging Tax Fund: To donate the
proceeds thereof to the Agricultural District 4 to be used by it for any lawful
purposes as it shall determine in carrying out its powers pursuant to
applicable Nevada Revised Statutes provisions.
   F.   Marketing/Tourism Promotion On Transient Lodging Tax Fund:
      1.   To use for marketing and destination development efforts to increase
business and leisure travel to Elko on a state, regional, national and
international level. The Elko Convention and Visitors Authority will determine
the appropriate marketing campaigns, sponsorships, packages and programs to be
funded by this tax.
      2.   This tax may be used for administration or overhead related to
marketing of Elko Convention and Visitors Authority facilities and tourism to
the area for the Elko Convention and Visitors Authority.
      3.   The City will exercise reasonable efforts to provide, on a monthly
basis, summary reports of the confidential room occupancy reports to the Elko
Convention and Visitors Authority and the City Council as a tool to monitor the
success of the marketing efforts funded by this tax.
   G.   Effective the month following the passage of this ordinance two and one
quarter percent (2¼%) Transient Tax shall be paid to the Elko Convention and
Visitors Authority on the condition that it creates a separate Facility Fund to
account for all collections and expenditures. One and one-half percent (1½%) of
the two and one quarter percent (2¼%) will be reserved for the Conference
Center debt balloon payment due in March, 2026. Effective April 1, 2026 the
Transient Lodging Tax paid to the Elko Convention and Visitors Authority
Facility Fund will revert back to three fourths of a percent (.75%). No portion
may be used for salaries or benefits.
   H.   Beginning April 1, 2026 and ending December 31, 2032 one and one-half
percent (1½%) Transient Tax shall be paid to the Elko Convention and Visitors
Authority Capital Improvement Fund. No portion may be used for salaries or
benefits.
   I.   Beginning the month following the passage of this ordinance, one-half
of one percent (.5%) of the ECVA marketing fund will go to the ECVA facility
fund resulting in a total of one and one quarter of a percent (1.25%) of
Transient Lodging Tax allocated to the ECVA Marketing Fund. No portion may be
used for salaries or benefits.
   J.   Beginning August 1, 2022 one and one quarter of a percent (1.25%) shall
be retained in the Recreation Fund and designated for Air Alliance Airline
Revenue Guarantee Program(s). (Ord. 828, 5-8-2018, eff. 7-1-2018; amd. Ord.
858, 4-13-2021; Ord. 875, 1-24-2023)
4-6-14: REFUND:
Any person aggrieved by the provisions contained herein shall present his claim
to the City Council prior to seeking any other form of administrative relief or
judicial relief, except as otherwise required by law. The City Council shall
have the authority to grant any appropriate relief from the provisions of this
chapter, to include the authority to refund, with interest if appropriate, to
any licensee, any Transient Lodging Tax improperly collected by the City
Council or the City Clerk from such licensee and to include the authority to
grant relief to any person who is determined by the City Council to have been
adversely affected by any retroactive amendments to this chapter. (Ord. 627,
11-9-2004)
4-6-15: FORMS, COSTS AND REQUIRED REPORTING:
   A.   The City Clerk is hereby empowered and authorized to designate the form
of and have prepared or printed all stationery, supplies, records, notices,
receipts, licenses and other forms that the City Clerk deems necessary or
advisable in connection with the collection, administration and disbursement of
the proceeds of this Transient Lodging Tax, and to obtain all supplies, records
and other property and equipment deemed necessary by the City Clerk in
connection with the collection, administration, use and disbursement of the
said Transient Lodging Tax proceeds. All costs, expenses, charges and debts
incurred by the City, or by the City Clerk under the provisions of this
chapter, in connection with the imposition, collection, administration, use and
disbursement of this Transient Lodging Tax and the proceeds thereof shall be
paid out of the Recreational Fund provided for in this chapter.
   B.   The licensee shall complete all forms required by this chapter in their
entirety. The licensee may supply additional information as an addendum to any
form required by this chapter to the extent reasonably necessary to supply
complete and accurate information to the City. (Ord. 828, 5-8-2018, eff. 7-1-
2018)
4-6-16: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or failing or
refusing to collect or pay the Transient Lodging Tax proceeds as herein
provided, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1,
chapter 3 of this Code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter
may be deemed a separate offense. The City, by and through its City Clerk, or
Mayor and/or City Council, is further empowered and authorized to pursue all
rights, remedies, procedures, claims and causes of action it may have at law or
in equity to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to collect this
Transient Lodging Tax from the persons owing the same, by civil action,
including, without being limited to, injunctions. (Ord. 627, 11-9-2004)
CHAPTER 7
WRECKING YARDS; JUNK
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Licenses
4-7-3: Compliance Required
4-7-4: Enclosures Required
4-7-5: Regulations
4-7-6: Applicability
4-7-7: Zoning Compliance
4-7-8: Time For Compliance
4-7-9: Exceptions
4-7-10: Revocation Of License
4-7-11: Penalties
4-7-12: Other Remedies
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meaning
described in this section, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
   JUNK: Includes old iron, copper, brass, lead, zinc, tin, steel and other
metal; metallic cable; wire; rope; cordage, bottles; glass; bagging; rags;
rubber; paper; wrecked, dismantled or discarded vehicles and machinery which
are not going to be repaired, rebuilt or restored to operation; bodies, parts
and pieces of wrecked, dismantled or discarded vehicles and machinery; and all
other discarded or castoff articles or material of any kind.
   JUNK DEALER: Every person engaged in the business of buying or selling hides
or junk.
   JUNK SHOP: Any place where junk of any kind is bought or sold.
   JUNKYARD OR SALVAGE YARD: The place or premises where the operation or
business of salvaging, breaking up, wrecking, dismantling, burning,
accumulating, storing, buying or selling junk is conducted.
   WRECKING YARD: A place where vehicles, machinery or equipment are dismantled
or wrecked. (Ord. 158, 6-8-1965)
4-7-2: LICENSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, establish, maintain, conduct or
operate a junk shop, junkyard or salvage yard, or wrecking yard, or do business
as a junk dealer, within the city without first making application for and
receiving from the city council or the city clerk a license to carry on or
conduct such business pursuant to applicable licensing provisions of this code,
as amended from time to time. (Ord. 158, 6-8-1965)
4-7-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, establish, maintain, conduct or
operate a junk shop, junkyard or salvage yard, or wrecking yard, or be a junk
dealer, within the city except in strict compliance with the terms and
conditions of this chapter. (Ord. 158, 6-8-1965)
4-7-4: ENCLOSURES REQUIRED:
All junk shops, junkyards and salvage yards and wrecking yards shall be
located, established, maintained, conducted and operated within an enclosed
building, or within an area enclosed by a fence, which said fence shall be
constructed in accordance with the following specifications:
   A.   Construction: All fences shall be totally opaque; shall be constructed
of wood, wood products, masonry, plastics or metal which are standard or normal
fencing materials; and shall be so constructed so that the portion of the fence
visible from the outside of the fenced premises shall be of uniform
construction of any one or more of such standard fencing materials and shall be
the finished side of the fence.
   B.   Height: All such fences shall be of a height of not less than six feet
(6').
   C.   Painting: All such fences which are constructed of other than new
building materials, and all such fences whether constructed of new or salvaged
buildings which are painted, shall be painted a uniform color over the entire
area thereof facing away from fenced premises.
   D.   Building Permit Required: A building permit shall be required before
any such fence shall be constructed and all such fences shall be constructed in
compliance with applicable ordinances of the city.
   E.   Signs: No sign, lettering, printing, advertising, pictures, designs or
other writing shall appear on the side of any such fence normally visible to
the public unless a permit therefor shall have been issued in accordance with
the applicable ordinances of the city governing signs and outdoor advertising
displays.
   F.   Openings: Openings in any such fences for the purpose of ingress and
egress shall be limited to sixteen feet (16') in width, and there shall be no
more than one such opening for each two hundred feet (200') of required fence.
Such opening shall be equipped with gates or doors designed to present an
appearance as nearly uniform as possible with the fence construction. Such gate
shall be closed and locked at all times other than the normal operating hours
of the business conducted within.
   G.   Maintenance: All such fences shall be maintained and kept in good
repair and the painted surfaces of such fences shall be kept properly painted.
(Ord. 158, 6-8-1965)
4-7-5: REGULATIONS:
All junk dealer, junk shop, junkyard, salvage yard and wrecking yard business,
activities and operations shall be carried on only within the applicable
enclosure required by section
4-7-4 of this chapter, and in accordance with the following:
   A.   Maintenance Of Premises: Such premises shall at all times be maintained
in a manner not to create a nuisance or menace to the health of the community
or the residents nearby, or to create a place for the breeding of rodents and
vermin.
   B.   Garbage And Refuse: No garbage or other organic waste, refuse or
rubbish, or inflammable or explosive liquids, articles or substances shall be
stored on or about such premises, provided, this provision shall not prevent
the installation and use on the premises for service station facilities for the
fueling, lubrication and servicing of automobiles, trucks and other vehicles
and the installation of gasoline pumps with underground storage tanks for
dispensing automotive fuels; provided, further, that new, used and salvaged
tires may be stored on such premises.
   C.   Use Of Containers Or Boxes: All rags, bagging and paper stored on the
premises or any portion thereof shall be bagged, baled, tied or placed in
containers or boxes suitable to prevent the scattering of any such items.
   D.   Weeds And Vegetation: All weeds and vegetation, other than landscaping
or other ornamental plantings, shall be controlled and removed from the
premises to the extent that no such weeds or vegetation on or about the
premises exceeds two inches (2") in height.
   E.   Storage Of Junk: No junk or other materials shall be stored except
within the enclosed area, specifically excluding as an area of storage the
sidewalk, alley, street, curb areas and vacant lots in, about or near the
premises.
   F.   Stacking Height: Junk or other materials shall not be stacked within
the enclosed area to a height exceeding six feet (6').
   G.   Removal Of Gasoline And Oil: Whenever any vehicle is placed on the
premises for any purpose other than for repair and restoration to service, all
gasoline and oil shall be immediately drained and removed therefrom, and placed
in a safe storage location. (Ord. 158, 6-8-1965)
4-7-6: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall be applicable to all junk dealer, junk shop, junkyard,
salvage yard and wrecking yard operations, whether the same is carried on as a
separate and independent business or in conjunction with garages, repair shops,
service stations or other types of business. (Ord. 158, 6-8-1965)
4-7-7: ZONING COMPLIANCE:
No junk shop, junkyard, salvage yard or wrecking yard shall be located,
established, maintained or operated except in a zone designated as industrial
by the applicable zoning laws of the city. Presently existing junk shop,
junkyard, salvage yard or wrecking yard operations may continue in a zone other
than industrial for a period of not longer than five (5) years after this
chapter becomes effective, and if during such time any such nonconforming use
is abandoned, or is discontinued for a period of thirty (30) days or more, such
nonconforming use shall not be permitted to be reestablished upon said
location, but must be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
158, 6-8-1965)
4-7-8: TIME FOR COMPLIANCE:
Presently existing junk shops, junkyards, salvage yards and wrecking yards
shall have two (2) years from the effective date hereof to comply with the
provisions of section
4-7-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 158, 6-8-1965)
4-7-9: EXCEPTIONS:
Junk shops, junkyards, salvage yards and wrecking yards which are presently
located and continue to be located at least four hundred feet (400') from any
county road, state or federal highway, occupied dwelling houses (unless said
occupied dwelling house is owned by the same person who holds title to the land
upon which the junkyard is located), licensed business or platted street shall
be excepted from the provisions and requirements of section
4-7-4 of this chapter. Should any such road, street, highway, occupied dwelling
house or licensed business be established within a four hundred foot (400')
distance of any such junk shop, junkyard, salvage yard or wrecking yard, then
and in that event, said junk shop, junkyard, salvage yard or wrecking yard must
comply with section
4-7-4 of this chapter within two (2) years from the establishment of said road,
street, highway, occupied dwelling, house or licensed business. (Ord. 158, 6-8-
1965)
4-7-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The license of any person operating a junk shop, junkyard, salvage yard or
wrecking yard, or who is licensed as a junk dealer, may be forfeited or revoked
by the city council for any violation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
158, 6-8-1965)
4-7-11: PENALTIES:
Every person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3, of this
code. Each day's violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord.
158, 6-8-1965; amd. Ord. 241, 12-14-1976)
4-7-12: OTHER REMEDIES:
In addition to the remedies provided in the preceding sections, any continued
violation of this chapter may be abated by appropriate proceedings instituted
by the city or by any party in interest. (Ord. 158, 6-8-1965)
CHAPTER 8
ELKO TELEVISION CODE
SECTION:
4-8-1: Title
4-8-2: Terms
4-8-3: Grant Of Franchise
4-8-4: Standards Of Service
4-8-5: Regulation By Franchise Authority
4-8-6: Compliance And Monitoring
4-8-7: Insurance, Indemnification And Bonds Or Other Security
4-8-8: Enforcement And Termination Of Franchise
4-8-9: Miscellaneous Provisions
4-8-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the ELKO CABLE TELEVISION
FRANCHISE ORDINANCE. (Ord. 425, 7-28-1992)
4-8-2: TERMS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
abbreviations shall have the meanings ascribed to them below. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number and words
in the singular number include the plural number:
   AFFILIATE: An entity which owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or
is under common ownership with grantee.
   BASIC CABLE: The tier of service regularly provided to all subscribers that
includes the retransmission of local broadcast television signals.
   CABLE ACT: The cable communications policy act of 1984, as amended.
   CABLE SERVICE: A. The one-way transmission to subscribers of video
programming or other programming service; and
   B.   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection of
such video programming or any other lawful communication service.
   CABLE SYSTEM: A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths
and associated signal generation, reception and control equipment or other
communications equipment that is designed to provide cable service and other
service to subscribers.
   FCC: The federal communications commission, or successor governmental entity
thereto.
   FRANCHISE: The initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the
franchising authority, whether or not such authorization is designated as a
franchise, permit, license, ordinance, contract, certificate or otherwise,
which authorizes construction and operation of the cable system for the purpose
of offering cable service or other service to subscribers.
   FRANCHISE AUTHORITY: The city of Elko, Nevada, or the lawful successor,
transferee or assignee thereof.
   GRANTEE:   TCI Cablevision of Nevada, Inc., or the lawful successor,
transferee or assignee thereof.
   GROSS REVENUES: The monthly cable service revenues received by grantee from
subscribers of the cable system; provided, however, that such phrase shall not
include:
   A.   Revenues received from any national advertising carried on the cable
system;
   B.   Any taxes on cable service which are imposed directly or indirectly on
any subscriber thereof by any governmental unit or agency, and which are
collected by the grantee on behalf of such governmental unit or agency.
   PERSON: An individual, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust
corporation or governmental entity.
   PUBLIC WAY: The surface of, and the space above and below, any public
street, highway, freeway, bridge, land, path, alley, court, boulevard,
sidewalks, parkway, way, lane, public way, drive, circle or other public right
of way, including, but not limited to, public utility easements, dedicated
utility strips or rights of way dedicated for compatible uses and any temporary
or permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or hereafter held by
the franchise authority in the service area which shall entitle the franchise
authority and the grantee to the use thereof for the purpose of installing,
operating, repairing and maintaining the cable system. "Public way" shall also
mean any easement now or hereafter held by the franchise authority within the
service area for the purpose of public travel, or for utility or public service
use dedicated for compatible uses, and shall include other easements or rights
of way as shall within their proper use and meaning entitle the franchise
authority and the grantee to the use thereof for the purposes of installing or
transmitting grantee's cable service or other service over poles, wires,
cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers, appliances,
attachments and other property as may be ordinarily necessary and pertinent to
the cable system.
   SERVICE AREA: The present municipal boundaries of the franchising authority,
and shall include any additions thereto by annexation or other legal means.
   SERVICE TIER: A category of cable service or other services, provided by
grantee and for which a separate charge is made by grantee.
   SUBSCRIBER: A person or user of the cable system who lawfully receives cable
services or other service therefrom with grantee's express permission.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING: Programming provided by or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by a television broadcast station. (Ord.
425, 7-28-1992)
4-8-3: GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Grant: The city shall grant to grantee a nonexclusive franchise which
authorizes the grantee to construct and operate a cable system and offer cable
service and other services in, along, among, upon, across, above, over, under
or in any manner connected with public ways within the service area and for
that purpose to erect, install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct,
maintain or retain in, on, over, under, upon, across or along any public way
and all extensions thereof, and additions thereto, such poles, wires, cables,
conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, pedestals, amplifiers,
appliances, attachments and other related property or equipment as may be
necessary or appurtenant to the cable system.
   B.   Term: The franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be for an
initial term of fifteen (15) years from the effective date of the franchise as
set forth in subsection C of this section, unless otherwise lawfully terminated
in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
   C.   Acceptance; Effective Date: Grantee shall accept the franchise granted
by signing ordinance 425 and filing the same with the city clerk or other
appropriate official or agency of the franchising authority within sixty (60)
days after the passage and final adoption of ordinance 425. Subject to the
acceptance by grantee, the effective date of the franchise ordinance shall be
the date of acceptance by the grantee.
   D.   Other Franchises: In the event the franchising authority enters into a
franchise, permit, license, authorization or other agreement of any kind with
any other person or entity other than grantee to enter into the city streets
and public ways for the purpose of constructing or operating a cable system or
providing cable service to any part of the service area, the material
provisions thereof shall be reasonably comparable to those contained herein, in
order that one operator not be granted an unfair competitive advantage over
another, and to provide all parties equal protection under the law. (Ord. 425,
7-28-1992)
4-8-4: STANDARDS OF SERVICE:
   A.   Conditions Of Street Occupancy: All transmission and distribution
structures, poles, other lines and equipment installed or erected by the
grantee pursuant to the terms hereof shall be located so as to cause a minimum
of interference with the proper use of public ways and with the rights and
reasonable convenience of property owners who own property that adjoins any of
said public ways.
   B.   Restoration Of Public Ways: If during the course of grantee's
construction, operation or maintenance of the cable system there occurs a
disturbance of any public way by grantee, it shall, at its expense, immediately
replace and restore such public way to a condition as good as the condition of
the public way existing immediately prior to such disturbance.
   C.   Relocation At Request Of Franchising Authority: Upon its receipt of
reasonable advance notice, not to be less than five (5) business days, the
grantee shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily disconnect,
relocate on the public way or remove from the public way, any property of the
grantee when lawfully required by franchising authority by reason of traffic
conditions, public safety, street abandonment, freeway and street construction,
change or establishment of street grade, installation of sewers, drains, gas or
water pipes, or any other type of structures or improvements by the franchising
authority; but, the grantee shall in all cases have the right of abandonment of
its property subject to city ordinance, and if public funds are available to
any utility company using such street, easement, or right of way for the
purpose of defraying the cost of any of the foregoing, such funds shall also be
made available to the grantee.
   D.   Relocation At Request Of Third Party: The grantee shall, on the request
of any person holding a building moving permit issued by the franchising
authority, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of such
building, provided: 1) the expense of such temporary raising or lowering of
wires is paid by said person, including, if required by the grantee, making
such payment in advance; and 2) the grantee is given not less than five (5)
business days' advance written notice to arrange for such temporary wire
changes.
   E.   Trimming Of Trees And Shrubbery: The grantee shall have the authority
to trim trees or other natural growth overhanging on any of its cable system in
the service area so as to prevent branches from coming in contact with the
grantee's wires, cables or other equipment. The grantee shall reasonably
compensate the franchising authority or property owner for any damages caused
by such trimming, or shall, in its sole discretion and at its own cost and
expense, reasonably replace all trees or shrubs damaged as a result of any
construction of the system undertaken by grantee. Such replacement shall
satisfy any and all obligations grantee may have to the franchising authority
or property owner pursuant to the terms of this subsection.
   F.   Use Of Grantee's Equipment By Franchising Authority: Subject to any
applicable state or federal regulations or tariffs, the franchising authority
shall have the right to make additional use, for any public purpose, of any
poles or conduits controlled or maintained exclusively by or for the grantee in
any public way; provided, that: 1) such use by the franchising authority does
not interfere with a current or future use by the grantee; 2) the franchising
authority holds the grantee harmless against and from all claims, demands,
costs, or liabilities of every kind and nature whatsoever arising out of such
use of said poles or conduits, including, but not limited to, reasonable
attorney fees and costs.
   G.   Safety Requirements: Construction, installation and maintenance of the
cable system shall be performed in an orderly and workmanlike manner. All such
work shall be performed in substantial accordance with applicable FCC and other
federal, state and local regulations. The cable system shall not reasonably
endanger or interfere with the safety of persons or property in the service
area.
   H.   Aerial And Underground Construction: In those areas of the service area
where all of the transmission or distribution facilities of the respective
public utilities providing telephone communications and electric service are
underground, the grantee likewise shall construct, operate and maintain all of
its transmission and distribution facilities underground; provided, that such
facilities are actually capable of receiving grantee's cable and other
equipment without technical degradation of the cable system's signal quality.
In those areas of the service area where the transmission or distribution
facilities of the respective public utilities providing telephone communication
and electric services are both aerial and underground, grantee shall have the
sole discretion to construct, operate and maintain all of its transmission and
distribution facilities, or any part thereof, aerially or underground. Nothing
contained in this subsection shall require grantee to construct, operate or
maintain underground any ground mounted appurtenances such as subscriber taps,
line extenders, system passive devices (splitters, directional couplers),
amplifiers, power supplies, pedestals or other related equipment.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this subsection, in the
event that all of the transmission or distribution facilities of the respective
public utilities providing telephone communications and electric services are
placed underground after the effective date hereof, grantee shall only be
required to construct, operate, and maintain all of its transmission and
distribution facilities underground if it is given reasonable notice and access
to the public utilities' facilities at the time that such are placed under
ground.
   I.   Required Extensions Of Service: The cable system, as constructed as of
the date of the passage and final adoption of this chapter, substantially
complies with the material provisions hereof. Grantee will be authorized by
this chapter to extend the cable system as necessary, as desirable, or as
required pursuant to the terms hereof within the service area. Whenever grantee
shall receive a request for service from at least fifteen (15) subscribers
within one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) cable bearing strand feet (1/
4 cable mile) of its trunk or distribution cable, it shall extend its cable
system to such subscribers at no cost to said subscribers for system extension,
other than the usual connection fees for all subscribers; provided, that such
extension is technically feasible, and if it will not adversely affect the
operation, financial condition or market development of the cable system, or as
provided for under subsection J of this section.
   J.   Subscriber Charges For Extensions Of Service: No subscriber shall be
refused service arbitrarily. However, for unusual circumstances, such as a
subscriber's request to locate his cable drop underground, existence of more
than one hundred fifty feet (150') of distance from distribution cable to
connection of service to subscribers, or a density of less than fifteen (15)
subscribers per one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) cable bearing strand
feet of trunk or distribution cable, cable service or other service may be made
available on the basis of a capital contribution in aid of construction,
including cost of material, labor and easements. For the purpose of determining
the amount of capital contribution in aid of construction to be borne by
grantee and subscribers in the area in which cable service may be expanded,
grantee will contribute an amount equal to the construction and other costs per
mile, multiplied by a fraction whose numerator equals the actual number of
potential subscribers per one thousand three hundred twenty (1,320) cable
bearing strand feet of its trunks or distribution cable, and whose denominator
equals fifteen (15) subscribers. Potential subscribers will bear the remainder
of the construction and other costs on a pro rata basis. Grantee may require
that the payment of the capital contribution in aid of construction borne by
such potential subscribers be paid in advance.
   K.   Service To Public Buildings: The grantee shall provide without charge
one outlet of basic service to the franchise authority's office building(s),
fire station, police station and public school building that is passed by its
cable system. The outlets of basic service shall not be used to distribute or
sell cable services in or throughout such buildings; nor shall such outlets be
located in common or public areas open to the public. Users of such outlets
shall hold grantee harmless from any and all liability or claims arising out of
their use of such outlets, including, but not limited to, those arising from
copyright liability. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this
subsection, the grantee shall not be required to provide an outlet to such
buildings where the drop line from the feeder cable to said buildings or
premises exceeds one hundred fifty (150) cable feet, unless it is technically
feasible and so long as it will not adversely affect the operation, financial
condition, or market development of the cable system to do so, or unless the
appropriate governmental entity agrees to pay the incremental cost of such drop
line in excess of one hundred fifty (150) cable feet. In the event that
additional outlets of basic service are provided to such buildings, the
building owner shall pay the usual installation fees associated therewith,
including, but not limited to, labor and materials. Upon request of grantee,
the building owner may also be required to pay the service fees associated with
the provision of basic service and the additional outlets relating thereto.
   L.   Emergency Override: In the case of any emergency or disaster, the
grantee shall, upon request of the franchising authority, make available its
facilities for the franchising authority to provide emergency information and
instructions during the emergency or disaster period. The franchising authority
shall hold the grantee, its agents, employees, officers and assigns hereunder,
harmless from any claims arising out of the emergency use of its facilities by
the franchising authority, including, but not limited to, reasonable fees and
costs. (Ord. 425, 7-28-1992)
4-8-5: REGULATION BY FRANCHISE AUTHORITY:
   A.   Franchise Fee:
      1.   Amount; Conditions: Grantee shall pay to the franchising authority a
franchise fee equal to three percent (3%) of gross revenue received by grantee
from the operation of the cable system on an annual basis; provided, however,
that grantee may credit against any such payments of: 1) any tax, fee or
assessment of any kind imposed by franchising authority or other governmental
entity on a cable operator, or subscriber, or both, solely because of their
status as such; 2) any tax, fee or assessment of general applicability which is
unduly discriminatory against cable operators or subscribers (including any
such tax, fee or assessment imposed, both on utilities and cable operators and
their services); and 3) any other special tax, assessment or fee such as a
business, occupation and entertainment tax. For the purpose of this section,
the twelve (12) month period applicable under the franchise for the computation
of the franchise fee shall be a calendar year, unless otherwise agreed to, in
writing, by the franchising authority and grantee. The franchise fee payment
shall be due and payable ninety (90) days after the close of the preceding
calendar year. Each payment shall be accompanied by a brief report from a
representative of grantee showing the basis for the computation. In no event
shall the franchise fee payments required to be paid by grantee exceed five
percent (5%) of gross revenues received by grantee in any twelve (12) month
period; however, the franchising authority reserves the right to negotiate the
franchise fee with the grantee during the term of the franchise with any
negotiated increase to take effect on an anniversary date of the franchise.
      2.   Limitation On Franchise Fee Actions: The period of limitation for
recovery of any franchise fee payable hereunder shall be five (5) years from
the date on which payment by the company is due. Unless within five (5) years
from and after said payment due date, the city initiates a lawsuit for recovery
of such franchise fees in a court of competent jurisdiction, such recovery
shall be barred and the city shall be estopped from asserting any claims
whatsoever against the company relating to any such alleged deficiencies.
   B.   Rates And Charges:
      1.   The franchising authority may not regulate the rates for the
provision of cable service and other services, including, but not limited to,
ancillary charges relating thereto, except as expressly provided herein and
except as authorized pursuant to federal and state law, including, but not
limited to, the cable act and FCC rules and regulations relating thereto. From
time to time, and at any time, grantee has the right to modify its rates and
charges, including, but not limited to, the implementation of additional
charges and rates; provided, however, that grantee shall give notice to the
franchising authority of any such modifications or additional charges thirty
(30) days prior to the effective date thereof.
      2.   In the event that basic service rate increases are subject to
approval of the franchising authority, the grantee may, at its discretion and
without consent of the franchising authority, increase rates relating to the
provisions of basic service by an amount which is at least equal to five
percent (5%) per year.
   C.   Renewal Of Franchise:
      1.   The franchising authority and the grantee agree that any proceedings
undertaken by the franchising authority that relate to the renewal of the
grantee's franchise shall be governed by and comply with the provisions of
section 626 of the cable act (as such existed as of the effective date of the
cable act), unless the procedures and substantive protections set forth therein
shall be deemed to be preempted and superseded by the provisions of federal or
state law.
      2.   In addition to the procedures set forth in said section 626(a), the
franchising authority agrees to notify grantee of its preliminary assessments
regarding the identity of future cable related community needs and interests,
as well as, the past performance of grantee under the then current franchise
term. The franchising authority further agrees that such a preliminary
assessment shall be provided to the grantee prior to the time that the four (4)
month period referred to in subsection 626(c) is considered to begin.
      3.   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this
subsection, the grantee and franchising authority agree that at any time during
the term of the then current franchise, while affording the public appropriate
notice and opportunity to comment, the franchising authority and grantee may
agree to undertake and finalize negotiations regarding renewal of the then
current franchise and the franchising authority may grant a renewal thereof.
The grantee and the franchising authority consider the terms set forth in this
section to be consistent with the express provisions of section 626 of the
cable act. A reproduction of section 626 of the cable act as such existed as of
the effective date of the cable act will be attached to ordinance 425 as
schedule 1 and incorporated therein by this reference.
   D.   Conditions Of Sale:
      1.   Except to the extent expressly required by federal or state law, if
a renewal or extension of grantee's franchise is denied or the franchise is
lawfully terminated, and the franchising authority either lawfully acquires
ownership of the cable system or by its actions lawfully effects a transfer of
ownership of the cable system to another party, any such acquisition or
transfer shall be at a fair market value, determined on the basis of the cable
system valued as a going concern.
      2.   Grantee and franchising authority agree that in the case of a lawful
revocation of the franchise, at grantee's request, which shall be made in its
sole discretion, grantee shall be given a reasonable opportunity to effectuate
a transfer of its cable system to a qualified third party. The franchising
authority further agrees that during such a period of time, it shall authorize
the grantee to continue to operate pursuant to the terms of its prior
franchise; however, in no event shall such authorization exceed a period of
time greater than six (6) months from the effective date of such revocation.
If, at the end of that time, grantee is unsuccessful in procuring a qualified
transferee or assignee of its cable system which is reasonably acceptable to
the franchising authority, grantee and franchising authority may avail
themselves of any rights they may have pursuant to federal or state law; it
being further agreed that grantee's continued operation of its cable system
during the six (6) months period shall not be deemed to be a waiver, nor an
extinguishment, of any rights of either the franchising authority or the
grantee. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this subsection,
neither franchising authority nor grantee shall be required to violate federal
or state law.
      3.   A copy of section 626 of the cable act, adopted herein by reference,
is on file in the office of the city clerk.
   E.   Transfer Of Franchise: Grantee's right, title or interest in the
franchise shall not be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise encumbered,
other than to an affiliate, without the prior consent of the franchising
authority, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld. No such consent shall
be required, however, for a transfer in trust, by mortgage, by other
hypothecation or by assignment of any rights, title, or interest of grantee in
the franchise or cable system in order to secure indebtedness. (Ord. 425, 7-28-
1992)
4-8-6: COMPLIANCE AND MONITORING:
   A.   Testing For Compliance: The franchising authority may perform technical
tests of the cable system during reasonable times and in a manner which does
not unreasonably interfere with the normal business operations of the grantee
or the cable system in order to determine whether or not the grantee is in
compliance with the terms hereof and applicable state or federal laws. Except
in emergency circumstances, such tests may be undertaken only after giving
grantee reasonable notice thereof, not to be less than two (2) business days,
and providing a representative of grantee an opportunity to be present during
such tests. In the event that such testing demonstrates that the grantee has
substantially failed to comply with a material requirement hereof, the
reasonable costs of such tests shall be borne by the grantee. In the event that
such testing demonstrates that grantee has substantially complied with such
material provisions hereof, the cost of such testing shall be borne by the
franchising authority. Except in emergency circumstances, the franchising
authority agrees that such testing shall be undertaken no more than two (2)
times a year in the aggregate, and that the results thereof shall be made
available to the grantee upon grantee's request.
   B.   Books And Records: The grantee agrees that the franchising authority
may review such of its books and records, during normal business hours and on a
nondisruptive basis, as is reasonably necessary to monitor compliance with the
terms hereof. Such records shall include, but shall not be limited to, any
public records required to be kept by the grantee pursuant to the rules and
regulations of the FCC. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth
herein, grantee shall not be required to disclose information which it
reasonably deems to be proprietary or confidential in nature. The franchising
authority agrees to treat any information disclosed by the grantee to it as
confidential and only to disclose it to employees, representatives and agents
thereof that have a need to know, or in order to enforce the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 425, 7-28-1992)
4-8-7: INSURANCE, INDEMNIFICATION AND BONDS OR OTHER SECURITY:
   A.   Insurance Requirements: Grantee shall maintain in full force and
effect, at its own cost and expense, during the term of the franchise,
comprehensive general liability insurance in the amount of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) combined single limit for bodily injury, and property damage.
Said insurance shall designate the franchising authority as an additional
insured. Such insurance shall be noncancellable except upon thirty (30) days'
prior written notice to the franchising authority.
   B.   Indemnification: The grantee agrees to indemnify, save and hold
harmless, and defend the franchising authority, its officers, boards and
employees, from and against any liability for damages and for any liability or
claims resulting from property damage or bodily injury (including accidental
death) which arise out of the grantee's construction, operation or maintenance
of its cable system, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees
and costs.
   C.   Bonds And Other Surety: Except as expressly provided herein, grantee
shall not be required to obtain or maintain bonds or other surety as a
condition of being awarded the franchise or continuing its existence. The
franchising authority acknowledges that the legal, financial and technical
qualifications of grantee are sufficient to afford compliance with the terms of
the franchise and the enforcement thereof. Grantee and franchising authority
recognize that the costs associated with bonds and other surety may ultimately
be borne by the subscribers in the form of increased rates for cable services.
In order to minimize such costs, the franchising authority agrees to require
bonds and other surety only in such amounts and during such times as there is a
reasonably demonstrated need therefor. The franchise authority agrees that in
no event, however, shall it require a bond or other related surety in an
aggregate amount greater than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned
upon the substantial performance of the material terms, covenants, and
conditions of the franchise. Initially, no bond or other surety will be
required. In the event that one is required in the future, the franchising
authority agrees to give grantee at least sixty (60) days' prior written notice
thereof stating the exact reason for the requirement. Such reason must
demonstrate a change in the grantee's legal, financial or technical
qualifications which would materially prohibit or impair its ability to comply
with the terms of the franchise or afford compliance therewith. (Ord. 425, 7-
28-1992)
4-8-8: ENFORCEMENT AND TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: In the event that the franchising authority
believes that the grantee has not complied with the terms of the franchise, it
shall notify grantee, in writing, of the exact nature of the alleged
noncompliance.
   B.   Grantee's Right To Cure Or Respond: Grantee shall have thirty (30) days
from receipt of the notice described in subsection A of this section to: 1)
respond to the franchising authority contesting the assertion of noncompliance;
or 2) to cure such default or, in the event that, by the nature of default,
such default cannot be cured within the thirty (30) day period, initiate
reasonable steps to remedy such default and notify the franchising authority of
the steps being taken and the projected date that they will be completed.
   C.   Public Hearing: In the event that grantee fails to respond to the
notice described in subsection A of this section pursuant to the procedures set
forth in subsection B of this section above or in the event that the alleged
default is not remedied within sixty (60) days after the grantee is notified of
the alleged default pursuant to subsection A of this section, the franchising
authority shall schedule a public meeting to investigate the default. Such
public meeting shall be held at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
franchising authority which is scheduled at a time which is no less than five
(5) business days therefrom. The franchising authority shall notify the grantee
of the time and place of such meeting and provide the grantee with an
opportunity to be heard.
      1.   Enforcement: Subject to applicable federal or state law, in the
event the franchising authority, after such meeting, determines that grantee is
in default of any provision of the franchise, the franchising authority may:
         a.   Foreclose on all or any part of any security provided under this
franchise, if any, including, without limitation, any bonds or other surety;
provided, however, the foreclosure shall only be in such a manner and in such
amount as the franchising authority reasonably determines is necessary to
remedy the default;
         b.   Commence an action at law for monetary damages or seek other
equitable relief;
         c.   In the case of a substantial default of a material provision of
the franchise, declare the franchise agreement to be revoked; or
         d.   Seek specific performance of any provision, which reasonably
lends itself to such remedy, as an alternative to damages.
The grantee shall not be relieved of any of its obligations to comply promptly
with any provision of the franchise by reason of any failure of the franchising
authority to enforce prompt compliance.
      2.   Acts Of God: The grantee shall not be held in default or
noncompliance with the provisions of the franchise, nor suffer any enforcement
or penalty relating thereto, where such noncompliance or alleged defaults are
caused by strikes, acts of God, power outages or other events reasonably beyond
its ability to control. (Ord. 425, 7-28-1992)
4-8-9: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   A.   Documents Incorporated And Made A Part Hereof: The following documents
shall be incorporated herein by this reference, and in the case of a conflict
or ambiguity between or among them, the document of latest date shall govern:
      1.   Any enabling ordinance in existence as of the date hereof.
      2.   Any proposal submitted by grantee pursuant to a franchise renewal
procedure, as amended and supplemented during the franchise renewal negotiation
process.
      3.   Any franchise agreement between grantee and franchising authority
reflecting the removal of the franchise, if any.
   B.   Preemption: If the FCC, or any other federal or state body or agency
shall now or hereafter exercise any paramount jurisdiction over the subject
matter of the franchise, then to the extent such jurisdiction shall preempt and
supersede or preclude the exercise of the like jurisdiction by the franchising
authority, the jurisdiction of the franchising authority shall cease and no
longer exist.
   C.   Actions Of Franchising Authority: In any action by the franchising
authority or representative thereof mandated or permitted under the terms
hereof, such party shall act in a reasonable, expeditious and timely manner.
Furthermore, in any instance where approval or consent is required under the
terms hereof, such approval or consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   D.   Notice:
      1.   Unless expressly otherwise agreed between the parties, every notice
or response to be served upon the franchising authority or grantee shall be in
writing, and shall be deemed to have been duly given to the required party five
(5) business days after having been posted in a properly sealed and correctly
addressed envelope by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, at a post
office or branch thereof regularly maintained by the U.S. postal service.
      2.   The notices or responses to the franchising authority shall be
addressed as follows:
   CITY OF ELKO
   1751 College Avenue
   Elko, Nevada 89801
      3.   The notices or responses to the grantee shall be addressed as
follows:
   TCI CABLEVISION OF NEVADA, INC.
   1990 Idaho Street
   Elko, Nevada 89801
with a copy to:
   TELE-COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
   Attention: Legal Department
   Terminal Annex, P.O. Box 5630
   Denver, Colorado 80217-5630
   or:
   5619 DTC Parkway
   Englewood, Colorado 80111-3000
      4.   Franchising authority and the grantee may designate such other
address or addresses, from time to time, by giving notice to the other.
   E.   Descriptive Headings: The captions to sections contained herein are
intended solely to facilitate the reading thereof. Such captions shall not
affect the meaning or interpretation of the text herein. (Ord. 425, 7-28-1992)
CHAPTER 9
BROTHELS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Privilege License
4-9-2: Prostitution Not An Offense Or Nuisance
4-9-3: Unlawful Under Certain Conditions
4-9-4: Definitions
4-9-5: Licensing And Control Board Created
4-9-6: License Application, Contents
4-9-7: License Application, Filing And Investigation
4-9-8: License Restrictions
4-9-9: Board May Impose Other Restrictions
4-9-10: Zoning
4-9-11: License Issuance
4-9-12: License Fees
4-9-13: Work Permit Registration Requirements
4-9-14: Medical Examination Required Of All Sex Workers
4-9-15: General Provisions
4-9-16: Revocation Of Licenses
4-9-17: Exception To Hearing Procedure (Emergency Suspension Of Brothel
License)
4-9-18: License Not Transferable
4-9-19: Death Or Resignation Of Person Listed On License
4-9-20: Criminal Penalty
4-9-21: Separability
4-9-1: PRIVILEGE LICENSE:
No applicant for a license under this chapter or other matters requiring
affirmative Board approval in order to operate a brothel has any right to the
license or the granting of the approval sought. Any license issued or other
Board approval granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is a
revocable privilege and no holder, licensee or other recipient of the license
or approval acquires any vested right therein or thereunder. (Ord. 837, 1-8-
2019)
4-9-2: PROSTITUTION NOT AN OFFENSE OR NUISANCE:
The operation of a brothel or house of prostitution within the City in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter does not constitute a public
nuisance or an offense to public decency. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-3: UNLAWFUL UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in
prostitution, or keep, own or operate a brothel or house of prostitution of any
description within the City, except as provided in this chapter.
   B.   It is unlawful for any owner, operator, bartender, manager or other
employee of a licensed brothel to allow any person to practice prostitution or
to solicit business for a sex worker or to procure any person for the purpose
of prostitution within the City, except within the premises of a licensed
brothel and within the boundaries of the Restricted Commercial District as set
forth in the City Zoning Code. There will be no "out dates"; accordingly, sex
workers shall not be hired from a brothel for the purpose of prostitution to
accompany a customer outside the brothel at which the sex worker is employed.
All soliciting of prostitution and acts of prostitution must take place inside
the premises of a licensed brothel.
   C.   In the trial of any case arising under the provisions of subsection A
or B of this section, evidence of general reputation shall be relevant and
admissible evidence as to the question of the ill fame of any brothel and to
the question of the ill fame of any person alleged to be practicing
prostitution. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-4: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words will be defined as follows:
   APPLICANT: Any person applying to the Board for a license under the
provisions of this chapter, together with all persons listed in subsections 4-
9-6A and B of this chapter.
   BOARD: The City Council of the City of Elko.
   BROTHEL: A business that offers or provides prostitution.
   BROTHEL WORKER: Any person employed by a brothel working and/or residing at
a house of prostitution not classified as a bartender or sex worker.
   CITY CLERK: The City Clerk of the City of Elko.
   EMPLOYED: Hired as an employee or independent contractor.
   HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION: Any building or other structure in which prostitution
is offered or provided, to include a house of ill fame or bawdy house.
   LICENSE FEE: Any money required in accordance with this chapter to be paid
to the City to obtain, amend or renew a license under this chapter.
   LICENSEE: A person to whom a license has been issued under this chapter.
   PERSON: A natural person, any form of business or social organization and
any other nongovernmental legal entity including, but not limited to, a
corporation, partnership, association, trust or unincorporated organization.
The term does not include a government, governmental agency or political
subdivision of a government.
   POLICE: The Police Chief of the City of Elko.
   PROSTITUTION: Engaging in sexual conduct with another natural person in
return for a fee, monetary consideration or other thing of value.
   SEX WORKER: A natural person who for a fee, monetary consideration or other
thing of value engages in sexual intercourse, oral-genital contact or any
touching of the sexual organs or other intimate parts of a person for the
purpose of arousing or gratifying the sexual desire of either person.
   WORK CARD OR WORK PERMIT: A permit issued by the police to applicants who
meet the requirements of this chapter permitting the applicant to perform work
authorized by this chapter. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-5: LICENSING AND CONTROL BOARD CREATED:
   A.   City Council Designated: The City Council, referred to herein as the
"Board", shall act as a Prostitution Licensing and Control Board.
   B.   Duty: It shall be the duty of the Board to carry out and enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Schedule Of Fees: The Board, by resolution, shall promulgate a schedule
of the fees required by this title. The schedule of fees may be amended from
time-to-time by resolution of the Board.
   D.   Powers: Powers of the Board shall include, but shall not be limited to,
the power to:
      1.   Receive all license applications submitted under the provisions of
this chapter;
      2.   Investigate all applicants for a license under the provisions of
this chapter;
      3.   Grant or refuse to grant the license provided for in this chapter;
      4.   Receive complaints concerning alleged violations of this chapter;
      5.   Revoke or temporarily suspend or place restrictions and conditions
on licenses issued under the terms of this chapter;
      6.   Place licensees on probation;
      7.   Exercise any proper power and authority necessary to perform its
duties pursuant to this chapter; and
      8.   Hear appeals from decisions of the police.
      9.   The powers of the Board enumerated above are not exclusive and shall
not be interpreted in such a manner as to limit any other powers that the Board
may otherwise possess. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-6: LICENSE APPLICATION, CONTENTS:
Any person desiring to own or operate a brothel within the City (individually
or collectively referred to as the "applicant" or "applicants") shall first
apply to the Board for a brothel license. The license application shall satisfy
the following requirements and contain the following information about the
owner, the operator and any person who will act on behalf of the owner or
operator as a manager or other agent with management authority, together with
all other information identified in each subsection pertaining to the brothel
and the house of prostitution:
   A.   Names, ages and addresses of all persons who have or will have any
financial interest in the brothel or house of prostitution, including the owner
of the real property if the real property is leased to the owner or operator of
the brothel; provided, in the event the person having the financial interest in
the brothel or house of prostitution is a corporation, limited liability
company or other business association, only persons having an ownership
interest of one-third (1/3) or more in the corporation, limited liability
company or other business association shall be identified on the application;
   B.   Names, ages and addresses of persons who are or will be personally
responsible for the conduct and management of the brothel;
   C.   A recent photograph and complete set of fingerprints of all persons
listed in subsections A and B of this section;
   D.   Names and addresses of all other businesses in which the applicant has
any financial interest, including the type of such business and the nature of
the applicant's interest;
   E.   Names and addresses of all employers of the applicant for the preceding
ten (10) years;
   F.   All of the applicant's addresses for the preceding ten (10) years;
   G.   A list of all prior convictions of the applicant for any crime,
excluding minor traffic violations, which list shall include a statement of the
offense, the place of its occurrence, the date of its occurrence, and the
disposition of the case;
   H.   A complete and accurate financial statement of the applicant, together
with an audit of the applicant's finances conducted by a licensed certified
public accountant;
   I.   The street address of the property upon which the proposed brothel is
to be operated, together with copies of all deeds, mortgages, deeds of trusts,
liens or other encumbrances, leasehold interests, or other interests in or
relating to the house of prostitution;
   J.   Names, ages and addresses of all persons with leasehold interests in
the house of prostitution;
   K.   The business history of the applicant with respect to brothels and
houses of prostitution, to include prior or concurrent ownership, management,
employment or any other legal relationship the applicant has or has had with a
brothel or house of prostitution;
   L.   Whether the applicant, in previously operating any business at any
location in the United States, has had a business license or privilege license
revoked or suspended and, if so, the reason(s) therefor and a description of
the business activity or occupation that was subject to the suspension or
revocation;
   M.   Any information needed to update or correct any information required by
this chapter that is already on file with the City;
   N.   Any other information reasonably deemed necessary or useful by the
Board.
All information required under this section shall, upon enactment of this
chapter and thereafter, be promptly updated and corrected by the applicant
whenever necessary to ensure that all such information on file with the City is
current and accurate. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-7: LICENSE APPLICATION, FILING AND INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Filing; Investigation Fee: All license applications submitted under the
provisions of this chapter shall be filed with the City Clerk, along with a
non-refundable fee in an amount set by resolution of the Board.
   B.   Investigation: Upon presentation of any license application to the City
Clerk, the City Clerk shall refer such application to the police for
investigation. The police shall conduct a full investigation of all information
contained in the license application, which investigation shall include, but
shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A complete review of all records of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and any other appropriate governmental organization concerning
the criminal record of any applicant;
      2.   A personal interview with each applicant;
      3.   An interview, either personal or by mail, with all employers of the
applicant and business associates of the applicant, as shown in the license
application;
      4.   An examination of the financial statement and financial background
of the applicant; and
      5.   Any other investigation reasonably deemed necessary by the police.
   C.   Report Of Investigation Results: Within ninety (90) days the police
shall report the results of the foregoing investigation in writing to the
Board, which report shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A complete statement of the results of all portions of the
investigation;
      2.   A list of any errors or omissions found in the application;
      3.   An evaluation of the personal qualifications, and financial status
and background of the applicant.
   D.   Board Action: Within thirty (30) days after receiving the foregoing
police report, the Board may:
      1.   Refer the application back to the police for additional
investigation;
      2.   Require a personal interview with the applicant;
      3.   Require the applicant to submit additional information relative to
the application; and/or
      4.   Grant, conditionally grant or refuse to grant a license under the
provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Refusal To Grant License: The Board may refuse to grant a license to
any applicant based on a determination that the applicant or the application
fails to satisfy any of the requirements of this chapter, or because granting
the application would not be in the best interest of public health, safety or
welfare. The Board may take into consideration any recommendation provided by
the police in refusing to grant a license to an applicant.
   F.   Revocation Or Suspension Of License: The Board may permanently revoke,
or temporarily or conditionally suspend a license issued under this chapter;
provided, the revocation or suspension shall be for cause; further provided,
the revocation or suspension shall be made by the Board following a public
hearing conducted in accordance with this chapter; further provided, in the
event a license is revoked or suspended, the licensee or former licensee shall
not be entitled to a refund of any money previously paid to the City for or in
anticipation of issuance of the license.
   G.   Grounds For Refusal, Revocation Or Suspension: The following shall,
without limitation, constitute grounds for refusal to grant a license to an
applicant, or revocation or suspension of a license by the Board:
      1.   The applicant/licensee or the applicant's/licensee's spouse or any
other individual listed on the application that would have any interest in the
brothel, has been convicted of a felony;
      2.   The applicant/licensee is financially insolvent or is inadequately
financed;
      3.   The applicant/licensee has a history of financial instability;
      4.   The applicant/licensee has willfully omitted or incorrectly stated
any material fact in the license application;
      5.   The applicant/licensee has a financial interest in or is associated
with a business that is illegal where the business is located;
      6.   Licensee would be contrary to the health, welfare or safety of the
City or its residents;
      7.   The house of prostitution is not in the correct zoning district;
      8.   The applicant/licensee has one or more business relationships with
persons who would be denied a license for reasons other than financial
instability or insolvency;
      9.   The applicant/licensee is a foreign business association that is not
properly registered with the Nevada Secretary of State;
      10.   The applicant/licensee is a Nevada business association that is not
in active status with the Nevada Secretary of State;
      11.   The applicant/licensee intends to utilize a manager or other agent
to operate the brothel when the owner is not present and the manager or other
agent would not qualify for a license under this chapter;
      12.   A person who would not qualify for a license under this chapter has
an ownership or possessory interest in the brothel or house of prostitution;
      13.   The maximum number of brothels permitted under this chapter has
been reached.
   H.   Resubmittal; Time Limit: Upon denying any application for a license
under the provisions of this chapter, the applicant shall have thirty (30) days
within which to cure any defect in the application, and such application may be
again submitted to the Board for reconsideration within thirty (30) days after
such denial. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-8: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall have the
following restrictions:
   A.   Violations Not Permitted: No operation may be conducted in violation of
any applicable City, County, State or Federal ordinance, statute or regulation.
   B.   Maximum Number Permitted: The maximum number of brothels permitted
within the City limits is four (4). (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-9: BOARD MAY IMPOSE OTHER RESTRICTIONS:
The Board may, in its discretion and to promote the health, safety and welfare
of the people of the City, and to promote the orderly conduct of the operation,
impose additional restrictions, including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Limitation on the number of sex workers that may be working in a
brothel;
   B.   Limitation on the type, signing and size of building in which a brothel
may be operated;
   C.   The Board may impose restrictions pursuant to this section prior to,
during or after issuance of license.
The police may issue procedural rules for the purpose of administering this
chapter. All such rules shall be distributed to affected applicants and
licensees prior to implementation. Rules issued by the police pursuant to this
section shall be consistent with this chapter, must be approved by the Board
before going into effect, and may be rescinded by the Board at any time. (Ord.
837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-10: ZONING:
No license shall be issued without the prospective licensee first obtaining
proper zoning for the proposed house of prostitution. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-11: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
   A.   Content Of License: Upon approval of all applications associated with a
brothel, the Board shall issue a license for the brothel to the applicant,
which license shall state:
      1.   The name and address or location of the brothel;
      2.   Any restrictions or limitations imposed by the Board under section
 4-9-9 of this chapter;
      3.   The date of issuance of the license;
      4.   The date of expiration of the license.
   B.   Term Of License: All licenses shall be issued for a term of no more
than one year, commencing on January 1 of the year the application was approved
or the date of approval, whichever is later, and continuing thereafter until
January 1 of the following year.
   C.   Renewal: No later than thirty (30) days before the expiration date of
any license, in the event the licensee seeks to continue to operate the brothel
for an additional year after the term, the licensee shall apply to the City
Clerk, on forms provided by the City, for a renewal. The City Clerk shall
forthwith notify the police that a renewal application has been filed, and if
any written complaint regarding the brothel shall have been received during
that current license period, the police may cause the renewal application to be
placed on the agenda of the next Board meeting, at which meeting the Board
shall either renew or deny the license. If placed on the agenda, the Board
shall conduct a hearing, and may summon witnesses, interview the licensee,
interview any complainant, require additional investigation by the police, or
do any and all other acts which the Board deems necessary or appropriate for
its determination. If no such complaints have been received, the City Clerk
shall issue the renewed license upon compliance with and subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Failure To Renew: Failure of any licensee to apply for a renewal in the
manner required by subsection C of this section shall be grounds for the Board
to revoke the license at its first regular meeting in January. Any license thus
revoked may be reinstated only upon compliance by the licensee with all
requirements of this chapter applicable to original license applications.
   E.   Changes In Ownership: In the event a brothel is owned by a business
association, the business association shall not acquire a new owner unless:
      1.   The licensee furnishes to the police a list of all proposed persons
who desire to acquire an interest in the brothel.
      2.   The Board approves the new owner(s) in accordance with the same
substantive and procedural requirements applicable to new license applicants;
and
      3.   The brothel pays a nonrefundable investigation fee in an amount set
by resolution of the Board. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-12: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Required: Every licensee shall pay a fee set by resolution of the Board
for the privilege of operating a brothel in the City. The fee shall be paid
annually or semiannually, as determined by resolution of the Board.
   B.   Timing Of Payment; Due Date; Termination: The license fee shall be
submitted with the annual renewal application form, which shall be due on or
before December 15 of each year during the term of the license. The failure of
a licensee to submit a complete application and license fee in the proper
amount on or before December 15 shall result in the termination of the license
at the end of the current term.
   C.   Fee Increases: The license fee may be increased from time-to- time by
resolution of the Board.
   D.   Partial Years; Timing Of Payment; Fee Amounts: The amount of the
license fee for a license granted for a portion of a calendar year which
becomes effective on or before June 30 of that year shall be the amount
required for a full year. The amount of the license fee for a license that
becomes effective after June 30 shall be one-half (1/2) of the amount required
for a full year. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-13: WORK PERMIT REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to work as a sex worker,
bartender or manager at a brothel, or for any employee, independent contractor
or agent of the brothel, to reside on the premises of a licensed house of
prostitution, unless such person is the holder of a valid current work permit
issued by the police in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   Registration: Every sex worker, bartender, manager or employee working
and/or residing on the premises of a licensed house of prostitution shall be
registered with the police on a form provided by the police, referred to herein
as a "work card", which shall include:
      1.   The name, age, address, physical description and current picture
identification of the applicant, together with a certified copy of the person's
birth certificate;
      2.   A full set of fingerprints of the person, which shall be updated
every six (6) years;
      3.   Complete employment record of the applicant for the preceding five
(5) years;
      4.   All street and mailing address(es) of the person;
      5.   Complete criminal record of the person, including all convictions,
except minor traffic violations, which record shall include a list with a
statement of each offense, and for each offense, the place of its occurrence,
the date of its occurrence, its severity and its disposition;
      6.   The work card application for a sex worker must be accompanied by
either an application fee in an amount set by resolution by the Board or an
annual renewal or revision fee in an amount set by resolution by the Board;
      7.   The work card application for a person who is not a sex worker must
be accompanied by an application fee in amount equal to the fee required to
obtain a bar employee work permit under title 5, chapter 11 of this Code;
      8.   The work card shall be renewed annually.
      9.   A work card for a sex worker must be renewed each time the sex
worker commences work at a different brothel within the City.
   C.   Investigation: The police shall investigate, through all available
means, the accuracy of all information supplied by any applicant on the
registration form.
   D.   Prohibited Employees: No person may work as a sex worker or bartender,
manager, or as an employee, independent contractor or other agent who resides
on the premises of a licensed house of prostitution, who:
      1.   Has been convicted of the possession, use, sale or furnishing of any
narcotic, hallucinogenic or dangerous drug within the past five (5) years;
      2.   Is on probation resulting from a conviction of a felony;
      3.   Has been convicted of any crime involving theft, embezzlement or
misappropriation of funds within the past five (5) years;
      4.   Has been convicted of any crime involving violence or the use of any
deadly or dangerous weapon within the past five (5) years;
      5.   Has been convicted of any crime involving the illegal use of
firearms within the past five (5) years;
      6.   Has willfully made any false statement or omission in the
registration form required by subsection B of this section; or
      7.   Is a person under twenty one (21) years of age.
   E.   Denial Or Revocation Authority: The police may deny or revoke the work
permit of a sex worker or of a bartender, manager, or of an employee,
independent contractor or other agent who resides on the premises of a house of
prostitution, who does not qualify under this section or who is found to be
violating this Code or State law. The person whose work card has been denied or
revoked may file an appeal to the Board within thirty (30) calendar days from
the date in which the work card was denied or revoked.
   F.   Card Requirements; Restrictions:
      1.   Each sex worker, bartender, manager, and each employee, independent
contractor or other agent who resides on the premises of a house of
prostitution, shall file and maintain a current work card with the operator of
the brothel before commencing work at the brothel. No work card shall be
transferable. All work cards shall state the name of the licensed brothel where
the work card holder works. No sex worker shall change his or her place of work
from one brothel to another without first notifying the police of the proposed
change and obtaining a revised work card.
      2.   No person may possess more than one work card at a time or work for
more than one brothel at a time.
   G.   Security Requirements/Inspections For Brothels:
      1.   A brothel may be operated with business entrance and exit doors that
are either locked or unlocked. If the brothel elects to keep the business
entrance and exit doors unlocked, they must remain unlocked at all times during
posted business hours and the business hours must be posted on the entrance
door. Upon complying with these conditions, the brothel need not provide keys
to the Police Chief. If the brothel elects to keep the business entrance and
exit doors locked during business hours, the owner or manager shall provide the
police keys to all entrance and exit doors of the brothel. If door locks are
changed, then current keys must be immediately provided to the police.
      2.   a. A brothel license granted pursuant to section
4-9-1 of this chapter is a revocable privilege. By applying for and receiving a
brothel license, a person thereby gives consent and authorizes the police, or
any other authorized representative of the City to enter the brothel business
premises or any part of the house of prostitution under the control of the
licensee and the principal office of the brothel at any time during brothel
business hours for the purpose of examining the premises or the books of
account of the brothel to ascertain the truth or veracity of statements made on
the brothel license application and to verify that the licensee and the brothel
are in compliance with requirements of the license, this Code and State law;
         b.   The person in charge of a licensed brothel shall cooperate with
the State Board of Health or any other agency with jurisdiction during:
            (1)   Any investigation into the circumstances or cause of a case
or suspected case, or of an outbreak or suspected outbreak of an infectious,
contagious or communicable disease;
            (2)   The carrying out of measures for the prevention, suppression
or control of an infectious, contagious or communicable disease, including
procedures of exclusion, isolation and quarantine; and
         c.   The failure of an owner, manager, employee, independent
contractor or agent of a brothel to cooperate with an inspection authorized by
this section: 1) shall be grounds for the revocation or suspension of the
brothel license; and 2) shall be punishable as a misdemeanor as provided in
section
1-3-1 of this Code. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-14: MEDICAL EXAMINATION REQUIRED OF ALL SEX WORKERS:
   A.   Examination Requirements: Every licensee shall ensure that the
requirements of the State Board of Health or any other agency with jurisdiction
are satisfied and that all medical examinations required by State Statutes and
regulations, this Code and the license, are undergone by all sex workers
working at the brothel. The foregoing medical examinations shall:
      1.   Be performed at least once a week. Medical examinations must be
completed and the examination results made available to the police weekly prior
to medical exam record checks being conducted by the Police Department;
      2.   Be performed by or under the supervision of a physician or doctor of
osteopathy duly licensed to practice medicine in this State;
      3.   Include all tests specified by the State Board of Health for the
detection and diagnosis of sexually transmitted diseases including, but not
limited to, weekly tests for gonorrhea and chlamydia; and a monthly blood test
for syphilis and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), which tests shall be
processed at a licensed and approved clinical laboratory;
      4.   Include monthly tests approved by the State Board of Health for the
detection of HIV. Appropriate specimens are to be submitted to and processed at
a licensed and approved medical laboratory;
      5.   Include other medically approved tests deemed advisable by the
physician or doctor of osteopathy for determining whether the sex worker is
afflicted with any infectious, communicable or contagious disease;
      6.   Be performed at the location of the licensed operation, at the
physician's office, at a hospital or clinic, as determined by the physician;
      7.   Have all samples and specimens submitted to a State licensed and
approved medical laboratory for testing, with all tests performed and reported
in accordance with NAC 441A.800 et seq., and all other applicable State
requirements; provided, without limitation, no person may work as a sex worker
at a brothel if such test results show the presence of chlamydia, syphilis,
gonorrhea or the antibody to the human immunodeficiency virus;
      8.   a. Sex workers who have registered with the Police Department but
are awaiting the required test results may reside at the house of prostitution.
The owner and the manager shall ensure that all sex workers awaiting test
results and residing at the house of prostitution remain off the floor, which
includes the bar area, and that such sex workers do not engage in any type of
sexual activity until such test results have been received from the physician
or doctor of osteopathy who performed the examination;
         b.   If any sex worker's test results are positive for an infectious,
contagious or communicable disease, the sex worker must be pulled off the
brothel floor immediately and the sex worker's work card turned over to the
Police Department. The sex worker must wait at the house of prostitution until
the State Board of Health notifies the sex worker. Once contact by the State
Board of Health with the sex worker has taken place, nothing in this chapter
shall prohibit the sex worker from leaving the premises of the house of
prostitution. If the sex worker chooses to remain at the house of prostitution,
the sex worker must remain off the floor, which includes the bar area, and not
engage in any type of sexual activity until a clearance to return to work has
been communicated to the Police Department by the physician or doctor of
osteopathy who performed the examination. If the owner is not physically
present, the manager of the brothel shall notify the Police Department when a
sex worker leaves the brothel for any period in excess of twenty four (24)
hours. Prior to returning to work after an absence of more than twenty four
(24) hours, a sex worker must get a medical examination, must obtain a
clearance from a licensed physician or doctor of osteopathy, and must pick up
his or her work card at the Police Department;
      9.   All sex workers shall be tested to determine if they are infected
with the hepatitis B virus (HBV) by a licensed and approved medical laboratory.
If antibody testing shows a positive result for HBV, the sex worker will not be
issued a work permit. If the results of the HBV are negative, it will be the
responsibility of the sex worker to follow up with the vaccine series. Sex
workers who are undergoing the hepatitis B vaccine series shall not be
prohibited from working in a licensed brothel.
   B.   Physician Duties: After performing the examination required in
subsection A of this section, the examining physician or doctor of osteopathy
shall:
      1.   Notify the Police Department of every person examined and found not
to be infected with a sexually transmitted, infectious, contagious or
communicable disease;
      2.   Notify the Police Department of every person examined and found to
be infected with a sexually transmitted, infectious, contagious or communicable
disease;
      3.   Report the results of such examinations weekly to the police;
      4.   If any sex worker examined is found to be infected with a sexually
transmitted, infectious, contagious or communicable disease, the physician or
doctor of osteopathy shall immediately notify the police and the brothel owner,
operator and manager of such condition.
   C.   Denial Based On Positive Result Of Test: No person who has been found
to be infected with a sexually transmitted, infectious, contagious or
communicable disease by an examining physician or doctor of osteopathy may
again work as a sex worker in any brothel until such person has received and
presented to the police examination results from an examining physician or
doctor of osteopathy stating that the disease which resulted in the denial of
the work permit has been cured and that the person is now free of any sexually
transmitted, infectious, contagious or communicable disease.
   D.   Authority Of Board: Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the
Board on its own motion or upon complaints or reports from any person, from
inquiring into the existence of any condition on the premises of any brothel or
house of prostitution which might constitute or cause a health hazard. (Ord.
837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-15: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Minors:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years, except as otherwise specified in this chapter, to enter a house of
prostitution or be a patron of any brothel.
      2.   It is unlawful for any licensee, or for any sex worker or employee
of such licensee, to compel, entice, encourage, permit or suffer any person
under the age of twenty one (21) years, to enter a house of prostitution or be
a patron of any brothel.
   B.   Advertising: It is unlawful for anyone who is not properly licensed by
the City to own or operate a brothel, to advertise prostitution within the City
by use of print, television or radio media, computers, flyers, CB radio,
telephone books or any other form of advertising.
   C.   Work Without Permit: It is unlawful for any brothel, licensee or
employee of any licensee to allow any sex worker, bartender or manager, or any
employee who resides on the premises of a house of prostitution, to work for or
on behalf of a brothel without that person first obtaining a valid work card
from the police. Notwithstanding the foregoing, persons performing part time
maintenance or repair work or delivering supplies to a brothel or house of
prostitution are not required to obtain a work permit for the performance of
such duties unless they reside on the premises of the brothel or within the
house of prostitution.
   D.   Translators: In the event a sex worker does not speak fluent English, a
translator shall be supplied whenever communication between the sex worker and
City staff is requested by either the sex worker or the City or otherwise
required. The foregoing includes, without limitation, the requirement that
there is a translator whenever a police officer seeks to communicate directly
with a sex worker. The translator must be a natural person who is properly
trained and competent to translate between English and the native language of
the sex worker. The translator may be present by telephone or other electronic
means, so long as the means of communication is reliable and audible. (Ord.
837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-16: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Causes: The Board may revoke or temporarily suspend any license issued
under the provisions of this chapter or place a licensee on probation with or
without conditions for any of the following causes, which list of causes is not
intended to be exclusive:
      1.   Any cause that would constitute grounds for denial of a license
under subsection
4-9-7E of this chapter;
      2.   Violation by the licensee of any provision of this chapter;
      3.   Violation by any sex worker, or other person who works on a regular
daily or weekly basis for a brothel or in a house of prostitution, of any
provision of this chapter with respect to which the licensee knew or should
have known of the violation;
      4.   The licensee, with actual or constructive knowledge, permits the
existence of any unlawful activity, or health or safety hazard, within the
house of prostitution;
      5.   The licensee employs a person as a sex worker when such person has
not received a health examination as required by section
4-9-14 of this chapter;
      6.   The licensee employs a person as a sex worker without having
immediately available for inspection a current report from an examining
physician or doctor of osteopathy verifying that the sex worker is free of any
sexually transmitted, infectious, contagious or communicable disease;
      7.   Willful refusal of the licensee to comply with any order of the
Board issued under the provisions of this chapter;
      8.   Any cause for revocation or suspension listed or described in this
chapter; or
      9.   Any other cause which the Board may determine, in its sound
discretion, to be harmful or injurious to the health, welfare or safety of the
general public.
   B.   Action Of Board: Before action is taken pursuant to subsection A of
this section to revoke or suspend a brothel license or to place a licensee on
probation, unless an alternative procedure is specified elsewhere in this
chapter, the Board shall:
      1.   Conduct a hearing to determine the existence of the cause or causes
of action, notice of which hearing shall have been served upon the licensee or
posted upon the premises where the licensed operation is conducted at least
forty eight (48) hours prior to the time of such hearing;
      2.   Permit the licensee to submit evidence and testimony;
      3.   Consider all evidence and testimony in support of and in opposition
to the action pending;
      4.   Enter in the minutes of the Board the findings of the Board and
reasons for any action taken by the Board, which action may include:
         a.   Revocation or temporary suspension of the license, to include
placing such conditions on the licensee or the brothel as are determined to be
reasonably necessary to cure the problem and eliminate the violation or other
harm. Conditions imposed by the Board may include requiring action by the
licensee that must occur within a reasonable specified time as an alternative
to revocation or suspension; and/or, if necessary to protect the health, safety
or welfare of the public from imminent danger, temporary suspension of the
license; or
         b.   Placement of the licensee on probation for a period of time, with
or without conditions, which probation may provide that a further violation of
this chapter or the provisions of the license during the probationary period
will result in the revocation or suspension of the license.
      5.   Enter in the minutes of the Board an order specifying the action
taken.
   C.   Notice Of Order: Notice of an order issued pursuant to this section
shall be served upon the licensee or the licensee's resident agent by personal
service or certified mail, or posted upon the premises of the house of
prostitution occupied by the brothel in any conspicuous location.
   D.   Action Effective: Any action taken by the Board pursuant to this
section shall be effective upon personal service or delivery of the notice by
certified mail to the licensee or the licensee's registered agent, or upon
posting of the notice upon the premises of the house of prostitution occupied
by the brothel as specified in subsection C of this section. (Ord. 837, 1-8-
2019)
4-9-17: EXCEPTION TO HEARING PROCEDURE (EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF BROTHEL
LICENSE):
Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this chapter, a brothel
license may be suspended without a hearing by a written emergency suspension
order signed by the Mayor or one member of the Board and the police if, in the
opinion of the signatories, there exists an immediate and present danger to
public health and safety which necessitates the immediate closure of the
brothel. Upon the issuance and service of such an order, which service may be
effected by personal delivery upon the owner or manager, or by posting the
notice in a conspicuous location at the house of prostitution, all brothel
activity shall immediately cease and the brothel licensee may request a hearing
before the Board within three (3) business days in accordance with the Nevada
Open Meeting Law. The proceedings thereafter shall be held in accordance with
section
4-9-16 of this chapter. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-18: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
All licenses granted under this chapter shall be limited to operations
conducted on the property described in the application and no brothel shall be
expanded or moved without a new license application and approval. (Ord. 837, 1-
8-2019)
4-9-19: DEATH OR RESIGNATION OF PERSON LISTED ON LICENSE:
In the event of the death or resignation of a person listed on a brothel
license whose participation in the brothel is necessary for its continued
operation, in order to prevent undue hardship to the licensee, the City Clerk,
with the concurrence of the police, may issue a ninety (90) day "temporary
license" to the licensee's attorney-in-fact or guardian, the personal
representative of the licensee's estate, or the trustee of the licensee's
trust, or any other person determined by the City to be otherwise eligible to
serve as a licensee in accordance with this chapter, pending the processing of
an application for a new brothel license; provided, however, that at the time
any such temporary license is issued by the City Clerk, a full and complete
application for a new brothel license shall be on file with the City Clerk,
along with a nonrefundable investigation fee in an amount set by resolution of
the Board; further provided, that at the time any such temporary license is
issued by the City Clerk, the matter shall be referred to the police for a
complete investigation of the new application for a new brothel license. The
police shall thereafter submit the investigative findings and recommendation
for denial or approval of a new brothel license to the Board. (Ord. 837, 1-8-
2019)
4-9-20: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or of this Code, amended
by this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by
imprisonment for a term not to exceed six (6) months, or by both fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
4-9-21: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 837, 1-8-2019)
CHAPTER 10
LICENSING AND REGULATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-10-1: Title
4-10-2: Definitions
4-10-3: Classification
4-10-4: Licensing Required
4-10-5: License Application Contents And Issuance Of License
4-10-6: License Fees; License Investigation Fees
4-10-7: Inspection
4-10-8: Renewal Of License
4-10-9: Suspension
4-10-10: Revocation
4-10-11: Appeal
4-10-12: Transfer Of License
4-10-13: Compliance Time Limits For Existing Businesses
4-10-14: Principal Sexually Oriented Business Use Live Performers Registration
Contents (Rep. by Ord. 447, 7-12-1994)
4-10-15: Additional Regulations For Escort Agencies
4-10-16: Additional Regulations For Nude Model Studios
4-10-17: Additional Regulations For Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Theaters
4-10-18: Additional Regulations For Sexually Oriented Motels
4-10-19: Regulations Pertaining To Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films Or
Videos
4-10-20: Regulations Pertaining To Sexually Oriented "Soda Pop" Or Nonalcoholic
Beverage Clubs
4-10-21: Regulations Pertaining To Sexually Oriented Barbershop
4-10-22: Regulations Pertaining To Sexually Oriented Beauty Salon
4-10-23: Regulations Pertaining To A Sexually Oriented Massage Parlor Or Health
Studio
4-10-24: Regulations And Unlawful Activities Applying To All Sexually Oriented
Business Uses, Principal And Accessory
4-10-25: Prohibited Activities Of Performers
4-10-26: Prohibited Activities Of Patrons
4-10-27: Criminal Penalty
4-10-28: Civil Injunction
4-10-29: Strict Liability And Liability For Conduct Of Others
4-10-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the LICENSING AND REGULATION OF
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ACCESSORY SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE: A. The offering of retail goods for sale
which are classified as sexually oriented business uses on a limited scale and
which are incidental to the primary activity and goods and/or services offered
by the establishment. Examples of such items include the sale of adult
magazines, the sale and/or rental of adult motion pictures, the sale of adult
novelties, and the like. (Also see applicable sections of the city zoning code
for further requirements defining accessory sexually oriented business use.)
   B.   Dancing or live entertainment characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas",
if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional activity of the
business operation and is presented not more than four (4) times in any
calendar year.
   C.   Occasional activity as used in connection with an accessory sexually
oriented business use means dancing or live entertainment characterized by an
emphasis on presentation of "specific sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas" if such live entertainment is only presented as an occasional
activity of the business operation as herein regulated.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Elko.
   LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   PRINCIPAL SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE: The offering of goods and/or services which
are classified as sexually oriented business uses as a primary or sole activity
of a business or establishment and include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Sexually Oriented Adult Video And/Or Adult Bookstore: A building or
portion of a building used for the barter, rental or sale of items consisting
of printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audio tape, videotape or motion
picture film if a substantial or significant portion of such items are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description
of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   B.   Sexually Oriented Barbershop: Any barbershop which is licensed to cut
hair, but features sexual exhibits or displays:
1. Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
2. Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
3. Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   C.   Sexually Oriented Beauty Salon: Any beauty salon which is licensed to
cut hair, hairstyling, manicuring, but features sexual exhibits or displays:
1. Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
2. Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
3. Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   D.   Sexually Oriented Body Painting Studio: An establishment or business
which provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether
transparent or nontransparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is
wholly or partially nude in terms of "specified anatomical areas".
   E.   Sexually Oriented Cabaret: A building or portion of a building used for
providing dancing or other live entertainment and if such dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   F.   Sexually Oriented Companionship Establishment: A companionship
establishment which provides the service of engaging in or listening to
conversation, talk or discussion between an employee of the establishment and a
customer, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   G.   Sexually Oriented Conversation/Rap Parlor: A conversation/rap parlor
which provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   H.   Sexually Oriented Health Club Studio: A massage parlor or health club
which provides the massage parlor, services of massage, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
   I.   Sexually Oriented Health/Sport Club: A health/sport club which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
   J.   Sexually Oriented Hotel Or Motel: A hotel or motel wherein material is
presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   K.   Sexually Oriented Mini-Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of
a building with a capacity for less than fifty (50) persons used for presenting
material if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice
contains such material that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation
by patrons therein.
   L.   Sexually Oriented Modeling Studio: An establishment whose major
business is the provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided
with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such
customers and who engage in "specified sexual activities" or display "specified
anatomical areas" while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted by such customers.
   M.   Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Arcade: Any place to which the public
is permitted or invited wherein coin or slug operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image reproducing devices are maintained to show
images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas".
   N.   Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Theater: A building or portion of a
building with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used for presenting
material if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice
contains such material that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for observation
by patrons therein.
   O.   Sexually Oriented Novelty Business: A business which has as a principal
activity the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
   P.   Sexually Oriented Sauna: A sauna which provides a steam bath or heat
bathing room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing
steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the service
provided by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   Q.   Sexually Oriented Soda Pop Or Nonalcoholic Beverage Clubs: A nightclub,
bar, restaurant or other commercial establishment that does not serve alcoholic
beverages but features sexual exhibits or displays:
1. Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminude; or
2. Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
3. Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas".
   R.   Sexually Oriented Steam Room/Bathhouse Facility: A building or portion
of a building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS USES: Includes adult bookstores, adult motion
picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors,
adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult companionship
establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult health/sport clubs, adult
cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult
modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body painting studios, "soda pop"
or nonalcoholic beverage club, adult barbershops, adult beauty salons, and
other premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses or places open to some
or all members of the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" which are capable of being seen by
members of the public. Activities classified as obscene as defined by Nevada
Revised Statutes section 201.235 et seq., are not included. As used in this
chapter, for licensing and regulatory purposes, sexually oriented business uses
do not include houses of prostitution which are licensed, controlled, operated
and zoned under chapter 9 of this title.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. Less than completely and opaquely covered
human genitals, pubic region, buttock, anus or female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral
copulation, anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical
stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a
sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a
sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually oriented acts or
conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, sapphism; or
   B.   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence; or
   C.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or
masturbation; or
   D.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or
female breast; or
   E.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, clad in
undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restrain of any such persons; or
   F.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented contact
with an animal by a human being; or
   G.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT: The increase in floor area occupied by the business
by more than twenty five percent (25%), as the floor area existed on the
effective date hereof.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitutes a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-3: CLASSIFICATION:
The following uses are classified as sexually oriented business uses:
   A.   Accessory: Accessory sexually oriented business uses which:
      1.   Comprise no more than ten percent (10%) of the floor area of the
establishment in which it is located and comprise no more than twenty percent
(20%) of the gross receipts of the entire business operation; and
      2.   Do not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise; or
      3.   Involve or include dancing or live entertainment characterized by an
emphasis on the presentation of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas", if such live entertainment is only presented as an
occasional activity of the business operation. To qualify as an accessory
sexually oriented business use, said activity or event shall be limited to no
more than twenty one (21) consecutive days taking place at minimum thirty (30)
days' interval following a similar activity or event and such activities or
events occurring no more than four (4) times within a calendar year.
   B.   Principal: Principal sexually oriented business uses include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      1.   Body painting studio;
      2.   Adult video and/or adult bookstore;
      3.   Cabaret;
      4.   Soda pop or nonalcoholic beverage club;
      5.   Companionship establishment;
      6.   Conversation/rap parlor;
      7.   Health/sport club;
      8.   Sexually oriented hotel or motel;
      9.   Massage parlor, health club or studio;
      10.   Mini-motion picture theater;
      11.   Modeling studio;
      12.   Motion picture arcade;
      13.   Motion picture theater;
      14.   Novelty business;
      15.   Sauna;
      16.   Steam room/bathhouse facility;
      17.   Barbershops;
      18.   Beauty shops;
      19.   Private clubs.
   C.   Exception For Houses Of Prostitution: Houses of prostitution which are
regulated under chapter 9 of this title are not included within the
classification of sexually oriented business uses as herein regulated. (Ord.
440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-4: LICENSING REQUIRED:
   A.   Required; Exemptions:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate a
principal sexually oriented business use without having first secured a license
as herein provided.
      2.   Except for dancing and live entertainment, as herein regulated,
accessory sexually oriented business uses shall not require a license pursuant
to this section. An accessory sexually oriented business use which hires or
contracts for live entertainment or dancing must apply for and obtain a
temporary business license for each event. The application for the temporary
license must be on a form provided by the city clerk.
   B.   Application: An application for a license for a principal sexually
oriented business use must be made on a form provided by the city. The
application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the
configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches (±6"). Applicants who must comply with section
4-10-19 of this chapter shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of that
section.
   C.   Qualifications: The applicant must be qualified according to the
provisions of this section and section
4-10-5 of this chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in
compliance with the law by the fire department and building official.
   D.   Signature: If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented
business use is an individual, the individual must sign the application for a
license as applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented
business use is other than an individual, each individual who has an interest
in the business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each
applicant must be qualified under section
4-10-5 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-5: LICENSE APPLICATION CONTENTS AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Content Of Application: The license application for a principal
sexually oriented business use shall contain the following:
      1.   Names, ages and addresses of all persons who have or will have any
financial interest in the operation, including the owner of the real property,
if the real property is leased to the operator;
      2.   Names, ages and addresses of persons who are or will be personally
responsible for the conduct and management of the operation;
      3.   A recent photograph and complete set of fingerprints of all persons
listed in subsections A1 and A2 of this section;
      4.   Names and addresses of every other business in which the applicant
has any financial interest, including the type of such business and the nature
of the applicant's interest;
      5.   Names and addresses of all employers of the applicant in the
preceding five (5) years;
      6.   All the applicant's addresses for the preceding five (5) years;
      7.   A list of all prior convictions of the applicant for any crime,
excluding minor traffic violations, which list shall include a statement of the
offense, the place of its occurrence, the date of its occurrence, and the
disposition of the case;
      8.   A complete and accurate financial statement of the applicant;
      9.   The street address of the property upon which the proposed operation
is to be conducted.
   B.   Referral For Investigation: Upon presentation of any license
application to the city clerk, the city clerk shall refer such application to
the chief of police for investigation. The chief of police shall conduct a full
investigation of all information contained in the license application.
   C.   Report Of Investigation Results: Within forty five (45) days after any
application is referred by the city clerk to the chief of police, the chief of
police shall report the results of his investigation in writing to the city
clerk, which shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   A complete statement of the results of all investigations
undertaken;
      2.   A list of any errors or omissions found to exist in the application;
and
      3.   A recommendation by the chief of police for approval or denial of
the license.
   D.   Refusal Conditions: The city clerk, at her own direction or at the
request of the chief of police, shall refuse to grant a license to any
applicant:
      1.   Where an applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of
any felony or a crime involving any of the following:
         a.   Any offense relating to:
            (1)   Indecent exposure;
            (2)   Public sexual indecency;
            (3)   Public sexual indecency to a minor;
            (4)   Sexual abuse;
            (5)   Sexual conduct with a minor;
            (6)   Sexual assault;
            (7)   Sexual assault of a spouse;
            (8)   Molestation of a child;
            (9)   Lewd and lascivious acts.
         b.   Any of the prostitution or pandering offenses.
         c.   Any offense relating to:
            (1)   Production, publication, sale, possession and presentation of
obscene items;
            (2)   Coercing acceptance of obscene articles or publications;
            (3)   Furnishing obscene or harmful items to minors;
            (4)   Public display of explicit sexual materials;
            (5)   Creation, transportation or distribution of obscene films,
photographs or motion pictures of minors;
            (6)   Obscene or indecent telephone communications to minors for
commercial purposes.
         d.   Any offense relating to:
            (1)   Commercial sexual exploitation of a minor;
            (2)   Sexual exploitation of a minor;
            (3)   Admitting minors to public displays of sexual conduct.
         e.   Any offense relating to:
            (1)   Incest;
            (2)   Contributing to delinquency and dependency;
            (3)   Permitting life, health or morals of minor to be imperiled by
neglect, abuse or immoral associations;
            (4)   Sex with animals.
         f.   Any similar offenses to those described above under the criminal
or penal code of the state, other states, other cities or other countries.
         g.   Facilitation, attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any
of the foregoing offenses for which:
            (1)   Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            (2)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
            (3)   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the
last conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or
more misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring
within any twenty four (24) month period.
      2.   Who has any financial interest in, or connection with, any business
which is illegal where such business is located.
      3.   When the proposed establishment is not in the correct zoning.
      4.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
      5.   An applicant is delinquent in his or her payment to the city of
taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against him or her or imposed upon him
or her in relation to a sexually oriented business use.
      6.   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form, or has wilfully omitted or incorrectly
stated any material fact on the application.
      7.   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this section within two (2) years immediately preceding the application. The
fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect.
      8.   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a license
by the city to operate a sexually oriented business use within the preceding
twelve (12) months, or residing with a person whose license to operate a
sexually oriented business use has been revoked within the preceding twelve
(12) months.
      9.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business use has
not been approved by the fire department and the building official as being in
compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
      10.   The license fee required by this section has not been paid.
      11.   An applicant has been employed in an sexually oriented business use
in a managerial capacity within the preceding twelve (12) months and has
demonstrated that he or she is unable to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business use premises in a peaceful and law abiding manner, thus necessitating
action by law enforcement officers.
      12.   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with this code.
      13.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant or applicant's spouse.
      14.   An applicant who has been convicted or whose spouse has been
convicted of an offense listed above may qualify for a sexually oriented
business use license only when the time period required by this section has
elapsed.
      15.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the classification or classifications
of the sexually oriented business use for which it is granted, the expiration
date, and the address of the sexually oriented business use. All licenses shall
be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the sexually
oriented business use so that they may be easily read at any time.
   E.   License Restrictions: Every license issued under the provisions of this
chapter, shall have the following restrictions:
      1.   No operation may be conducted in violation of any applicable city,
county, state or federal ordinance, statute or regulation;
      2.   No change in ownership, partners or persons with any interest in the
sexually oriented business use after being approved for a license without first
obtaining city approval in regards to any changes of ownership, partners, or
persons with any interest in the sexually oriented business use. (Ord. 440, 4-
12-1994)
4-10-6: LICENSE FEES; LICENSE INVESTIGATION FEES:
The annual fee for a sexually oriented business use license shall be set by
resolution of the city council. The investigation fee for the purpose of
issuing a license shall be set by resolution of the city council. In the event
that the license is denied upon application, the licensee fee shall be
refunded; however, no part of the license investigation fee shall be returned
to the applicant. No part of the annual license fee shall be refunded if the
license is suspended or revoked. All licenses shall be issued on an annual
basis from January 1 to December 31 of each year. The license fee shall be paid
annually or semiannually and shall be due on or before December 31 of each
year. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-7: INSPECTION:
   A.   Authorized: An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of
the police department, fire department and building inspection division to
inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business use for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   B.   Refusal: A person who operates a sexually oriented business use, or his
or her agent, or his or her employee, commits an offense if the person refuses
to permit a lawful inspection of the premises by a representative of the police
department at any time it is occupied or open for business. (Ord. 440, 4-12-
1994)
4-10-8: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Application: Each license shall be renewed only by making a renewal
application as provided by the city clerk. The city clerk and chief of police
shall review the renewal application and shall grant or deny the renewal
license application on the same basis as set forth in section
4-10-5 of this chapter. Applications for renewal shall be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date. If the city clerk or chief of police
determines good and sufficient cause is shown by the applicant for failure to
file a timely renewal application, the city clerk may, if other provisions of
the section are complied with, grant the application.
   B.   Denial: When the city clerk or chief of police denies renewal of a
license, the applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date
of denial. If, subsequent to denial, the city clerk finds that the basis for
denial of the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may
be granted a license if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date
denial became final.
   C.   Penalty: If any license fee provided for by this chapter shall remain
unpaid for more than fifteen (15) days after the same is due, a penalty of
twenty five percent (25%) shall be added to the license fee and collected by an
officer or employee of the city clerk's office. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-9: SUSPENSION:
The city clerk or chief of police may suspend a license for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days following written notice and an opportunity to be heard
if the city clerk or chief of police determines that a licensee or an employee
of a licensee has:
   A.   Violated or is not in compliance with this chapter or with the uniform
codes adopted by the city in this code or applicable state laws, including
those relating to buildings, electricity, plumbing, fire safety and mechanical
equipment; or violation of state law relating to the same;
   B.   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business use
premises as authorized by this chapter or any other chapter of this code; or
   C.   Demonstrated an inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business use in a peaceful and law abiding manner thus necessitating action by
law enforcement officers. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-10: REVOCATION:
   A.   Authorized: The city clerk or chief of police may revoke a license
preceded by written notice and an opportunity to be heard if a cause of
suspension in section
4-10-9 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   Conditions: The city clerk or chief of police may revoke a license if
the city clerk or chief of police determines that:
      1.   A licensee gave false or misleading information to the city during
the application process;
      2.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      3.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      4.   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      5.   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in subsection
 4-10-5D1 of this chapter for which the time period required in that section
has not elapsed;
      6.   On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises
of a crime listed in subsection
4-10-5D1 of this chapter, for which a conviction has been obtained, and the
person or persons were employees of the sexually oriented business use at the
time the offenses were committed;
      7.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation or masturbation to occur in or on the
licensed premises;
      8.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for ad valorem
taxes, local lodging tax, or other taxes or fees related to the sexually
oriented business use;
      9.   Failure of any licensee to apply for a renewal as required in
section
4-10-8 of this chapter shall be grounds for the city clerk or chief of police
to revoke the license. Any license thus revoked may be reinstated only upon
compliance by the licensee with all requirements of this chapter relating to
original license applications.
   C.   Appeal No Effect: The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall
have no effect on the revocation of the license.
   D.   Exception: Subsection B7 of this section does not apply to sexually
oriented motels as a grounds for revoking the license unless the licensee or
employee knowingly allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral
copulation, masturbation or sexual contact to occur in a public place or within
public view, or the licensee, or employee knowingly allowed any felony to be
committed on or about the premises of the sexually oriented motel.
   E.   Term Of Revocation: When the city clerk or chief of police revokes a
license, the revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not
be issued a sexually oriented business use license for one year from the date
revocation became effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the city clerk or
chief of police finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected or
abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least ninety (90) days
have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective. (Ord. 440, 4-12-
1994)
4-10-11: APPEAL:
   A.   Authorized; Time Limit: If the city clerk or chief of police denies the
issuance of a license, or suspends or revokes a license, the city clerk or
chief of police shall send to the applicant, or licensee, by certified mail,
return receipt requested, written notice of the action, and the right to an
appeal. The aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the city clerk or chief
of police within thirty (30) days of receiving notice of the city's action. The
filing of an appeal stays the action of the city clerk or chief of police in
suspending or revoking a license until the city council makes a final decision.
   B.   Procedure: The city council may hear the appeal itself or may appoint a
committee of the city council or an independent hearing officer to hear the
matter, report findings of fact and a recommendation for disposition to the
city council. Hearings on the appeal shall be open to the public and the
licensee or applicant shall have the right to appear and be represented by
legal counsel and to offer evidence in its behalf. At the conclusion of the
hearing, the city council shall make a final decision.
   C.   Additional Requirements: The city council may condition denial,
suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of a license upon appropriate terms and
conditions. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-12: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business use under the authority of a
license at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-13: COMPLIANCE TIME LIMITS FOR EXISTING BUSINESSES:
   A.   The regulations and provisions of this chapter set forth in sections
4-10-15 through
4-10-26 of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and businesses
described herein, whether the herein described activities were established
before or after the effective date hereof, and regardless of whether such
persons and businesses are currently licensed to do business in the city.
   B.   All such persons and businesses requiring sexually oriented business
use licenses shall have fifty (50) days from the effective date hereof to
comply with the regulatory provisions of this chapter set forth in sections
4-10-15 through
4-10-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-14: PRINCIPAL SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS USE LIVE PERFORMERS REGISTRATION
CONTENTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 447, 7-12-1994)
4-10-15: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES:
   A.   Employment Of Minors: An escort agency shall not employ any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   B.   Offense: A person commits an offense if he or she acts as an escort or
agrees to act as an escort for any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
(Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-16: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS:
   A.   Employment Of Minors: A nude model studio shall not employ any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years or allow any person under eighteen (18)
years of age on the premises.
   B.   Offense: A person commits an offense if he or she appears in a state of
nudity or seminudity or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity
or seminudity in an area of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed
from the public right of way.
   C.   Offense By Minor; Defense: A person under the age of eighteen (18)
years commits an offense if the person appears seminude or in a state of nudity
in or on the premises of a nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution
under this subsection if the person under eighteen (18) years was in a restroom
not open to public view or persons of the opposite sex.
   D.   Barrier Required: A person commits an offense if the person provides
any room in which the employee or employees and the patron or patrons are alone
together without a separation by a solid physical barrier at least three feet
(3') high. The patron or patrons shall remain on one side of the barrier and
the employee or employees shall remain on the other side of the barrier.
   E.   Bed, Sofa Or Mattress: A nude model studio shall not place or permit a
bed, sofa or mattress in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be
placed in a reception room open to the public. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-17: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTION PICTURE THEATERS:
   A.   Presence Of Minor: A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly
allows a person under the age of eighteen (18) years to appear in a state of
nudity or seminudity in or on the premises of a sexually oriented motion
picture theater or allows any customer of the business under the age of
eighteen (18) years on the premises.
   B.   Defense: It is a defense to prosecute under subsection A of this
section if the person under eighteen (18) years was in a restroom not open to
public view or to persons of the opposite sex. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-18: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED MOTELS:
   A.   Presumption: Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar
commercial establishment has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable
presumption that the establishment is a sexually oriented motel as that term is
defined in this chapter.
   B.   Offense: A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a
sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does
not have a sexually oriented business use license, he or she rents or subrents
a sleeping room to a person and, within ten (10) hours from the time the room
is rented, he or she rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   C.   Terms Defined: For purposes of subsection B of this section, the terms
"rent" or "subrent" mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any
form of consideration. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-19: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS:
   A.   Requirements: A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business use, other than a sexually oriented motel, which exhibits on
the premises in a viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet
of floor space, a film, videocassette, or other video reproduction which
depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply
with the following requirements:
      1.   Upon application for a sexually oriented business use license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more managers' stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures, and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the license will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an
accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). The city clerk may waive the
foregoing diagram for a renewal application if the applicant adopts a diagram
that was previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the
premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      2.   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant(s).
      3.   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the chief of police or his
designee.
      4.   It is the duty of the owner and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one licensed employee is on duty and situated in each manager's
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises. In the
case of a sexually oriented motion picture arcade (or "peep show"), it is the
duty of the owner and operator of the premises and the licensed employees who
are present to ensure that no more than one person occupies a viewing room or
"peep" booth at any time, and that all other entrances to peep booths or other
viewing areas (and to the aisles, walkways and hallways leading to peep booths
or other viewing areas) are maintained free of any obstruction such as a door,
curtain, panel, board, slat, ribbon, cord, rope, chain or other device.
      5.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises have two (2) or more managers' stations designated, then the interior
of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view
required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's
station.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the owner and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of all employees present in the premises, to ensure that the line of
sight and view areas specified in subsection A5 of this section remain
unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials
at all times that any patron is present in the premises and to ensure that no
patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to subsection A1 of this section.
      7.   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.
      8.   It shall be the duty of the owner and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of all employees present on the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      9.   No operator, owner or employee shall allow openings of any kind to
exist between view rooms or booths.
      10.   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      11.   The operator or owner shall, during each business day, regularly
inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings or
holes exist.
      12.   The owner or operator shall cause all floor coverings in viewing
booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting.
      13.   The owner or operator shall cause all wall surfaces and seating
surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or permanently covered by,
nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood, composition board or
other porous material shall be used within forty eight inches (48") of the
floor.
   B.   Offense: A person having a duty under subsection A of this section
commits an offense if the person fails to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 440, 4-12-
1994)
4-10-20: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SEXUALLY ORIENTED "SODA POP" OR NONALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGE CLUBS:
   A.   Presence Of Minors: A "soda pop" or nonalcoholic beverage control club
must not allow a customer, patron or employee on the premises under the age of
eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Compliance: Must comply with sections
4-10-24,
4-10-25 and
4-10-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-21: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SEXUALLY ORIENTED BARBERSHOP:
   A.   Presence Of Minors: Any sexually oriented barbershop must not allow a
customer, patron or employee on the premises under the age of eighteen (18)
years of age.
   B.   Compliance: Must comply with sections
4-10-24,
4-10-25 and
4-10-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-22: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SEXUALLY ORIENTED BEAUTY SALON:
   A.   Presence Of Minors: Any sexually oriented beauty salon must not allow a
customer, patron or employee on the premises under the age of eighteen (18)
years of age.
   B.   Compliance: Must comply with sections
4-10-24
, 4-10-25 and
4-10-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-23: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO A SEXUALLY ORIENTED MASSAGE PARLOR OR HEALTH
STUDIO:
   A.   Presence Of Minors: A massage parlor or health studio must not allow a
customer, patron or employee on the premises under the age of eighteen (18)
years of age.
   B.   Compliance: Must comply with sections
4-10-24,
4-10-25 and
4-10-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-24: REGULATIONS AND UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES APPLYING TO ALL SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS USES, PRINCIPAL AND ACCESSORY:
It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business use, including principal and
accessory use, or any sexually oriented business use employee, to:
   A.   Allow persons under the age of eighteen (18) years on the licensed
premises, except that in sexually oriented business uses which exclude minors
from less than all of the business premises, minors shall be permitted in
nonexcluded areas;
   B.   Allow, offer or agree to conduct any sexually oriented business use
with persons under the age of eighteen (18) years or in the presence of any
persons under the age of eighteen (18) years;
   C.   Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked while any customer
is in the premises;
   D.   Allow or offer a patron to touch any specified anatomical areas or to
touch any specified anatomical areas of a patron;
   E.   Allow, offer or agree to illegal possession, use, sale or distribution
of controlled substances on the licensed premises;
   F.   Allow sexually oriented business use employees to possess, use, sell or
distribute controlled substances, while engaged in the activities of the
business;
   G.   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of
prostitution, solicitation of a minor or committing activities harmful to a
minor to occur on the licensed premises or, in the event of a sexually oriented
business use employee or business, the sexually oriented business use employee
committing, offering or agreeing to commit prostitution, attempting to commit
prostitution, soliciting prostitution, soliciting a minor, or committing
activities harmful to a minor;
   H.   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any sexual act in the presence of any
customer or patron;
   I.   Allow, offer or agree to allow a patron or customer to masturbate in
the presence of the sexually oriented business use employee or on the premises
of a sexually oriented business use;
   J.   Allow any person to appear in a state of nudity or seminudity in any
area of the premises of a sexually oriented business which can be viewed from
the public right of way. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-25: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES OF PERFORMERS:
It is unlawful for any professional dancer, model or performer, while
performing in any sexually oriented business use licensed pursuant to this
chapter, including principal and accessory uses:
   A.   To touch in any manner any other person except to receive money given
hand to hand from a patron to the performer;
   B.   To throw any object or clothing off the stage area;
   C.   Except as otherwise set forth herein, to accept any money, drink or any
other object from any person while performing;
   D.   To otherwise allow another person to touch such performer or to place
any money or object on the performer or within the costume or person of the
performer; or
   E.   To perform in an area other than on a stage raised to a height of not
less than two feet (2') with the stage separated by a setback area of a
distance of not less than two feet (2') from any customer observation area
measured in a straight line from the nearest point of the stage to the nearest
point of customer observation. The patrons shall remain at least two feet (2')
from the performers and the performers shall remain on the setback stage area
at least two feet (2') from any customer observation area.
The foregoing prohibitions shall not prohibit two (2) or more performers from
touching each other while performing, provided such touching does not involve
the touching of specified anatomical areas whether clothed or unclothed. (Ord.
447, 7-12-1994)
4-10-26: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES OF PATRONS:
It is unlawful for any person or any patron of any sexually oriented business
use, including principal and accessory uses, to touch in any manner any
performer; to lay or place any money or object on any performer or employee of
the sexually oriented business use; or to give or offer to give to any such
performer or employee of the sexually oriented business use any money or object
while such performer or employee of the sexually oriented business use is
performing; except that money may be placed on the stage which shall not be
picked up by the performer except by hand or may be given hand to hand from the
patron to the performer. (Ord. 447, 7-12-1994)
4-10-27: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or of this code, as
amended by this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
by imprisonment for a term not to exceed six (6) months, or by both fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 440, 4-12-1994)
4-10-28: CIVIL INJUNCTION:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is subject to a civil
suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations and
liability for licensing sanctions such as suspension or revocation. (Ord. 440,
4-12-1994)
4-10-29: STRICT LIABILITY AND LIABILITY FOR CONDUCT OF OTHERS:
   A.   The offenses and violations described in this chapter are strict
liability offenses and violations requiring no proof of culpable mental state.
   B.   A licensee of a sexually oriented business use is jointly and
individually liable for violations of any offenses under this chapter by the
employees of the sexually oriented business use, and for all civil and criminal
sanctions or remedies for such violations and offenses, including, but not
limited to, license suspension or revocation, prescribed herein. (Ord. 440, 4-
12-1994)
CHAPTER 11
AIRPORT PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGE
SECTION:
4-11-1: Definitions
4-11-2: Findings And Purpose
4-11-3: Passenger Facility Charge
4-11-4: Eligible Projects
4-11-5: Compliance With FAA Requirements
4-11-6: Violations
4-11-7: Effective Date
4-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following words shall have the meanings set forth in this section:
   AIRPORT: The area of Elko municipal airport, located in Elko County, Nevada.
   CHARGE EFFECTIVE DATE: The date on which the passenger facility charge is
effective as provided in section
4-11-6 of this chapter.
   CITY: The city of Elko, Nevada.
   CITY COUNCIL: The council created and empowered by the city of Elko pursuant
to Nevada state law.
   ENPLANED PASSENGER: A domestic, territorial or international revenue
passenger enplaned at the airport in a scheduled or nonscheduled aircraft in
interstate, intrastate or foreign commerce; provided, that enplaned passenger
shall not include a passenger enplaning to a destination receiving essential
air service compensation as provided by 14 code of federal regulations 158.9.
   FAA: Federal aviation administration, department of transportation, United
States of America.
   MANAGER: The city manager of Elko, Nevada.
   PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGE (PFC): The charge imposed on enplaned passengers
pursuant to section
4-11-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 497, 2-24-1998)
4-11-2: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The city finds that:
   A.   The city owns and controls that certain airport and air navigation
facility located in Elko County, state of Nevada, and known as the Elko
municipal airport (airport).
   B.   The airport promotes a strong economic base for the community, assists
and encourages world trade opportunities, and is of vital importance to the
health, safety and welfare of the state.
   C.   The airport is a commercial service airport as that phase is defined in
14 code of federal regulations part 158, as adopted by the FAA, being a public
airport enplaning two thousand five hundred (2,500) or more scheduled air
passengers per year.
   D.   The deregulation of the airline industry, the restructuring of airline
ownerships, and fluctuating market changes in the field of commercial aviation
have placed new financial challenges on the city.
   E.   The operation of Elko municipal airport as a public facility attracting
scheduled airline passenger service by airline carriers at the Elko municipal
airport imposes financial responsibility on the city for airport facilities and
operations.
   F.   The city will require substantial expenditure for capital investment,
operation, maintenance and improvements for the airport facilities to meet the
future demand for passenger air travel.
   G.   The congress of the United States has authorized the adoption of a
passenger facility charge program by local airports pursuant to the aviation
safety and capacity expansion act of 1990 (pub. L. 101-508, title IX subtitle
B, November 5, 1990) (hereinafter the "act").
   H.   It is in the city's best economic interest to adopt and in the interest
of airline passengers that the city adopt a passenger facility charge program
as identified in this chapter to maintain and further expand the transportation
facilities of the city.
   I.   In establishing and implementing the passenger facility charge program,
the passengers using the airport should contribute to a greater degree toward
the development of airport facilities used by passengers and continued
improvements thereof.
   J.   The fees implemented by this chapter are reasonable for the use of the
airport and aviation facilities by the general public.
   K.   The purpose of this chapter is to enact a passenger facility charge
program consistent with the above findings and this chapter and the regulations
published pursuant thereto shall be liberally construed to effectuate the
purposes expressed. (Ord. 497, 2-24-1998)
4-11-3: PASSENGER FACILITY CHARGE:
   A.   Establishment Of Passenger Facility Charge: Commencing not later than
the first day of the second month thirty (30) days after the approval of the
FAA of the city's passenger facility charge program authorized by this chapter,
or on such date thereafter as the passenger facility charge can be collected as
determined by the manager, there shall be imposed at the Elko municipal airport
a passenger facility charge as may be fixed and established from time to time
by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Expiration: The passenger facility charge authorized by this chapter
shall expire on the date determined pursuant to regulations adopted by the FAA.
   C.   Authorization Of Manager: The manager, or his/her designee, is
authorized to execute the FAA application for authorization of the city's PFC
program, including the assurances contained therein and other documents
necessary for implementation of the PFC program on behalf of the city in a
format approved by its legal counsel. (Ord. 607, 7-29-2003)
4-11-4: ELIGIBLE PROJECTS:
The passenger facility charge collected pursuant to this program shall be
expended for projects approved by resolution of the city council and determined
to the FAA to be eligible under the act and rules and regulations adopted by
the FAA pursuant to such statute. (Ord. 497, 2-24-1998)
4-11-5: COMPLIANCE WITH FAA REQUIREMENTS:
The passenger facility charge authorized by this chapter shall be collected and
distributed pursuant to the rules and regulations adopted by the FAA pursuant
to such statute. (Ord. 497, 2-24-1998)
4-11-6: VIOLATIONS:
In the event any airline violates any term or condition of this chapter, the
city may exercise any rights or remedies allowed by law or equity. (Ord. 497,
2-24-1998)
4-11-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective date hereof shall be retroactive to February 12, 1998. (Ord. 497,
2-24-1998)
CHAPTER 12
PROHIBITION OF ADVERTISING OBSCENITY
SECTION:
4-12-1: Prohibition Against Obscenity In Advertising
4-12-2: Definitions
4-12-3: Determination Of Obscenity
4-12-1: PROHIBITION AGAINST OBSCENITY IN ADVERTISING:
No advertisement may contain or consist of any obscene item or material. (Ord.
695, 5-13-2008)
4-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply for purposes of this chapter:
   ADVERTISEMENT: The attempt by publication, dissemination, solicitation or
circulation to induce, directly or indirectly, any person to enter into any
obligation or to acquire any service or any title to or interest in any
property, or any acts related to the inducement, promotion or encouragement of
a sale, regardless of the medium utilized.
   COMMUNITY: The residents of the city.
   ITEM: Includes any book, leaflet, pamphlet, magazine, booklet, picture,
drawing, photograph, film, negative, slide, motion picture, figure, object,
article, novelty device, recording, transcription, phonograph record or tape
recording, videotape or videodisc, with or without music, or other similar
items.
   MATERIAL: Anything tangible which is capable of being used or adapted to
arouse interest, whether through the medium of reading, observation, sound or
in any other manner.
   OBSCENE: Any item or material which:
   A.   An average person applying contemporary community standards would find,
taken as a whole, appeals to prurient interest; and
   B.   Taken as a whole lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value; and
   C.   Does one of the following:
1. Depicts or describes actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral
copulation, anal intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical
stimulation of unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a
sexual relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a
sexual relationship, and any of the following: sexually oriented acts or
conduct; anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, sapphism; or
2. Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation, arousal
or tumescence; or
3. Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus, or
masturbation; or
4. Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or
female breast; or
5. Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, clad in
undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such persons; or
6. Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented contact with an
animal by a human being; or
7. Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal irrigation; or
8. Human male or female genitals, pubic area or buttocks with less than a fully
opaque covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a fully
opaque covering of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple, or the
depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state. (Ord. 695, 5-
13-2008)
4-12-3: DETERMINATION OF OBSCENITY:
The determination of whether an advertisement contains an obscene item or
material shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults, unless it appears,
from the character of the item or material or the circumstances of its
dissemination, to be designed for children or a clearly defined deviant group.
(Ord. 695, 5-13-2008)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
Nuisance   1
Offenses Against Public Peace   2
Animals And Fowl   3
Civil Defense   4
Special Police   5
Convicted Persons   6
Reserved   7
Radio Interference   8
Miscellaneous Offenses   9
False Alarms   10
Bar Employees; Work Permits   11
Restrictions On Use Of Public Or Private Property   12
Lost And Found Property   13
Taxicab Operation Employees; Work Permits   14
Imitation Controlled Substances   15
Curfew; Minors   16
Antilitter Regulations   17
Distribution Of Material Harmful To Minors   18
Graffiti Code   19
Open Glass Alcoholic Beverage Bottles   20
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCE
SECTION:
5-1-1: General Provisions
5-1-2: Definitions
5-1-3: Public Nuisance Unlawful
5-1-4: Public Nuisances Enumerated
5-1-5: Written Complaint Of Existence Of Public Nuisance
5-1-6: Investigation Of Written Complaint
5-1-7: Notice Of Property Owner And Occupant
5-1-8: Provisions Of Notice
5-1-9: Abatement Order By City Council
5-1-10: Abatement By City
5-1-11: Notice Of Assessment
5-1-12: Overhead Charge, Civil Penalties
5-1-13: Abatement Cost Collection
5-1-14: Nature Of Lien
5-1-15: Remedies Cumulative
5-1-16: Emergency Declaration And Abatement
5-1-17: Method Of Adoption And Effect Of Chapter
5-1-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the NUISANCE ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF ELKO, may be cited as such, and will be referred to hereafter as the
"nuisance code".
   B.   Purpose And Scope:
      1.   It is determined and declared as follows:
         a.   The city has a substantial and legitimate interest in seeing that
its community, including property, buildings and premises within its limits, is
kept in a safe and aesthetically pleasing condition;
         b.   The keeping or maintaining of property, buildings and premises at
variance with the level of maintenance of surrounding properties will result in
blighting and/or unsafe conditions and substantial diminution in the
employment, use, aesthetic and property values of such surrounding properties;
and
         c.   It is desirous to promote the maintenance of property, buildings
and premises in order to enhance the community appearance, and the safe, social
and economic conditions of the community.
      2.   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city and to promote the maintenance of property,
buildings and premises in order to enhance the livability, community
appearance, and the safe, social and economic conditions of the community.
      3.   This chapter shall apply to all property, buildings and premises
within the city without regard to the use, the date of construction or
alteration.
      4.   The city council prefers that actions to declare and abate a public
nuisance proceed through municipal court; however, nothing prohibits the city
manager from proceeding before the city council. (Ord. 589, 10-3-2002)
5-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Any term used herein in the singular shall include the plural, and any such
term used in the plural shall include the singular. The word "person" shall
include any natural person, firm, company, partnership or corporation, and the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to any owner, lessor or lessee of the
premises.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any vehicle:
   A.   Upon a city street, highway or road which is so disabled or in which a
state of disrepair that its normal operation is impossible or impractical;
   B.   That has been left unattended and dangerously close to a travel lane on
a city street, highway or road so as to possibly impede traffic; or
   C.   Which has not been moved or used for more than fourteen (14)
consecutive days and reasonably appears to have been deserted 1 .
   ABATEMENT: The removal, stoppage or destruction of that which causes or
constitutes a public nuisance, whether by breaking or pulling it down, or
otherwise destroying or effacing it.
   CITY: The city of Elko.
   CITY COUNCIL: The city of Elko city council.
   CLASSIC ROD: Any passenger car or light commercial vehicle entitled to
registration with the Nevada department of motor vehicles as a "classic rod"
which:
   A.   Has a manufacturer's rated carrying capacity of one ton or less; and
   B.   Was manufactured not later than 1949, but at least twenty (20) years
before the date of application for registration 2 .
   CLASSIC VEHICLE: Any passenger car or light commercial vehicle entitled to
registration with the department of motor vehicles as a "classic vehicle"
which:
   A.   Has a manufacturer's rate carrying capacity of one ton or less;
   B.   Was manufactured at least twenty five (25) years before the date of
application for registration; and
   C.   Contains only the original parts which were used to manufacture the
vehicle or replacement parts that duplicate those original parts 3 .
   JUNK VEHICLE: A vehicle, including component parts, which:
   A.   Has been ruined, wrecked, dismantled or rendered inoperative;
   B.   Is unfit for further use in accordance with the original purpose for
which it was constructed;
   C.   Is not registered with the Nevada department of motor vehicles; and
   D.   Has value principally as scrap which does not exceed two hundred
dollars ($200.00) 4 .
   OCCUPANT: Legal entity that, through rights of ownership or rental, has the
use and enjoyment of the subject real property for residential or commercial
purposes.
   OWNER: A legal entity listed as current or rightful owner as recorded in the
official records of the Elko County recorder's office.
   PREMISES: Land and the building or structures upon it.
   PROPERTY: Any real property, real estate, land, lot, or part of real
property, real estate, land or lot.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY: A tenant, occupant, lessor, lessee, manager, licensee, or
other person having control over a structure or parcel of land and, in the case
where the demolition of a structure is suggested as a means of abatement, any
lienholder whose lien interest is recorded in the official records of the Elko
County recorder's office.
   RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   STREET ROD: Any passenger car or light commercial vehicle entitled to
registration with the Nevada department of motor vehicles as a "street rod"
which:
   A.   Has a manufacturer's rate carrying capacity of one ton or less; and
   B.   Was manufactured not later than 1948 5 .
   STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building or manufactured home that is
principally aboveground.
   TRAILER: Any wheeled tow behind a vehicle that can be utilized for any
intended commercial, private, residential or industrial function.
   UNREGISTERED VEHICLE: Any vehicle or component thereof on which there is not
displayed evidence of current registration with the Nevada department of motor
vehicles or current registration with a similar agency of another state.
   VEGETATION WHICH IS A PUBLIC NUISANCE: Any natural or person planted
products that have been allowed to grow unkept and have become hazardous, a
fire hazard or have become a rodent, diseased or insect determined habitat upon
any open, graded or improved parcel, lot or property within the city limits.
   VEHICLE: A piece of mechanical equipment intended for the conveyance or
temporary housing of persons or personal property or parts thereof, including,
but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, boats, campers, camper shells, vans,
motor homes, converted buses, motorcycles, ATVs and similar vehicles.
   WEEDS: A useless and troublesome plant of negligible or no value and usually
of uncontrolled growth. (Ord. 589, 10-3-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS § 487.210.
2 1. NRS § 482.3814.
3 2. NRS § 283.3816.
4 3. NRS § 487.260(6).
5 1. NRS § 482.3812.
5-1-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit or maintain a public nuisance, or
wilfully omit or refuse to perform any legal duty relating to the removal of
any such public nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for any person to rent or
lease, or permit to be used, any building or portion thereof, knowing that the
same is intended to be, or is being used for, committing or maintaining any
such nuisance. (Ord. 589, 10-3-2002)
5-1-4: PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
Each and all of the things, properties, acts, commissions, omissions,
performances, failures and operations in this section set forth, within the
limits of the city, are hereby declared to be and are, and each of them is,
declared to be and is a public nuisance:
   A.   Businesses, premises and acts. Any business, occupation, premises, act
or thing which is not ordinarily a nuisance per se, is, and each of them is,
hereby declared to be a nuisance when, by reason of its or their location,
nature, time or method of operation, or effect, it or they shall intend to
injure or interfere with the health, peace, comfort, convenience, safety or
enjoyment of the public or one or more persons in the neighborhood.
   B.   Every place:
      1.   Wherein any swindling game or device therefor shall be kept;
      2.   Wherein any fighting between animals and/or birds shall be
conducted; or
      3.   Wherein any intoxicating liquors are kept for unlawful use, sale or
distribution.
   C.   Every act unlawfully done and every omission to perform a duty, which
act or omission:
      1.   Shall annoy, injure or endanger the safety, health, comfort or
repose of any considerable number of persons;
      2.   Shall unlawfully interfere with, befoul, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage or use, a lake, river, stream, canal,
ditch or public park, square, street, alley, bridge or highway; or
      3.   Shall in any way render a considerable number of persons insecure in
life or the use of property.
   D.   Dangerous blasting. Blasting, when the same is injurious to neighboring
property owners or to neighboring property.
   E.   Explosives. The manufacture, storing or keeping of explosives in large
quantities, without the special permission of the city council.
   F.   Unguarded cellar doors. Cellar doors on sidewalks, when not properly
guarded or protected.
   G.   Dangerous excavations. Excavations so close to any public street or
alley as to render it dangerous for a person using the way lawfully and with
ordinary care, unless such excavation is properly guarded against the
occurrence of accident.
   H.   Obstruction on streets or alleys. The obstruction of any street or
alley, or part thereof, except such part as may be necessary in the erection
and construction of buildings or other improvements upon the adjoining
property.
   I.   Offensive matter. The discharge of any sewage, garbage, refuse or other
noxious matter in any street, alley, gutter or highway. The accumulation of
refuse and other waste to the point it annoys, injures or endangers the safety,
health, comfort or repose of any person.
   J.   Dense smoke. Any chimney, stationary engine, boiler, smokestack or
other machine, engine, receptacle, pipe or conduit from which is emitted black
or dense smoke or fumes, or smoke, fumes or gases containing soot, cinders or
other matter, at such times or places or in such quantities as to be injurious
to the public health or as to result in such deposits of soot or other
substances as to injure or interfere with the health, comfort, peace or
enjoyment of neighboring residents.
   K.   Noxious or dry weeds. Weeds which are by their nature noxious or which
when dry constitute a danger or menace of catching or spreading of fire.
   L.   Vegetation which is a public nuisance. Any natural or person planted
products that have been allowed to grow unkept and have become hazardous, a
fire hazard, or become a rodent, diseased or insect determined habitat upon any
open, graded or improved parcel, lot or property within the city limits.
   M.   Burning weeds and rubbish. The burning of weeds or other rubbish,
except with the permission of, and in accordance with, the regulations of the
proper authorities by obtaining a burn permit from the city fire department
when sanctioned.
   N.   Public nuisance shall further mean any fence, wall, shed, deck, house,
garage, building, structure or any part of any of the aforesaid; or any tree,
pole, smokestack, vehicle, or any excavation, hole, pit, basement, cellar,
sidewalk, subspace, dock or any lot, land, yard, premises or location which in
its entirety, or in any part thereof, by reason of the condition in which the
same is found or permitted to be or remain, shall or may endanger the health,
safety, life, limb or property, or cause any hurt, harm, damage or injury to
any one or more individuals in the city, in any one or more of the following
particulars:
      1.   By reason of being a menace, threat and/or hazard to the general
health and safety of the community.
      2.   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, or use on, in, upon, about
or around the aforesaid property.
      3.   By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the
property, and/or being vacant, and/or failing to complete improvements of any
nature, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use of the property in the
immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful to the community in
which such property is situated or such condition exists.
   O.   Hazardous materials. Any substance as defined as a hazardous material
by the code of federal regulations 49 or any substance defined as a hazardous
waste by the code of federal regulations 40, which, because of improper
transportation, storage, use or disposal, may cause an unreasonable risk to
safety, health and/or property. The spill or escape of any such substance may,
in the discretion of the fire chief or police chief, be immediately declared a
public nuisance and ordered abated at the expense of the at fault party and/or
owner of such substance.
   P.   Outside storage of vehicles, trailers, equipment, building material and
other property, unless protected in such manner as to prevent the harboring of
insects, flies, rodents, snakes and other animals.
   Q.   Junk, abandoned and/or unregistered vehicles.
      1.   Except as stated herein, the keeping of, for any reason, any junk,
abandoned and/or unregistered vehicle or vehicles on any highway, street or
other thoroughfare or upon any public or private property within the city.
      2.   The provisions of subsection Q1 of this section do not apply to:
         a.   Persons licensed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section
487.050 or 487.410;
         b.   Junk or unregistered vehicles on private property of a licensed
dealer, manufacturer, distributor or rebuilder of vehicles;
         c.   Junk or unregistered vehicles on private property used as a farm,
ranch, mine or licensed vehicle repair shop;
         d.   Junk or unregistered vehicles on private property used by any
person engaged in the restoration of one or more vehicles entitled to
registration as a street rod, classic rod or classic vehicle;
         e.   No more than two (2) junk vehicles that do not qualify under
subsection Q2a through Q2d of this section;
         f.   No more than two (2) unregistered vehicles which:
            (1)   Are on private property and, if on the ground, have all tires
inflated and affixed thereto or, if raised, have all tires affixed thereto.
            (2)   Have no shattered window glass, and the hood, fender, doors,
truck and all other body components affixed thereto and maintained in a closed
position, and have not sustained collision damage.
      3.   The abandonment of a vehicle upon any highway, street or other
public thoroughfare, or upon any public or private property within the city.
      4.   The police chief or any peace officer who has reasonable grounds to
believe a vehicle has been abandoned shall attach a notice to said vehicle, in
the form of a citation for illegal parking, and if said vehicle has not been
removed within forty eight (48) hours after such notice is attached to said
vehicle, the police chief or peace officer is authorized to remove or cause to
be removed any such vehicle from any street, highway, public thoroughfare,
public or private property, for the purpose of storage or disposition, to any
garage or storage facility within the city.
      5.   If the owner of the junk, abandoned and/or unregistered vehicles
fails to remove the vehicle as designated in the notice of violation served
under subsection Q4 of this section, the city manager, the building inspector,
the fire chief, the chief law enforcement officer or the city engineer, or any
of them or their authorized designee, is authorized to have the junk, abandoned
and/or unregistered vehicle towed from the place of violation to a designated
place. The owner of the abandoned vehicle, including secured parties and the
owner and any secured parties of the junk or unregistered vehicle, as well as
the property owner or responsible party where the junk or unregistered vehicle
is improperly located, shall be held liable for the costs of removal and
storage. (Ord. 589, 10-3-2002)
5-1-5: WRITTEN COMPLAINT OF EXISTENCE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Whenever a written complaint is filed with the office of the city clerk
alleging the existence of a "public nuisance", as defined herein, within the
city, the office of the city clerk shall notify the city manager, who shall
have the appropriate city official investigate said complaint. Nothing herein
shall prevent the police chief, fire chief, building inspector or other city
personnel from identifying and reporting a nuisance. (Ord. 589, 10-3-2002)
5-1-6: INVESTIGATION OF WRITTEN COMPLAINT:
The official to whom such notification is given by the city manager, shall
investigate the facts claimed to amount to a nuisance and shall report
verification, or lack thereof, to the city manager within ten (10) days. (Ord.
589, 10-3-2002)
5-1-7: NOTICE OF PROPERTY OWNER AND OCCUPANT:
   A.   Prior to providing written notice to the property owner and/or occupant
as provided for in subsection B of this section, the police chief or his
designee, fire chief or his designee, or building official or his designee, may
mail a notice of the complaint regarding the nuisance to the owner or
appropriate person in charge or in control of the premises upon which the
nuisance exists. Such written notice shall provide that the commencement of
work to remove the nuisance must take place within a maximum of ten (10) days
of mailing of the notice, otherwise, the nuisance shall be filed with the city
manager for further action.
   B.   Upon receipt of the verification required by section
5-1-6 of this chapter, or if the nuisance is not removed as prescribed by the
notice provided by the police chief, fire chief or building official, the city
manager shall, unless the matter is referred to the city attorney as provided
hereafter, mail by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice of the
complaint of existence of a nuisance to the owner or appropriate person in
charge or in control of the premises upon which the nuisance exists. As a
separate or additional remedy, the city manager may provide the city attorney's
office a copy of all investigative material for the purpose of filing an action
in the municipal court for prosecution of a violation of this code and
abatement of the nuisance. In the event of a conviction in municipal court, the
judge, in addition to his or her other customary sentencing powers, may
exercise any of the powers conferred upon the city council upon a finding that
a public nuisance exists. (Ord. 601, 5-25-2003)
5-1-8: PROVISIONS OF NOTICE:
If the city manager elects to serve notice on the appropriate person, the
notice shall require:
   A.   Time Limit For Removal: Commencement of work for the removal of the
nuisance within five (5) days after mailing of the notice, and removal of the
nuisance by a specified date which shall be within a reasonable time after the
commencement of the work; or
   B.   Hearing Request: Within five (5) days of the mailing of the notice, a
request in writing from the owner or other appropriate person that a hearing be
held before the city council to determine if in fact a nuisance does exist,
whether such nuisance should not be abated or removed, or that it be shown that
there is no nuisance or that the nuisance was caused by the city. The date
specified in the notice by which the owner or other appropriate person must
abate the condition is tolled for the period during which a hearing is
requested and a decision is received.
   C.   Evidence Presented At Hearing: The city council may proceed to take
evidence at the hearing so noticed and the person so noticed is entitled to be
heard. (Ord. 589, 10-3-2002)
5-1-9: ABATEMENT ORDER BY CITY COUNCIL:
After such hearing, if in the judgment of the majority of the city council a
nuisance does in fact exist, the city council shall order the same to be abated
or removed within such reasonable time as the city council shall designate and
the city council shall instruct the city clerk to give notice to the owner or
other appropriate person in the manner herein above set out, to abate and
remove the same, which said notice shall require the commencement of work, to
abate or remove the same within five (5) days after proof of receipt of said
notice and to complete the same within a reasonable time thereafter as
designated by the city council. (Ord. 589, 10-3-2002)
5-1-10: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
   A.   Authorized: If work to abate and remove said nuisance is not commenced
within said five (5) day period after proof of receipt of said notice and
posting of notice, or said nuisance is not abated or removed within the
reasonable time designated by the city council, the city, through its various
departments, shall have authority to enter upon the property to abate or remove
the nuisance, and upon the completion of said abatement, departments shall file
with the city clerk a statement of costs to include the amount of work done,
all expenses and costs incurred of any nature whatsoever, a description of the
premises upon which the work was done, and the name of the person, if known,
chargeable with such costs and expenses, all as more specifically set forth
hereafter. The city council thereupon at a regular meeting shall determine if
said costs and expenses were proper, the name of the person chargeable
therewith and the description of the premises against which a lien shall be
placed.
   B.   Lien For Cost Of Removal: The city council may provide that the
expenses of removing or abating the nuisance shall be a lien upon the property
upon which the nuisance is located. Such lien shall be perfected by certified
mail of a notice of the lien to the owner, or other appropriate person, and
forwarded to the last known address as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes
section 268.4124(4)(a), and by filing with the county recorder a statement by
the city clerk of the amount of expenses due and unpaid and describing the
property subject to the lien.
   C.   Extent Of Abatement: In abating such nuisance, the city may go to
whatever reasonable and just extent may be necessary to complete the abatement
of the public nuisance and should it be practicable to salvage any material
derived from the aforesaid abatement, the city may sell the salvaged material
at public sale for the best price obtainable and shall keep an accounting of
the proceeds thereof.
   D.   Proceeds Of Sale Of Materials: The proceeds, if any, obtained from the
sale of any material salvaged as a result of an abatement of a public nuisance
by the city shall be deposited to the general fund of the city and any deficit
between the amount so received and the cost of the abatement may be levied as a
lien against the property in question by the city council and collected as any
other assessment by the city; however, any other alternative collection method
may be utilized by the city to recoup the deficit. Should the proceeds of the
sale of such salvaged material exceed the cost of abatement, the surplus, if
any, shall be paid to the owner of the property from which the public nuisance
was first abated when a proper claim to the excess is established.
   E.   Assistance Utilized In Abatement: In abating a public nuisance, the
city council may call upon any of the city departments or divisions for
whatever assistance shall be deemed necessary or may by private contract cause
the abatement of the public nuisance.
   F.   Statement Of Costs Filed: The city shall, within fifteen (15) days
after completing the removal and abatement, cause a statement of costs to be
filed with the city clerk. (Ord. 589, 10-3-2002)
5-1-11: NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Contents Of Notice: Upon receipt of the statement of costs, the city
clerk shall provide, by certified mail or hand delivery, to the property owner
of the property on which the public nuisance has been abated, notice of the
amounts set forth in the statement, plus an additional amount sufficient to
defray the costs of the notice and stating that the costs of abating the
nuisance is a lien upon the property. The city clerk shall further state the
full amount must be paid within twenty (20) days of the certified mail or hand
delivered notice or an objection filed within twenty (20) days of the certified
mail or hand delivered notice. If the payment or objection is not received, the
city clerk shall perfect the lien by filing a statement with the county
recorder of the amount of expenses due and unpaid in accordance with the city
charter section 2.290.
   B.   Objection; Hearing: If objection of either the property owner or their
representative are received by the city clerk prior to the expiration of the
twenty (20) day period, the city clerk shall refer the matter to the city
council for review at the next regular meeting. The owner shall be notified in
writing by regular mail that the city council shall hear evidence concerning
the statement of costs at the specified date and time.
   C.   Uphold Of Decision: If, after the hearing, it is determined the
proposed lien or any part of it is proper and authorized, the city council
shall direct the city clerk to record with the county recorder a statement of
the amount of expenses due and unpaid and a description of the property subject
to the lien. (Ord. 589, 10-3-2002)
5-1-12: OVERHEAD CHARGE, CIVIL PENALTIES:
The city council may provide any other civil penalties for persons responsible
for such nuisance as the city council deems proper under the circumstances and
in accordance with the provisions of the city charter section 2.290. (Ord. 589,
10-3-2002)
5-1-13: ABATEMENT COST COLLECTION:
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the maintenance of a suit by the city
against any of the persons herein mentioned to collect the expense of such
abatement or removal or the prosecution criminally under the ordinances of the
city of any person creating, maintaining, causing or committing a nuisance or
owning or in possession, charge or control of the real property upon which a
nuisance is created, maintained, caused or committed. (Ord. 589, 10-3-2002)
5-1-14: NATURE OF LIEN:
Any lien for the expense of abatement and civil penalty as provided herein
shall:
   A.   Be perfected by filing with the county recorder a statement by the city
clerk of the amount of expenses due and unpaid and describing the property
subject to the lien, which sum shall include any civil penalty assessed by the
city and shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum unless
otherwise mandated by law.
   B.   Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of
general taxes.
   C.   Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on the
account of the nonpayment of general taxes.
   D.   Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles,
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes. (Ord. 589, 10-3-2002)
5-1-15: REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
   A.   Generally: The remedies herein are cumulative and the city may proceed
under one or more such remedies.
   B.   Violations: In addition to any cost incurred, any person in violation
of any of the provisions of this nuisance code:
      1.   Upon conviction, shall be guilty of a city offense and punished as
provided in section
1-3-1 of this code;
      2.   Shall be subject to the abatement notices, appeal procedures and
lien or civil action provisions of this chapter;
      3.   Each day that a violation of this chapter continues, whether pursued
criminally or civilly, constitutes a separate violation for purposes of
criminal prosecution or civil proceedings; and
      4.   Upon a finding by a court of competent jurisdiction that a nuisance
exists, the court may order the city to secure and close the property. In
addition, the court may order the owner to pay the city for all costs and fees
incurred by the city in abating the condition and order any other appropriate
relief.
   C.   Transfer Not Relief: The transfer of any and all interest in any manner
of any property, building or premises against which a notice of violation has
been issued shall not relieve the parties served with such notice.
   D.   Requirements For Transfer: Any legal entity, real or statutory, who
transfers an interest, including, but not limited to, a sale, trade, lease,
gift or assignment in any property, building or premises against which a notice
of violation has been served shall either:
      1.   Obtain a written assumption of liability from the new owner of
record for the items listed in the notice of violation; or
      2.   Acknowledge, in writing, its responsibility for compliance with the
notice of violation.
A copy of the assumption or acknowledgment shall be presented to the city
within ten (10) days of the transfer.
   E.   Responsible Person: The owner of record, as recorded in the county
recorder's office records, of the property upon which a violation of this
nuisance code shall be presumed to be a person having lawful control over the
property, building or premises. If more than one person shall be recorded as
the owner, said person shall be jointly and severally presumed to be persons
having lawful control over the property, building or premises. (Ord. 589, 10-3-
2002)
5-1-16: EMERGENCY DECLARATION AND ABATEMENT:
All contrary provisions in this chapter notwithstanding, whenever the building
inspector or in his or her absence, the city manager, determines a public
nuisance exists and the public health, safety or welfare may be in immediate
danger, then he shall notify the mayor and/or a majority of the city council
who may call an emergency council meeting, in accordance with the open meeting
law and section 2.060 of the city charter, to seek an abatement order from the
city council. When emergency abatement is authorized, notice to the owner is
not required prior to abatement; however, the provisions regarding notice of
the statement of costs shall apply. (Ord. 589, 10-3-2002)
5-1-17: METHOD OF ADOPTION AND EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
That upon adoption, the city clerk is hereby directed to have the ordinance
codified herein published, by title only, together with the council members
voting for or against its passage, in the "Elko Daily Free Press" newspaper, a
newspaper printed and published in the city, for at least one publication.
This chapter shall be effective upon the publication mentioned above.
This chapter shall apply to all nuisances concerning any properties, conditions
and uses with the city irrespective of whether the nuisance, use or condition
was commenced or existed prior to the addition of this chapter. (Ord. 589, 10-
3-2002)
CHAPTER 2
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Disturbing The Peace
5-2-2: Assembling To Disturb The Peace Or To Commit Unlawful Act
5-2-3: Provoking Commission Of Breach Of Peace
5-2-4: Excessive Noise And Vibrations
5-2-5: Solicitation, Accosting Of Persons And Occupation Of Property Without
Permission
5-2-6: Obscene Language
5-2-7: Indecent Exposure
5-2-8: Public Urination And Defecation
5-2-9: Prohibition Against Sitting Or Lying In Doorways
5-2-10: Blocking Of Sidewalks
5-2-11: Penalties
5-2-1: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maliciously and wilfully disturb the
peace or quiet of any neighborhood, or person or family, by loud or unusual
noises, or by tumultuous and offensive conduct, threatening, traducing,
quarreling, challenging to fight, or fighting. (Ord. 782, 6-10-2014)
5-2-2: ASSEMBLING TO DISTURB THE PEACE OR TO COMMIT UNLAWFUL ACT:
It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons to assemble for the purpose of
disturbing the public peace, or committing any unlawful act, and not disperse,
on being desired or commanded so to do by a judge, justice of the peace,
sheriff, coroner, constable, police officer or other public officer. (Ord. 782,
6-10-2014)
5-2-3: PROVOKING COMMISSION OF BREACH OF PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to, by word, sign or gesture wilfully
provoke, or attempt to provoke, another person to commit a breach of the peace.
(Ord. 782, 6-10-2014)
5-2-4: EXCESSIVE NOISE AND VIBRATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to make, permit,
continue or cause to be made or to create any unreasonably loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noise in the city that is audible to a person with ordinary hearing
within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any district zoned residential except
for:
      1.   Sound emanating from scheduled athletic or special event on public
property;
      2.   Sounds from or at parades, or street fairs and similar festivals
sponsored, permitted or sanctioned by the city of Elko;
      3.   Noise from all governmental operations;
      4.   Noise from any sanitation operations;
      5.   Noise from all lawful fireworks or noisemakers on holidays;
      6.   Emergency work necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a fire, accident or natural disaster, to restore or repair public or
private utilities, or to protect persons or property from an imminent danger;
      7.   Subject to subsection C of this section, private construction
activities; and
      8.   Noise from lawful business activities (except for private
construction activities).
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to allow any idling of
vehicles for a period of longer than thirty (30) minutes in any district zoned
residential, industrial or commercial, or in any location within one hundred
fifty feet (150') of a district zoned residential.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to engage in private
construction activities between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. without the prior written approval of the city of Elko.
   D.   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
   DISTURBING: Noise which is perceived by a person of ordinary sensibilities
as interrupting the normal peace and calm of the area.
   UNNECESSARY: Any excessive or unusually loud sound or any sound which is of
such character, intensity and duration as to disturb the peace and quiet of any
neighborhood or which disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose,
health, peace or safety of any person.
   UNREASONABLY LOUD: Noise which is substantially incompatible with the time
and location where created to the extent that it creates an actual or imminent
interference with peace or good order. (Ord. 782, 6-10-2014)
5-2-5: SOLICITATION, ACCOSTING OF PERSONS AND OCCUPATION OF PROPERTY WITHOUT
PERMISSION:
It shall be an unlawful offense for any person to engage in any of the
following conduct:
   A.   Soliciting anyone to engage in or engaging in lewd or dissolute conduct
in any public place or in any place open to the public or exposed to public
view;
   B.   Without both prior permission from the property owner and a valid
license issued by the city (if a license is required), accosting any other
person in any public place or in any place open to the public for the purpose
of begging for food, money or other articles, or for the purpose of selling or
attempting to sell any form of personal property, to include food items or
small articles; provided, as used in this paragraph, the term "accosting" shall
mean approaching, speaking to or touching another person in a challenging or
aggressive way;
   C.   Going from house to house begging for food, money or other articles; or
   D.   Lodging in any building, structure or place, whether public or private,
without the permission of the owner or person entitled to the possession or in
control thereof;
   E.   Occupying public streets, curbs or roadway medians for the purpose of
begging for food, money or other articles when doing so creates a safety
hazard. (Ord. 782, 6-10-2014)
5-2-6: OBSCENE LANGUAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any profane or obscene language upon
any street or alley, or in any public place, within the hearing of any person.
(Ord. 782, 6-10-2014)
5-2-7: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, within the limits of the city, to
designedly make an indecent or obscene exposure of his or her person to the
person of another. (Ord. 782, 6-10-2014)
5-2-8: PUBLIC URINATION AND DEFECATION:
It is unlawful to urinate or defecate on public property except in a public
restroom or to urinate or defecate on private property in the view of any
person on public property. (Ord. 782, 6-10-2014)
5-2-9: PROHIBITION AGAINST SITTING OR LYING IN DOORWAYS:
   A.   No person shall sit or lie down in any entrance to any building if that
entrance is posted with a sign prohibiting such conduct. For purposes of this
section, "entrance" means the entire area between the outer edge of an entrance
to a building and the exterior door, and includes the entry way, doorway or
vestibule.
   B.   The prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to any person
sitting or lying down in any entrance to a building due to a medical emergency.
(Ord. 782, 6-10-2014)
5-2-10: BLOCKING OF SIDEWALKS:
   A.   A person shall not, with the intention of interfering with the free
passage of pedestrians thereon, physically block or attempt to block with his
or her own body or an object or vehicle, that portion of a public sidewalk used
for pedestrian travel.
   B.   A person shall not physically block or attempt to block with his or her
own body or any object or vehicle, with the intent of interfering with the free
ingress or egress of pedestrians or vehicular traffic, the entrance to or exit
from any public or private property abutting a public sidewalk. (Ord. 782, 6-
10-2014)
5-2-11: PENALTIES:
Every person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be punished as
provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 782, 6-10-2014)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMALS AND FOWL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: City Animal Shelter
5-3-3: Animal Control Officer And Animal Shelter Manager
5-3-4: Duties Of Animal Control Officer And Animal Shelter Manager
5-3-5: Independent Contractor
5-3-6: Animal Advisory Board (Rep. by Ord. 662, 2-28-2006)
5-3-7: Purchases For City Animal Shelter
5-3-8: Financial Accounting By Animal Control Officer And Animal Shelter
Manager
5-3-9: Dog License And Dog Or Cat Inoculation Required
5-3-10: Dog Collar; License Tag
5-3-11: Animals Running At Large
5-3-12: Animals Trespassing
5-3-13: Dogs And Cats In Heat; Indecent Exhibition Of Animals
5-3-14: Dangerous Or Vicious Animals
5-3-15: Animal Attacking Person, Another Animal Or Fowl
5-3-16: Wild Animals
5-3-17: Places Where Domesticated Animals Other Than Household Pets May Be Kept
5-3-18: Impounding
5-3-19: Notice To Owner; Redemption
5-3-20: Disposition Of Unclaimed, Unredeemed Or Infected Animals Or Fowl
5-3-21: Adoption And Disposition Of Impounded Dogs Or Cats
5-3-22: Adoption And Disposition Of Impounded Animals Other Than Dogs Or Cats
Or Fowl
5-3-23: Proceeds Of Redemption, Sales And Adoptions
5-3-24: Impounding Large Animals
5-3-25: Animal Noises; Nuisances
5-3-26: Unlawful Practices
5-3-27: Duty To Stop, Render Aid And Notice
5-3-28: Veterinarian Certificates And Tags
5-3-29: Penalties
5-3-30: Disposition Of Animals And Fowl Upon Request Of Owner Or Custodian
5-3-31: Animals Trespassing On Airport
5-3-32: Committing Of Nuisances
5-3-33: Animal Waste Disposal
5-3-34: Responsibility Of Parent And Head Of Household
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates:
ANIMAL        The person appointed by the chief of police for the purpose of enforcing the
CONTROL       provisions of this chapter, together with his/her deputies and authorized
OFFICER:      representatives.
              The person appointed by the city manager for the purpose of administering the
ANIMAL        city policies and regulation over the care and custody of animals at the city
SHELTER       animal shelter, over the care and maintenance of the city animal shelter
MANAGER:      facilities, over the care of the books and records of the city animal shelter and
              over the budgetary and personnel concerns of the city animal shelter.
ANIMALS:      Any and all types of livestock, dogs and all other animals, both domesticated and
              wild, male and female, singular and plural.
              Any person owning, keeping or possessing on his or her property in safe and
CAT FANCIER:  adequate facilities in excess of three (3) cats, as shall be permitted pursuant
              to subsection
              5-3-9C of this chapter.
              Any licensed establishment at which dogs are bred, raised for sale, trained,
COMMERCIAL    rented, boarded, cared for or quarantined, for profit, excluding dental, medical
KENNEL:       or surgical care. This definition shall not apply to the premises of a private
              dog fancier and the animals raised thereon.
CRUELTY OR    Every act of omission or commission whereby unjustifiable physical pain,
TORTURE:      suffering or death is caused to any animal.
CUSTODIAN:    Any person who has custody of any animal or permits the same to be kept or to
              stay on or about such person's premises.
              Any animal which shall bite, attempt to bite or have a propensity to bite any
DANGEROUS     human or animal, except that any animal that bites or attempts to bite any person
ANIMAL:       or other animal unlawfully upon its owner's premises or which is provoked or
              teased, shall not be deemed a dangerous animal.
DOG:          Both male and female.
              Any person owning, keeping or possessing on his or her property in safe and
DOG FANCIER:  adequate facilities in excess of three (3) dogs as shall be permitted pursuant to
              subsection 5-3-9C of this chapter.
              Person in the City of Elko making application for any dog license to provide the
              animal shelter staff with the name and address of the owner or custodian of such
              dog and the name, breed, color or custodian of such dog owned or kept by such
              owner or custodian. Upon proof, by the applicant for any dog license, proof of
              the inoculation herein required, the payment of the proper annual license fee set
DOG LICENSE:  by resolution of the City Council, and any penalties applicable and upon
              providing the information herein required, the animal shelter staff shall issue
              an appropriate dog license or certificate stating the calendar year for which
              such license fee is paid, the date of payment, the name and residence address of
              the persons to whom such license is issued, and the description of the dog and
              shall issue a metal or plastic tag number to correspond with the license or
              certificate with the calendar year stamped thereon.
              The removal of the distal one-quarter (1/4) of a community cat's left ear, which
              is approximately 3/8", or one centimeter (1 cm), in an adult and proportionally
              smaller in a kitten. This procedure is performed under sterile conditions while
EARTIPPING:   the cat is under anesthesia, in compliance with any applicable federal or state
              law, and under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian. Eartips are designed
              to identify a community cat as being sterilized and lawfully vaccinated for
              rabies.
FERAL CAT:    A member of the domestic species Felis Catus and shall mean a free-roaming cat
              without an owner that is typically not socialized to human contact.
              A person or organization who, in accordance with and pursuant to a policy of
FERAL CAT     trap-neuter-return, provides care, including, food, shelter or medical care to a
CAREGIVER:    feral cat, while not being considered the owner, harborer, controller, or keeper
              of a feral cat.
FOWL:         Any and all fowl and poultry, domesticated and wild, male and female, singular
              and plural.
HOUSEHOLD     The following list of domesticated animals are defined as household pets:
PETS:
             A.   Domesticated dogs, excluding hybrids with wolves, coyotes or jackals.
             B.   Domesticated cats, excluding hybrids with ocelots or margays.
             C.   Vietnamese potbelly pig not used for commercial or breeding purposes.
             D.   Domesticated races of golden hamster.
             E.   Domesticated races of guinea pigs.
             F.   Domesticated races of rats or mice.
             G.   Two (2) or less domesticated rabbits not used for commercial or breeding
              purposes.
             H.   Parrots, parakeets or finches.
             I.   Two (2) or less ducks or doves not used for commercial or breeding purposes.
             J.   All captive bred canaries.
             K.   Domesticated races of goldfish.
              L.   Aquarium fish, meaning those species which are listed in H. Axelrod and W.
             Vorderwinkler, "Encyclopedia Of Tropical Fishes", 29th edition, 1988, except
              those species prohibited by the Nevada division of wildlife.
             M.   All nonvenomous reptile species, except those species prohibited by the
              Nevada division of wildlife.
             N.   All species of the class Insecta.
             O.   Two (2) or less chukker, partridge, valley quail, pheasant, peafowl not used
              for commercial or breeding purposes.
             P.   Gerbils.
             Q.   European ferrets.
             R.   Hedgehogs.
             S.   Four (4) or less laying hens not used for commercial or breeding purposes
              kept in a secured chicken coop.
IMPOUND:      Shall not include or be construed as the voluntary turning in of any animal or
              fowl by the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl.
              A dog, whether male or female, which has been surgically rendered incapable of
NEUTERED DOG: producing offspring, as evidenced by a signed statement to that effect by a
              licensed veterinarian.
NONNEUTERED   A dog, whether male or female, which has not been surgically rendered incapable
DOG:          of producing offspring, as evidenced by a signed statement to that effect by a
              licensed veterinarian.
              Any person who is a license-holder of an animal or any person keeping, harboring,
              having custody of or control of an animal, or permitting any animal to be in his
OWNER:        residence or upon his property or premises. The term does not include a
              veterinarian, an operator of an animal establishment, an employee or agent of the
              city while carrying out any provision of this chapter.
              Any profitmaking or commercial establishment, premises or part thereof,
PET SHOP:     maintained for the purchase, sale, exchange or hire of animals of any type;
              except that the term shall not include livestock auctions.
PUBLIC        Includes streets, alleys, public buildings, parks, schoolyards, and all other
PLACES:       property owned or controlled by the city of Elko, county of Elko or state of
              Nevada.
              Except as herein expressly provided, shall mean within the city and off the
RUNNING AT    premises of the owner, or custodian of the animal or fowl, and not accompanied by
LARGE:        the owner, a member of the immediate family of the owner, or the custodian of
              such animal or fowl, and controlled by a leash (not to exceed 8 feet) or at
              "heel" beside a competent person and obedient to that person's commands.
SECURED       A covered cage or pen which houses poultry and controls free movement.
CHICKEN COOP:
              Any animal that is recognized under the Americans with Disabilities Act as a
              service animal that is individually trained to do work or perform tasks for the
              benefit of an individual with a disability, including but not limited to, a
              physical sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or mental disability. Other species
SERVICE       of animals, whether wild or domestic, trained or untrained are not service
ANIMAL:       animals for the purposes of this definition. The work or tasks performed by the
              service animal must be directly related to the handler's disability. The crime
              deterrent effects of an animal's presence and the provision of emotional support,
              well being, comfort or companionship do not constitute work or tasks for the
              purposes of this definition. A letter from the owners Physician designating the
              animal as a service animal is required.
TRAP-NEUTER-  Practiced by cat caregiver persons or organizations, the non-lethal process of
RETURN:       humanely trapping, sterilizing, vaccinating for rabies, eartipping, and returning
              feral cats to their original location.
VETERINARIAN: A person who is validly currently licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the
              state of Nevada.
WILD ANIMALS  All living members of the kingdom Animalia, including those born or raised in
AND           captivity, except the following animals which are defined as domesticated
DOMESTICATED  animals:
ANIMALS:
              A.   The species Canis familiaris (domesticated dogs, excluding purebred wolves,
              coyotes or jackals). Hybrids with wolves are also defined as wildanimals until a
             rabies vaccination for wolf hybrids has been approved by the Nevada state board
              of veterinary medicine and the city has received notification of such approval.
              At such time hybrids with wolves will be defined as domesticated animals.
             B.   The species Felis catus (domesticated cats, excluding hybrids with ocelots
              or margays).
             C.   The species Equus caballus (domesticated horses).
             D.   The species Equus asinus (donkeys).
             E.   The species Bos taurus (cattle).
             F.   The subspecies Ovis aries (domesticated sheep).
             G.   The species Capra hircus (domesticated goats).
             H.   The subspecies Sus scrofa domestica (swine, including Vietnamese potbelly).
             I.   Domesticated races of the species Gallus domesticus (chicken) or Meleagris
              gallopavo (domesticated turkey).
             J.   Domesticated races of the species Mesocricetus auratus (golden hamster).
             K.   Domesticated races of the species Cavia aperea porcellus (guinea pigs).
             L.   Domesticated races of rats or mice.
             M.   Domesticated races of the species Oryctolagus cuniculus (rabbits).
              N.   All captive bred members of the species of the families Psittaeidae
             (parrots, parakeets), Anatidae (ducks, geese), Fringillidae (finches), and
              Columbidae (domesticated doves and pigeons).
             O.   All captive bred members of the species Serinius canaria of the class Aves
              (canaries).
             P.   Domesticated races of the species Carrassius auratus (goldfish).
              Q.   Aquarium fish, meaning those species which are listed in H. Axelrod and W.
             Vorderwinkler, "Encyclopedia Of Tropical Fishes", 29th edition, 1988, except
              those species prohibited by the Nevada division of wildlife.
             R.   All nonvenomous reptile species, except those species prohibited by the
              Nevada division of wildlife.
             S.   All species of the class Insecta.
             T.   All members of the subfamily Phaisianae (chukker, partridge, valley quail,
              pheasant, peafowl).
             U.   The species Bison (American bison).
             V.   The species Meriones unguiculatus (gerbils).
             W.   The species Llama glama (llama).
             X.   The species Mustela putorius (European ferret).
             Y.   The family Erinaceidae (hedgehogs). (Ord. 804, 5-25-2016; amd. Ord. 848, 2-
              11-2020; Ord. 853, 5-26-2020; Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
 
5-3-2: CITY ANIMAL SHELTER:
A public city animal shelter is hereby provided and established, and the same
shall be located at such place in the city as shall be fixed from time to time
by the city council. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006)
5-3-3: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER AND ANIMAL SHELTER MANAGER:
   A.   Animal Control Officer: Unless otherwise provided by the chief of
police, there shall be an animal control officer.
   B.   Animal Shelter Manager: The city manager shall appoint an animal
shelter manager. If at any time there should be no duly appointed and acting
animal shelter manager, the duties of the animal shelter manager shall be
performed by a person appointed by the city manager. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd.
Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
5-3-4: DUTIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER AND ANIMAL SHELTER MANAGER:
   A.   Animal Control Officer: Animal control officer duties are as follows:
      1.   The animal control officer is hereby empowered to enforce all
provisions of this chapter and all laws of the state relating to the care,
treatment, control, regulations and impounding of animals. The animal control
officer is further empowered to take up, impound and safely keep any animal
found to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The animal control officer shall deliver to the animal shelter
manager and keep a true and complete record of the number and description of
all animals and fowl taken into his/her custody, with the date of their
receipt, and the date and manner of their disposal.
      3.   The animal control officer is hereby authorized and directed to take
up and impound any animal kept or found on private or public property if such
animal has been observed by said animal control officer to be in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter, or if such animal is being subjected to
torture or cruelty as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes section 574.050. The
officer should exercise caution when utilizing this right of entry. If the
owner by some act, bars the officer's way onto the premises, the officer should
retire from the scene. The animal control officer shall leave written notice of
impoundment on the premises from which the animal is taken at the time it is
taken.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere or attempt to
interfere with the animal control officer, any police officer, the animal
shelter manager, or any shelter employees in the performance of any duty
imposed by the provisions of this chapter and every person who shall unlawfully
take or attempt to take any dog seized pursuant to the provisions hereof, from
the custody of the animal control officer or any police officer and every
person who shall remove or attempt to remove from the city animal shelter any
dog, cat or other animal or fowl impounded therein, without having first
redeemed the same as provided, or obtained permission from the animal control
officer or animal shelter manager to do so, shall be subject to the penalties
provided by this chapter.
   B.   Animal Shelter Manager: Animal shelter manager duties are as follows:
      1.   The animal shelter manager shall act as the chief administrator of
the city animal shelter and shall provide for the intake and care of animals
brought to the city animal shelter by the animal control officer, police
officers, and other persons as authorized by this chapter.
      2.   The animal shelter manager shall keep a true and complete record of
the number and description of all animals and fowl taken into custody, with the
date of their receipt, and the date and manner of their disposal, with the fees
and charges collected on account of the animals and fowl, and the disposition
thereof. The record shall be kept in a book or database provided for that
purpose, which shall be the record book of the office of the animal shelter
manager, and not be removed therefrom. He/she shall also keep conspicuously
posted, at the entrance of the animal shelter and in his/her office, a list of
all animals impounded and detained by him/her. He/she shall also provide
necessary subsistence for all animals and fowl while in his/her custody.
      3.   The animal shelter manager shall provide for the daily sanitation,
maintenance and repair of the animal shelter facilities and shall promptly
notify the city manager in the event major maintenance and repair needs are
discovered.
      4.   The animal shelter manager shall administer in conjunction with the
human resource department and the city manager, the city policies and
procedures concerning personnel matters, including, but not limited to,
disciplinary matters, record keeping, wages and benefits.
      5.   The animal shelter manager shall participate in the city budgetary
process concerning the animal shelter to the extent required by the city
manager. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd. Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
5-3-5: INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR:
The city council shall have the authority to provide for by contract the
maintenance and operation of the city animal shelter by an independent
contractor. In such event, the contract may modify and supersede provisions
contained herein regarding the office of the animal shelter supervisor and his
duties. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006)
5-3-6: ANIMAL ADVISORY BOARD:
(Rep. by Ord. 662, 2-28-2006)
5-3-7: PURCHASES FOR CITY ANIMAL SHELTER:
Unless such powers are otherwise provided for by contract by the city council,
the animal shelter manager shall have the power to purchase on the credit of
the city, all necessary forage or feed for impounded animals and fowl, and
shall certify to all accounts therefor, which upon presentation to the city
council, if found correct, shall be ordered paid. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd.
Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
5-3-8: FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING BY ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER AND ANIMAL SHELTER
SUPERVISOR:
It shall be the independent duty of the animal control officer and animal
shelter manager to deliver to the city finance department, on a timely basis or
as required by the financial department, all monies received in the performance
of their respective duties. All expenditures by the animal control officer or
animal shelter manager shall be made pursuant to the city purchasing policy.
(Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd. Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
5-3-9: DOG LICENSE AND DOG OR CAT INOCULATION REQUIRED:
   A.   License And Inoculation Required: Except as otherwise provided herein,
it shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring or having the care,
custody or possession of any dog or cat or ferret to keep or maintain any such
dog or cat or ferret in any place in the city, unless such dog is licensed and
such dog or cat or ferret is inoculated as provided in this chapter. For
purposes of prosecution, failure to license and failure to inoculate are
separate offenses. All cats or ferrets over four (4) months of age shall be
inoculated against rabies by a veterinarian. A person having a dog or cat
fancier's permit or a special use permit, as set forth in subsection C of this
section, may make an application to the animal control officer for inspection
of their dogs or cats by the animal control officer; and shall then pay the
annual fee set by resolution of the city council on their spayed/neutered or
nonspayed/nonneutered dog or cat to the city.
   B.   Requirements For Licensing: The animal shelter personnel or authorized
representatives shall not license any dog until:
      1.   It has been inoculated against rabies by a veterinarian and the
owner or custodian of said dog has produced a certificate of inoculation from
such veterinarian, the expiration date of which shall not occur prior to
October 1, of the calendar year from which the license is issued; or
      2.   The owner or custodian of said dog shall furnish a statement from a
veterinarian to the effect that said dog need not be or should not be
inoculated; or
      3.   The owner or custodian of such dog shall provide the animal shelter
personnel with proof satisfactory to such person, in lieu of a certificate of
inoculation, that said dog has been inoculated with canine and antirabies
vaccine approved by and in the manner prescribed by the state department of
agriculture.
   C.   Number Permitted; Permit Requirements: No person shall keep more than
three (3) dogs or three (3) cats over four (4) months of age at any place, on
any premises, or in any one residence, located within the city, used or
occupied by human beings, without first obtaining a dog or cat fancier's permit
or a special use permit as authorized in subsection K of this section from the
city; the dog or cat fancier permit, which shall be issued by the city clerk or
his/her designee. The signature of the city clerk or his/her designee shall
affirm that animal control has reviewed the application and consulted with the
city clerk or his/her designee regarding the application. Said application for
a fancier's permit, may be refused for a time to meet the requirements of
subsection E of this section. If the application for a fancier's permit is
granted, said permit shall be issued with such restrictions or on such
conditions as may be deemed necessary or advisable by the animal control
officer to prevent the keeping of such dogs or cats from becoming a nuisance
and is subject to revocation for violation of the restrictions or conditions. A
dog or cat fancier's permit shall be issued for an annual fee as set by
resolution of the city council, which is not subject to proration or refund.
Any dog or cat fancier meeting the provisions of this subsection and having a
validly issued permit in his possession need not have the property where the
dogs or cats are maintained rezoned. A dog or cat fancier may not in any event
keep and maintain on his property more than a total of six (6) adult dogs or
six (6) adult cats (unless permitted pursuant to subsection K of this section)
over the age of four (4) months. Such permit shall be for a term of one
calendar year, unless sooner revoked by the process for revocation set forth
under this chapter.
   D.   Commercial Kennels; Pet Shops: Every person owning, operating or
maintaining a commercial kennel and/or pet shop within the city must first
obtain a kennel and/or pet shop license in addition to any business license
required from the city to operate said kennel and/or pet shop. The issuance of
any license therefor shall at all times be subject to planning and zoning
regulations of the city; provided, however, that this section as to the
business license shall not apply to quarters maintained by political entities
for the purpose of using animals in law enforcement or animal control or to
quarters maintained by veterinarians for the purpose of surveillance or
treatment of animals on a temporary basis.
   E.   Inspection Of Premises: Any person required to obtain any permit under
any of the provisions of this section shall permit their premises to be
inspected by the animal control officer at reasonable times and the animal
control officer shall approve the fancier's permit if he finds all of the
following to be true:
      1.   Keeping the dogs or cats at the location specified in the
application will not violate any ordinance, rule or regulation of the city or
any law of the state; and
      2.   The premises contain an adequate enclosure for keeping the dogs or
cats; and
      3.   Maintenance of the dogs or cats will not endanger the peace, health
or safety of persons residing in the city; and
      4.   The premises are capable of being maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, and any dog or cat therein will not be subject to neglect, cruelty
or abuse; and
      5.   Keeping and maintenance of the dogs or cats will not constitute a
nuisance.
   F.   License Fee:
      1.   Every person owning or having the care, custody or control of, or
maintaining any dog or dogs, four (4) months old or older in the city, shall
pay to the animal shelter personnel an annual license fee as set by resolution
of the city council for each neutered dog and each nonneutered dog. All owners
of dogs said to be neutered must have proof of neutering or a certificate from
a veterinarian. Such license shall be for the calendar year, or the parts
thereof remaining after the date such license is obtained and shall be payable
in advance.
      2.   No prorations or deductions shall be made on fractional parts of any
year. All dog licenses shall expire on December 31 of the year in which issued.
The annual license fee of dogs not previously licensed hereunder shall be due
and payable when such dog reaches four (4) months of age or upon acquiring
ownership or possession of an unlicensed dog four (4) months of age or older,
or upon the owner or custodian of any dog four (4) months of age or older
establishing residence in the city. If any dog license fee payable hereunder is
not paid within sixty (60) days from the date it became due, a penalty as set
by resolution of the city council, shall be paid to the animal shelter
personnel with and in addition to the regular annual license fee for such dog.
It shall be the duty of the person making application for any dog license to
provide the animal shelter personnel with the name and address of the owner or
custodian of such dog and the name, breed, color or custodian of such dog owned
or kept by such owner or custodian. Upon proof, by the applicant for any dog
license, of the inoculation herein required, the payment of the proper annual
license fee and any penalties applicable and upon providing the information
herein required, the animal shelter personnel shall issue an appropriate dog
license or certificate stating the calendar year for which such license fee is
paid, the date of payment, the name and residence address of the persons to
whom such license is issued, and the description of the dog and shall issue a
metal or plastic tag number to correspond with the license or certificate with
the calendar year stamped thereon. If such dog tag shall be lost at any time
prior to the expiration date thereof it shall be the duty of the owner, or
person having control of the dog for which said lost tag was issued to procure
a new tag and pay a fee as set by resolution of the city council to the animal
shelter personnel.
   G.   Inoculation; Reinoculation: All dogs or cats and ferrets kept, harbored
or maintained in the city limits, four (4) months of age or older shall be
inoculated by a veterinarian with an antirabies vaccine approved by and in the
manner and at such intervals as may be prescribed by the state department of
agriculture, from time to time; provided, that every dog or cat shall be
reinoculated at not more than twenty four (24) month intervals thereafter if
inoculated with modified live vaccine, or at not more than twelve (12) month
intervals if inoculated with killed vaccine. Ferrets shall be reinoculated at
not more than twelve (12) month intervals. It shall be unlawful for the owner
or custodian of any dog or cat or ferret to keep, maintain or allow such dog or
cat or ferret to remain within the city limits unless such dog or cat or ferret
shall have been inoculated with antirabies vaccine by a veterinarian at the
time and in the manner specified in this chapter.
   H.   Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply to dogs or
cats owned by or in the custody or in the control of persons who are
nonresidents of the city and are temporarily within the city for a period of
not to exceed fifteen (15) days, nor to dogs or cats brought into the city
exclusively for the purpose of participating in any dog or cat show or
exhibition. Inoculations are required for service animals, however license fees
are waived. No such dog shall run at large in the city and no owner or
custodian of such dog shall permit the same to run at large in the city.
   I.   Transferability; Refunds: Dog tags and licenses shall not be
transferable from one dog to another and no refund shall be made on any dog
license fee because of death of the dog or the owner's leaving the city before
the expiration of the license.
   J.   Use Of Proceeds: All proceeds collected under the provisions of this
section for the licensing of dogs and cats shall be deposited in the general
fund of the city and budgeted for the use and benefit of the animal shelter.
   K.   Special Use Permit:
      1.   The city council may by special exception, authorize the keeping of
up to eight (8) dogs or ten (10) cats. A person seeking such special use permit
shall file a written application therefor with the city council. Each
application shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount established by a
schedule adopted by resolution of the city council and filed in the office of
the city clerk. Where, in the opinion of the city council such authorization or
exception may be granted if accompanied by appropriate conditions and
safeguards, the city council shall impose such conditions and safeguards and
make them part of the permit. Said special use permit may be revoked for
violations of the conditions, restrictions or safeguards imposed therein.
      2.   No special use permit authorization by the city council shall be
authorized unless the city council determines that keeping more than six (6)
dogs or cats meets the requirements of subsection E of this section and the
following requirements:
         a.   The specific site is an appropriate location for such use;
         b.   The special use will not be injurious, dangerous or a nuisance to
the public health, or hazardous to the public safety;
         c.   Will not produce noise, odor or other public nuisance conditions
in amounts objectionable or detrimental to the normal use of adjacent property;
and
         d.   If located in residential zoned area, will not be injurious to
the character or amenities thereof.
   L.   Revocation Of Fancier Or Special Use Permit: Any fancier's permit or
special use permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to further restrictions and revocation. Upon application of any interested
person, the animal control officer shall investigate and review whether any
fancier permit or special use permit shall be restricted or revoked. If the
animal control officer determines to recommend restrictions or revocation, the
animal control officer shall prepare an order to show cause setting forth the
recommendation, the reasons therefor, the circumstances of any complaints
received by the city and the date, time and location for a hearing on the
matter before the city council. Said order shall be served on the permittee by
personal service or certified mailing at least ten (10) days before the
intended hearing. At the hearing, the determination of the city council shall
be final.
   M.   Renewal Of Fancier Or Special Use Permit: Fanciers' permits and special
use permits shall automatically renew upon the payment of the required fees for
such permits; provided, however, the animal control officer may inspect the
premises prior to such renewal and institute procedures consistent with a
permit revocation or denial where circumstances so warrant. Moreover, no permit
which is the subject of pending revocation procedures may be renewed prior to
the outcome of such process. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd. Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
5-3-10: DOG COLLAR; LICENSE TAG:
Every owner or custodian of a dog licensed under the provisions of this chapter
shall provide such dog with a suitable collar or harness around the neck or
forepart of the body of such dog to which the license tag issued by the city
and the required inoculation tag shall be affixed, and shall see that the
collar and the tag are constantly worn. It shall be unlawful for the owner or
custodian of any dog to permit said dog to be on the streets or public places
in the city unless such dog is collared and/or harnessed with the city license
tag and inoculation tag for such dog affixed thereto as required herein, or on
any streets or other public places in the city, and any dog which is not
wearing the city license tag, inoculation tag and collar or harness as herein
provided may be taken up, impounded and disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006)
5-3-11: ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of any animal, whether licensed
or unlicensed under this chapter, to suffer, permit or allow such animal to run
at large within the city. For the purposes of this chapter, all animals within
the city and off of the premises of the owner or custodian of such animal and
not in an automobile, trailer or similar confinement, or which is not
effectively restrained by leash, chain, strap or cord not exceeding eight feet
(8') in length attached to the collar or harness of such animal and held by
some person or fastened to some stationary object shall be deemed running at
large. This provision shall not apply to special areas that may be designated
by the city manager for training programs or purposes under direct obedience
command. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006)
5-3-12: ANIMALS TRESPASSING:
Any person may apprehend, capture or take up the same by any reasonable and
humane means any animal or fowl trespassing upon his property to his injury or
annoyance and immediately turn it over to the owner or custodian of such animal
or fowl, or to the animal control officer or to any police officer of the city,
who shall impound and dispose of by adoption, gift, sale or euthanasia such
animal or fowl pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful
for any person to turn over any animal or fowl to the animal control officer or
a police officer of the city without revealing who the owner or custodian of
such animal or fowl is, if such person knows the identity of the owner or
custodian. It shall be unlawful for any person other than the animal control
officer or any police officer in the performance of their official duties, to
apprehend, capture or take up any animal or fowl under the provisions of this
chapter and retain possession or control of the same for more than eight (8)
hours. (Ord. 263, 8-22-1978; amd. Ord. 883, 8-22- 2023)
5-3-13: DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT; INDECENT EXHIBITION OF ANIMALS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any female dog or
cat in heat to keep, harbor or otherwise maintain such dog or cat in the city,
unless the same is confined in a boarding kennel or veterinary hospital or on
the owner's property in a totally enclosed area, during the entire period such
dog or cat is in heat. Any female dog or cat in heat which is not so confined
is hereby declared a public nuisance and may be apprehended and impounded and
disposed of under the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit any stud horse or bull,
or other animal, indecently, or let any male animal to any female animal unless
the same be done in some place wholly enclosed and out of public view. (Ord.
249, 7-26-1977)
5-3-14: DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Dangerous Animal Defined: It shall be prima facie evidence that an
animal is dangerous when it has bitten any person, other than a person who was
trespassing upon the property of the owner or custodian of the animal, or is
attacking or has bitten, injured or killed any livestock or other animal, or is
an animal of a vicious character, habit or disposition.
   B.   Notification Of Bite: Whenever the owner of any animal has knowledge
that such animal has bitten a human being, he shall immediately notify the
police department of the incident, and confine such animal in a suitable
quarantine area consisting of a completely enclosed area which prevents the
animal from coming into physical contact with other animals or people, for a
period of ten (10) days, or until a written release is secured from a licensed
veterinarian. If the owner is not present or if the owner does not have a
suitable quarantine area, the animal control officer or any police officer may
seize such animal, whether on or off the owner's premises, and such animal
shall be impounded, at owner's expense, for observation, and shall not be
released for a period of ten (10) days or until a written release is issued by
a licensed veterinarian. Except as provided hereafter, if a dog has been
impounded and the owner appears and claims the animal, the animal control
officer shall release the animal to the owner, upon proof that the owner has a
suitable area in which to quarantine the animal. Upon release of the animal to
its owner, the owner shall immediately confine the animal for the remainder of
the ten (10) day period. At the discretion of the animal control officer, with
the approval of the animal shelter supervisor, an animal may remain impounded
at the expense of the city during the pendency of criminal charges due to
public safety concerns. Any person contesting the continuation of an impound
under this provision may seek relief from the municipal court by motion.
   C.   Destruction: If any animal so impounded develops rabies, or becomes
vicious beyond control, said animal shall be destroyed in a humane manner. The
owner will be notified and will be responsible to pay the incurred fees.
   D.   Killing Or Removing: No person shall kill, or cause to be killed, any
rabid animal, any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies, or any
animal biting a human, except as herein provided, nor remove the same from the
city limits without written permission from the animal control officer.
   E.   Possession Prohibited; Exceptions: It shall be unlawful for any person
to knowingly own or keep any vicious or dangerous animal within the city. It
shall be no defense to a violation of this section that the owner has obtained
a license for such animal. This section does not prevent the keeping of a
"guard" or "sentry" dog so long as such dog is trained to such a degree that it
complies with this section and adequate warning of such dog is provided
whenever or wherever required by statutory or case law of the state.
   F.   Substantial Bodily Harm: If any animal bites or attacks a person, and
such bite or attack results in "substantial bodily harm", as defined by Nevada
Revised Statutes, such animal shall be immediately surrendered to the animal
control officer, and shall forthwith be destroyed in a humane manner, and shall
be subsequently tested for rabies. The owner will be notified and will be
responsible to pay the incurred fees.
   G.   Determination Of Dangerous Or Vicious By Court: In the event an animal
is found by a court to be dangerous or vicious, the court will order, in
addition to the other fines and penalties, that such animal be euthanized at
the owner's or custodian's expense. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd. Ord. 883, 8-22-
2023)
5-3-15: ANIMAL ATTACKING PERSON, ANOTHER ANIMAL OR FOWL:
It shall be lawful for any person to kill or destroy any dangerous or vicious
animal when it has attacked any person who is not trespassing on the premises
of the owner or custodian of such animal and it is necessary for the protection
of any person, or to prevent the killing or injuring of another animal or fowl
by such vicious animal. (Ord. 263, 8-22-1978)
5-3-16: WILD ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibition; Exception: It is unlawful for any person to possess or own
any wild animal within the city, except for the purpose of public display in
any circus, zoo or educational display, or if the wild animal is being used for
medical purposes by a hospital or medical laboratory.
   B.   Impound; Destruction: Wild animals owned or maintained in violation of
this section shall be impounded, destroyed in a humane manner or otherwise
disposed of in some reasonable manner.
   C.   Conditions For Keeping: The keeping of any animal defined by this
chapter as wild, but which the owner and the animal control officer certify as
not being dangerous or vicious at the time of the enactment of this chapter,
may be continued upon the following terms and conditions:
      1.   The animal may not be a wild animal prohibited by state or federal
laws from being kept by humans such as, but not limited to coyotes, raccoons,
bats and skunks.
      2.   A certificate of waiver of compliance must be issued by the city
clerk to any such owner of a nondangerous and nonvicious wild animal upon
written application by such owner for such certificate. The city clerk shall
designate the form of such application, but shall at least require a statement
of the name and address of the owner, the place where such wild animal is being
kept and sufficient information to identify the wild animal. The city clerk
shall keep a record of all such certificates issued.
      3.   No such waiver shall be made without a certificate.
      4.   No such certificate shall be issued unless the owner certifies in
the application that the wild animal is at all times being kept under the
control of the owner and kept under conditions which are clean, free of health
hazards or any other offensive or unwholesome condition.
      5.   Such certificate shall terminate upon the sale, removal, death or
other disposition of the nondangerous and nonvicious wild animal to which the
certificate relates.
      6.   No certificate issued shall be transferable.
      7.   Application for such certificate must be made at the city clerk's
office within two (2) months from February 14, 1995. Any person who fails to
make such application within such time shall be deemed to have terminated and
abandoned the right to keep the nondangerous and nonvicious wild animal
prohibited by this chapter and any such wild animal shall be either removed
from the city by the owner or shall be impounded and destroyed in a humane
manner or otherwise disposed of in some reasonable manner. (Ord. 441, 2-14-
1995)
5-3-17: PLACES WHERE DOMESTICATED ANIMALS OTHER THAN HOUSEHOLD PETS MAY BE
KEPT:
   A.   Areas Permitted: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, raise,
harbor, care for, graze, feed or maintain any one or more domesticated animals,
other than household pets, anywhere within the city limits, except in or on the
following described areas or premises:
      1.   The area commonly known as Elko County Fairgrounds, as it may be
modified from time to time.
      2.   In zoning districts where the keeping of domesticated animals other
than household pets is specifically permitted by title 3, chapter 2 of this
code, if any.
      3.   Livestock yards and livestock auction yards while commercially
licensed by the city.
      4.   Premises of veterinarians while licensed by the city.
      5.   Slaughterhouses and meatpacking houses while commercially licensed
by the city.
   B.   Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   In the above described areas, no such domesticated animals other
than household pets shall be kept or maintained so that they are within one
hundred feet (100') of any dwelling house (other than that occupied by the
owner of such domesticated animal or household pet), any public building, park,
school or hospital; or any other public place.
      2.   Keeping, having or maintaining any domesticated animals other than
household pets in areas prohibited by this chapter is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and a danger to the public health and safety.
      3.   The keeping of any domesticated animals other than household pets by
the owner thereof in areas prohibited by this chapter which existed at the time
of enactment of this chapter or any applicable amendment is a nonconforming use
subject to section
3-2-19 of this code.
   C.   Livestock Grazing: It shall not constitute a violation of this chapter
for livestock to graze in the following areas or for the following uses:
      1.   In zoning districts where livestock grazing is specifically
permitted by title 3, chapter 2 of this code, if any; or
      2.   On undeveloped public land managed by a federal or state agency for
livestock grazing purposes; provided, the public land must be enclosed by a
perimeter fence suitable for containing livestock; further provided, the
livestock grazing use within the enclosed area may not conflict with other
permitted uses within the city limits, to include, without limitation, adjacent
residential or commercial uses.
      3.   By the city for the control or removal of vegetation. (Ord. 804, 5-
25-2016)
5-3-18: IMPOUNDING:
   A.   Authority To Impound: It shall be the duty of the animal control
officer, any assistants to the animal control officer, and every police officer
in the city to apprehend, take up, seize and take into custody any domesticated
animal or household pet found running at large or trespassing contrary to the
provisions of this chapter, any unlicensed dog, any dog which is not wearing
the license and inoculation tag required, any dog or cat in heat which is not
confined as required herein by this chapter, any other domesticated animal or
household pet which under the provisions of this chapter is to be impounded
and, subject to the provisions in this chapter relating to at large animals,
dangerous animals and animals attacking persons or livestock, to impound such
domesticated animal or household pet in the city animal shelter or other
suitable place. When dogs or cats are found running at large, and their
ownership is known to the animal control officer, such dogs or cats need not be
impounded, but the agent may, at their discretion, return the animal to the
owner and cite the owners of such dogs or cats to appear in court to answer to
charges of violation of this chapter. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd. Ord. 804, 5-
25-2016; Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
   B.   Estrays: Estray livestock regulated under Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 569 shall be administered pursuant to the provisions and regulations
applicable thereto. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006)
5-3-19: NOTICE TO OWNER; REDEMPTION:
   A.   Not later than one day after the impounding of any animal or fowl, the
animal shelter manager shall attempt to notify the owner or custodian of such
animal or fowl. Within five (5) days of the date of impound, the owner or
custodian of any dog or cat so impounded may reclaim such dog or cat upon
inoculation or proof of inoculation as in this chapter required, the payment of
the license fee and penalties, if any, for such animal if unpaid, and all costs
and charges incurred by the city for impounding and maintenance of such dog or
cat. Upon expiration of five (5) days from the date of impound, any dog or cat
not redeemed by its owner or custodian shall be subject to adoption or other
disposition at the discretion of the animal shelter manager. Dogs and cats may
not be adopted from the city animal shelter unless the prospective owner shall
agree in writing to have such animal neutered or spayed. The city council, by
resolution, shall set the minimum charges that shall be paid to the city for
the animal shelter fund through the animal shelter manager, or the city animal
shelter for: impounding any dog or cat, and for keeping any dog or cat; for
giving notice and reclaiming; for destroying any dog or cat upon written
release and request of the owner; all fees and charges that may have been
incurred by the city to have such dog or cat examined by a veterinarian,
together with the costs of any inoculation, treatment, medications and drugs
deemed necessary or advisable by such veterinarian. If the animal is
unvaccinated, the owner shall also be required to pay an additional sum (said
sum to be set by the fees charged by licensed veterinarians) to the city animal
shelter, for which he shall obtain a receipt.
   B.   The owner or custodian of any animal or fowl, other than dogs and cats,
so impounded may reclaim such animal or fowl upon payment of all costs and
charges incurred by the city for impounding and maintaining such animals or
fowl. Upon the recommendation of the city council, by resolution, shall set the
minimum impounding charges payable to the city at the time of redemption
including the capture, control and transportation of such animals or fowl, all
costs and charges incurred by the city in connection therewith; for impounding
and giving notice thereof; for keeping and feeding; all fees and charges that
may have been incurred by the city to have such animal or fowl examined by a
veterinarian, together with the costs of any inoculation, treatment,
medications and drugs deemed necessary or advisable by such veterinarian.
   C.   The animal shelter manager, or designee or any police officer, may
require proof of ownership from any person attempting to redeem any animal or
fowl (as the owner or custodian thereof). (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd. Ord. 883,
8-22-2023)
5-3-20: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED, UNREDEEMED OR INFECTED ANIMALS OR FOWL:
It shall be the duty of the animal shelter manager to keep all animals and fowl
impounded under the provisions of this chapter for a period of not less than
five (5) days, unless sooner redeemed, released by the owner or disposed of
pursuant to this chapter. If at the expiration of five (5) days from the date
of impound any animal or fowl is unclaimed it may be adopted as herein provided
and if no person requests to adopt such animal or fowl under the procedures
herein provided, such animal or fowl may be destroyed in a humane manner.
Trap-Neuter-Return Program: Trapping, for the sole purpose of sterilizing,
vaccinating for rabies, and eartipping feral cats, shall be permitted to be
practiced by feral cat caregivers and organizations, in compliance with any
applicable federal or state law. As a part of trap-neuter-return, spay or
neuter and vaccination for rabies shall take place under the supervision of a
licensed veterinarian. If the animal is determined to be a feral cat the cat
may be entered into the trap-neuter-return program under the care of the cat
caregiver person or organization. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd. Ord. 848, 2-11-
2020; Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
5-3-21: ADOPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS OR CATS:
If the ownership of a dog or cat is not proven within five (5) days, then such
dog or cat may be destroyed in a humane manner under the direction of the
animal shelter manager; provided, however, that any such unredeemed dog or cat
hereby authorized for destruction may be adopted by any person requesting the
same, who shall pay an animal shelter fee as set by resolution of the city
council, the appropriate license fee as provided in section
5-3-9 herein, the cost of rabies or any other necessary vaccination, microchip
fee, and any spay or neuter fee. If the animal is determined to be a feral cat,
the cat may be entered into the trap-neuter- return program under the care of
the cat caregiver person or organization. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd. Ord. 848,
2-11-2020; Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
5-3-22: ADOPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS OR CATS
OR FOWL:
   A.   All animals other than dogs or cats and fowl impounded and not redeemed
within the five (5) days provided herein, or destroyed pursuant to this
chapter, listed on the animal shelter database and the City of Elko website.
The animal shelter database shall describe therein the kind and number of
animals and fowl to be adopted, with a general description of each animal,
including color, age, marks, brands, and owner if known, together with the date
and place taken into custody:
   B.   If the ownership of the animal or fowl is not proved within five (5)
days, then such unredeemed animal or fowl, whether domestic or wild, may be
gifted, adopted, sold or euthanized. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd. Ord. 883, 8-22-
2023)
5-3-23: PROCEEDS OF REDEMPTION, SALES AND ADOPTIONS:
All proceeds collected under the provisions of this chapter for the redemption
of any animals or fowl and all proceeds from the adoption or disposition of
animals or fowl pursuant hereto, shall be deposited in the general fund of the
city and budgeted for the use and benefit of the animal shelter. (Ord. 355, 7-
10-1984; amd. Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
5-3-24: IMPOUNDING LARGE ANIMALS:
   A.   Authority: The animal control officer is authorized to enter into any
agreements necessary to capture, control, transport, care for, feed and
maintain large animals such as horses, cows, sheep and other animals which
cannot be maintained in the city animal shelter when it becomes necessary to
take them into custody or impound them pursuant to this chapter. All expenses
thus incurred are to be charged to the owner or owners upon redemption.
   B.   Notice: Should the animal control officer or any police officer be
called upon to take into custody or impound any large animals such as horses,
cows, sheep, mules or any other animal which cannot be maintained in the city
animal shelter and the owner of such animal is known to such officer or the
name of the owner or custodian can be reasonably obtained, then such officer in
his discretion may, prior to apprehending or impounding any such large animal,
contact such owner or custodian or any agent or representative thereof and
notify them to immediately take such animals into custody and immediately
remove such animals from the city limits. If such owner has not caused such
animals to be removed from the city limits within one day from the date such
officer contacts the owner or the owner's agent or representative pursuant
hereto, then such officer shall take possession of and impound such animals
pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 249, 7-26-1977)
5-3-25: ANIMAL NOISES; NUISANCES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, harbor or possess any animal
which, by loud or frequent habitual barking, howling, yelping, braying or other
noise, causes annoyance to the neighbors or to any person in the vicinity. In
addition to any other fines and penalties imposed by the court in the event of
a conviction of this section, the court shall have full powers to order
abatement of the nuisance caused by the animal. If the animal is impounded at
the Animal Shelter awaiting court proceedings the owner shall pay all
applicable fees and cost for care. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd. Ord. 883, 8-22-
2023)
5-3-26: UNLAWFUL PRACTICES:
Except as herein otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to do
any of the following:
   A.   To maliciously or mischievously apprehend, detain, secrete or impound
the animal or fowl of another person, or to knowingly aid or abet in the
commission of any such act by some other person. Any such person aiding or
abetting shall be considered a principal.
   B.   To maltreat, starve, torture, injure or poison any animal, or having
the right or authority under this chapter to kill any animal, to kill such
animal in any way except in a humane manner.
   C.   To trap any animal with other than a humane "live" trap, which will
inflict no physical injury upon the animal; to lure or entice, by means of food
or otherwise, any animal into other than a humane "live" trap; to leave any
animal trapped by such person without food, water or shelter, for an
unreasonable period of time.
   D.   To dispose of any trapped animal in any fashion not otherwise provided
by law. If disposal is not permitted by law, said person shall call the animal
control officer to have said animal picked up, or deliver it to the city animal
shelter, or otherwise dispose of it as directed by the animal control officer.
   E.   To overcrowd any animal in any crate, box or other receptacle, or fail
to provide food, water, shelter or sanitation for the same.
   F.   To kill any animal running at large, except as provided in this chapter
in connection with dangerous, fierce, vicious or infected animals or animals
attacking persons or livestock. (Ord. 249, 7-26-1977)
   G.   To take off or remove from any animal its collar or harness or city
license tag or inoculation tag without the consent of the owner or custodian of
such animal. (Ord. 263, 8-22-1978)
   H.   To place any city dog tag or inoculation tag on any dog other than the
dog to which such tag was issued or registered.
   I.   To take any animal or fowl out of the custody, control or possession of
the animal control officer or city animal shelter or any police officer
exercising his duty under this chapter by stealth, fraud, force or falsely
claiming to be the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl.
   J.   To interrupt or hinder the animal control officer or any police officer
discharging his duties under the provisions of this chapter.
   K.   To abandon any animal, living or dead, in a public street, road, alley
or any other public place, or upon the private property of himself or another.
   L.   To unjustifiably administer any poisonous drug or substance with intent
that the same shall be taken by an animal, whether such animal be the property
of himself or another, or whether said drug or substance exposed upon such
person's property, the private property of another, or any public place;
provided, that nothing herein shall be construed to prevent or restrict the
animal control officer or health officer in the exercise and performance of the
powers and duties in this chapter.
   M.   To wilfully throw, drop or place, upon any road, highway, street, alley
or public place, or upon the private property of himself or another, any glass,
nails, pieces of metal or other substances or devices calculated to wound,
disable or injure any animal.
   N.   To carry or enclose, or cause to be carried or enclosed, in or upon any
vehicle or conveyance, any animal in a cruel or inhumane manner.
      1.   No person having charge or custody of any animal, as owner or
otherwise, shall place or confine such animal or allow such animal to be placed
or confined or to remain in a motor vehicle under such conditions or for such
period of time as may endanger the health or well being of such animal due to
heat, cold, lack of food or drink, or such other circumstances as may
reasonably be expected to cause suffering, disability or death.
      2.   The animal control officer or any police officer of the city who
finds an animal in a motor vehicle in violation of this subsection may break
and enter the motor vehicle if necessary to remove the animal. The officer
removing the animal shall take the animal to the city animal shelter or to a
veterinarian clinic for safekeeping and shall in the event the person having
custody cannot be otherwise contacted, leave in a prominent place in the motor
vehicle a written notice bearing his name and office and the address where the
animal may be claimed by the owner thereof. The animal will be redeemed to the
owner if the owner claims the animal within five (5) days from the time the
animal was removed from the motor vehicle and pays all reasonable charges that
have accrued for the maintenance of the animal. In the event the owner cannot
be contacted, or expresses no interest in reclaiming the animal within five (5)
days after contact or efforts to contact, the animal shelter may dispose of the
animal by adoption, gift, sale, or euthanasia.
   O.   To sell, or offer for sale, barter or give away baby chicks, ducklings,
other fowl under four (4) weeks of age or rabbits under two (2) weeks of age,
as pets or novelties. This subsection shall not be construed to prohibit the
display or sale of natural chicks, rabbits, ducklings or other fowl, in proper
breeder facilities by hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of selling
the same to be raised for commercial purposes.
   P.   To display, sell or offer for sale, barter, give away or otherwise
dispose of any animal upon any street, sidewalk, public building, public park
or other public place, with the exception of the city animal shelter.
   Q.   To use any live animal as or for a target.
   R.   To dye or color any animal for purposes of concealing its identity.
(Ord. 249, 7-26-1977; amd. Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
5-3-27: DUTY TO STOP, RENDER AID AND NOTICE:
Every operator of any vehicle upon the streets and ways of the city shall
immediately upon injuring, striking, maiming or running down any animal, stop
and give such aid as he is reasonably able to render. He shall immediately
notify the owner, if present or known, and if not, the animal control officer,
furnishing the facts relative to such injury. It is the duty of such operator
to remain at or near the scene until the owner or animal control officer
arrives, and such operator immediately identifies himself to the owner or
animal control officer and gives the owner or animal control officer his full
name, address and driver's license number. Alternatively, in the absence of the
owner, a person may give aid by taking the animal to a veterinary hospital and
thereafter notifying the animal control officer. The animal control officer
will notify the animal shelter manager prior to taking an injured animal to a
veterinarian. Emergency vehicles are not required to stop but shall notify the
animal control officer furnishing sufficient facts relative to such injury.
(Ord. 249, 7-26-1977; amd. Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
5-3-28: VETERINARIAN CERTIFICATES AND TAGS:
Every veterinarian inoculating any dog or cat against rabies shall, upon such
inoculation, issue a tag to the owner suitable for wearing by such dog on its
collar or harness or otherwise affixed and a certificate to the owner of such
dog or cat setting forth at least the name and address of the owner, a
description of the dog or cat sufficient to identify the dog or cat, the type
and lot of vaccine used, and the dated reinoculation is required. Every
veterinarian spaying any female dog or cat shall, upon such spaying, issue a
certificate to the owner of such animal, stating the necessary information
relating to the operation. (Ord. 263, 8-22-1978)
5-3-29: PENALTIES:
The penalties provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this code shall apply to this
chapter. In addition, any violation or continued violation of this chapter, or
any nuisance, may be enjoined or abated by appropriate proceedings instituted
by the city. All penalties provided under this chapter shall double in amount
or term if succeeding similar offenses occur within a three (3) year period.
The receipt and conviction of three (3) violations of this chapter by the owner
or custodian of any animal within a three (3) year period shall constitute
prima facie evidence for a nuisance. All fines imposed by the municipal judge
and/or collected for the violation of this chapter shall be deposited in the
general fund of the city and budgeted for the use and benefit of the animal
shelter. (Ord. 355, 7-10-1984)
5-3-30: DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS AND FOWL UPON REQUEST OF OWNER OR CUSTODIAN:
The animal shelter manager may dispose of any animal or fowl adoption, gift,
sale or euthanasia immediately upon receipt of the appropriate fee and a
written request of the owner or custodian of such animal or fowl by signing the
animal shelter consent and release form. (Ord. 662, 2-28-2006; amd. Ord. 883,
8-22-2023)
5-3-31: ANIMALS TRESPASSING ON AIRPORT:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any animal, whether licensed
or unlicensed under this chapter, to suffer, permit or to allow such animal to
trespass on the runway, property and premises of the Elko municipal airport
located within the city and known as J.C. Harris Field. Any animal so
trespassing shall be presumed to be endangering the health, safety and welfare
of a considerable number of persons and be dangerous to human life. It shall be
lawful for the animal control officer or a police officer of the city or county
to kill or destroy any such trespassing animal. The animal control officer or
law enforcement shall notify the animal shelter with a complete description,
sex of the animal, and date destroyed. (Ord. 273, 5-8-1979; amd. Ord. 883, 8-
22-2023)
5-3-32: COMMITTING OF NUISANCES:
It is unlawful for the owner or person having custody of any animal to permit,
either wilfully or through failure to exercise due care or control, any such
animal to commit any nuisance upon any sidewalk or any public street or public
park; or any nuisance upon any real property under the control of or in the
possession of any other person; or upon the floor of any common hall in any
apartment house, tenement house, hotel or other multiple dwelling; or upon any
entranceway, stairway or wall immediately abutting on a public sidewalk; or
upon the floor of any theater, shop, store, office building or other building
used in common by the public; or upon the floor or stairway of any depot or
station or public waiting room; or upon any floor, stairway, entranceway,
office, lobby, foyer or patio used in common by the public. (Ord. 404, 1-22-
1991)
5-3-33: ANIMAL WASTE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having
control or custody of any animal to permit the animal to defecate upon the
public property of this city or upon the private property of another unless the
person immediately removes the feces and properly disposes of it; provided,
however, that nothing herein contained authorizes such person to enter upon the
private property of another without permission.
   B.   Possession Of Container: It shall be unlawful for any person to walk a
dog on public property of this city or upon the private property of another
without carrying at all times a suitable container or other suitable instrument
for the removal and disposal of dog feces.
   C.   Exceptions: People or persons with disabilities using a service animal
are exempt from this section. Persons whose dogs are participating in dog shows
or direct command obedience classes are exempt from this section while their
animals are actually participating in such shows or classes, but all feces must
be removed and disposed of immediately upon the conclusion of the show or
class. (Ord. 404, 1-22-1991; amd. Ord. 883, 8-22-2023)
5-3-34: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT AND HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD:
   A.   Specified: The responsibility for compliance with the provisions of
this chapter shall rest upon the head of the household at which a dog or other
animal is being kept or harbored, whether or not the ownership of such dog or
other animal is claimed by any other person residing in said household. A
husband or wife, or two (2) or more adults living together, may be jointly or
separately charged as heads of the household where a dog or other animal is
kept or harbored if the requirements of this chapter are not complied with.
   B.   Minors: It shall not be a defense to an alleged violation of this
chapter that the true and registered owner of a dog or other animal is of such
minor age as to prohibit answer in court, and upon such occurrence, the parent
or guardian of such minor owner shall be required to appear instead and assume
full responsibility for the actions or omissions of their minor. The parent,
guardian or custodian of any child under eighteen (18) years of age who owns,
keeps, harbors or has custody of an animal shall be deemed to be the owner of
such animal. (Ord. 441, 2-14-1995)
CHAPTER 4
CIVIL DEFENSE
SECTION:
5-4-1: Civil Defense Defined
5-4-2: Council Of Defense; Membership
5-4-3: Powers And Duties Of Council Of Defense
5-4-4: Civil Defense Director
5-4-5: Civil Defense Corps; General
5-4-6: Divisions Of The Civil Defense Corps
5-4-7: Volunteers
5-4-8: Penalties
5-4-1: CIVIL DEFENSE DEFINED:
As used in this chapter, the term "civil defense" shall include measures
necessary to provide for the mobilization, organization and direction of
civilian populace and necessary support agencies to prevent or minimize the
effects of fire, flood, storm, earthquake and epidemic, as well as the effects
of enemy or subversive activities directed against the populace, communities,
industrial plants, facilities and other installations. (Ord. 127, 2-3-1957)
5-4-2: COUNCIL OF DEFENSE; MEMBERSHIP:
The council of defense is hereby created and shall include the following:
Mayor
Director of civil defense (as appointed)
Police chief
Fire chief
City health officer
City engineer
American Red Cross representative
Others including representatives of business, labor and patriotic organizations
as may be appointed by the city council. (Ord. 127, 2-3-1957)
5-4-3: POWERS AND DUTIES OF COUNCIL OF DEFENSE:
It shall be the duty of the council of defense and it is hereby empowered to:
   A.   Develop a civil defense plan. This plan shall provide for the effective
mobilization of all the resources of the city.
   B.   Prepare and recommend for consideration by the council regulations
necessary to implement the civil defense plan.
   C.   Consider and recommend to the council of defense for approval mutual
aid plans and agreements. (Ord. 127, 2-3-1957)
5-4-4: CIVIL DEFENSE DIRECTOR:
   A.   Created: There is hereby created the office of the civil defense
director. Such officer shall be appointed by the mayor.
   B.   Power: The civil defense director is hereby empowered:
      1.   To represent the mayor on all matters pertaining to civil defense.
      2.   To require and direct cooperation of city officials in the
preparation and implementation of civil defense plans.
      3.   During periods of emergency, to direct the services of any city
officers or employees.
      4.   During periods of emergency, to obtain vital supplies and equipment
lacking, needed for the protection of life and property of people and bind the
city for the value thereof, and if required immediately, requisition the same.
(Ord. 127, 2-3-1957)
5-4-5: CIVIL DEFENSE CORPS; GENERAL:
The civil defense corps shall consist of officers and employees of the city
with volunteer forces enrolled to aid them during an emergency, and all groups,
organizations and persons who make agreements with the defense director shall
be charged with duties necessary for the protection of life and property in the
city during an emergency, who shall constitute the civil defense corps. (Ord.
127, 2-3-1957)
5-4-6: DIVISIONS OF THE CIVIL DEFENSE CORPS:
The functions and duties of the civil defense corps shall be distributed among
the divisions as listed below. Each division shall be under the direction of a
chief and deputy chief appointed by the council of defense. The chief of
divisions will include public officials such as sheriffs, chiefs of police and
fire departments and heads of agencies dealing with transportation,
communications, and other sundry services, as well as private business persons,
who through their profession, knowledge and experience are particularly
qualified to head divisions requiring specialized knowledge and experience. The
divisions are hereby established as follows:
Law enforcement division;
Fire services division;
Medical and health division;
Engineering and utilities division;
Transportation division;
Communications division;
Welfare division;
Information and education division. (Ord. 127, 2-3-1957)
5-4-7: VOLUNTEERS:
All persons other than officers and employees of the city volunteering for
civil defense service shall serve without compensation. While engaged in such
service, they shall have the same immunities as persons and employees of the
city performing similar duties. (Ord. 127, 2-13-1957)
5-4-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful during an emergency to:
      1.   Wilfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the civil defense
corps, and enforcement of any lawful rule or regulation in the performance of
any duty imposed upon him by the virtue of the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   Do any act forbidden by any lawful rules or regulations if such act
is of such a nature as to give assistance to the enemy or to imperil the life
or property of any inhabitant of this city or to prevent, hinder or delay the
defense or protection thereof.
      3.   Wear or carry or display without authority any mark or
identification specified by the council of defense.
   B.   Punishment: Every person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1,
chapter 3, of this code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter
may be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 241, 12-14-1976)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIAL POLICE
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Special Commission; Application
5-5-3: Conditions Under Which Private Patrols May Be Established
5-5-4: Oath Of Office
5-5-5: Badges
5-5-6: Regulations Governing Special Police Officers Generally
5-5-7: Private Detectives
5-5-8: Badge For One Location
5-5-9: Transfers
5-5-10: Badge To Be Returned
5-5-11: Term
5-5-12: Not To Be City Employees
5-5-13: Conduct Of Special Police
5-5-14: Special Police Officer Without Permission
5-5-15: Manufacture And Sale Of Official Badges
5-5-16: Unauthorized Use Of Badges
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases are defined,
and shall be construed as hereinafter set out, unless it shall be apparent from
the context that they have a different meaning:
   OFFICIAL POLICE OFFICER'S BADGE: A badge of the size, type and design as
used by the regular police force of the city.
   PRIVATE PATROL: Any person carrying on the business or occupation of night
watch person, night watch service, private police officer or any other
occupation, the purpose of which is to afford additional police or fire
protection for hire or reward.
   SPECIAL POLICE OFFICER: For the purpose of this chapter, shall include any
individual acting as a peace officer, member of a private patrol, or an owner
of a private patrol who actively engages in policing duties, club guard, hotel
guard, bank guard, armored car guard, night watch person, other than a regular
police officer of the city.
   SPECIAL POLICE OFFICER'S BADGE: A badge of the size, type and design as
designated by the chief of police for the use of persons commissioned by the
chief of police to act as special police officers as hereinafter provided. Such
badge shall have enameled on the face thereof "special" in addition to any
other words or device, and shall so differ in shape and design from the
official police officer's badge as to be, when displayed or worn, readily
distinguishable therefrom. All such badges shall be consecutively numbered and
the number shall appear on the face of each such badge. (Ord. 128, 7-26-1957)
5-5-2: SPECIAL COMMISSION; APPLICATION:
   A.   Form; Information Required: Every person who shall seek a commission to
act as a special police officer shall make application to the chief of police
on regulation forms as prescribed by the chief of police, which application
must contain the following:
      1.   The name and address of the person to whom the commission is to be
issued.
      2.   The duties of the person who requires the issuance of such
commission, provided, no commission shall issue for the performance of any
duties other than those specifically set forth in this application, nor shall
any commission be authority for the performance of any duties not herein set
forth.
      3.   A description, two (2) passport size photos, signature and
fingerprint of the person to whom the commission is to be issued.
      4.   The name, address and signed request of the employer of the
applicant showing the necessity for the issuance of such commission.
      5.   Such other information and disclosures as such regulation forms may
from time to time require.
   B.   Granting Of Application; Considerations: The chief of police must first
satisfy himself that the granting of the commission will be conducive to the
public welfare and safety, and for this purpose the chief of police may
consider any facts or evidence bearing on the moral fitness and reputation of
those seeking the commission, and any other facts of evidence tending to
enlighten the chief of police in this respect, provided, no special police
officer's commission shall be issued to any person previously convicted of a
felony or of two (2) or more misdemeanors involving moral turpitude. (Ord. 128,
7-26-1957)
5-5-3: CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH PRIVATE PATROLS MAY BE ESTABLISHED:
Private patrols may be established upon proper application to the chief of
police under the following conditions:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall manage, conduct or carry on the
business of a private patrol, unless under and by authority of a written permit
from the chief of police, and upon payment of any fees as prescribed by this
chapter or any other applicable provision of this code.
   B.   Application For Permit; Information To Be Shown: Permits required by
subsection A of this section may be issued by the chief of police upon the
written application of any person; provided, that the chief of police must
first satisfy himself that the management, conduct and carrying on of such
private patrol will be conducive to the public welfare and safety, and for this
purpose, the chief of police may consider any facts or evidence bearing on the
moral fitness and reputation of those who will be charged of such private
patrol, and any other facts or evidence tending to enlighten the chief of
police in this respect. Such application for a permit must contain the
following:
      1.   The name and address of the person to whom the permit is to be
issued.
      2.   The duties of the person who requires the issuance of the permit.
      3.   A description, two (2) passport size photos, signature and
fingerprint of the person to whom the permit is to be issued.
   C.   Suspension Of Permit: Any permit to manage, conduct or carry on a
private patrol may be temporarily suspended by a written order signed by the
chief of police.
   D.   Revocation Of Permit: When the chief of police shall have issued any
permit under the terms of subsection B of this section, the same may be revoked
at any time thereafter by the chief of police, if the chief of police becomes
satisfied that the management, conducting or carrying on of such private patrol
does not or will not be conducive to the public welfare and safety for any
reason, or that such private patrol has been conducted in an illegal or
improper manner. The chief of police may make rules governing the management,
conducting or carrying on of private patrols, and may revoke or suspend permits
issued for the management or carrying on of any such occupation when the
manager or person in charge thereof violates or permits any infraction of any
such rules, or any law of the state or any provision of this code; provided,
however, that no permit issued under authority of this chapter for the
management, conducting or carrying on of any such private patrol shall be
revoked unless a hearing and notice be given the permittee in such manner as
the chief of police may decide. (Ord. 128, 7-26-1957)
   E.   Change Of Location Of Business: The chief of police may allow a
permittee to change the location of the business office of his private patrol
business without requiring a new permit to be obtained, upon the filing of an
application for such change of location and the payment of a fee as set by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 290, 8-26-1980)
   F.   When Private Patrol Deemed Special Police Officer: Any owner of a
private patrol shall be deemed a special police officer if actively engaged in
policing duties. (Ord. 128, 7-26-1957)
5-5-4: OATH OF OFFICE:
Every person who shall secure a commission as a special police officer or a
permit as an owner of a private patrol, shall be required to subscribe to an
oath of office to be administered by the chief of police. (Ord. 128, 7-26-1957)
5-5-5: BADGES:
"Special police officer" badges shall be issued by the chief of police only to
persons who have secured commissions as special police officers from the chief
of police and who have paid all fees required therefor by this chapter. (Ord.
128, 7-26-1957)
5-5-6: REGULATIONS GOVERNING SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS GENERALLY:
Every holder of a special police officer's badge shall comply with the
following provisions and regulations:
   A.   Home Address Filed With Chief Of Police: It shall be the duty of every
person to whom a special police officer's badge has been issued to furnish and
keep on file with the chief of police, a true home address of such person.
   B.   Badge Carried While On Duty: It shall be the duty of every person
having a special police officer's commission from the chief of police to have
on his person a special police officer's badge while performing the duties of a
special police officer.
   C.   Badges Worn On Outside Of Front Of Uniform: Any private patrol, guard,
bank guard, hotel guard, club guard, night watch person or other person who
wears a uniform, while performing any of the duties of his position as a
special police officer, shall wear a special police officer's badge on the
outside front of his uniform so that the same is available at all times while
performing such work.
   D.   Use Of Unauthorized Badges: No person shall wear or have in his
possession any special police officer's badge unless such badge has been
regularly issued in accordance with the provision of this chapter.
   E.   Return Of Badges Upon Severance Of Employment: It shall be the duty of
any person after he has severed his employment with any private patrol or who
has ceased to perform the duties which required the issuance of a special
police officer's badge, to return the special police officer's badge to the
chief of police. (Ord. 128, 7-26-1957)
   F.   Charge For Rental Of Badge: The chief of police shall make a charge, as
set by resolution of the city council, for the issuance of every special police
officer's badge and for every badge issued to replace a lost badge, which sum
shall be considered as rental for the use of the badge, which shall at all
times be and remain the property of the city.
   G.   Cost Of Investigation Of Applicant: The chief of police shall also make
a charge, as set by resolution of the city council, to cover the costs of
investigation of any applicant for a commission as a special police officer, or
to cover the costs of an investigation of an application for a permit to
operate a business of private patrol. (Ord. 290, 8-26-1980)
   H.   Authority Of Chief Of Police To Prescribe Uniform: The chief of police
shall have the power and authority to adopt and prescribe the uniform to be
worn by all special police officers, guards, bank guards, hotel guards, club
guards or other special officers required to wear badges while performing the
duties of such special police officer. (Ord. 128, 7-26-1957)
5-5-7: PRIVATE DETECTIVES:
Private detectives and special investigators are not subject to the provisions
of this chapter nor qualified as such to obtain a special police officer's
commission under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 128, 7-26-1957)
5-5-8: BADGE FOR ONE LOCATION:
The issuance of a special police officer's commission under the provisions of
this chapter shall be authority for the performance of his duties only at the
particular place of employment at which he was employed at the time of the
issuance of said commission, provided this section shall not apply to private
patrols. (Ord. 128, 7-26-1957)
5-5-9: TRANSFERS:
Any person transferring his place of employment or procuring employment at some
place of business other than that for which the special police officer's
commission was granted to him, is hereby required to report such change to the
chief of police and submit the name, address and signed request of the new
employer that such special police officer be permitted to work in his employ,
and in addition, such special police officer is required to make full
disclosures as to any change in his status or address. (Ord. 128, 7-26-1957)
5-5-10: BADGE TO BE RETURNED:
Upon severance, discharge or other termination of employment for which a
special police officer's commission has been issued, such special police
officer is required to return to the chief of police his special police
officer's badge and any credentials he may have pertaining thereto. (Ord. 128,
7-26-1957)
5-5-11: TERM:
Special police officer's commission issued under this chapter shall remain
effective until the expiration of one year after the date of issuance unless
sooner revoked, and shall be renewed upon application to the chief of police
and payment to the city of a fee as set by resolution of the city council for
each renewal. (Ord. 290, 8-26-1980)
5-5-12: NOT TO BE CITY EMPLOYEES:
Special police officers shall not be employees of the city and shall not be
paid thereby for services as said officers. (Ord. 128, 7-26-1957)
5-5-13: CONDUCT OF SPECIAL POLICE:
No special police officer shall:
   A.   Carry Deadly Weapons: Carry a blackjack, or other deadly weapon, unless
authorized by the chief of police; provided, however, that a special police
officer may carry a firearm.
   B.   Performance Of Duties While Intoxicated: Perform the duties of a
special police officer while under the influence of intoxicants.
   C.   Partaking Of Intoxicants While On Duty Or In Uniform: Partaking of
intoxicants while on duty as a special police officer or while in uniform
though not on duty.
   D.   Permitting Another To Use Commission Or Badge: Permit anyone to use the
commission or badge issued to him.
   E.   Wearing Uniform Or Badge Of Regular Police Officers: Wear any uniform
of a pattern, design or in the semblance of the uniform duly adopted by the
city council for the use of regular members of the city police department, or
wear any badge or insignia of a pattern or design that may be mistaken for or
confounded with the badge or insignia of a regular police officer. (Ord. 128,
7-26-1957)
   F.   Interference: Interfere with or attempt to influence the lawful
business of any person, nor shall any special police officer to whom a
commission has been granted use his credentials and/or badge, or otherwise
represent his authority to be for the performance of duties other than those
which appear in his application as provided by section
5-5-2 of this chapter, provided, any special police officer to whom a
commission has been granted who shall either by express fraudulent
representations or by omitting a duty to correct a false misleading impression
of his authority shall obtain money, property, position of trust, or other
thing of value shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided in title 1,
chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 290, 8-26-1980)
   G.   Loitering: Loitering around or entering houses of ill fame, loitering
around, entering for purposes of patronizing or to patronize any house of ill
fame or other place used for prostitution, unlawful use of narcotics or
prohibited drugs, or other places where immoral or illegal acts or practices
are carried on.
   H.   Impersonating Regular Police Officer: At any time conduct himself by
word or manner to lead others to believe that he is a regular police officer of
the city. (Ord. 128, 7-26-1957)
5-5-14: SPECIAL POLICE OFFICER WITHOUT PERMISSION:
No person shall work as a special police officer without first having secured a
commission from the chief of police, as in this chapter provided. (Ord. 128, 7-
26-1957)
5-5-15: MANUFACTURE AND SALE OF OFFICIAL BADGES:
No person shall manufacture, make, sell, design or transfer any official police
officer's badge or special police officer's badge without the written
authorization of the chief of police therefor, such person may deliver such
badges only to the chief of police, and may manufacture only the number of
badges authorized by the chief of police. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as affecting the manner in which contracts for the purchases of
badges by the city shall be let. (Ord. 128, 7-26-1957)
5-5-16: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF BADGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully wear, exhibit, use or wilfully
make, sell, loan, give or transfer to another any badge, insignia, emblem,
device or any label, certificate, card or writing, which falsely purports to be
authorized for the use of one who by law is given the authority of a peace
officer, or which so resembles the authorized badge, insignia, emblem, device,
label, certificate, card or writing of a peace officer as would deceive an
ordinary reasonable person into believing that it is authorized for the use of
one who by law is given the authority of a police officer. (Ord. 128, 7-26-
1957)
CHAPTER 6
CONVICTED PERSONS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definition
5-6-2: Convicted Persons To Register
5-6-3: All Convicted Persons To Register
5-6-4: Fingerprints Required
5-6-5: Filing And Use To Be Made Of Statements
5-6-6: Notification Of Chief Of Police Of Change Of Residence
5-6-7: False Or Misleading Information
5-6-8: Penalties
5-6-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter the words "convicted persons" is hereby defined
as follows: Any person who has been or who shall hereafter be convicted of a
felony, of any offense punishable as a felony, in any court of the state, or in
any federal court, or in any court of competent jurisdiction in any territory
belonging to the United States, or who has or who shall hereafter be convicted
of a violation of any law in any other court than the courts of the state,
whether municipal, county, state, federal or territorial, which offense, if
committed in the state, would have been a felony or which would have been
punishable as a felony under the laws of the state; also any person who has
been or is hereafter convicted in the state, or elsewhere, of the violation of
any law relating to the following subject or subjects:
   A.   Narcotics: Relating to or regulating the possession, distribution,
furnishing or use of any narcotics;
   B.   Concealed Weapons: Regulating or prohibiting the carrying or possession
of or ownership of any concealed weapon, or deadly weapon, of any weapons
capable of being concealed, or regulating or prohibiting the possession of,
sale of or use of any device, instrument or attachment designed to or intended
to be used for the purpose of silencing the report of, or concealing the
discharge or flash of, any firearm;
   C.   Tear Gas: Regulating or prohibiting the use, possession, manufacture or
compounding of tear gas or any other gas which may be used for the purpose of
temporarily or permanently disabling any human being;
   D.   Attempt To Commit Offenses: Any attempt to commit, or any conspiracy to
commit, any offenses described or referred to in this section;
   E.   Drug Addicts: Any person who has been or is hereafter convicted of or
is hereafter adjudicated as a drug addict, as defined by the laws of any state,
shall also be deemed a convicted person.
Provided, further, that in the event any person who is now, or who has been, or
who may hereafter be placed on probation for the committing of any of the above
enumerated offenses whose conviction is set aside in the manner provided by
law, shall not be deemed a convicted person. (Ord. 124, 2-14-1956)
5-6-2: CONVICTED PERSONS TO REGISTER:
Every person convicted, as provided in section
 5-6-1 of this chapter, shall register with the chief of police and provide
information, including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   True Name And Aliases: His true name and all aliases which he has used
or under which he is or may have been known.
   B.   Description Of Person: A full and complete description of his person.
   C.   Character Of Crime: The kind, character and nature of each crime of
which he has been convicted. The place where such crime was, or crimes were,
committed and the places of conviction of the same.
   D.   Name Under Which Convicted; Date: The name under which he was convicted
in each instance and the date thereof.
   E.   Name And Location Of Penal Institutions: The name, if any, and the
location of each prison, reformatory, jail or other penal institution in which
he was confined or to which he was sentenced.
   F.   Location And Address Of Residence: The location and address of his
residence, stopping place, living quarters or place of abode; if more than one
residence, stopping place or abode, that fact must be stated and the location
and address of each given.
   G.   Statement And Kind Of Residence: A statement of the kind of residence,
stopping place, living quarters or place of abode in which he resides, whether
the same is temporary or permanent and whether the same is a private residence,
hotel, apartment house, or other building or structure.
   H.   Time Residence Has Been Occupied: The length of time he has occupied
such place of residence, stopping place or place of abode, and the length of
time he expects or intends to remain in the city.
   I.   Form Of Statements: All such statements to the chief of police shall be
made upon city forms therefor prescribed by the chief of police. Such
statements shall contain such other and further information as may be required
by the chief of police for the purpose of aiding and assisting him in carrying
into effect the provisions and intent of this chapter. (Ord. 261, 6-27-1978)
5-6-3: ALL CONVICTED PERSONS TO REGISTER:
Every convicted person who enters and remains in the city for twenty four (24)
hours shall within twenty four (24) hours after the expiration of such twenty
four (24) hour period, furnish to the chief of police, a written statement on
like form and containing all of the information required by the written
statement referred to in section
 5-6-2 of this chapter and shall, in addition thereto, state in writing in such
statement the date that he entered the state and each of his places of
residences or abode for the three (3) month period next preceding the date of
his arrival in the city. (Ord. 261, 6-27-1978)
5-6-4: FINGERPRINTS REQUIRED:
Every convicted person shall, at the time of registering and furnishing the
information required by sections 5-6-2 and 5-6-3 of this chapter, be
fingerprinted by the chief of police, who shall cause such fingerprints to be
made a part of the record provided for by the foregoing sections and section
5-6-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 261, 6-27-1978)
5-6-5: FILING AND USE TO BE MADE OF STATEMENTS:
The statements and fingerprints hereinbefore provided for shall at all times be
kept by the chief of police in files maintained and kept by the chief of
police; and shall not be open to inspection by the public, or by any person
other than the regularly appointed, qualified and acting deputies and employees
in the office of the city attorney and the chief of police; provided, however,
that copies of such statements and fingerprints may be transmitted to any
office of sheriff or chief of police in the state, or to the head of department
of the state engaged in the enforcement of any criminal law of this state, or
to the head of any federal law enforcement agency, or to any sheriff or chief
of police of any municipality or head of any other law enforcement agency, in
any state or territory outside of the state, when request is made in writing by
such sheriff or any other head of any law enforcement agency asking for the
record of a certain person, or for the record of a person whose fingerprints
reasonably correspond with the fingerprints submitted with such request, and
stating that such record is deemed necessary for the use of such law
enforcement officer or agency in or concerning the investigation of any crime
or any person who is accused of committing a crime which is reported to have
been committed, and further stating that the record will be used for such
purposes; provided, however, that nothing contained in this chapter shall
prevent the chief of police from furnishing to the sheriff of any county, the
chief of police of any municipality or the head of any other law enforcement
agency which maintains any system of registration of convicted persons. Copies
of the statements required to be filed under the provisions of this chapter,
together with fingerprints of the person making such statements when and if
such sheriff, chief of police, or other head of any law enforcement agency
furnishes to the city attorney and chief of police, copies of statements and
fingerprints procured by him, and it is hereby made the duty of the chief of
police to arrange for the exchange of such information. (Ord. 124, 2-14-1956)
5-6-6: NOTIFICATION OF CHIEF OF POLICE OF CHANGE OF RESIDENCE:
Any convicted person who is required to register under the provisions of this
chapter, who changes his place of residence, stopping place or living quarters
shall, within forty eight (48) hours after the changing of his place of
residence, stopping place or living quarters, notify the chief of police of
such fact, and furnish to the chief of police the new address of his new
residence, stopping place or living quarters, in the same manner and with the
same detailed information as is required in the filing of the original
statement under the provisions of sections
 5-6-2 and
5-6-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 261, 6-27-1978)
5-6-7: FALSE OR MISLEADING INFORMATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person required by any provision of this chapter
to furnish a statement or report to give a statement or report which contains
any false or fictitious address, or any address other than a true address, or
furnish in the making of any such report any false, untrue or misleading
information or statement relating to any information required by any of the
provisions of this chapter to be made or furnished. (Ord. 261, 6-27-1978)
5-6-8: PENALTIES:
Every person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3, of this
code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be deemed a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 261, 6-27-
1978)
CHAPTER 7
RESERVED
CHAPTER 8
RADIO INTERFERENCE
SECTION:
5-8-1: Interference Prohibited
5-8-2: Exceptions
5-8-3: Radio Inspector; Authority
5-8-4: Elimination Of Interference Required
5-8-5: Penalties
5-8-1: INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly maintain, operate or cause to
be operated any machine, device, apparatus or instrument of any kind
whatsoever, or any electrical lines or plants of any description, the operation
of which will cause reasonably preventable electrical interference with radio
reception; provided, however, that all such electrical lines or plants or
machines, devices, apparatus or instruments may be used if the same are
properly equipped to avoid all unnecessary or reasonably preventable
interference with radio reception, and are not negligently operated. (Ord. 95,
9-9-1948)
5-8-2: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not be held or construed to embrace or cover the regulation
of any transmitting, broadcasting or receiving instrument, apparatus or device
used or useful in interstate commerce, or the operation of which instrument,
apparatus or device is licensed or authorized by or under the provisions of any
act of congress of the United States. (Ord. 95, 9-9-1948)
5-8-3: RADIO INSPECTOR; AUTHORITY:
The duly appointed radio inspector of the city shall be ex officio radio
inspector and shall have power at all times to conduct investigations to
ascertain whether or not any machine, device, apparatus or instrument of any
kind is causing interference with radio reception and shall be empowered with
police authority to make such search and investigation as is necessary to carry
out the intent of this chapter. (Ord. 95, 9-9-1948)
5-8-4: ELIMINATION OF INTERFERENCE REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling or operating any
machine, device, apparatus or instrument of any kind, which is interfering with
radio reception, to equip the same with a filter or condenser or other
instrument or contrivance which will eliminate said interference with radio
reception, upon being notified to do so by the radio inspector. (Ord. 95, 9-9-
1948)
5-8-5: PENALTIES:
Every person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction therefor, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this
code. Each day during which said violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 261, 6-27-
1978)
CHAPTER 9
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-9-1: Unlawful Discharge Or Display Of Weapons
5-9-2: Petit Larceny
5-9-3: Resisting An Officer
5-9-1: UNLAWFUL DISCHARGE OR DISPLAY OF WEAPONS:
   A.   Firearms: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any gun,
pistol or other firearm anywhere within the limits of the city; provided, that
nothing herein shall prevent the establishing and running of a shooting gallery
properly enclosed and permitted by license of the city council; and provided
further, that nothing herein shall apply to any sheriff, deputy sheriff, police
officer, marshal or other peace officer, who shall discharge any pistol or
firearm in the lawful exercise of the duties of his office.
   B.   Slingshots, Air Guns: It shall be unlawful for any person to
negligently discharge or cause to be discharged any bow, crossbow, slingshot,
air gun and/or BB gun, or similar weapon, whereby any rock, piece of metal or
missile is hurled, propelled and/or driven with sufficient force to cause
damage to property and/or injury to persons, animals and/or birds, unless
within a shooting gallery or special events function approved by the city.
(Ord. 784, 6-10-2014)
5-9-2: PETIT LARCENY:
A person commits petit larceny if the person:
   A.   Intentionally steals, takes and carries away, leads away or drives
away:
      1.   Personal goods or property, with a value of less than six hundred
fifty dollars ($650.00), owned by another person;
      2.   Bedding, furniture or other property, with a value of less than six
hundred fifty dollars ($650.00), which the person, as a lodger, is to use in or
with his lodging and which is owned by another person; or
      3.   Real property, with a value of less than six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00), that the person has converted into personal property by severing it
from real property owned by another person.
   B.   Intentionally steals, takes and carries away, leads away, drives away
or entices away one or more domesticated animals or domesticated birds, with an
aggregate value of less than six hundred fifty dollars ($650.00), owned by
another person.
   C.   A person who commits petit larceny is guilty of a misdemeanor. In
addition to any other penalty, the court shall order the person to pay
restitution. (Ord. 784, 6-10-2014)
5-9-3: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
A person who, in any case or under any circumstances not otherwise specially
provided for, wilfully resists, delays, hinders, or obstructs a law enforcement
officer in investigating a crime or discharging or attempting to discharge any
legal duty of his or her office shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 784, 6-
10-2014)
CHAPTER 10
FALSE ALARMS 1
SECTION:
5-10-1: Definitions
5-10-2: Intentional False Alarms; Tampering With Alarm Apparatus Prohibited
5-10-3: Criminal Penalties
5-10-4: Assessment Of Civil Fees For Unintentional Transmission Of False Alarms
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 6, chapter 5 of this code.
5-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meaning herein given them:
   ALARM: The giving, signaling or transmitting by any public safety station or
to any police department, fire department or any officer or employee thereof,
by telephone, public safety station, public alarm station, automatic
transmitted alarm, in person, or otherwise, a report statement, or information
to the effect that there is an emergency, a fire, an accident, the commission
of a crime or violation of a city ordinance or a need for police, firefighter
or ambulance assistance.
   AUTOMATIC TRANSMITTED ALARM: An alarm which is sent to an installation using
supervised dedicated circuits to transmit an alarm from one or more protected
premises to a remote location at which appropriate action is to be taken. (Ord.
395, 11-28-1989)
5-10-2: INTENTIONAL FALSE ALARMS; TAMPERING WITH ALARM APPARATUS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Wilfully and maliciously tamper with, molest, injure or break any
public fire, police or ambulance alarm apparatus, wire or signal.
   B.   Intentionally make, turn in, send, give, transmit or sound any false
alarm of fire, or of the need for police or ambulance assistance by means of
any alarm system, alarm or signal, or by any other means or methods.
   C.   Make, file, turn in, send, give, transmit or sound any false,
misleading or unfounded statement or report concerning the commission or
alleged commission of any crime or violation of city ordinance occurring within
the city.
   D.   Aid or abet in the commission of a violation of any of the criminal
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 395, 11-28-1989)
5-10-3: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of section
5-10-2 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided
in title 1, chapter 3 of this code. If substantial bodily harm or death is
sustained by any person as a result of such false alarm, upon conviction, such
person shall be punished by the maximum fine and imprisonment provided in title
1, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 395, 11-28-1989)
5-10-4: ASSESSMENT OF CIVIL FEES FOR UNINTENTIONAL TRANSMISSION OF FALSE
ALARMS:
Any person or business who unintentionally makes, turns in, sends, gives,
transmits or sounds more than two (2), in any calendar year, false alarms of
fire, or the need for police or ambulance assistance by means of any public
fire alarm system or alarm or signal, or by any other means or method shall be
assessed by the city a fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each such
false alarm in excess of two (2) per calendar year. If the person who has
transmitted any such false alarm notifies the fire, police or ambulance
department before the fire, police or ambulance department responds to the
false alarm, then no fee shall be assessed for that false alarm. (Ord. 395, 11-
28-1989)
CHAPTER 11
BAR EMPLOYEES; WORK PERMITS
SECTION:
5-11-1: Definitions
5-11-2: Policy
5-11-3: Unlawful To Be Employed As Bar Employee Without Work Permit
5-11-4: Application; License Requirements; Fees
5-11-5: Appeals
5-11-6: Confidential Records
5-11-7: Unlawful To Employ Bar Employees Without Work Permits
5-11-8: Penalties
5-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: Shall mean and include any and all distilled or
rectified spirits, potable alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, aromatic
bitters, beer, lager beer, ale, wine and every other liquid or solid containing
alcohol capable of being consumed by a human being.
   BAR EMPLOYEE: Those employees of establishments where alcoholic beverages
are sold at retail on the premises who serve alcoholic beverages to patrons for
consumption on the premises and shall include, but not be limited to,
bartenders, cocktail waiters and waitresses, bar assistants, room service
waiters and waitresses that serve alcoholic beverages, beverage clerk, but
shall not include the employees of cafes or restaurants or dinner houses whose
primary duty is the service of foods.
   TEMPORARY WORK PERMIT: A work permit which is valid only for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days from its date of issue and is not renewable.
   WORK PERMIT: Any card, certificate or permit issued by the city council or
by the chief of police, authorizing the employment of the holder as a bar
employee. (Ord. 766, 11-27-2012)
5-11-2: POLICY:
The city council finds, and it is hereby declared to be the policy of the city
that, to protect and promote the public health, safety, morals, good order and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the city, it is necessary that the city
council ascertain and keep itself informed of the identity, prior activities
and present location of all bar employees in the city; and maintain
confidential records of such information; and require the registration with the
police department, and the thumbprinting, fingerprinting and photographing of
bar employees; and to require the chief of police to investigate the background
and qualifications of each applicant for a bar employee work permit under this
chapter, before any such work permit is granted; and to periodically
investigate into legal qualifications of each applicant holder of a work permit
under this chapter, to the end that such work permit shall not be granted to or
held by unqualified, disqualified or unsuitable persons. To better define the
policy of the city and this chapter, the following persons may be declared to
be unqualified, disqualified or unsuitable persons to be granted or to hold bar
employee work permits under the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   A person who within the past three (3) years, has been convicted of:
      1.   A felony or of any crime which, under the laws of this state, is
punishable as a felony;
      2.   In this state, or elsewhere, any crime of which fraud or intent to
defraud was an element;
      3.   Larceny in any degree;
      4.   Buying or receiving stolen property;
      5.   Unlawful possession, use, selling, dispensing, exchanging,
supplying, giving away or distribution of any "controlled substance", as that
term is defined in the uniform controlled substance act, or any "dangerous
drug", as that term is defined in Nevada Revised Statutes title 40, chapter
454, or of marijuana, or of a narcotic drug;
      6.   Any sex offense or crime involving moral turpitude;
      7.   The violation of any law, whether the same is or is not punishable
as a felony, regulating or prohibiting the use, carrying, possession or
ownership of any concealed weapon or deadly weapon;
   B.   A person under the age of twenty one (21) years;
   C.   A person who the chief of police determines is not a suitable person to
receive a work permit under the provisions of this chapter, having due
consideration for the proper protection of the public health, safety, morals,
good order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city;
   D.   Any person who has not received mandatory server training approved by
the chief of police. (Ord. 766, 11-27-2012)
5-11-3: UNLAWFUL TO BE EMPLOYED AS BAR EMPLOYEE WITHOUT WORK PERMIT:
It is unlawful for any person to be employed as a bar employee unless such
person is the holder of a valid, current work permit issued in accordance with
this chapter. (Ord. 766, 11-27-2012)
5-11-4: APPLICATION; LICENSE REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Application Form; Information: Application for a bar employee work
permit shall be submitted to the chief of police in writing, under oath,
setting forth the following information: applicant's name, age, present
permanent residence address; a list of all residences for the past three (3)
years prior to the date of such application; a list of the names and addresses
of all employers of the applicant for the past three (3) years prior to the
date of such application; and a list of all convictions of those crimes
enumerated in section
5-11-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Prints And Photographs: At the time of filing such written application,
the applicant shall submit to the taking of his or her thumbprints,
fingerprints and photograph for use in processing the application and for
filing in the records of the police department and the criminal justice
information center of the Nevada crime commission.
   C.   Mandatory Server Training: Obtain mandatory server training approved by
the chief of police.
   D.   Temporary Permit May Be Issued: Whenever any person applies for a work
permit in compliance with this chapter, the chief of police may, in his
discretion, issue such applicant a temporary work permit.
   E.   Duty Of Chief Of Police In Processing Application: It shall be the duty
of the chief of police:
      1.   To receive and process the applications for work permits provided in
this chapter.
      2.   To take the thumbprints, fingerprints and photographs of all
applicants and immediately send a copy of such imprints to the criminal justice
information center of the Nevada crime commission, or such other law
enforcement agency as the chief of police may determine, with the request that
all information as to the previous record, if any, of such person be
immediately transmitted to the chief of police. On application for renewal, or
upon the change of name of any holder of a work permit, the chief of police may
submit only the applicant or holder's name to the criminal justice information
center, or may require the submission of new thumbprints and fingerprints. If
the applicant discloses a felony within the last three (3) years to the
potential employer, a letter must be provided from the employer to the chief of
police stating that they are aware of the applicant's criminal history.
      3.   To investigate the qualifications of all applicants for work permits
under this chapter and to grant or deny such application within forty five (45)
days from the date such application is filed.
      4.   The chief of police may deny any application made by any applicant
who does not meet the requirements of this chapter, or who has failed to
disclose, misstated or otherwise misled the chief of police in respect to any
facts or statement contained within the application, or who has refused or
neglected to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   The chief of police may revoke any work permit issued under this
chapter when it shall appear to the satisfaction of the chief of police that:
         a.   The holder of the work permit has, subsequent to the issuance of
the work permit, been convicted of any of the crimes or offenses specified in
section
5-11-2 of this chapter.
         b.   The holder of the work permit failed to disclose, misstated or
otherwise misled the chief of police in respect of any fact or statement
contained in his or her application for a work permit.
         c.   The holder of the work permit refuses or neglects to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter.
         d.   The holder of the work permit is no longer a suitable person to
hold such work permit after due consideration by the chief of police of the
proper protection of the public health, safety, morals and good order and the
general welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
   F.   Fee: Every person applying for a work permit under the provisions of
this chapter shall pay, at the time of application, the sum as set by
resolution of the city council, as a condition precedent to having issued to
him or her the work permit provided in this chapter.
   G.   Renewal: Every person who has been issued a work permit pursuant to
this chapter must have that work permit renewed every six (6) years thereafter.
This renewal date will correspond with the six (6) year expiration date of the
original application and fingerprint date. Every person issued a work permit
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, seeking a replacement for the loss
of a permit, or a name change shall be required to pay additional fees as set
by resolution of the city council. Issuance of renewal work permits shall not
be automatic but shall be subject to such search of the police department
records, the state criminal justice information records, and other law
enforcement agency records and such background investigation as the chief of
police shall determine is necessary to determine the applicant's qualifications
to hold such work permit.
   H.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon complying with the provisions of this chapter,
and meeting all qualifications required, the chief of police shall issue the
applicant a work permit under this chapter, subject to revocation as provided
in this chapter. (Ord. 766, 11-27-2012)
5-11-5: APPEALS:
Any person whose application for a work permit has been denied or revoked by
the chief of police may appeal to the city council for a hearing to show cause
why the work permit should be issued or should not be revoked. Such appeal must
be filed with the city clerk on or before the thirtieth day following such
denial or revocation. Such appeal shall be heard by the city council within
thirty (30) days after the appeal is filed. At such hearing, the city council
shall receive such evidence and take such testimony as it deems necessary.
After such hearing, the city council shall review the testimony taken and any
other evidence submitted and shall within thirty (30) days from the date of the
hearing announce its decision sustaining or reversing the denial or revocation
of the work permit. Such city council may, by unanimous vote, upon evidence of
the good moral character and rehabilitation of the applicant, waive any of the
disqualifications stated in section
5-11-2 of this chapter, and condition or restrict any such waiver having due
consideration for the proper protection of the public health, safety, morals,
good order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. The filing of
such appeal shall constitute consent by the applicant to use all criminal
histories, records and information that has been acquired or compiled in
connection with the application and the action taken thereon. (Ord. 766, 11-27-
2012)
5-11-6: CONFIDENTIAL RECORDS:
All criminal histories, and records acquired, supplied or compiled by the chief
of police, the city council, the police department or any law enforcement
agency or record center pursuant to this chapter are confidential and no part
thereof may be disclosed except in the proper administration of this chapter,
or to an authorized law enforcement agency, to the Nevada gaming control board
and commission, to the city council, to the city attorney, to police officers
of the city police department and to the criminal justice information center of
the Nevada crime commission or to any successor thereof or substitute therefor.
Any dissemination of records, criminal history or other information acquired in
the administration of this chapter shall be made in compliance with the
policies and procedures of the Nevada crime commission. (Ord. 766, 11-27-2012)
5-11-7: UNLAWFUL TO EMPLOY BAR EMPLOYEES WITHOUT WORK PERMITS:
It is unlawful for any person owning or operating an establishment where
alcoholic beverages are sold at retail to patrons for consumption on the
premises, to employ any bar employee who does not hold a valid, current work
permit issued under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 766, 11-27-2012)
5-11-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 766, 11-27-2012)
CHAPTER 12
RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-12-1: Camping On Public Property
5-12-2: Prohibiting Temporary Habitation Of Private Places Or Lands
5-12-3: Prohibiting Businesses From Using Any City Owned Park And/Or Adjoining
Right Of Way
5-12-4: Penalties
5-12-5: Severability
5-12-1: CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   Unless such use is permitted under any other applicable provision of
this code, or unless the location has been designated as a "camping area" by
resolution of the city council and the location has been zoned to permit
"camping" as a principal, temporary or accessory permitted use, it shall be
unlawful to camp on public property (including, without limitation, public
parks) within the city limits. For the purpose of this chapter, "to camp" or
"camping" means to use real property of the city for living accommodation
purposes such as, without limitation, the following:
      1.   Overnight sleeping activities or making preparations to sleep
overnight outside of a vehicle (to include a recreational vehicle), such as the
laying down of bedding on the ground for the purpose of sleeping overnight;
      2.   Storing personal belongings outside of a structure, except that
property lawfully on the person of or associated with a person engaged in
lawful activities may be retained by that person;
      3.   Making any fire, other than in a fire or barbecue pit approved by
the city or in an area designated for such use by the city, and other than the
use of a portable charcoal or propane grill used according to the
manufacturer's instructions;
      4.   Using any tent, shelter, or other structure for sleeping overnight;
provided, that during daylight hours a person may sleep in a vehicle (to
include a recreational vehicle) lawfully parked for a period not to exceed four
(4) hours; or
      5.   Cooking, other than in a fire or barbecue pit approved by the city
or in an area designated for such use by the city, and other than the use of a
portable charcoal or propane grill used according to the manufacturer's
instructions.
For purposes of this subsection, "overnight" is defined as the period from one-
half (1/2) hour after sunset to sunrise.
   B.   The activities described in subsection A of this section, constitute
camping when it reasonably appears in light of all the circumstances that the
participant, in conducting these activities, is in fact using the area for
living accommodation purposes, regardless of the intent of the participant or
the nature of any other activities in which the participant may also be
engaging.
   C.   The prohibitions listed in subsection A of this section, shall not
restrict any person from doing the following activities:
      1.   Sitting or lying down on public property due to a medical emergency;
      2.   Moving about public property with the aid of a wheelchair, walker or
similar device;
      3.   Operating or patronizing a commercial establishment conducted on
public property pursuant to an applicable permit;
      4.   Participating in or attending a parade, festival, performance,
rally, demonstration, meeting or similar event conducted on public property
pursuant to an applicable permit;
      5.   Camping at a location approved by the city in connection with a
traveling show properly licensed pursuant to this code.
   D.   No person shall be charged with a violation of this section unless the
person engages in conduct prohibited by this section after having been notified
by a law enforcement officer that the conduct is unlawful. (Ord. 783, 6-10-
2014)
5-12-2: PROHIBITING TEMPORARY HABITATION OF PRIVATE PLACES OR LANDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to temporarily inhabit, dwell, cohabit,
prepare and eat meals, sleep, trespass, camp or remain upon any private places
or private lands within the city without the prior written permission of the
owner or lessee of such places or lands. No person shall be charged with a
violation of this section unless the person engages in conduct prohibited by
this section after having been notified by a law enforcement officer or a
person (or representative of a person) in lawful possession of the property
that the conduct is unlawful. (Ord. 783, 6-10-2014)
5-12-3: PROHIBITING BUSINESSES FROM USING ANY CITY OWNED PARK AND/OR ADJOINING
RIGHT OF WAY:
It shall be unlawful for any business to conduct business within any city owned
park and/or adjoining right of way, including, but not exclusively, streets,
curbs, gutters or parks, except for the following persons or entities under the
following conditions:
   A.   Any person holding a vendor permit pursuant to section
4-1-16 of this code.
   B.   Any person holding a special event permit pursuant to this code.
   C.   Any person holding a traveling show business license pursuant to this
code.
   D.   Private parties/gatherings in which the business has been hired to
provide food, beverages and/or entertainment. Payment for the services provided
shall be made by the organizer of the private party/gathering and shall not be
charged individually to the party/gathering participants. At no time will the
business be open to the public.
   E.   Any business operating under a concessionaire agreement with the city.
   F.   Any business contracted or hired by an organized sporting event to
provide food, beverages, and/or entertainment. (Ord. 783, 6-10-2014)
5-12-4: PENALTIES:
The penalties provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this code shall apply to this
chapter. (Ord. 783, 6-10-2014)
5-12-5: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are declared to be separate and severable. The
invalidity of any clause, sentence, paragraph, subdivision, section or portion
of this chapter, or the invalidity of the application thereof to any person or
circumstance shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this chapter, or
the validity of its application to other persons or circumstances. (Ord. 783,
6-10-2014)
CHAPTER 13
LOST AND FOUND PROPERTY
SECTION:
5-13-1: Title
5-13-2: Duty Of City Employees
5-13-3: Rights Of Finders
5-13-4: Return To Owner
5-13-5: Sale At Auction
5-13-6: Notice
5-13-7: Accounting For Sale Proceeds
5-13-8: Disposal Of Unsold Property
5-13-9: Disposal Of Unclaimed Money
5-13-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as LOST AND FOUND PROPERTY. (Ord. 262, 6-27-1978)
5-13-2: DUTY OF CITY EMPLOYEES:
Every officer and employee of the city, who shall find any lost money or
property in or upon any public ground, street, highway, road, alley, sidewalk,
public building or other property of the city, or when in the course of his
duties as a city employee shall otherwise come into possession of any personal
property, the owner of which is unknown, shall deliver the same to the officer
or the person in charge of the place where such money or property is found or
to the head of the department where such employee is employed or to the chief
of police. (Ord. 262, 6-27-1978)
5-13-3: RIGHTS OF FINDERS:
   A.   Claim; Conditions: Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter,
whenever any item of lost or abandoned property has been found and delivered to
the chief of police or one of his subordinates for care, custody and control,
by any person, such item shall be returned to the original finder whenever a
claim has been made by the finder and the following conditions have been met:
      1.   The claimant is the person who originally found the lost or
abandoned property.
      2.   Claimant, after sending the property to the chief of police, has
served written notice of his intention to make a claim on that item within
ninety (90) days of the surrender of the item.
      3.   The lost or abandoned property has remained unclaimed by the owner
or person having a right to said property before ninety (90) days after
surrender of the same to the chief of police or his subordinate.
      4.   The lost or abandoned property is not stolen or confiscated
property, nor other properties coming within the provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 179.
   B.   Employees Exempt: In no event shall property or money be returned to a
city employee who found the same while within the scope of his employment with
the city. (Ord. 262, 6-27-1978)
5-13-4: RETURN TO OWNER:
The person to whom such money or property is delivered, other than the chief of
police, shall cause the same to be delivered to the custody of the chief of
police who shall care for and protect all such property coming into his
possession. The chief of police shall restore such property or money to its
true owner or the persons entitled to possession thereof, upon proof of
ownership or right of possession satisfactory to him, and upon payment to him
of all costs reasonably or necessarily incurred by him in the care and
protection of such property. If the identity of the owner appears from an
examination of the property or if the identity of the owner is otherwise known
to the chief of police, he shall notify the apparent owner by letter, certified
mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid at the owner's last known
address. Such letter shall describe the property and state that the same may be
sold or otherwise disposed of unless claimed within ninety (90) days. (Ord.
262, 6-27-1978)
5-13-5: SALE AT AUCTION:
Any unclaimed or unreturned property, other than money, in the possession of
the police department, unless otherwise provided by law, may be sold at auction
by the chief of police or his representative to the highest bidder after being
held by the police department for a period of at least ninety (90) days or
being held for ninety (90) days from the date of mailing as provided in section
 5-13-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 262, 6-27-1978)
5-13-6: NOTICE:
Notice of any sale under the provision of this chapter shall be published at
least twice in a newspaper of general circulation published in the city. The
first publication shall be at least ten (10) days prior to the time fixed for
said auction. Said notice shall contain a statement of the time and place fixed
by the chief of police for such auction, together with a general statement of
the kind of property offered for sale at such auction. (Ord. 262, 6-27-1978)
5-13-7: ACCOUNTING FOR SALE PROCEEDS:
Immediately upon the completion of any such auction sale, the chief of police
shall report to the city clerk, the necessary expenses of such sale actually
incurred and a statement of the proceeds of such sale, and shall forthwith pay
to the city clerk, for deposit in the general fund the proceeds remaining after
payment of the expenses actually incurred. (Ord. 262, 6-27-1978)
5-13-8: DISPOSAL OF UNSOLD PROPERTY:
If there be no bids incurred for any item offered for sale at such auction,
each item shall be disposed of by the chief of police, in the public interest,
as he shall deem fit. The chief of police shall advise the city clerk of the
disposition made of all such properties and shall forthwith pay to the city
clerk all monies received by him in disposal of such property. (Ord. 262, 6-27-
1978)
5-13-9: DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED MONEY:
Any money received by the chief of police under sections
5-13-2 and
5-13-3 of this chapter shall be retained in his custody for a period of ninety
(90) days. All such money which remains unclaimed by its true owner, or the
person entitled to possession thereof, for a period of ninety (90) days from
the date of its finding shall be deposited by the chief of police with the city
clerk for deposit in the general fund. (Ord. 262, 6-27-1978)
CHAPTER 14
TAXICAB OPERATION EMPLOYEES; WORK PERMITS
SECTION:
5-14-1: Definitions
5-14-2: Policy
5-14-3: Unlawful To Be Employed As A Taxicab Operation Employee Without Work
Permit
5-14-4: Application; License Requirements; Fees
5-14-5: Appeals
5-14-6: Confidential Records
5-14-7: Unlawful To Employ Taxicab Operation Employees Without Work Permits
5-14-8: Display Of Work Permit
5-14-9: Unlawful Operation
5-14-10: Penalties
5-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following words shall have the meaning attached to them by this section:
   TAXICAB: A motor vehicle or vehicles to accommodate and transport passengers
for hire within the city or from points within the city to points without the
city; provided, that motor carriers conducting fixed route operations or
ambulances are not considered as taxicabs.
   TAXICAB OPERATION: The operation of a motor vehicle or vehicles to
accommodate and transport passengers for hire within the city, or, from points
within the city to points without the city; provided, that motor carriers
conducting fixed route operations or ambulances are not construed as taxicab
operations.
   TAXICAB OPERATION EMPLOYEE: Those employees of establishments, firms,
corporations, businesses, partnerships, or any other type of business
organization, or a lessee thereof, conducting a taxicab operation.
   TEMPORARY WORK PERMIT: A work permit which is valid for a period not to
exceed sixty (60) days from its date of issue and is not renewable.
   WORK PERMIT: Any card, certificate or permit issued by the city council or
by the chief of police, authorizing employment to the holder as a taxicab
operation employee. (Ord. 459, 7-25-1995)
5-14-2: POLICY:
   A.   Generally: The city council finds, and it is hereby declared to be the
policy of the city that, to protect the public health, safety, morals, good
order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city, it is necessary that
the city council ascertain and keep itself informed of the identity,
qualifications, prior activities and present location of all taxicab operation
employees in the city, and maintain confidential records of such information;
and require registration with the police department; and require the
thumbprinting, fingerprinting and photographing of taxicab operation employees;
and to require the chief of police to investigate the background qualification
of each applicant for a taxicab operation employee work permit under this
chapter, before any such work permit is granted; and to periodically
investigate into legal qualifications of each applicant or holder of a work
permit under this chapter, to the end that such work permit shall not be
granted to or held by unqualified, disqualified or unsuitable persons.
   B.   Prohibited Persons: To better define the policy of the city in this
chapter, the following persons may be declared to be unqualified, disqualified
or unsuitable persons to be granted or to hold a taxicab operation employee
work permit under the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   A person who within the past three (3) years has been convicted in
the state or elsewhere of:
         a.   A felony or any crime which, under the laws of the state, is
punishable as a felony;
         b.   Any crime in which defraud or intent to fraud was an element;
         c.   Larceny in any degree;
         d.   Buying or receiving stolen property;
         e.   Unlawful possession, use, selling, dispensing, exchanging,
supplying, giving away or distribution of any "controlled substance", as that
term is defined in the uniform controlled substance act, or any "dangerous
drug", as that term is defined in Nevada Revised Statutes title 40, chapter
454, or of marijuana, or of any narcotic drug;
         f.   Any sex offense or crime involving moral turpitude;
         g.   Violation of any law, whether the same is or is not punishable as
a felony, regulating or prohibiting the use, carrying, possession or ownership
of any concealed weapon or deadly weapon.
      2.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
      3.   A person who the chief of police determines is not a suitable person
to receive a work permit under the provisions of this chapter, having due
consideration for the proper protection of the public interests, health,
safety, morals, good order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
The chief of police shall make a written statement of the reasons for
disqualification of any person under this subsection in the event such
disqualification is appealed to the city council. (Ord. 612, 11-25-2003)
5-14-3: UNLAWFUL TO BE EMPLOYED AS A TAXICAB OPERATION EMPLOYEE WITHOUT WORK
PERMIT:
It is unlawful for any person to be employed as a taxicab operation employee
unless such person is the holder of a valid, current work permit issued in
accordance with the terms, provisions and conditions of this chapter. (Ord.
459, 7-25-1995)
5-14-4: APPLICATION; LICENSE REQUIREMENTS; FEES:
   A.   Application Form; Information: Application for a taxicab operation
employee work permit shall be submitted to the chief of police in writing,
under oath, setting forth the following information: applicant's name, age,
present residence address; a list of the residences for the past three (3)
years prior to the date of such application; a list of the names and addresses
of all employers of the applicant for the past three (3) years prior to the
date of such application; a list of all convictions within the past three (3)
years prior to the date of filing the application for those crimes enumerated
in section
5-14-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Prints And Photographs: At the time of filing such written application,
the applicant shall submit to the taking of his or her thumbprints,
fingerprints and photographs for use in processing the application and for
filing in the records of the police department and the criminal justice
information center of the Nevada crime commission.
   C.   Temporary Permit May Be Issued: Whenever any person applies for a work
permit in compliance with the terms, provisions and conditions of this chapter,
the chief of police may, in his discretion, issue such applicant a temporary
work permit.
   D.   Duty Of Chief Of Police In Processing Application: It shall be the duty
of the chief of police:
      1.   To receive and process the applications for work permits provided in
this chapter.
      2.   To take the thumbprints, fingerprints and photographs of all
applicants and immediately send a copy of such prints and photos to the
criminal justice information center of the Nevada crime commission, or such
other law enforcement agency as the chief of police may determine, with the
request that all information as to the previous record, if any, of such person
be immediately transmitted to the chief of police. On application for renewal,
or upon the change of name of any holder of a work permit, the chief of police
may submit only the applicant's or holder's name to the criminal justice
information center, or may require the submission of new thumbprints and
fingerprints. If the applicant discloses a felony within the last three (3)
years to the potential employer, a letter must be provided from the employer to
the chief of police stating that they are aware of the applicant's criminal
history.
      3.   To investigate the qualifications of all applicants for work permits
under this chapter and to grant or deny such application within sixty (60) days
from the date such application is filed.
      4.   The chief of police may deny any application made by any applicant
who does not meet the requirements of this chapter, or who has failed to
disclose, misstated or otherwise misled the chief of police in respect to any
facts or statement contained within the application, or who has refused or
neglected to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   The chief of police may revoke any work permit issued under this
chapter when it shall appear to the satisfaction of the chief of police that:
         a.   The holder of the work permit has, subsequent to the issuance of
the work permit, been convicted of any of the crimes or offenses specified in
section
 5-14-2 of this chapter.
         b.   The holder of the work permit failed to disclose, misstated or
otherwise misled the chief of police in respect of any fact or statement
contained in his or her application for a work permit.
         c.   The holder of the work permit refuses or neglects to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter.
         d.   The holder of the work permit is no longer a suitable person to
hold such work permit after due consideration by the chief of police of the
proper protection of the public interests, health, safety, morals, good order
and the general welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
   E.   Fee: Every person applying for a work permit under the provisions of
this chapter shall pay, at the time of application, the fee as set by
resolution of the city council as a condition precedent to having issued to him
or her the work permit provided in this chapter.
   F.   Renewal: Every person who has been issued a work permit pursuant to
this chapter must have that work permit renewed every five (5) years thereafter
and/or upon any change at any time of place of employment, and/or upon any
change of name.
   G.   Expiration Of Permit: All such work permits issued pursuant to this
chapter shall expire five (5) calendar years from the date of issuance.
   H.   Time Limit For Renewal Application: A holder of a work permit must
apply for renewal of the permit from the chief of police within ten (10) days
following any change of place of employment or change of name.
   I.   Additional Fee: Every person issued a work permit pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, seeking a replacement, modification or reissuance
of an original work permit previously issued to him or her because of a change
of place of employment and/or upon any change of name, shall be required to pay
an additional fee in accordance with city council resolution.
   J.   Renewal Fee: Every person holding a work permit pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter seeking a renewal of the original work permit
previously issued to him or her shall, after expiration of five (5) calendar
years from the date of issuance, pay to the city the fee as set by resolution
of the city council for such renewal work permit and shall, if requested by the
chief of police, submit to thumbprinting and fingerprinting and/or
photographing and/or submit portions of an application as the chief of police
shall specify.
   K.   Search And Investigation For Renewal: Issuance of renewal work permits
shall not be automatic but shall be subject to such search of the police
department records, the Nevada criminal justice information records, and other
law enforcement agency records and such background investigation as the chief
of police shall determine is necessary to determine the applicant's
qualifications to hold such work permit.
   L.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon complying with the provisions of this chapter,
and meeting all qualifications required, the chief of police shall issue the
applicant a work permit under this chapter, subject to revocation as provided
in this chapter. (Ord. 612, 11-25-2003)
5-14-5: APPEALS:
Any person whose application for a work permit has been denied or revoked by
the chief of police may appeal to the city council for a hearing to show cause
why the work permit should be issued or should not be revoked. Such appeal must
be filed with the city clerk on or before the thirtieth day following such
denial or revocation. Such appeal shall be heard by the city council within
thirty (30) days after the appeal is filed. At such hearing, the city council
shall receive such evidence and take such testimony as it deems necessary.
After such hearing, the city council shall review the testimony taken and any
other evidence submitted and shall within thirty (30) days from the date of the
hearing announce its decision sustaining or reversing the denial or revocation
of the work permit. Such city council may, by unanimous vote, upon evidence of
the good moral character and rehabilitation of the applicant, waive any of the
disqualifications stated in section
5-14-2 of this chapter, and condition or restrict any such waiver, having due
consideration for the proper protection of the public interest, health, safety,
morals, good order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. The
filing of such appeal shall constitute consent by the applicant to use all
criminal histories, records and information that has been acquired or compiled
in connection with the application and the action taken thereon. (Ord. 459, 7-
25-1995)
5-14-6: CONFIDENTIAL RECORDS:
All criminal histories, and records acquired, supplied or compiled by the chief
of police, the city council, the police department or any law enforcement
agency or record center pursuant to this chapter are confidential and no part
thereof may be disclosed except in proper administration of this chapter, or to
any authorized law enforcement agency or to the Nevada gaming control board and
commission or to the city council or to the city attorney or to law enforcement
officers within the county and to the criminal justice information center of
the Nevada crime commission or to any successor thereof or substitute therefor.
Any dissemination of records, criminal history or other information acquired in
the administration of this chapter shall be made in compliance with the
policies and procedures of the Nevada crime commission. (Ord. 459, 7-25-1995)
5-14-7: UNLAWFUL TO EMPLOY TAXICAB OPERATION EMPLOYEES WITHOUT WORK PERMITS:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person owning or operating a
business, firm, corporation, partnership or association to employ or continue
to employ a taxicab operation employee who does not hold a valid, current work
permit issued under provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Applicability: The regulations and provisions of this chapter shall be
applicable to all persons and businesses described herein regardless of whether
such persons and businesses are currently licensed to do business in the city
and regardless of whether the activities occurred before or after the effective
date hereof.
   C.   Time For Compliance: All such persons and businesses requiring work
permits shall have fifty (50) days from the effective date hereof to comply
with regulatory provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 459, 7-25-1995)
5-14-8: DISPLAY OF WORK PERMIT:
It is unlawful for any person to operate any taxicab pursuant to the terms of
this chapter unless such person has conspicuously displayed a valid, current
work permit issued under the provisions of this chapter. It shall be unlawful
for any person other than the person to whom the taxicab operation employee
work permit has been issued to be in possession of such work permit. It is
unlawful for any person to whom a taxicab operation employees work permit has
been issued under the terms of this chapter to permit such work permit to be in
the possession of another person. (Ord. 459, 7-25-1995)
5-14-9: UNLAWFUL OPERATION:
It shall be a misdemeanor offense for any person, establishment, firm,
corporation, partnership or other business organization, or lessee thereof, to
commence a taxicab operation within the city without first complying with the
regulations of the public service commission of the state. (Ord. 459, 7-25-
1995)
5-14-10: PENALTIES:
Any person or taxicab operation violating any provision of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this code.
(Ord. 459, 7-25-1995)
CHAPTER 15
IMITATION CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
SECTION:
5-15-1: Title
5-15-2: Definitions
5-15-3: Manufacture, Sale Or Distribution
5-15-4: Use
5-15-5: Advertisement Or Solicitation
5-15-6: Exemptions
5-15-7: Penalties
5-15-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the REGULATION OF IMITATION CONTROLLED
SUBSTANCES ORDINANCE. (Ord. 327, 3-9-1982)
5-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms when used in this chapter shall have the meaning indicated:
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: A "controlled substance" as defined in Nevada Revised
Statutes section 453.041.
   DISTRIBUTE: The actual, constructive or attempted substance, which by dosage
unit appearance (including color, shape, size and markings), or by
representations made, would lead a reasonable person to believe that the
substance is a controlled substance. In those rare cases when the appearance of
the dosage unit is not reasonably sufficient to establish that the substance is
an "imitation controlled substance" (for example in the case of powder or
liquid), the court or authority concerned should consider, in addition to all
other logically relevant factors, the following factors as related to
"representations made" in determining whether the substance is an "imitation
controlled substance":
   A.   Statements made by an owner or by anyone else in control of the
substance concerning the nature of the substance, or its use or effect;
   B.   Statements made to the recipient that the substance may be resold for
inordinate profit;
   C.   Whether the substance is packaged in a manner normally used for illicit
controlled substances;
   D.   Evasive tactics or actions utilized by the owner or person in control
of the substance to avoid detection by law enforcement authorities;
   E.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or anyone in control of the
object, under state or federal law related to controlled substances or fraud;
   F.   The proximity of the substances to controlled substances.
   MANUFACTURE: The production, preparation, compounding, processing,
encapsulating, packaging or repackaging, labeling or relabeling of an imitation
controlled substance. (Ord. 327, 3-9-1982)
5-15-3: MANUFACTURE, SALE OR DISTRIBUTION:
It is unlawful for any person to manufacture, sell, distribute or possess with
intent to sell or distribute, an imitation controlled substance. Any person who
violates this section shall be guilty of a city offense as set forth in section
5-15-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 327, 3-9-1982)
5-15-4: USE:
It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, an
imitation controlled substance. Any person who violates this section is guilty
of a city offense as set forth in section
5-15-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 327, 3-9-1982)
5-15-5: ADVERTISEMENT OR SOLICITATION:
It is unlawful for any person to place any newspaper, magazine, handbill or
other publication, or to post or distribute in any public place, any
advertisement or solicitation with reasonable knowledge that the purpose of the
advertisement or solicitation is to promote the distribution of imitation
controlled substances. Any person who violates this section is guilty of a city
offense as set forth in section
5-15-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 327, 3-9-1982)
5-15-6: EXEMPTIONS:
No civil or criminal liability shall be imposed by virtue of this chapter on
any person registered under the controlled substances act who manufactures,
distributes or possesses an imitation controlled substance for use as a placebo
by a registered practitioner in the course of professional practice or
research. (Ord. 327, 3-9-1982)
5-15-7: PENALTIES:
Whenever in this chapter any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be
unlawful or a city offense, or whenever in this chapter the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is made or declared to be unlawful or a
city offense, the doing of any such prohibited act or the failure to do any
such required act shall constitute a city offense and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this code. Any day of
any violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense and be
punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 327, 3-9-1982)
CHAPTER 16
CURFEW; MINORS
SECTION:
5-16-1: Short Title
5-16-2: Definitions
5-16-3: Curfew Hours For Minors
5-16-4: Responsibility Of Owners Of Public Places
5-16-5: Parents' Responsibility And Civil Liability
5-16-6: Special Functions
5-16-7: Procedures
5-16-8: Penalties
5-16-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ORDINANCE REGULATING THE
PRESENCE AND CONDUCT OF MINORS ON STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES. (Ord. 449, 10-25-
1994)
5-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely
directory.
   CITY: The city of Elko.
   CUSTODIAN: Any person over the age of eighteen (18) who is in loco parentis
to a juvenile.
   GUARDIAN: Any person other than a parent, who has legal guardianship of a
minor.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18).
   PARENT: The natural or adoptive parent of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment or other lawful purpose. A "public place" shall
include, but not be limited to, any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling
alley, cafe, theater, drugstore, poolroom, shopping center and any other place
devoted to amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also
include the front or immediate area of the above. (Ord. 449, 10-25-1994)
5-16-3: CURFEW HOURS FOR MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any minor to be idle, remain, wander, stroll or play
in any public place, either on foot or to cruise about, without a set
destination in any vehicle in, about or upon any place in the city between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., Sunday through
Thursday, and between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) A.M. (midnight) and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M., Friday and Saturday during the school year, and
between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.,
Sunday through Thursday, and between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) A.M.
(midnight) and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., Friday and Saturday during the Elko
County school district summer vacation, unless accompanied by a parent,
guardian, custodian or other adult person having custody or control of such
minor or unless the minor is on an emergency errand or specific business or
activity directed or permitted by his parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor or where the presence of such minor is
connected with or required by some legitimate employment, trade, profession or
occupation. (Ord. 449, 10-25-1994)
5-16-4: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS OF PUBLIC PLACES:
Unless otherwise permitted by this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation operating or having charge of any public place to
knowingly permit or suffer the presence of minors under the age of eighteen
(18) during curfew hours for minors. (Ord. 449, 10-25-1994)
5-16-5: PARENTS' RESPONSIBILITY AND CIVIL LIABILITY:
   A.   Violation: It shall be a civil infraction for the parent, guardian or
other adult person having custody or control of any minor under the age of
eighteen (18) to suffer or permit, or by ineffective control to allow, such
person to be on the streets or sidewalks or in any public property or public
place within the city during curfew hours for minors. However, the provisions
of this section do not apply to a minor accompanied by his parent, guardian,
custody or other adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor,
or if the minor is on any emergency errand or specific business or activity
directed by his parent, guardian, custodian or other adult having the care and
custody of the minor or if the parent, guardian or other adult person herein
has made a missing person notification to the police department. The issuance
of a citation to a parent creates a rebuttable presumption of ineffective
control of the juvenile.
   B.   Notice Of Civil Infraction; Form: A notice of civil infraction must be
on the form which is prescribed by the police department and must contain the
following information:
      1.   The location at which the violation occurred;
      2.   The date and time of the violation;
      3.   The signature of the person who issues the notice of civil
infraction;
      4.   The section of this code which allegedly is being violated;
      5.   Information which advises of the manner in which, and the time
within which, the notice of civil infraction should be answered;
      6.   Any other reasonable information which is prescribed by the police
department.
   C.   Duties Of Respondent:
      1.   A person who responds to a notice of infraction must either:
         a.   "Admit" the commission of the infraction and pay the appropriate
civil fine; or
         b.   "Deny" liability for the infraction.
      2.   A person may "admit" pursuant to subsection C1a of this section by
paying the amount of the civil fine which is appropriate for the violation
which was committed to the municipal court.
      3.   A person may "deny" liability pursuant to subsection C1b of this
section only by appearing in person before the municipal court.
   D.   Commencement Of Civil Action; Procedure: Judicial enforcement of
notices of infraction must be by way of civil suit in the municipal court if a
person denies liability. A civil action may be commenced by the filing of a
complaint in the name of the city and the issuance of a summons with respect
thereto, and service of such complaint and summons on the defendant must be
made by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the defendant at
his/her last known address or in any other matter which is authorized by law.
The proceedings in municipal court for actions commenced pursuant to this
chapter shall be governed by rules 1 and 3 through 87 of the justice court
rules of procedures, except that there shall be no right of trial by jury.
   E.   Schedule Of Civil Fines: The civil fines imposed upon a parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor violating
this chapter for civil infractions shall be as follows:
 
First civil infraction                                             $ 50.00
Second civil infraction within 1 year of the date of the first     150.00
infraction
Third civil infraction within 1 year of the first infraction       500.00
 
(Ord. 449, 10-25-1994)
5-16-6: SPECIAL FUNCTIONS:
Any minor attending a special function or entertainment of any church, school,
club or other organization that requires such minor to be out at a later hour
than that called for in section 5-16-3 of this chapter shall be exempt from the
provisions of section
 5-16-3 of this chapter, provided the police officer is able to verify that the
minor qualifies under the provisions of this section for an exemption. The
minors who attend the function shall be required to be in their homes or usual
places of abode within one-half (1/2) hour after the function is ended. (Ord.
449, 10-25-1994)
5-16-7: PROCEDURES:
   A.   Violations: Any violation of section
5-16-3 of this chapter may result in the minor being cited to the juvenile
court for a violation of section
5-16-3 of this chapter. In addition, the parents of said juvenile may also be
forthwith personally cited to the municipal court for a violation of section 5-
16-5 of this chapter. Any violation of section
 5-16-4 of this chapter shall result in that business being cited to the
municipal court.
   B.   Disposition Of Minor Upon Issuance Of Citation: After issuance of a
citation, if such minor fails to immediately return to his or her home, he or
she shall be taken to the police department and the parent, guardian or other
adult person having the care and custody of such minor shall be notified to
come and take charge of the minor. If the parent, guardian or other adult
person above cannot be located or fails to come and take charge of the minor,
the minor shall be released to the juvenile authorities. (Ord. 449, 10-25-1994)
5-16-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Minor: Any minor violating the provisions of this chapter may be
processed in accordance with the juvenile court law and procedure.
   B.   Other Persons: Any person other than a parent convicted of any criminal
provision of this chapter shall be sentenced as provided for in title 1,
chapter 3 of this code. Parents found to have committed a civil violation shall
be fined as set forth in subsection
5-16-5E of this chapter.
   C.   Accounting Of Monies Received: All monies received as a result of the
enforcement of this chapter shall be accounted for in a separate account and
such monies shall be used for the purpose of preventing juvenile crime. (Ord.
449, 10-25-1994)
CHAPTER 17
ANTILITTER REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-17-1: Short Title
5-17-2: Definitions
5-17-3: Litter In Public Places
5-17-4: Placement Of Litter In Receptacles So As To Prevent Scattering
5-17-5: Sweeping Litter Into Gutters Prohibited
5-17-6: Merchants' Duty To Keep Sidewalks Free Of Litter
5-17-7: Litter Thrown By Persons In Vehicles
5-17-8: Truck Loads Causing Litter
5-17-9: Litter In Parks
5-17-10: Litter In Fountains
5-17-11: Litter In Occupied Private Property
5-17-12: Owner To Maintain Premises Free Of Litter
5-17-13: Litter On Vacant Lots
5-17-14: Penalties
5-17-15: Separability
5-17-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF ELKO ANTILITTER
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 386, 10-11-1988)
5-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in the
plural number include the singular number, and words used in the singular
number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not
merely directory.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE: A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required and authorized in section
9-2-3 of this code.
   CITY: The city of Elko, Nevada.
   GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish", as defined in this section, and
all other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited,
tends to create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PREMISES: Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 386, 10-11-1988)
5-17-3: LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES:
No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place within the city except in public receptacles, in authorized
private receptacles for collection, or in official city dumps. (Ord. 386, 10-
11-1988)
5-17-4: PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING:
Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property. (Ord. 386, 10-11-1988)
5-17-5: SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED:
Except when authorized by the city at specified times, no person shall sweep
into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the
sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter. (Ord. 386, 10-11-1988)
5-17-6: MERCHANTS' DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER:
No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or deposit
in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the accumulation of
litter from any building or lot, or from any public or private sidewalk or
driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the city shall
keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter. (Ord.
386, 10-11-1988)
5-17-7: LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES:
No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city, or upon private
property. (Ord. 386, 10-11-1988)
5-17-8: TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER:
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city unless
such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or
litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public
place. (Ord. 386, 10-11-1988)
5-17-9: LITTER IN PARKS:
No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city except in
public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or upon
any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not provided,
all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person responsible
for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided herein. (Ord.
386, 10-11-1988)
5-17-10: LITTER IN FOUNTAINS:
No person shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, stream or any
other body of water in a park or elsewhere within the city. (Ord. 386, 10-11-
1988)
5-17-11: LITTER IN OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY:
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property within
the city, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or person
in control of private property may maintain authorized private receptacles for
collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon any private property. (Ord. 386, 10-11-1988)
5-17-12: OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER:
The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection. (Ord. 386, 10-11-1988)
5-17-13: LITTER ON VACANT LOTS:
No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private property
within the city, whether owned by such person or not. (Ord. 386, 10-11-1988)
5-17-14: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined or
imprisoned as provided for in section
1-3-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder. (Ord. 386, 10-11-1988)
5-17-15: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 386, 10-11-1988)
CHAPTER 18
DISTRIBUTION OF MATERIAL HARMFUL TO MINORS
SECTION:
5-18-1: Short Title
5-18-2: Definitions
5-18-3: Sale Of Material Harmful To Minors
5-18-4: Motion Pictures Or Other Presentations Harmful To Minors
5-18-5: Segregation Of Materials Harmful To Minors
5-18-6: Exemptions From Criminal Prosecution
5-18-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ORDINANCE REGULATING
DISTRIBUTION OF MATERIAL HARMFUL TO MINORS. (Ord. 388, 2-14-1989)
5-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number the
plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   HARMFUL TO MINORS: That quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct or sexual excitement, when it:
   A.   Predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful or morbid interest of
minors in sex; and
   B.   Is patently offensive to contemporary standards in the adult community
as a whole with respect to what is suitable sexual material for minors; and
   C.   Taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
   KNOWINGLY: A. Having general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or
ground for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry or both;
   B.   The character and content of any material which is reasonably
susceptible of examination by the defendant; and
   C.   The age of the minor; provided, however, that an honest mistake shall
constitute an excuse from liability hereunder if the defendant made a
reasonable bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of such minor.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof below the
top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT: Includes any of the following depicted sexual conduct:
   A.   Any act of sexual intercourse, actual or simulated, including genital,
anal-genital, or oral-genital intercourse, whether between human beings or
between a human being and an animal;
   B.   Sadomasochistic abuse meaning flagellation or torture by or upon a
person who is nude or clad in undergarments or in a revealing costume, or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restricted on the
part of one so clothed;
   C.   Masturbation or lewd exhibitions of the genitals, including any
explicit, close up representation of a human genital organ;
   D.   Physical contact or simulated physical contact with the clothed or
unclothed areas or buttocks of a human male or female, or the breasts of the
female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite sex or between
humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or gratification;
   E.   An act of sexual assault where physical violence or drugs are employed
to overcome the will of or achieve the consent of a person to an act of sexual
conduct and the effects or results of the violence or drugs are shown.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT: The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal. (Ord. 388, 2-14-1989)
5-18-3: SALE OF MATERIAL HARMFUL TO MINORS:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to sell or loan for monetary
consideration to a minor:
   A.   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film,
videotape, or similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of
the human body which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sexual excitement and
which is harmful to minors.
   B.   Any book, pamphlet, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or
sound recording which contains any matter enumerated in subsection A of this
section, or which contains explicit and detailed verbal descriptions or
narrative accounts of nudity, sexual excitement or sexual conduct and which
taken as a whole is harmful to minors. (Ord. 388, 2-14-1989)
5-18-4: MOTION PICTURES OR OTHER PRESENTATIONS HARMFUL TO MINORS:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit for a monetary consideration
to a minor or knowingly to sell to a minor an admission ticket or pass or
knowingly to admit a minor for a monetary consideration to premises whereon
there is exhibited a motion picture show or other presentation which, in whole
or in part, depicts nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement and which is
harmful to minors. (Ord. 388, 2-14-1989)
5-18-5: SEGREGATION OF MATERIALS HARMFUL TO MINORS:
It is unlawful for any person commercially and knowingly to exhibit, display,
sell, offer to sell, give away, circulate, distribute, or attempt to distribute
any material which is harmful to minors in its content in any place where
minors are or may be present or allowed to be present and where minors are able
to view such material, unless each item of such material is at all times kept
in a sealed wrapper.
   A.   It is also unlawful for any person commercially and knowingly to
exhibit, display, sell, offer to sell, give away, circulate, distribute, or
attempt to distribute any material whose cover, covers or packaging, standing
alone, is harmful to minors, in any place where minors are or may be present or
allowed to be present and where minors are able to view such material, unless
each item of such material is blocked from view by an opaque cover. The
requirement of an opaque cover shall be deemed satisfied concerning such
material if those portions of the cover, covers or packaging containing such
material harmful to minors are blocked from view by an opaque cover.
   B.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the distribution or
attempt to distribute the exhibition, display, sale, offer of sale,
circulation, or giving away of material harmful to minors where such material
is sold, exhibited, displayed, offered for sale, given away, circulated,
distributed, or attempted to be distributed under circumstances where minors
are not present, not allowed to be present, or are not able to view such
material or the cover, covers or packaging of such material. Any business may
comply with the requirements of this subsection by physically segregating such
material in a manner so as to physically prohibit the access to and view of the
material by minors, by prominently posting at the entrances to such restricted
area, "Adults Only. You Must Be 18 To Enter", and by enforcing said
restrictions. (Ord. 388, 2-14-1989)
5-18-6: EXEMPTIONS FROM CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
The following are exempt from criminal or other action hereunder:
   A.   Recognized and established schools, religious institutions, museums,
medical clinics and physicians, hospitals, public libraries, governmental
agencies or quasi governmental sponsored organizations, and persons acting in
their capacity as employees or agents of such organizations. For the purpose of
this section "recognized and established" shall mean: an organization or agency
having a full time faculty and diversified curriculum in the case of a school;
a religious institution affiliated with a national or regional denomination; a
licensed physician or psychiatrist or clinic of licensed physicians or
psychiatrists; and in all other exempt organizations shall refer only to income
tax exempted organizations which are supported in whole or in part by tax funds
or which receive at least one third of their support from publicly donated
funds.
   B.   Individuals in a parental relationship with the minor. (Ord. 388, 2-14-
1989)
CHAPTER 19
GRAFFITI CODE
SECTION:
5-19-1: Purpose And Intent
5-19-2: Definitions
5-19-3: Prohibited Acts
5-19-4: Accessibility To Graffiti Implements
5-19-5: Penalties
5-19-6: Graffiti As Nuisance
5-19-7: Removal Of Graffiti By Perpetrator
5-19-8: Removal Of Graffiti By Property Owner Or City
5-19-9: Ease Of Removal Provisions
5-19-10: Trust Fund
5-19-11: Severability
5-19-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The city council is enacting this chapter to help prevent the spread of
graffiti vandalism and to establish a program for the removal of graffiti from
public and private property. The city council is authorized to enact this
chapter pursuant to its police powers, as specified in the Elko city charter or
the Nevada Revised Statutes.
   B.   The city council finds that graffiti is a public nuisance and
destructive of the rights and values of property owners, as well as the entire
community. Unless the city acts to remove graffiti from public and private
property, the graffiti tends to remain. Other properties then become the target
of graffiti, and entire neighborhoods are affected and become less desirable
places in which to be, all to the detriment of the city.
   C.   The city council intends, through the adoption of this chapter, to
provide additional enforcement tools to protect public and private property
from acts of graffiti vandalism and defacement. The city council does not
intend for this chapter to conflict with any antigraffiti state laws. (Ord.
645, 6-14-2005)
5-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for
the purpose of applying spray paint or other substances capable of defacing
property.
   BROAD TIPPED MARKER: Any felt tip indelible marker or similar implement with
a flat or angled writing surface that, at its broadest width, is greater than
one-fourth (1/4) of an inch, containing ink or other pigmented liquid that is
not water soluble.
   ETCHING EQUIPMENT: Any tool, device or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on any natural or manmade surface.
   GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, design, painting or
other defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn,
painted or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property, real or personal, by any graffiti implement, to the extent that the
graffiti was not authorized in advance by the owner or occupant of the property
or, despite advance authorization, is otherwise deemed a public nuisance by the
city council.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: An aerosol paint container, a broad tipped marker,
gummed label, paint stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any
other device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any natural or
manmade surface.
   PAINT STICK OR GRAFFITI STICK: Any device containing a solid form of paint,
chalk, wax, epoxy, or other epoxy, or other similar substance capable of being
applied to a surface by pressure and leaving a mark of at least one-eighth (1/
8) of an inch in width.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, cooperative association, personal
representative, receiver, trustee, assignee, or any other legal entity. (Ord.
645, 6-14-2005)
5-19-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Defacement: It shall be unlawful for any person to apply graffiti to
any natural or manmade surface on any city owned property or, without the
permission of the owner or occupant, on any noncity owned property. (Ord. 645,
6-14-2005)
   B.   Possession Of Graffiti Implements:
      1.   Minors At Or Near School Facilities: It shall be unlawful for any
minor person, upon his person or in a vehicle, under the age of eighteen (18)
years to possess any graffiti implement while on any school property, grounds,
facilities, buildings or structures, or in areas immediately adjacent to those
specific locations upon public property, or upon private property without the
prior written consent of the owner or occupant of such private property. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to the possession of broad tipped
markers by a minor attending or traveling to or from a school at which the
minor is enrolled if the minor is participating in a class at the school that
formally requires the possession of broad tipped markers. The burden of proof
in any prosecution for violation of this section shall be upon the minor
student to establish the need to possess a broad tipped marker.
      2.   Designated Public Places Or Public Transportation: Any person who
carries on his person a graffiti implement with the intent to vandalize, place
graffiti on or otherwise deface public or private property, real or personal,
of another:
         a.   While on or under any overpass or bridge or in any flood channel;
         b.   At any public facility, community center, park, playground,
swimming pool, transportation facility, beach or recreational area whereon a
sign is posted in a location reasonably expected to be viewed by the public
which states that it is a misdemeanor to possess a graffiti implement at that
public location without valid authorization; or
         c.   In a public transportation vehicle wherein a sign is posted that
is easily viewed by passengers which states that it is a misdemeanor to possess
a graffiti implement in the vehicle without valid authorization, is guilty of a
misdemeanor unless he has first received valid authorization from the
governmental entity which has jurisdiction over the public area or other person
who is designated to provide such authorization.
         d.   As used in this subsection:
            (1)   "Public transportation vehicle" means a bus, train or other
vehicle or instrumentality used to transport persons from a transportation
facility to another location.
            (2)   "Transportation facility" means an airport, marina, bus
terminal, train station, bus stop or other facility where a person may go to
obtain transportation.
      3.   All Other Locations: It shall be unlawful for any person to possess
a graffiti implement anywhere else not specified in subsection B1 or B2 of this
section within the city with the intent to use the graffiti implement to
deface, vandalize or place graffiti upon property as prohibited by this section
or knowing that some other person intends to use the graffiti implement in the
commission of such an offense. In determining intent, an officer enforcing this
code or a court considering charges for violation of this section may consider,
among other factors, the following:
         a.   Whether the graffiti implement is found upon the person;
         b.   Whether the person is known to have propensity to engage in acts
of graffiti;
         c.   Whether the person is known to have gang affiliations which are
known to engage in unlawful graffiti;
         d.   Whether the person takes flight upon contact by law enforcement;
         e.   Whether the person refuses to identify himself;
         f.   Whether the person attempts to conceal himself/herself or the
graffiti implement;
         g.   Whether a nongraffiti intention or use is present in the
circumstances surrounding the possession; and/or
         h.   Whether the graffiti implement was recently purchased. (Ord. 682,
6-24-2008)
5-19-4: ACCESSIBILITY TO GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS:
   A.   Furnishing To Minors Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person,
other than a parent or legal guardian, to sell, exchange, give, loan or
otherwise furnish, or cause or permit to be exchanged, given, loaned or
otherwise furnished, any aerosol paint container, broad tipped marker or paint
stick to any person under the age of eighteen (18) years without the written
consent of the parents or guardian of the person.
   B.   Signage Required: Every person who operates a retail commercial
establishment selling graffiti implements shall:
      1.   Place a sign in clear public view at or near the display of such
products stating:
Graffiti is against the law. Any person who defaces real or personal property
with paint or any other liquid or device is guilty of a crime punishable by
imprisonment of up to sixty (60) days and/or a fine of up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000).
      2.   Place a sign in the direct view of such persons responsible for
accepting customer payment for graffiti implements stating:
Selling spray paint, paint sticks or broad tipped markers to persons under 18
years of age is against the law and punishable by a fine of up to one thousand
dollars ($1,000).
(Ord. 645, 6-14-2005)
   C.   Display And Storage:
      1.   Every person who owns, conducts, operates or manages a retail
commercial establishment selling aerosol paint containers, paint sticks, or
broad tipped markers shall store the containers, sticks or markers in an area
continuously observable, through direct visual observation or surveillance
equipment, by employees of the retail establishment during the regular course
of business.
      2.   In the event that a commercial retail establishment is unable to
store the aerosol paint containers, paint sticks, or broad tipped markers in an
area as provided above, the establishment shall store the containers, sticks,
and markers in an area not accessible to the public in the regular course of
business without employee assistance. (Ord. 682, 6-24-2008)
5-19-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fines And Imprisonment: Any person violating this chapter by applying
graffiti or possessing graffiti implements shall be punished by a fine of not
less than four hundred dollars ($400.00) for the first offense and to perform
one hundred (100) hours of community service; not less than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for the second offense and to perform two hundred (200) hours
of community service; and one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each subsequent
offense and to perform two hundred (200) hours of community service or by
imprisonment for a term not to exceed sixty (60) days, or by both fine and
imprisonment at the discretion of the court; and in addition to any other
penalties, an assessment of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) as provided in
Nevada Revised Statutes section 268.4085. The community service assigned
pursuant to this section must, if possible, be related to the abatement of
graffiti. Violations of this chapter which do not have a specific penalty
provided shall be punishable as a misdemeanor as provided in section
1-3-1 of this code. (Ord. 682, 6-24-2008)
      1.   In the case of a minor, the parents or legal guardian shall be
jointly and severally liable with the minor for payment of all fines.
      2.   Upon an application and find of indigence, the court may decline to
order fines against the minor, parents or guardian.
   B.   Restitution: In addition to any punishment specified in this section,
the court shall order any violator to make restitution to the victim for
damages or loss caused directly or indirectly by the violator's offense in the
amount or manner determined by the court. In the case of a minor, the parents
or legal guardian shall be ordered jointly and severally liable with the minor
to make the restitution. (Ord. 645, 6-14-2005)
   C.   Community Service: As part of the penalties specified in this section,
a minor or adult shall perform community service as described by the court
based on the following minimum requirements:
      1.   At least one parent or guardian of the minor shall be in attendance
a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the period of assigned community service.
      2.   The entire period of community service shall be performed under the
supervision of a community service provider approved by the chief of police.
      3.   Reasonable effort shall be made to assign the minor or adult to a
type of community service that is reasonably expected to have the most
rehabilitative effect on the minor or adult, including community service that
involves graffiti removal. (Ord. 702, 2-10-2009)
   D.   Driver's License Suspension: In the event the state law permits or is
amended to permit a municipal or other court enforcing the code to order
suspension of a driver's license as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 206.330
(5) or to otherwise report a conviction of this chapter to the department of
motor vehicles which would result in a suspension of a driver's license of a
person so convicted, the municipal or other court finding a violation of this
chapter shall so order as part of the sentence imposed herein as would be
consistent with a similar violation of state law. (Ord. 682, 6-24-2008)
5-19-6: GRAFFITI AS NUISANCE:
   A.   Declaration Of Nuisance: The existence of graffiti on public or private
property in violation of this chapter is expressly declared to be a public
nuisance and, therefore, is subject to the removal and abatement provisions
specified in this code.
   B.   Duty Of Owner Or Possessor: It is the duty of both the owner of the
property to which the graffiti has been applied and any person who may be in
possession or who has the right to possess such property, to at all times keep
the property clear of graffiti. (Ord. 645, 6-14-2005)
5-19-7: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI BY PERPETRATOR:
Any person applying graffiti on public or private property shall have the duty
to remove the graffiti within twenty four (24) hours after notice by the city
or private owner of the property involved. Such removal shall be done in a
manner prescribed by the chief of police, the director of the department of
public works, or any additional city department head, as authorized by the city
council. Any person applying graffiti shall be responsible for the removal or
for the payment for the removal of the graffiti. Failure of any person to
remove graffiti or pay for the removal shall constitute an additional violation
of this chapter. Where graffiti is applied by an unemancipated minor, the
parents or legal guardian shall also be responsible for such removal or for the
payment for the removal. (Ord. 682, 6-24-2008)
5-19-8: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI BY PROPERTY OWNER OR CITY:
If graffiti is not removed by the perpetrator according to section
5-19-7 of this chapter, graffiti may be removed pursuant to the following
provisions:
   A.   Voluntary Graffiti Removal Assistance Program: The city has determined
that removal of graffiti as soon as practicable is essential to its policy of
prohibiting and preventing defacement of property within the city. In all
cases, removal is sought to be accomplished within twenty four (24) hours. The
city hereby establishes a graffiti removal assistance program which will be set
forth in further detail by resolution of the city council and as may be amended
from time to time to reflect changes in methods and funding for graffiti
removal. The purpose of such program shall be to encourage the fast abatement/
eradication of the graffiti and lessen the economic and resource burden upon
the owner of the property subjected to graffiti without fault of the owner and/
or to the city. Such program shall contain at least the following:
      1.   Any agreement for removal assistance between the city and the owner
of the defaced property shall be in writing.
      2.   Prior to a written notice to any private property owner to remove
graffiti, the city manager or his designee will make reasonable efforts to
informally contact the owner to explore the possibilities and terms for an
agreement between the city and the owner for graffiti removal or eradication
under the graffiti removal assistance program.
      3.   Prior to entry upon the private property at issue or the use of city
resources or equipment by the property owner, the city shall require the
consent and release required by resolution of the city council.
      4.   Nothing herein or in the agreement between the parties shall relieve
the perpetrator of the graffiti from responsibility for violating this chapter
or from any remedies or claims the city or the owner may assert against the
perpetrator for damages or costs.
      5.   Whenever the city becomes aware or is notified and determines that
graffiti is located on public or privately owned property viewable from a
public or quasi-public place, the city is authorized to use public funds for
the removal of the graffiti pursuant to the voluntary removal program, or for
the painting or repairing of the graffiti but may not authorize or undertake to
provide for the painting or repair of any more extensive an area than where the
graffiti is located, unless the city manager determines in writing that a more
extensive area is required to be repaired in order to avoid an aesthetic
disfigurement of the neighborhood or community, or unless the property owner or
responsible party agrees to pay for the costs of repainting or repairing the
more extensive areas.
   B.   Property Owner Responsibility: It is a violation of this code for a
property owner to allow graffiti to remain on the property after the expiration
of the ten (10) day notice provided in subsection B1 of this section; however,
property owners shall not be criminally liable for graffiti which is placed
upon their property by another. In cases where it is determined by the city
council to be in the best interest of the city to seek removal of any
particular graffiti to discourage further graffiti or defacement within the
city, and where the property owner and the city have been unable to resolve the
matter through the voluntary removal program, the city council may direct staff
to pursue abatement/eradication through a court action.
      1.   Prior to filing a court action, the city manager shall cause a
notice to be sent by certified mail to all property owners of record to the
last known address as shown at the Elko County assessor's office that a court
action will be pursued in the event the property owner has not reached an
agreement with the city for abatement/eradication of the graffiti within ten
(10) days of the date of mailing of the notice.
      2.   The municipal court or any court of competent jurisdiction shall
have authority over violations of property owner responsibilities under this
code and, further, shall have authority to order abatement/eradication of the
graffiti at the cost and expense of the property owner(s).
      3.   If a court orders a property owner to abate/eradicate graffiti and
the property owner fails to comply with such order, the court may order that
the city enter upon the property to complete the required abatement/eradication
actions at the expense of the property owner. In the event the property owner
fails to pay any expenses incurred by the city for abatement/eradication
actions as ordered by the court, any court approved expenses at a hearing held
for such purpose shall constitute a lien upon the property and may be perfected
and enforced by giving notice thereof, recording a lien claim and following the
process of enforcing the lien as required concerning mechanic's liens under
state law.
   C.   Exceptions To Property Owner Responsibility For Costs: A property
owner's removal expense responsibilities of subsection B of this section shall
not apply to a property owner if the property owner can demonstrate that the
property owner lacks the financial ability to remove the graffiti. To qualify
for this exception, a property owner must demonstrate the lack of financial
ability to the court.
   D.   Right Of Entry Of Private Or Public Property: Unless as set forth by a
court order, prior to entering upon private property or property owned by a
public entity other than the city for the purpose of graffiti removal, the city
must secure the consent of the property owner or responsible party and release
of the city from liability for property damage or personal injury.
   E.   Duty Of City: Nothing herein shall require the city to remove graffiti
from private property or property owned by another public entity. The city
manager shall have the discretion whether or not to bring the matter before the
city council for direction to proceed to do so in any particular case. (Ord.
682, 6-24-2008)
5-19-9: EASE OF REMOVAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Common Utility Colors And Paint Type: Any gas, electric, telephone,
water, sewer, cable, telephone and other utility operating in the city shall
paint its above surface metal fixtures with a uniform paint type and color that
meets with the approval of the city manager.
   B.   Condition Encroachment Permits: All encroachment permits issued by the
city shall, among other things, be conditioned on:
      1.   The permittee's application of an antigraffiti material to the
encroaching object of a type and nature that is acceptable to the city manager
or the city manager's designee;
      2.   The permittee's immediate removal of any graffiti;
      3.   The city's right to remove graffiti or to paint the encroaching
object; or
      4.   The permittee providing the city with sufficient matching paint and/
or antigraffiti material on demand for use in the painting of the encroaching
object containing graffiti.
   C.   Condition Tentative Maps:
      1.   Conditions May Be Imposed: In approving tentative or parcel maps,
conditional use permits, variances, or other similar land use entitlements, the
city may consider imposing the following conditions, or other similar or
related conditions, at the public hearing required by law for approval of the
tentative or parcel map, conditional use permit, variance or other similar land
use entitlement;
      2.   Owner To Immediately Remove Graffiti: Developer shall, either as
part of the general conditions, covenants and restrictions, or separate
covenants recorded against individual lots, prior to resale of any of the
parcels, covenant in a form satisfactory to the city that the owners of the
lots shall immediately remove any graffiti placed thereon. (Ord. 645, 6-14-
2005; amd. Ord. 682, 6-24-2008)
5-19-10: TRUST FUND:
The city council hereby creates the city antigraffiti trust fund. Penalties
assessed against violators of this chapter shall be placed in the fund, along
with any monetary donations received from persons wishing to contribute to the
fund. The city council shall direct the expenditures of monies in the fund.
Such expenditures shall be limited to the payment of the cost of graffiti
removal, the payment, at the discretion of the city manager, of rewards for
information leading to the conviction of violation of this chapter, the costs
of administering this chapter, and such other public purposes as may be
approved by the city council by resolution. (Ord. 645, 6-14-2005; amd. Ord.
682, 6-24-2008)
5-19-11: SEVERABILITY:
Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of this chapter.
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction,
then that decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
this chapter. (Ord. 645, 6-14-2005; amd. Ord. 682, 6-24-2008)
CHAPTER 20
OPEN GLASS ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BOTTLES
SECTION:
5-20-1: Purpose
5-20-2: Restrictions And Prohibitions
5-20-3: Exceptions
5-20-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote aesthetics, public health and public
safety within the central business district (CBD) by placing restrictions on
open glass bottles which contain, previously contained, or are designed or
intended to contain alcoholic beverages. The CBD is as described in subsection
3-2-10B5 of this code. (Ord. 752, 5-22-2012)
5-20-2: RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
Within the CBD it shall be unlawful for any person to hold, carry or transport
any open glass bottle which contains, previously contained or is designed or
intended to contain alcoholic beverages upon any public street, alley, sidewalk
or parking place which is provided for the use of the public, or upon any
property owned by the city of Elko, or in or upon any motor vehicle while
moving or stationary in any of the foregoing places.
Possession upon one's person of any open glass bottle which contains,
previously contained or is designed or intended to contain any alcoholic
beverage in any such public places, including motor vehicles, shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation thereof.
As used herein, the term "alcoholic beverage" shall mean and include any and
all distilled or rectified spirits, potable alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin,
aromatic bitters, beer, lager beer, ale, wine and every other liquid or solid
containing alcohol capable of being consumed by a human being.
As used herein, the term "glass bottle" shall mean a glass container that has a
neck smaller than the body of the container, is designed for a screw top, cork,
snap cap or other type of closure and has a capacity of not more than five (5)
gallons. (Ord. 752, 5-22-2012)
5-20-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to locations which are subject
to an outdoor dining permit, the transportation of unopened glass bottles which
contain or which are designed or intended to contain alcoholic beverages, or
the sale of empty open glass bottles which contain or which are designed or
intended to contain alcoholic beverages as part of a sidewalk display which is
subject to a sidewalk display permit. (Ord. 752, 5-22-2012)
TITLE 6
FIRE REGULATIONS
Fire Code   1
Fireworks   2
Flammable Liquids   3
Hazardous Materials   4
Fire Department Service Fees   5
Assembly Occupancies; Special Requirements For Safety   6
CHAPTER 1
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Adoption Of International Fire Code
6-1-2: Establishment And Duties Of Bureau Of Fire Prevention
6-1-3: Definitions
6-1-4: Routes For Transporting Explosives, Blasting Agents, Hazardous Chemicals
And Other Dangerous Articles (Rep. by Ord. 390, 7-11-1989)
6-1-5: Fire Lanes On Private Property
6-1-6: Waivers And Appeals
6-1-7: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies Which May Require Permits
6-1-8: Penalties
6-1-9: Copies Of Code Available
6-1-10: Tank Storage And Bulk Storage Compliance
6-1-11: International Fire Code Amendments
6-1-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
   A.   Title: This chapter will be known as the ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE
CODE OF THE CITY OF ELKO, hereinafter "Code", including the adoption of the
2018 International Fire Code with appendices A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L
and M, except as otherwise amended by the Elko City Council. Certain sections
of the International Fire Code and appendices may be added or deleted by
resolution.
   B.   Applicability: All construction of, or the enlarging, altering,
repairing, moving, demolishing, or changing the occupancy of a building or
structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or
replace any component, element, or portion of a building or structure within
the City must be in compliance with, in addition to, the other applicable codes
or amendments set forth by the City Council, the currently adopted edition of
the International Fire Code, except as otherwise amended by the Elko City
Council.
   C.   International Fire Code Amendments: There is hereby adopted for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion, that certain Code known as the International
Fire Code (IFC), recommended by the International Code Council, being
particularly the edition noted in subsection A of this section, thereof and the
whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified or amended, such to become effective thirty (30) days after public
notice of the filing in the City Clerk's Office hereinafter specified is given
by one (1) publication in a newspaper in the City. One (1) copy of the latest
edition being adopted shall be approved by the City Council and placed on file
in the Office of the City Clerk. From the date on which such filed edition of
said Code shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling within
the limits of the City. The said Code is hereby adopted as the rules and
regulations for governing conditions hazardous to life from fire or explosion.
In the event that any of the provisions of the latest edition of the IFC
conflict with any provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter
shall govern and be controlling. All supplements to the IFC, issued by the
International Code Council between editions and approved by the City Council
and filed in triplicate in the Office of the City Clerk shall become part of
this IFC effective thirty (30) days after public notice of such filing is given
by one (1) publication in a newspaper in the City. Certain sections of the
International Fire Code and appendices may be added or deleted by resolution.
(Ord. 817, 4-25-2017; amd. Ord. 840, 6-11-2019; Ord. 872, 8-23-2022)
6-1-2: ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION:
   A.   The IFC shall be enforced by the Bureau of Fire Prevention in the Fire
Department of the City, which is hereby established and which shall be operated
under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire Department.
   B.   The Chief in charge of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be appointed
by the City Council on the basis of examination to determine his
qualifications.
   C.   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail such members of the Fire
Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The Chief of
the Fire Department shall recommend to the City Council the employment of
technical inspectors, who, when such authorization is made, shall be selected
through an examination to determine their fitness for the position. The
examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the Fire Department, and
appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite term with
removal only for cause. (Ord. 646, 9-13-2005; amd. Ord. 840, 6-11-2019)
6-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the corresponding meanings when used in this
chapter.
 
CORPORATION COUNCIL: The attorney for the city of Elko.
                     The fire chief or other designated authority charged with
FIRE CODE OFFICIAL:  the administration and enforcement of the City of Elko
                     Fire Code, or a duly authorized representative.
JURISDICTION:        The city of Elko. (Ord. 733, 5-10-2011; amd. Ord. 840, 6-
                     11-2019; Ord. 872, 8-23-2022)
 
6-1-4: ROUTES FOR TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES, BLASTING AGENTS, HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS
AND OTHER DANGEROUS ARTICLES:
(Rep. by Ord. 390, 7-11-1989)
6-1-5: FIRE LANES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The following are hereby designated fire lanes:
   A.   At the Elko shopping plaza, Highway 40 E., a fifteen foot (15') lane
adjoining all storefront sidewalks and all routes or lanes used for access to
the stores and parking areas.
   B.   At the Northeastern Nevada Regional Hospital, all routes or lanes used
for access to the hospital and parking areas. Any road or passageway developed
to allow the passage of fire apparatus.
   C.   Section 503.4 of the international fire code prohibits obstruction of
fire apparatus access roads, including, but not limited to, the parking of
vehicles.
   D.   Fire lane, fire lane parking, fire apparatus access roads, fire
protection appliances, fire hydrants, and other fire protection equipment or
appliances on any private property, shall be identified, marked and for the
life of the facility be maintained with signage, red paint street markings and
other clearly identified means by the property owner in compliance with chapter
5 and appendix D of the currently adopted international fire code.
   E.   Enforcement of these regulations shall fall to the city of Elko fire
code official and shall include the authority of the police department to
cooperate and issue citations, and cause the removal of any blockage of fire
lanes, appliances, fire access roadways or designated areas. (Ord. 733, 5-10-
2011; amd. Ord. 840, 6-11-2019)
6-1-6: WAIVERS AND APPEALS:
   A.   Waivers: Any applicant for a permit or approval under this title may
obtain a waiver from the fire code official, with or without conditions, from
any requirement contained in the Fire Code by demonstrating to the fire code
official: 1) that compliance is physically impractical or impossible under
circumstances unique to that building, structure or property; 2) that by
granting the waiver, the intent and purpose of the requirement to be waived
will nonetheless be fulfilled; and 3) that the waiver will not adversely affect
the health or safety of the public or persons entering upon or occupying any
building, structure or property. Any request for a waiver pursuant to this
subsection shall be in writing and signed by the owner of the building,
structure or property affected. Any waiver granted by the fire code official
pursuant to this subsection shall be in writing and shall state any conditions
upon which the waiver is granted, together with a deadline for satisfaction of
each condition. The failure of the applicant to satisfy the conditions stated
in the waiver by the indicated deadline(s) shall result in the automatic
revocation of the waiver, together with any previously-issued permit or other
approval dependent upon the waiver. Under no circumstances shall the fire code
official waive any requirement contained in this title unless expressly
authorized by this Code.
   B.   Appeals:
      1.   General Requirements: Whenever the fire code official disapproves a
request for a waiver or an application or refuses to grant a permit applied
for, the aggrieved person(s) may appeal from the decision of the fire code
official to the city council within thirty (30) days from the date of the
decision appealed. On appeal, the city council shall affirm the decision of the
fire code official unless the aggrieved person demonstrates that the decision
was based on a misconstruction or misinterpretation of the Fire Code, or that
the Fire Code provision upon which the fire code official’s decision was based
is capable of two (2) or more different but reasonable interpretations. The
failure of the aggrieved person to file a notice of appeal in the manner stated
in this section shall result in a waiver of the aggrieved person's right to
appeal. The filing of a notice of appeal shall not stay the action of the fire
code official pending the outcome of the appeal.
      2.   Investigation By City Council: Following the filing of a notice of
appeal, the City Council may, in its discretion, appoint a committee of the
City Council or an independent hearing officer to investigate the notice of
appeal, report findings of fact and make a recommendation for disposition to
the City Council.
      3.   Hearing Before City Council: The City Council shall conduct a
hearing on the appeal within forty-five (45) days from the date the notice of
appeal is filed with the City Clerk. The hearing shall be open to the public
and shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
section.
      4.   Hearing Procedures: The procedures pursuant to which the City
Council shall hear an appeal pursuant to this section are as follows:
         a.   The appellant shall first describe the decision being challenged,
state the grounds for the appeal and present a summary of the appellant's
argument.
         b.   The appellant may then testify, submit documents and/or call
witnesses in support of the appeal.
         c.   The City shall then state the grounds for opposing the appeal.
         d.   The City may submit documents and/or call witnesses in opposition
to the appeal.
         e.   The appellant may then present a rebuttal argument, witnesses
and/or documents. The failure of an appellant to provide argument, witnesses
and/or documents on rebuttal shall not be considered by the City Council in
deciding the appeal.
         f.   The appellant and the City, respectively, may present closing
arguments.
         g.   Appellant and the City are entitled to be represented by counsel,
and present testimony, evidence and argument on all issues raised on appeal.
         h.   The City Council may, if it appears helpful to a clear
understanding of the issues, consider matters not raised at the hearing.
         i.   All testimony by the appellant and the parties' witnesses shall
be under oath.
         j.   The rules of evidence shall not apply.
         k.   The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem may limit testimony or other proffered
evidence that is duplicative, unnecessarily argumentative or not reasonably
related to the matter being appealed.
         l.   The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem may terminate the hearing upon finding
that sufficient testimony, documents and arguments have been presented to
enable the City Council to fully deliberate and decide the appeal; provided,
the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem shall first request from the appellant a summary of
all remaining matters he or she intends to present at the hearing.
      5.   Decision By City Council: At the conclusion of the hearing, the City
Council shall make a final decision that is consistent with the requirements of
this title to affirm, deny, condition or modify the decision of the fire code
official and shall within thirty (30) days thereafter file a notice of decision
with the City Clerk stating the decision.
      6.   Judicial Review: Any person who has appealed a decision to the City
Council in accordance with this section and is aggrieved by the decision of the
City Council may appeal that decision to the Fourth Judicial District Court in
and for the County of Elko, State of Nevada, by filing with that court a
petition for judicial review within twenty-five (25) days from the date the
notice of decision is filed with the City Clerk. (Ord. 733, 5-10-2011; amd.
Ord. 840, 6-11-2019; Ord. 872, 8-23-2022)
6-1-7: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS:
The City Manager, the Fire Chief and the Chief of the bureau of fire prevention
shall act as the committee to determine and specify, after giving affected
persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or
occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated
in the Fire Code. The chief of the bureau of fire prevention shall post such
lists in a conspicuous place in his office and distribute copies thereof to
interested persons. (Ord. 237, 11-9-1976; amd. Ord. 840, 6-11-2019; Ord. 872,
8-23-2022)
6-1-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation Penalties: Persons who shall violate any provision of this
title, or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof, or who
shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the fire code official, or of a permit
or certificated use under provisions of this title, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable of a fine not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding one hundred eighty (180) days, or
both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues after due
notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
   B.   Recovery Of Costs: The city may recover all actual response costs,
isolation costs or mitigation costs associated with all provisions of this
title when deemed in the public best interest, to recover extraordinary
expenses, or costs associated with the civil or criminal order of the court for
any municipal, district or juvenile court within our district.
   C.   Abatement Of Violations: In addition to the imposition of the penalties
herein described, the fire code official is authorized to institute appropriate
action to prevent unlawful construction or to restrain, correct or abate a
violation, or to stop an illegal act, conduct of business or occupancy of a
structure on or about any premises. (Ord. 646, 9-13-2005; amd. Ord. 840, 6-11-
2019)
6-1-9: COPIES OF CODE AVAILABLE:
One copy of the IFC, with all amendments and supplements thereto after adopted,
shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk for use and examination
by the public in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 646, 9-13-2005; amd. Ord.
840, 6-11-2019)
6-1-10: TANK STORAGE AND BULK STORAGE COMPLIANCE:
It shall be unlawful for any lessee, owner, individual, partnership,
corporation, firm, business, or other entities of any type or nature to own,
suffer, permit or allow any tank or bulk storage aboveground outside or inside
a building; or underground outside or under a building; or to abandon any tank
without complying with the currently adopted international fire code and any
other referenced codes. (Ord. 733, 5-10-2011; amd. Ord. 840, 6-11-2019)
6-1-11: INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE AMENDMENTS:
6-1-2 International Fire Code Amendments and Nevada Administrative Code
Provisions. The 2018 International Fire Code and NAC 477.275 through 477.283,
inclusive, are hereby adopted and incorporated into the City of Elko Fire Code.
(Ord. 840, 6-11-2019; amd. Ord. 872, 8-23-2022; Ord. 876, 10-25-2022)
CHAPTER 2
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Use Restrictions
6-2-2: Fires Caused By Fireworks
6-2-3: Penalties For Criminal Violation
6-2-1: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Fire Department Approval: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful for any person to possess, store, to offer for sale, sell at retail or
use or explode any fireworks within the city; provided, that the chief of the
fire department shall have the power to adopt reasonable rules and regulations
for the granting of permits for supervised public displays of fireworks by a
jurisdiction, fair associations, amusement parks, other organizations, or for
the use of fireworks by artisans in pursuit of their trade. Every such use or
display shall be handled by a competent operator approved by the chief of the
fire department, and shall be of such character and so located, discharged or
fired so as, in the opinion of the chief of the fire department after proper
investigation, not to be hazardous to property or endanger any person.
   B.   Exceptions: Subject to subsection C of this section, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the following:
      1.   The use of fireworks by railroads or other transportation agencies
for signal purposes of illumination;
      2.   The sale of or use of blank cartridges for a show or theater;
      3.   The use of fireworks for signal or ceremonial purposes in athletics
or sports;
      4.   The use of fireworks for use by military organizations;
      5.   The sale or use of items commonly known as "sparklers", "party
poppers", "snap caps" or "snappers";
      6.   The sale or use of fireworks classified as "safe and sane" by the
state of California state fire marshal, provided said fireworks must be sold in
packaging which bears the California state fire marshal's seal of registration
indicating said classification; or
      7.   The sale, storage, shipping or otherwise transporting of fireworks
by a licensed Nevada wholesaler within the city by a properly certified motor
carrier or wholesaler owner.
   C.   Nonapplicable Exceptions: With the exception of items commonly known as
"sparklers", the exceptions contained in subsection B of this section do not
apply to the sale or use of fireworks which are designed to be ignited through
the use of an open flame and/or fuse. (Ord. 587, 6-25-2002)
6-2-2: FIRES CAUSED BY FIREWORKS:
   A.   Actions For Civil Penalties Or Cost Recovery: Any person who, in
violation of section
6-2-1 of this chapter, knowingly causes a fire that results in a response by
the fire department or any other instrumentality of the city, shall be subject
to either an action for civil penalties or a cost recovery action, at the sole
discretion of the city.
   B.   Action For Civil Penalties: In the event the city determines to pursue
an action for civil penalties in lieu of a cost recovery action, the city shall
comply with the following procedure:
      1.   Notice Of Civil Infraction; Form: A notice of civil infraction must
be issued on a form prescribed by the city police department and must contain
the following:
         a.   The location where the violation occurred;
         b.   The date and time of the violation;
         c.   The signature of the person who issues the notice of civil
infraction;
         d.   The section of the city code which is allegedly being violated;
         e.   Information which advises of the manner in which, and the time
within which, the notice of civil infraction must be answered; and
         f.   Any other information which is prescribed by the police
department.
      2.   Notice Of Civil Infraction; Duties Of Respondent:
         a.   A person who responds to a notice of civil infraction must
either:
            (1)   "Admit" the commission of the infraction and pay the
appropriate civil fine; or
            (2)   "Deny" liability for the infraction.
         b.   A person may "admit" pursuant to subsection B2a(1) of this
section by paying the civil penalty, in an amount determined by the city in
accordance with this section, to the municipal court.
         c.   A person may "deny" liability pursuant to subsection B2a(2) of
this section only by appearing in person before the municipal court.
   C.   Commencement Of Action To Recover Civil Penalties; Procedure: In the
event a person denies liability in accordance with subsection B2a(2) of this
section, the city may commence a civil action to recover the civil penalties
described in this section in the municipal court by the filing of a complaint
and by issuing an appropriate summons with respect thereto. Service of the
complaint and summons on the defendant shall be made by certified mail, return
receipt requested, addressed to the defendant at his or her last known address
or in any other matter which is authorized by law, and shall thereupon be
deemed complete. To the extent not inconsistent with this chapter, an action to
recover civil penalties shall be governed by rules 1 and 3 through 87 of the
justice court rules of procedures, except that there shall be no right of trial
by jury.
   D.   Schedule Of Civil Fines: The amount of any civil penalties imposed upon
a person for violating section
6-2-1 of this chapter shall be in accordance with any appropriate schedule of
fees pertaining to costs incurred by the city in responding to emergencies that
is adopted by city by resolution, in an amount not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) per fire, or, in the event no such schedule of fees has
been adopted by the city, the amount of the civil penalties imposed under this
subsection shall be determined as follows:
      1.   For each fire not resulting in personal injuries or property damage
in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00), the civil penalty shall be five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
      2.   For each fire that results in personal injuries or property damage
in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00), the civil penalty shall be one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   E.   Cost Recovery Action: In lieu of an action to recover civil penalties,
the city may, at its sole and exclusive discretion, pursue a cost recovery
action against any person determined by the city to have violated section
6-2-1 of this chapter, subject to the following:
      1.   The cost recovery action may be commenced in any court of competent
jurisdiction;
      2.   The relief requested in the cost recovery action shall include all
costs incurred by the city as a result of the alleged violation;
      3.   The city shall be entitled to recover from the defendant all
reasonable costs incurred in relation to the city's response to the fire,
together with any damages done to city property; provided, that there shall be
a conclusive presumption that the amount of any such costs or damages;
      4.   If, in a cost recovery action, the court awards the city any or all
of the relief requested in the city's complaint, the city shall recover from
the defendant all reasonable attorney fees and costs of suit. (Ord. 587, 6-25-
2002)
6-2-3: PENALTIES FOR CRIMINAL VIOLATION:
   A.   Punishment: In addition to any civil penalties or any other civil
remedies provided in this chapter, any person, firm or corporation violating
any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this code.
   B.   Separate Offense: Each violation of the provisions of this chapter may
be deemed as a separate offense.
   C.   Citation To Appear: The chief of the fire department and any city
employee designated by the chief of the fire department for such purpose may
issue citations to appear in municipal courts to persons violating this
chapter; said citations shall be issued in a manner and form determined by the
city.
   D.   Additional Enforcement: Subject to the requirements of those portions
of chapter 477 of the Nevada administrative code pertaining to fireworks, or
any other applicable statute or regulation, the chief of the fire department
and any city employee designated by the chief of the fire department for such
purpose may, upon encountering a violation of this chapter, seize, confiscate,
photograph and destroy fireworks, whether in the possession of a person or
unattended, if the sale, possession or use of the fireworks is made unlawful by
this chapter. (Ord. 587, 6-25-2002)
CHAPTER 3
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Adoption Of Flammable And Combustible Liquids Code
6-3-2: Adoption Of Regulatory Standards For Tank Vehicles For Flammable And
Combustible Liquids Code
6-3-3: Location Of Tanks; Approval By Fire Chief
6-3-4: Deliveries From Tank Vehicles And Trailers
6-3-5: Tank Vehicles Prohibited Inside Buildings; Exceptions
6-3-6: Penalties
6-3-1: ADOPTION OF FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS CODE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion caused from
the delivery and handling of flammable liquids, the latest edition of the
flammable and combustible liquids code, recommended by the National Fire
Protection Association, and the whole thereof, save and except any portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which code not less than three
(3) copies have been made and now are filed in the office of the city clerk,
and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at
length herein, and from the effective date hereof, the provisions thereof shall
be controlling within the limits of the city. The said code is hereby adopted
as the rules and regulations for the installation of containers for storing and
handling flammable liquids. In the event that any of the provisions of the
latest edition of the flammable and combustible liquids code conflict with any
provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter shall govern and be
controlling. (Ord. 217, 7-9-1974)
6-3-2: ADOPTION OF REGULATORY STANDARDS FOR TANK VEHICLES FOR FLAMMABLE AND
COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS CODE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion caused from
the delivery and handling of flammable liquids, the latest edition of the
flammable and combustible liquid tank vehicles, recommended by the National
Fire Protection Association, and the whole thereof, save and except any
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which regulations
not less than three (3) copies have been and now are filed in the office of the
city clerk, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein, and from the effective date hereof, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city. The said
regulations are hereby adopted as the rules and regulations for the
transportation and handling of flammable liquids. In the event that any of the
provisions of the latest edition of the flammable and combustible liquid tank
vehicles regulations conflict with any provisions of this chapter, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern and be controlling. (Ord. 217, 7-9-
1974)
6-3-3: LOCATION OF TANKS; APPROVAL BY FIRE CHIEF:
   A.   Approval, Permit Required: Before any underground or aboveground
storage tank is installed, the owner shall present to the fire chief or his
designated agent at the central fire station a drawing showing the location of
said tank. Upon approval by the fire chief or his designated agent, the
building inspector shall issue a permit for the installation of said tank.
   B.   Inspection: The owner shall leave the installation open until
inspection is made by the fire chief and building inspector or their authorized
agents. (Ord. 217, 7-9-1974)
6-3-4: DELIVERIES FROM TANK VEHICLES AND TRAILERS:
   A.   Requirements: Notwithstanding the foregoing, no person shall make
delivery of any flammable or combustible liquids from a tank vehicle and
trailer unless all tanks and trailers are attached to the tractor of the
vehicle, and the vehicle and/or trailer attendant is within ten feet (10') of
the connecting hose.
   B.   Number Limited: It shall be unlawful to unload more than one tank
vehicle or trailer at one time at any service station. (Ord. 306, 4-28-1981)
6-3-5: TANK VEHICLES PROHIBITED INSIDE BUILDINGS; EXCEPTIONS:
No tank vehicle, empty or carrying liquids, used for transportation of
flammable or combustible liquids, shall be admitted inside any building unless
such building is used exclusively for the housing of such vehicles, or
repairing of vehicles; and in no case shall gasoline tanks on such vehicles be
cleaned in any building or near an open flame. (Ord. 217, 7-9-1974)
6-3-6: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of the code hereby adopted or fail
to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
thereunder or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permits issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who
shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by the city or
by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall
severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively be
deemed guilty of a city offense punishable as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of
this code. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be required to
correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when
not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense and punishable as such
hereunder, including the recovery of all actual costs of response, isolation
and mitigation of the incident, regardless of criminal conviction. (Ord. 646,
9-13-2005)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Short Title
6-4-2: Definitions
6-4-3: Discharges
6-4-4: Restoration Procedures
6-4-5: Hazardous Materials Coordinator (HMC)
6-4-6: Duties Of Hazardous Materials Coordinator
6-4-7: Hazardous Materials Access Route
6-4-8: Vehicles Displaying Hazardous Material Placards
6-4-9: Exceptions To Chapter
6-4-10: Closure Of Facilities
6-4-11: Separability
6-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF ELKO HAZARDOUS
MATERIALS ORDINANCE. (Ord. 390, 7-11-1989)
6-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   DISCHARGE: Any spilling, pouring, leaking, emitting, pumping, emptying,
discharging, escaping, injecting, dumping or disposing of any hazardous
materials.
   FACILITY: A building or buildings, appurtenant structures and surrounding
land area used by a person at a single location or site.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: A. Any chemical, biological, radiological compound,
gas, oil, gasoline lubricant, other petroleum products, substance, solution or
mixture which, because of its quality, quantity, concentration, physical or
infectious characteristic, or any combination thereof, when released into the
environment presents or may present harmful or potentially harmful effects to
human health or welfare or the environment. "Hazardous materials" shall include
those hazardous substances identified by the United States environmental
protection agency as listed in the latest published edition of 40 code of
federal regulations and by the United States occupational safety and health
administration and covered by 29 code of federal regulations and solutions in
concentration greater than one percent (1%) by volume of any regulated
material, unless another concentration is specifically noted. Additionally, oil
and oil based derivatives as listed in 40 code of federal regulations shall be
classified as "hazardous materials".
   B.   Except that radiological compounds or nuclear materials shall be
regulated by this chapter subject to the limits contained in the latest
published edition of 10 code of federal regulations and other applicable
federal and state laws.
   PETROLEUM PRODUCT: Gasoline, oil and lubricants of any kind or in any form,
including, but not limited to, virgin, used and mixtures of petroleum, fuel
oil, sludge, oil refuse and oil mixed with wastes other than dredged spoil.
(Ord. 390, 7-11-1989)
6-4-3: DISCHARGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, in person or by his agent, employee or
servant, to discharge any hazardous materials in any manner in or upon any
public way or other public place, or any river, canal, public water drain,
sewer, storm sewer, flood control channel, receiving basin or any other area in
the city, with the following exceptions:
   A.   The discharge of any hazardous material under a permit authorized by
any ordinance of the city;
   B.   A discharge which is not prohibited by or is authorized pursuant to
state or federal law;
   C.   Material deposited in or conducted into the city sewer system through
lawful drains in accordance with the ordinance of the city relating thereto;
   D.   Discharges which do not cause hazardous materials to leave the premises
where such discharge occurred; provided, such materials are collected in
secondary containment;
   E.   Application of agricultural chemicals in the ordinary course of
agricultural operations;
   F.   Application of hazardous materials in the ordinary course of any
treatment of property for insects, weeds or any other treatment; provided, such
application is in the ordinary course of business and the person making the
application has obtained any permit or license required by any law other than
this chapter;
   G.   Application or use of hazardous materials only in conjunction with
residential use of property;
   H.   Application or use of hazardous materials only in the manner for which
such hazardous materials were intended according to manufacturer's
specifications and recommendation, or application of such materials according
to good industry practices. (Ord. 390, 7-11-1989)
6-4-4: RESTORATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Responsible Person: Any person who discharges, or causes or permits the
discharge of, any hazardous material into the environment shall be responsible
for taking cost effective remedial action to return the environment to the
extent practicable to the condition and quality which existed prior to such
discharge.
   B.   Action By City To Abate: In cases where the identity of a person who is
responsible for the premises upon which a violation has occurred is not known
at the time violation is reported, the city, pursuant to this chapter, may take
reasonable steps to abate any problem and may take reasonable steps to clean up
the area affected to assure continuing safety to the public and the
environment. When the identity of the responsible person is determined, a bill
for the cost of measures taken to correct the violation shall be sent to the
person. Any such violation involving a spill or discharge of any hazardous
material shall be deemed a nuisance pursuant to section
5-1-1 of this code. The expense of removal shall be a lien upon the property
upon which the nuisance is located. Such lien shall:
      1.   Be perfected by filing with the county recorder a statement by the
city clerk of the amount of expenses due and unpaid and describing the property
subject to the lien.
      2.   Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of
general taxes.
      3.   Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on
account of the nonpayment of general taxes.
      4.   Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles,
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes. (Ord. 390, 7-11-1989)
6-4-5: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COORDINATOR (HMC):
The city manager shall appoint a person to act as hazardous materials
coordinator, hereinafter referred to as the HMC, to be housed under the
direction of the fire chief. The person to be appointed shall have experience
in and be qualified in the area of hazardous materials management. The HMC or
his specified representative shall serve as the "local on scene coordinator"
for incidents involving the release of hazardous materials into the environment
and shall be responsible for regulating hazardous material routes within the
city. (Ord. 390, 7-11-1989)
6-4-6: DUTIES OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS COORDINATOR:
The HMC shall review and analyze regular delivery and shipment routes of
hazardous materials transported within the city and may propose regulations,
not inconsistent with this chapter or any applicable state or federal law,
designating traffic routes and other specific procedures for transportation of
hazardous materials. (Ord. 390, 7-11-1989)
6-4-7: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ACCESS ROUTE:
   A.   Defined: As used herein, the phrase "hazardous materials access route"
shall mean any street which has been designated pursuant to this chapter for
the purpose of providing vehicular access from the primary hazardous material
route to locations within the city where hazardous materials are used, produced
or stored.
   B.   Routes Established: Primary hazardous material routes within the city
limits may be established by resolution of the city council. The initial
primary hazardous material routes within the city as of the enactment of this
code shall be as follows:
      1.   Eastbound and westbound through traffic shall use Interstate 80
highway.
      2.   Westbound traffic for Bullion Road shall use Interstate exit 303 to
Idaho Street, Idaho Street to 13th Street, 12th Street to Silver Street, Silver
Street to 5th Street, 5th Street to Wilson Street, Wilson Street on out to
Bullion Road.
      3.   Northbound traffic shall use Interstate 80 exit 301, then out to
Nevada State Highway S.R. 225 (Mountain City Highway).
      4.   Southbound traffic shall use Interstate exit 303 to Idaho Street,
Idaho Street to 12th Street, 12th Street to Nevada State Highway 227 (Lamoille
Highway) on out.
   C.   Route Request: Every person who uses, produces or stores hazardous
materials at a location within the city shall request from the HMC a hazardous
materials access route to and from such location, with certain conditions (if
required) for such route.
   D.   Compliance Required: Every motor vehicle which displays or is required
to display a hazardous materials placard, shall be operated within the city
only on the primary hazardous materials route or upon a hazardous material
access route established pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Request For Route Prior To Operation: Every operator of a motor vehicle
which displays or is required to display a hazardous material placard, who does
not know the primary hazardous material route of the city or the hazardous
material access route to and from the location in the city from which he is
coming or to which he is destined, shall request directions concerning said
routes from the HMC before operating said vehicle in the city.
   F.   Form Of Request: The procedure for being assigned a hazardous materials
access route is any person who uses, produces or stores hazardous materials at
a location within the city, or otherwise requires a hazardous materials route
within the city, shall be assigned a hazardous materials transportation route
after he has submitted a request for such a route to the HMC on a form provided
by the fire department.
   G.   Review Of Practices: The HMC shall review and analyze hazardous
materials handling practices by all persons who handle hazardous materials to
determine their potential impact on public health and the environment, and may
propose regulations designating approved handling practices. (Ord. 390, 7-11-
1989)
6-4-8: VEHICLES DISPLAYING HAZARDOUS MATERIAL PLACARDS:
   A.   No motor vehicle which displays or is required to display a hazardous
materials placard shall be operated on any street within the city unless such
vehicle is coming from or destined for a location within the city.
   B.   No motor vehicle which displays or is required to display a hazardous
materials placard may park within seventy five feet (75') of a nonpermitted
business or within one hundred fifty feet (150') of an educational/
institutional occupancy on any or all public owned right of ways or properties,
or privately owned properties.
   C.   No person, agent, owner, manager or operator shall remove, cover up,
alter or deface any legally required hazardous materials placard, warning or
signage identified for the purpose of access to routes, access to areas of the
city or for parking or storage purposes. (Ord. 646, 9-13-2005)
6-4-9: EXCEPTIONS TO CHAPTER:
The following types of vehicles are exempt from the provisions of this chapter
for only those periods of time necessary to complete their stated purpose:
   A.   Placarded vehicles making residential deliveries of home heating fuel.
   B.   Placarded vehicles making residential deliveries of medical supplies.
   C.   Placarded vehicles making commercial deliveries of products, supplies
or commodities to legal business or commercial locations within the city. (Ord.
646, 9-13-2005)
6-4-10: CLOSURE OF FACILITIES:
   A.   Notification To City: Upon closure or termination of handling of
hazardous materials at a registered facility, the person who owns or operates
said facility shall notify the city in writing of such closure.
   B.   Federal And State Law Applicable: Nothing contained in this chapter is
intended to supersede any requirement of state or federal law related to
procedures for closure of facilities. The hazardous materials coordinator shall
work in coordination with state and federal authorities to assure the safe
closure of facilities. (Ord. 390, 7-11-1989)
6-4-11: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions hereof. (Ord. 390, 7-11-1989)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE DEPARTMENT SERVICE FEES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Purpose
6-5-2: False Alarm Restitution Fees And Penalties
6-5-3: Other Fire Department Fees
6-5-4: Permits
6-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to allow for the establishment of
fees for certain fire department services. (Ord. 569, 6-26-2001)
6-5-2: FALSE ALARM RESTITUTION FEES AND PENALTIES 1 :
The purpose and intent of this section is to reduce the number of false alarm
fire signals transmitted to the fire department and thereby safeguard the life
and limb, health, property and public welfare of the citizens of the city. It
is further the purpose and intent of this section to establish fees for
restitution for false alarms.
   A.   Definitions: For the intent and purpose of this section, the terms
below shall be defined as follows:
   COMMERCIAL FIRE ALARM SYSTEM FALSE ALARM (NONMALICIOUS): An alarm that comes
from a fire alarm system in a commercial structure, that is a report of the
need to respond to a nonexisting emergency incident.
   COMMERCIAL FIRE ALARM SYSTEM FALSE ALARM RESTITUTION FEE: A fee assessed for
false fire alarms from commercial structures.
   FALSE ALARM: Any signal, transmission, voice message, telephone call or
other method of notifying the fire department of the need to respond to a
nonexisting emergency incident.
   FALSE ALARM RESTITUTION: An amount recommended by the fire chief or his
representative and fixed by the city council to cover the cost to the city of
Elko for emergency response to false alarms transmitted by an individual. This
amount does not limit any additional fines and/or penalties that may be imposed
by the courts.
   RESIDENTIAL FIRE ALARM SYSTEM FALSE ALARM (NONMALICIOUS): An alarm that
comes from a fire alarm system in a residential structure that is a report of
the need to respond to a nonexisting emergency incident.
   RESIDENTIAL FIRE ALARM SYSTEM FALSE ALARM RESTITUTION FEE: A fee assessed
for false fire alarms from residential structures.
   B.   Individual Liability For Restitution: The owner of every premises shall
be liable for restitution to the fire department for false alarms transmitted
from such premises by automatic alarm and individuals shall be liable for
restitution to the fire department for alarms manually transmitted by whatever
means.
   C.   Fire Chief Duties: The fire chief or his representative shall keep a
record of all false alarms and shall bill the owner, manager or representative
of properties from which false alarms originate.
   D.   Restitution; Fee Schedule: The fee for false alarm restitution shall be
set by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 569, 6-26-2001)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 10 of this code.
6-5-3: OTHER FIRE DEPARTMENT FEES:
The purpose and intent of this section is to provide a fee for other
specialized fire department services provided to certain members of the general
public:
   A.   Document Fees: The fee for reproduction of documents produced by the
fire department shall be set by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Specialized Inspection Services: The fire department provides special
inspection services to certain members of the public. The fees for these
inspection services shall be set by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Special Services: The fire department provides special services to
certain members of the public. The fees for these services shall be set by
resolution of the city council.
   D.   Special Rescue Services: The fire department provides special response
services to certain members of the public. The fees for these services shall be
set by resolution of the city council.
   E.   Special Response Services: The fire department provides special
response services to certain members of the public. The fees for these services
shall be set by resolution of the city council.
   F.   Training Services: The fire department provides training services to
certain members of the public. The fees for these services shall be set by
resolution of the city council.
   G.   Permit Fees: Permits required by the IFC shall be obtained from the
fire code official. Permit fees for these services shall be set by resolution
of the city council. (Ord. 646, 9-13-2005)
6-5-4: PERMITS:
   A.   Types Of Permits: There shall be two (2) types of permits as follows:
      1.   Operational Permit: An operational permit allows the applicant to
conduct an operation or a business for which a permit is required for either:
         a.   A prescribed period; or
         b.   Until renewed or revoked.
      2.   Construction Permit: A construction permit allows the applicant to
install or modify systems and equipment for which a permit is required.
   B.   Permits Required: Permits required by this code shall be obtained from
the fire code official. Issued permits shall be kept on the premises designated
therein at all times and shall be readily available for inspection by the fire
code official.
   C.   Application: Applications for a permit required by this code shall be
made to the fire code official on designated forms and detail as prescribed by
the fire code official. Applications for permits shall be accompanied by such
plans and permit fees as prescribed by the fire code official.
   D.   Required Operational Permits: The fire code official is authorized to
require, issue and enforce operational permits for the operations set forth in
the international fire code.
   E.   Required Construction Permits: A permit shall be issued for
construction as required by the international fire code and as follows:
      1.   Permit To Store Hazardous Material: A permit is required to store
hazardous materials in excess of the amount set forth in the international fire
code. The required permit shall be issued by the state fire marshal's office
and be renewed annually.
      2.   High Piled Combustible Storage Permit: A permit is required for
indoor floor and/or rack storage that meet the definition of high piled
combustible storage as listed in the international fire code, chapter 23.
      3.   Construction Documents: Construction documents shall be provided for
work requiring a construction permit in conformance with the following:
         a.   A minimum of three (3) sets of wet stamped plans shall be
provided with related manufacturer specifications and calculations as required
by the fire code official. Additional sets may be required at the request of
the fire code official or the city of Elko building department.
         b.   Fire alarm construction documents shall bear a NICET level II or
greater stamp and shall be wet signed in accordance with NAC 477 and the 2007
NFPA 72.
         c.   Constructions documents shall meet the requirements of the
adopted international fire code, chapter 1.
         d.   Construction documents shall be provided for high piled
combustible storage applications. Construction drawings shall meet the
requirements of the adopted international fire code, chapter 23. (Ord. 734, 5-
10-2011)
CHAPTER 6
ASSEMBLY OCCUPANCIES; SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Announcements
6-6-3: Indoor Pyrotechnics; Permit Required
6-6-4: Responsibility
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the intent and purpose of this chapter, the terms below shall be defined as
follows:
   ASSEMBLY BUILDING: A building or portion of a building used for the
gathering together of fifty (50) or more persons for such purposes as
deliberation, education, instruction, worship, entertainment, amusement,
drinking or dining, or awaiting transportation.
   ASSEMBLY GROUP OCCUPANCY: Any event at which fifty (50) or more persons are
gathered inside any assembly building for which an organized performance, show
or event shall take place.
   OCCUPANT LOAD: The maximum number of patrons, guests, employees or
participants allowed by the uniform fire code and/or uniform building code for
the type of building, use or event. (Ord. 602, 6-10-2003)
6-6-2: ANNOUNCEMENTS:
   A.   Requirements: In any assembly group occupancy held in a building or
portion of a building having an assembly room with an occupant load of three
hundred (300) or more, or in any assembly group occupancy in which actual
occupant load is estimated to be at least ninety percent (90%) of the maximum
occupant load, an audible announcement shall be made not more than ten (10)
minutes prior to the start of each program notifying each and every occupant of
the location of all exits to be used in the event of a fire or any other type
of emergency. All such exits shall be clearly marked and lighted where
appropriate. This announcement shall also include how occupants will be
notified in the event of a fire or any other type of emergency and what to do
in the event of a fire or any other type of emergency. In situations where
lights are dimmed for a performance, house lights shall be turned on during the
announcement.
   B.   Exemptions: The following buildings or structures are exempted from the
requirements of this section:
      1.   Any building or structure, or portion thereof, used for worship or
religious gatherings.
      2.   Any building or structure, or portion thereof, used for activities
or events sanctioned by the Elko County school district. (Ord. 602, 6-10-2003)
6-6-3: INDOOR PYROTECHNICS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No event shall be held within an assembly occupancy that utilizes, ignites,
explodes, discharges or otherwise incorporates into the show or performance any
ignition devices, pyrotechnics, open flame or incendiary products without
written permission, by permit, from the fire department. Such permit shall
require the following:
   A.   Completion of a written safety plan, including separation distance,
combustible fuels/material rating verification and emergency evacuation
procedures.
   B.   A requirement that fire department personnel be on hand during the
display.
   C.   Any fees set pursuant to chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 602, 6-10-2003)
6-6-4: RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Specified: It is the owner's, manager's or the facility caretaker's
responsibility to adhere to all provisions set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Exceeding Limit Prohibited: No owner, manager or facility caretaker
shall knowingly, willingly or intentionally exceed the legal occupancy load of
the assembly building or lock, block, disguise or otherwise alter in any way,
any exit, hallway, corridor, exit doors or door assemblies when the building is
occupied or open to the public.
   C.   Display Required: The legal determined occupant load of each assembly
occupancy shall be clearly displayed pursuant to the uniform fire code. (Ord.
602, 6-10-2003)
TITLE 7
TRAFFIC
Bicycles   1
Elko Traffic Code   2
Elko Abandoned Vehicle Code   3
Motorcycles And Mopeds   4
Reckless Driving; Driving Under The Influence (Rep. by Ord. 833, 8-14-2018)   5
Use Of Off-Highway Vehicles   6
CHAPTER 1
BICYCLES
SECTION:
7-1-1: Bicycles To Be Registered
7-1-2: Application For Registration Required
7-1-3: License
7-1-4: Altering License
7-1-5: Sale To Be Reported
7-1-6: Bicycles On Sidewalks
7-1-7: Parking Of Bicycles
7-1-8: Pedestrians' Right Of Way
7-1-9: Bicycles To Obey Traffic Laws
7-1-10: Operation Regulations
7-1-11: Impounding Of Bicycle
7-1-12: Complaints
7-1-13: Disposal, Sale Of Impounded Bicycles
7-1-1: BICYCLES TO BE REGISTERED:
Every person who owns and/or operates a bicycle within the limits of the city
shall cause the ownership thereof to be registered with the office of the chief
of police in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 140, 3-14-
1961)
7-1-2: APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
The owner of every bicycle shall, on or before January 10 of each calendar
year, file with the chief of police an application for registration, setting
forth the owner's name, address, residence and age; name and address of the
owner's parent or guardian, if the owner is a minor; make of bicycle; serial
number; the former owner's name or dealer's name from whom purchased,
describing all extra equipment; and such other information as shall be
required. (Ord. 140, 3-14-1961)
7-1-3: LICENSE:
The application shall be immediately acted upon by the chief of police and the
bicycle shall be inspected as to its mechanical and safety condition. If the
bicycle shall be approved by the chief of police, then upon the payment to the
chief of police of the sum as set by resolution of the city council, he shall
assign a registration number to each bicycle so registered and shall issue a
metallic license plate which will contain the registration number, the year for
which it was issued and such other identification, which shall be permanently
attached to the bicycle; and shall deliver to the owner a registration receipt
which shall set forth upon the face thereof the name and address of the owner
of the registered bicycle, the maker and manufacturer's serial number. The
receipt or certification of registration shall be signed in ink by the
registered owner and a duplicate of such receipt of registration may be
obtained from the chief of police by filing an affidavit of the loss or
destruction of the receipt and upon payment of a fee as set by resolution of
the city council. The chief of police shall remit to the city clerk prior to
the first day of each month all money collected because of the registration and
licensing. (Ord. 290, 8-26-1980)
7-1-4: ALTERING LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to alter any registration tag, plate or
registration receipt issued in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 140, 3-14-1961)
7-1-5: SALE TO BE REPORTED:
In the event that a licensed bicycle is sold or transferred, the license tag,
plate or other means of identification shall pass to the new owner in the sale,
and the sale of the bicycle shall be reported to the chief of police by the new
owner or transferee thereof, within five (5) days after the sale or transfer of
the bicycle, and the chief of police shall make a record of the sale or
transfer, together with the name of any new owner or transferee of the bicycle.
(Ord. 140, 3-14-1961)
7-1-6: BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall ride any bicycle on the sidewalks in the business district of
the city. Bicycles may, however, be pushed upon the sidewalks. This prohibition
shall not be applicable to police officers operating a bicycle while engaged in
their assigned duties. In all other parts of the city, bicycles may be ridden
upon the sidewalks, provided the riders follow all regulations as to the use.
(Ord. 444, 5-10-1994)
7-1-7: PARKING OF BICYCLES:
No person shall park any bicycle between the curbs on any street in the
business section. When bicycles are parked on any sidewalk, they shall be
parked so as to leave a space of at least five feet (5') for the free passing
of pedestrians and shall be parked in such a manner that they will not obstruct
any entrance to any building open to the public. (Ord. 140, 3-14-1961)
7-1-8: PEDESTRIANS' RIGHT OF WAY:
Pedestrians shall at all times have the right of way upon the sidewalks and if
necessary the riders of bicycles shall dismount and vacate the sidewalk in
order to let the pedestrians pass. Such riders shall have their bicycles under
control at all times. (Ord. 140, 3-14-1961)
7-1-9: BICYCLES TO OBEY TRAFFIC LAWS:
Every person riding a bicycle on the public streets, alleys or sidewalks shall
at all times obey all stop lights and stop signs, and all other traffic signals
and regulations, and shall be governed by the laws of the state relating to the
operation on the public streets, alleys and sidewalks of vehicles so far as
such laws apply to vehicles other than motor vehicles. (Ord. 140, 3-14-1961)
7-1-10: OPERATION REGULATIONS:
All persons owning or operating a bicycle shall be subject to the following
rules and regulations:
   A.   Riding On Bicycles: A person operating a bicycle shall not ride other
than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor carry
any other persons upon such bicycle other than upon a firmly attached and
regular seat thereon.
   B.   Number Of Persons Carried: No bicycle shall be used to carry more
persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
   C.   Speed: No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   D.   Riding On Right: Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall
ride as near to the right hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising
due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same
direction.
   E.   Emerging From Alley Or Driveway: The operator of a bicycle emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to all
pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and, upon entering the
roadway, shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
   F.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach
the bicycle or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
   G.   Riding In A Group: Persons operating bicycles upon a roadway shall ride
not more than two (2) abreast, and upon a sidewalk shall ride in a single file.
   H.   Carrying Articles: No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping both hands
upon the handlebar.
   I.   Riding On Sidewalks: No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
when to do so interferes in any way with the convenience or safety of
pedestrians.
   J.   Authority To Prohibit Riding On Sidewalk: The chief of police is
authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or roadway prohibiting the riding of
bicycles thereon by any person and when such signs are in place, no person
shall disobey the same.
   K.   Courtesy To Pedestrians: Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian, and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing or before meeting such
pedestrian.
   L.   Lamps And Reflectors On Bicycle: Every bicycle when in use at nighttime
shall be equipped with a lamp on the front, which shall emit a white light
visible from a distance of at least three hundred feet (300') to the front, and
with a red reflector on the rear, which shall be visible from all distances
from fifty (50) to three hundred feet (300') to the rear, when directly in
front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a
red light visible from a distance of three hundred feet ( 300') to the rear may
be used in addition to the red reflector.
   M.   Brakes On Bicycles: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake, which
will enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean
pavement. (Ord. 140, 3-14-1961)
7-1-11: IMPOUNDING OF BICYCLE:
In the event of the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or any
of the provisions of law for the operation of bicycles by any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years, any police officer of the city, if the violation
shall have occurred in his presence, shall immediately upon such violation take
into his possession and impound the bicycle of the offender, and shall
immediately and in any event within twenty four (24) hours, conduct a hearing
as to the matter of such violation, and if he shall find such violation to have
occurred, he shall make a notation thereof upon his official blotter and shall
give an impounding receipt to the owner or operator of the bicycle showing the
terms of the impounding, and shall impound the bicycle for the following
periods: for the first violation, ten (10) days; for the second violation,
twenty (20) days; for the third violation, thirty (30) days. (Ord. 140, 3-14-
1961)
7-1-12: COMPLAINTS:
In the event of the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years, which shall not have occurred in
the presence of any police officer, but which shall be made the subject of a
complaint to the officers in writing by any person, any of the police officers
may, if the complaint is deemed responsible and justified, impound the bicycle
of the claimed offender, and shall within twenty four (24) hours conduct a
hearing into the subject of the violation after giving due notice to the
claimed offender, and if he shall find the offense to have occurred, he shall
issue an impounding receipt stating the terms of the impounding and shall make
a notation thereof on his official blotter and shall impound the bicycle of the
offender for the following periods: for the first violation, ten (10) days; for
the second violation, twenty (20) days; and for the third violation, thirty
(30) days. (Ord. 140, 3-14-1961)
7-1-13: DISPOSAL, SALE OF IMPOUNDED BICYCLES:
   A.   Authorized; Requirements: It shall be the duty of the chief of police
to keep all lost or stolen bicycles that come into the possession of the police
department or any of its members, and he shall make all reasonable effort to
discover the owners thereof and restore the bicycles to such owners. He shall
not be obliged to keep the bicycles longer than a period of ninety (90) days,
and if the owner of such bicycle shall not be found within the period of ninety
(90) days, the chief of police shall advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation published in the city at least once each week for two (2)
consecutive weeks, the sale of such bicycles, and may on the date specified in
such advertisement, offer to the public at public auction all such bicycles
which have been in his possession for ninety (90) days or more prior to such
date, and may sell the same for the highest and best price obtainable. Should
such bicycles not be sold at the sale, he shall so make record of same and then
shall dispose of the bicycles in a manner which shall best serve the public
interest.
   B.   Return To Owner During Notice Period: The chief of police shall have
the right to return any bicycle to the owner thereof during the two (2) weeks
period of the public notice of sale and prior to the time set for the public
auction.
   C.   Report Of Sales: The chief of police shall make full report to the city
clerk of the bicycles sold and amount of money received by him for same at any
such sale, and the monies received at such sale shall be placed in the treasury
of the general fund of the city. (Ord. 140, 3-14-1961)
CHAPTER 2
ELKO TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Purpose, Amendment, Interpretation, And Conflict
7-2-2: Traffic Laws
7-2-3: Mandatory Motor Vehicle Insurance
7-2-4: Miscellaneous
7-2-1: PURPOSE, AMENDMENT, INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT:
   A.   The purposes of this Title are to adopt, by reference, the traffic laws
of NRS Chapters 484A through 484E. inclusive, as amended from time to time, to
apply to the City insofar as such may be made applicable. In the event the City
may not enact or exercise jurisdiction over various portions of any such laws
by reason of preemption by State law or otherwise, those portions shall be of
no force and effect within the Municipal Court of the City and may only be
enforced as allowed by State law.
   B.   The City Council may amend the provisions adopted by reference at any
time by ordinance as provided by law. In the event any of the State laws herein
adopted are amended by the State, such amendments are hereby adopted by the
City to the extent permissible by law. If amendments are made by the State and
the foregoing is not sufficient to establish the City Code herein is thereby so
amended, the City Council may adopt any such amendments as deemed desirable by
resolution, which changes to the Code shall be effective upon approval thereof.
   C.   Whenever an adopted provision of NRS Chapters incorporated herein
refers to another provision of the Nevada Revised Statutes, the referenced
provision is also adopted by reference to the extent it is consistent with the
purpose herein set forth. During the prosecution of a complaint involving a
substantially continuous event that involves at least one misdemeanor
established by this Chapter and additional violations which are civil
infractions, the City may elect to treat all offenses/violations as
misdemeanors and/or may treat offenses/violations as a combination of
misdemeanors and/or civil infractions provided that the traffic laws of the
State of Nevada do not prohibit such prosecution.
   D.   Violations of adopted provisions of NRS Chapters 484A through 484E,
inclusive, within the City shall be deemed violations of this Chapter. The
Municipal Court may exercise jurisdiction over any violation of NRS Chapters
484A through 484E, inclusive, which occurs within the City, regardless of
whether the charging document alleges a specific violation of a provision of
this Chapter under the City Code or a specific violation of a provision of NRS
Chapters 484A through 484E, inclusive, and regardless of which law enforcement
agency investigated the violation or instituted the charging document.
   E.   In the event of a conflict between any State law and any City code
adopted in this Chapter, the State law shall prevail. (Ord. 877, 11-22-2022,
eff. 1-1-2023)
7-2-2: TRAFFIC LAWS:
The City hereby adopts, by reference, NRS Chapters 484A through 484E,
inclusive, as amended from time to time. The commission of any act within the
limits of the City, or the failure to perform any act within the City, which is
made a civil infraction or a misdemeanor by NRS Chapters 484A through 484E,
inclusive, constitutes a violation of this section. Violations of any
provisions or portions thereof of NRS 484A through 484E, inclusive, which may
be made misdemeanors under NRS 484A through 484E, inclusive, are hereby made
misdemeanors within the City under this City Code, which include, without
limitation, NRS 484B.100, 484B.117, 484B.127, 484B.130, 484B.135, 484B.150,
484B.157, 484B.267, 484B.317, 484B.330, 4484B.600, 484B.607, 484B.650.
484B.653, 484B.657, and those provisions of Chapter 484C and Chapter 484E. All
other violations shall constitute a civil infraction within the City. (Ord.
877, 11-22-2022, eff. 1-1-2023)
7-2-3: MANDATORY MOTOR VEHICLE INSURANCE:
The City hereby adopts the provisions of NRS 485.187, Unlawful Acts; Fines;
Exceptions concerning mandatory motor vehicle insurance to the full extent such
can be made applicable to the City. (Ord. 877, 11-22-2022, eff. 1-1-2023)
7-2-4: MISCELLANEOUS:
The City hereby adopts the following miscellaneous codes/provisions as part of
the traffic laws of this Chapter:
   A.   Authority Of Police And Fire Department Officials:
      1.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the officers of the police
department or such officers as are assigned by the chief of police to enforce
all traffic laws of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
traffic in this city.
      2.   Direct Traffic: Officers of the police department or such officers
as are assigned by the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided,
that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
      3.   Fire Officers: Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of
a fire, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
   B.   Copies From Police Department: In the event copies of public records
are provided by the police department, such copies shall be charged at the rate
of one dollar ($1.00) for the first page and twenty five cents ($0.25) for each
additional page, unless otherwise provided by resolution of the City Council.
   C.   Traffic Engineer: The city engineer or such other person as may be
designated by the City Manager shall act as the city traffic engineer for
purposes of establishing any traffic related matters required under this
Chapter.
   D.   Authority Of Police And Fire Department Officials:
      1.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the officers of the police
department or such officers as are assigned by the chief of police to enforce
all traffic laws of this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
traffic in this city.
      2.   Direct Traffic: Officers of the police department or such officers
as are assigned by the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided,
that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
      3.   Fire Officers: Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of
a fire, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
   E.   Public Employees To Obey Traffic Regulations: The provisions of this
chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the
service of the United States government, a state, county or city, and it shall
be unlawful for any said driver to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter except as otherwise permitted in this chapter or by state statute.
   F.   Authority To Install Traffic Control Devices; Presumptions: The city
engineer shall place and maintain or cause to be placed or maintained, traffic
control signs, signals and devices when and as required under the traffic
ordinances of this city and approved by the city council to make effective the
provisions of this chapter, and may place and maintain such additional traffic
control devices as he may deem necessary, with approval of the city council, to
regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of this city or under state law
or to guide or warn traffic. Whenever official traffic control devices are
placed in position approximately conforming to the requirements of this
chapter, such devices shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official
act or direction of lawful authority and to be in compliance with the legal
requirements of this chapter, unless the contrary shall be established by
competent evidence.
   G.   City Engineer To Designate Crosswalks, Establish Safety Zones And
Traffic Lanes: The city engineer is hereby authorized to:
      1.   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his opinion
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as he may deem necessary.
      2.   Establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places
as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
      3.   Mark traffic lanes upon the roadway of any street or highway where a
regular alignment of traffic is necessary. Where such traffic lanes have been
marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to refuse to keep
such vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully
passing another vehicle or preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
   H.   Speed Regulations:
      1.   General Provisions:
         a.   Maximum Limits: No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed
greater than:
            (1)   Fifteen (15) miles per hour in an area designated as a school
zone except: a) on a day on which school is not in session; b) during the
period from a half hour after school is no longer in operation to a half hour
before school is next in operation; c) if the zone is designated by an
operational speed limit beacon, during the hours when the pupils of the school
are in class and the yellow lights of the speed limit beacon are not flashing
in the manner which indicates that the speed limit is in effect; or d) if the
zone is not designated by an operational speed limit beacon, during the times
when the sign designating the school zone indicates that the speed limit is not
in effect. The foregoing speed limits and restrictions also shall apply when
passing any school grounds which are not separated from the street or highway
by a fence, gate or any other physical barrier, while such grounds are in use
by children.
            (2)   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on all streets, alleys and
highways unless a different speed limit is posted pursuant to the provisions
set forth in this code. All speed zones established for which signs have been
posted for a rate of speed other than twenty five (25) miles per hour as of the
effective date hereof are hereby ratified and approved subject to change
pursuant to subsection C of this section.
            (3)   Establishment Of Speed Zones: Whenever the city engineer
shall determine upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that
any maximum speed hereinbefore set forth is greater or less than is reasonable
or safe under the conditions found to exist at any intersection or other place
or upon any highway, street, alley or other thoroughfare open to the public,
the city engineer may determine and declare a reasonable and safe maximum limit
thereat, which shall be effective upon approval of the city council and
appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected. Such maximum speed limit
may be declared to be effective at all times or at such times as are indicated
upon the said signs; and differing limits may be established for different
times of day, different types of vehicles, varying weather conditions and other
factors bearing on safe speeds, which shall be effective when posted upon
appropriate fixed or variable signs.
            (4)   Exceeding Speed Limit Unlawful: The speed of any vehicle in
excess of any of the limits specified herein or established as authorized in
this chapter is unlawful.
         b.   Determination Of Speed: Any relevant evidence of speed is
admissible, including, without being limited to, the following:
            (1)   Estimation by visual observation of a moving vehicle.
            (2)   The speedometer reading of a following vehicle at a speed not
greater than the speed of the vehicle being followed.
            (3)   Readings from radar equipment designed for such purpose when
the equipment has been tested with a tuning fork after being set up at the
location where the reading was taken.
            (4)   Speed may be determined by a speedometer in the vehicle.
   I.   Careless Driving, Inattentive Driving And Required Turn Signal: The
City adopts the following provisions concerning careless driving, inattentive
driving and required turn signal to the extent permissible under State law:
      1.   Careless Driving: No person shall operate, drive or exercise control
of a motor vehicle in other than a careful manner and with due regard to the
safety and convenience of pedestrians and other vehicles and persons not so
operating, driving or propelling the vehicle.
      2.   Inattentive Driving: No person shall operate a motor vehicle within
the city in an inattentive manner. For purposes of this section, "inattentive
manner" means the operation of a motor vehicle in a manner which evidences a
lack of the degree of attentiveness required to safely operate the vehicle
under the prevailing conditions, including, but not limited to, the nature and
condition of the roadway, presence of other traffic, presence of pedestrians
and weather conditions. It shall further include, without limitations, any
driver whose vehicle, because of his driving error or negligent attention,
collides with another vehicle, person or fixed object.
      3.   Required Turn Signal: No person shall turn a vehicle at an
intersection, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or
otherwise turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
street, alley or highway until after giving a signal of such movement in the
form required by state law, regardless of whether such turning movement may
affect any other vehicle.
   J.   Permits For Promotional Use Of City Streets:
      1.   Upon proper application to the city, a permit may be granted by the
city council for promotional use of a portion of a city street to display or
exhibit prizes or educational materials not to be offered for sale. The permit
is discretionary with the city council who shall consider traffic interruptions
and pedestrian safety before passing on such permit. Each application is to be
considered on its own merits with no application to issue for displays of
vehicles or materials held for sale.
      2.   A. Application; Information Required: Each application to the city
for promotional use of a portion of a city street, alley or highway is to
contain the following information:
         a.   Name and address of applicant.
         b.    Exact description of the portion of which city street, alley or
highway is to be used.
         c.   Type of promotional materials to be placed in city street, alley
or highway.
         d.   Proposed promotional purpose.
         e.   Proposed period of time that the portion of the city street,
alley or highways are to be used.
      3.   Fees: Each applicant will pay to the city the sum as set by
resolution of the city council, before such permit for promotional use of the
city streets, alleys or highways will be considered, except that such fees may
be waived for nonprofit organizations.
      4.   Permits: Upon approval of the city council, the chief of police will
issue a permit for promotional use of a specified portion of a particular city
street, alley or highway. Such permit shall set forth:
         a.   Name and address of permittee (nontransferable).
         b.   Exact description of that portion of which city street, alley or
highway is to be used for promotional purposes.
         c.   Limitations on types of materials or promotional schemes to be
used on the street, alley or highway.
         d.   Limitation of time that permit is to be valid, not to exceed
ninety (90) days.
         e.   Any other conditions of the permit that the city council deems
necessary to preserve the health, safety and welfare of persons or places of
business.
      5.   Termination: All permits are discretionary with the city council and
may be terminated by the city council for any reason detrimental to the orderly
affairs of the city or the health and safety of its inhabitants.
   K.   Permits Required For Parades, Processions And Assemblages:
      1.   Permit Required: A permit is required for all parades, processions
or assemblages which will occupy, march or proceed along or over any street,
alley or highway within the city, except those parades, processions and
assemblages of forces of the United States armed services, military forces of
the state and forces of the county and city police and fire departments.
      2.   Application; Issuance Conditions: Upon proper application to the
chief of police, a permit may be granted by the chief of police with the
concurrence of the city manager or city engineer for a parade, procession or
assemblage upon certain alleys, streets or highways within the city. Before
granting a permit, the chief of police, city manager and city engineer shall
consider traffic interruptions and pedestrian safety before passing on such
permit. Any permit may be terminated or revoked for any reason detrimental to
the public health, safety or welfare of the city or its inhabitants.
      3.   Information Included In Application: Applications shall include:
         a.   Name and address of applicants.
         b.   Exact description of those portions of city streets, alleys or
highways to be utilized.
         c.   Proposed period of time that portions of city streets, alleys or
highways are to be utilized.
         d.   Proposed purpose of such parade, procession or assemblage.
      4.   Fees: Each applicant shall pay to the city the sum as set by
resolution of the city council, before such permit will be considered, except
such fee may be waived for nonprofit organizations by the chief of police with
the concurrence of the city manager or city engineer.
      5.   Permit: The chief of police shall issue all permits which terms and
conditions shall contain:
      6.   Name and address of permittee (nontransferable).
      7.   Exact description of that portion of the city streets, alleys or
highways which are to be utilized.
      8.   Limitations and conditions regarding the use of said streets, alleys
or highways.
      9.   Specific time that permit is valid, not to exceed twenty four (24)
hours.
      10.   Any other conditions the chief of police and the city manager or
city engineer deem necessary to preserve the health, safety and welfare of the
city and its inhabitants.
      11.   Regulation And Enforcement: All parades, processions and
assemblages for which a permit is issued shall be regulated by the police
department through the chief of police.
      12.   Appeal: Any person whose application for a parade permit has been
denied or revoked by the chief of police may appeal to the city council for a
hearing to show cause why the parade permit should be issued or should not be
revoked. Such appeal must be filed with the city clerk on or before the
thirtieth day following such denial or revocation. Such appeal shall be heard
by the city council at the earliest next regular meeting that will allow for
proper notice under the state open meeting law. At such hearing, the city
council shall receive such evidence and take such testimony as it deems
necessary. After such hearing, the city council shall review the testimony
taken and any other evidence submitted and shall announce its decision
sustaining or reversing the denial or revocation of the parade permit.
   L.   Police Officers Authorized To Remove Vehicles:
      1.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway,
street or alley in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such
officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or person in charge of the
vehicle to move it to a position off the paved or improved or main traveled
part of such highway, street or alley.
      2.   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, street, alley, bridge or causeway, or in any tunnel where such vehicle
constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal
of such vehicle in any manner provided by law.
      3.   Any police officer may remove any vehicle or part of a vehicle found
on the highway, street or alley, or cause it to be removed, to the nearest
garage or other place of safekeeping if:
         a.   The vehicle has been involved in an accident and is so disabled
that its normal operation is impossible or impractical and the person or
persons in charge of the vehicle are incapacitated by reason of physical injury
or other reason to such an extent as to be unable to provide for its removal or
custody, or are not in the immediate vicinity of the disabled vehicle; or
         b.   The person driving or in actual physical control of the vehicle
is arrested for any alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to
take the person arrested before a proper magistrate without unnecessary delay;
or
         c.   Whenever any police officer provides for the removal of any
vehicle pursuant to this section and has probable cause to believe that the
vehicle or its contents constitute any evidence which tends to show that a
criminal offense has been committed, or tends to show that a particular person
has committed a criminal offense, the police officer shall take such steps as
may be required by law and reasonably necessary to preserve the evidence,
including, but not limited to, safe storage, until the evidence is released to
the owner or otherwise disposed of according to law.
   M.   Towing Cars Away:
      1.   Authority: The police department, and all members thereof assigned
to traffic duty, are hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed
and towed away by commercial towing service, any vehicle illegally parked in
any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic hazard,
blocks the use of a fire hydrant, obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any
emergency vehicle, is in a fire lane or parked in any location prohibited by
this chapter.
      2.   Storage; Return To Owner: Vehicles so towed away for illegal parking
shall be stored in a safe place and may be restored to the owner or operator of
such vehicle upon payment of a fee as set by resolution of the city council,
within twenty four (24) hours after the time such car was removed, plus a fee
as set by resolution of the city council for each additional twenty four (24)
hours or fraction thereof, plus all costs incurred for towing and storing such
vehicle.
   N.   Parking Of Truck-Tractors And Trailers:
      1.   Definitions: As used in this section:
 
                As defined by Nevada Revised Statutes section 482.125. The
TRAILER:        definition at the time of the adoption hereof is every vehicle
                without motive power designed to carry property or passengers
                wholly on its own structure and to be drawn by a motor vehicle.
                As defined by Nevada Revised Statutes section 482.130. The
                definition at the time of the adoption hereof is every motor
TRUCK- TRACTOR: vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other vehicles
                and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
                the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
 
      2.   Parking:
         a.   It is a violation for any truck-tractor or trailer with an
individual gross vehicle weight rating in excess of twenty six thousand one
(26,001) pounds to be parked or left unattended upon any highway, street,
alley, city public parking area, and/or public property under the jurisdiction
of the city, unless the parking of any such truck-tractor or trailer falls
within any of the exception set forth in this chapter.
         b.   It is a violation for any trailer with a gross vehicle weight
rating in excess of twenty six thousand one (26,001) pounds to be detached from
a truck-tractor and left parked or unattended upon any highway, street, alley,
city public parking area, and/or public property under the jurisdiction of the
city.
         c.   The driver or registered owner of any truck-tractor or trailer
shall be liable for any violations of the provisions of this of this chapter.
         d.   Exceptions for parking of truck-tractors or trailers:
            (1)   "Truck-tractors" or "trailers", this chapter, may be parked
on highways, streets or alleys within the jurisdiction of the city under any of
the following conditions:
               (A)   Generally: Any such vehicles involved in the expeditious
loading or unloading of materials, goods or products; all truck-tractors or
trailers owned or operated by the city, any public utility, or any contractor
while engaged in the repair, maintenance or construction of city streets,
street improvements or street utilities within the city.
               (B)   Special Parking Permit: The city manager or designee may
at their discretion, upon application in writing, filed with the city clerk,
issue a special parking permit stating the conditions for and authorizing the
applicant to park a designated number of truck-tractors or trailers on certain
streets or alleys within the jurisdiction of the city as long as the applicant
meets the conditions set forth in the permit and the applicant has a fixed
place of business located within the city, which is the applicant's principal
place of business.
               (C)   Permit Process: The process, rules and regulations for
obtaining such a special parking permit are as follows:
               (D)   An application fee for the permit shall be established by
resolution of the city council and included in the appendix to this code. The
application form shall also be approved by resolution of the city council.
            (2)   Every public street parking permit issued shall be personal
to the permittee and applicable only to the specific use and to the specific
property for which it is issued. Permits for public street parking are
nontransferable and do not run with the land.
            (3)   Parking of a truck-tractor or trailer by a property owner
shall be allowed only along their own property frontage.
            (4)   Permits shall be subject to periodic review by the city for
compliance.
            (5)   The procedure and time periods for filing and obtaining a
public street parking permit are as follows:
               (A)   The application for the permit must:
               (B)   Specifically describe the type and number of truck-
tractors and/or trailers which may be parked on the public street or alley.
               (C)   Indicate the public street or alley to be used and provide
the exact area the vehicles may be parked.
               (D)   State the days of the week and the hours of the day when
the vehicles may be parked on designated streets or alleys.
               (E)   State that the public street or alley parking shall be
confined to the area depicted on the map.
               (F)   Certify that there will be no other use of the public
parking space or other activity conducted from the area of the public street or
alley designated for the parking.
               (G)   Acknowledge that the public parking permit does not
guarantee the applicant that the public parking area will be available at all
times.
               (H)   Acknowledge that no signs or other indications of
commercial activity will be permitted in the public street.
               (I)   Certify that the public street parking space shall not
generate vehicular or pedestrian traffic visibility problems, block driveways
or other safety issues.
               (J)   Certify that the character of the public street parking
area shall be maintained in appearance and cleanliness.
               (K)   Certify that no vehicles parked shall produce excess
noise, odor, dust or smoke.
            (6)   Procedure and time limitations for obtaining a permit
include:
               (A)   The city manager or duly authorized representative shall
make a determination on the application within ten (10) days of receiving the
completed application and all required information.
               (B)   Any denial of an application by the city manager shall
include, in writing, the reason for such denial.
               (C)   The decision to grant or deny a public street parking
permit may be appealed by the applicant or any interested party to the city
council. A written appeal from the applicant or interested party shall be filed
with the city clerk within ten (10) days of the date of the decision of the
city manager to deny or grant the permit. In the event of any such appeal, the
notice requirements and procedures set forth in section
3-2-25 of this code shall be followed. The city council shall hear and consider
facts and evidence from any persons or material presented and shall consider
any relevant written communications from any persons at the appeal. (Ord. 877,
11-22-2022, eff. 1-1-2023)
CHAPTER 3
ELKO ABANDONED VEHICLE CODE
SECTION:
7-3-1: Title
7-3-2: Definition
7-3-3: Responsibility For Removal And Disposition Of Abandoned Vehicles
7-3-4: Authority For Removal Of Abandoned Vehicles
7-3-5: Appraisal Requirement
7-3-6: Notice Requirements
7-3-7: Disposition Of Vehicles Appraised At Value Exceeding Two Hundred Dollars
7-3-8: Lien On Stored Vehicle
7-3-9: Unlawful Abandonment Of Vehicles
7-3-10: Unlawful Possession Of Unregistered Vehicles Unfit For Use; Exceptions
7-3-11: Penalties
7-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the ELKO ABANDONED VEHICLE CODE. (Ord. 252, 7-12-
1977)
7-3-2: DEFINITION:
"Department" means the Nevada state department of motor vehicles. (Ord. 252, 7-
12-1977)
7-3-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
Every person who abandons a vehicle is responsible for the cost of removal and
disposition of such vehicle. An abandoned vehicle is presumed to have been
abandoned by the registered owner thereof. The registered owner may not rebut
this presumption by showing that he transferred his interest in the abandoned
vehicle unless he complied with the provisions set forth in Nevada Revised
Statutes sections 482.399 through 482.420, inclusive. (Ord. 252, 7-12-1977)
7-3-4: AUTHORITY FOR REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES:
Any police officer of the city, who has reason to believe that a vehicle has
been abandoned within the city, may remove such vehicle from any public
property or, at the request of the owner or person in possession or control of
any private property, from such private property. Any person who removes an
abandoned vehicle pursuant to this section shall take such vehicle to the
nearest garage or other place designated by the chief of police for storage.
(Ord. 252, 7-12-1977)
7-3-5: APPRAISAL REQUIREMENT:
The chief of police shall have the vehicle appraised within five (5) days of
its removal by a person designated by the chief of police. (Ord. 252, 7-12-
1977)
7-3-6: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
The chief of police shall, within forty eight (48) hours after the appraisal:
   A.   Notify the director of the department of the removal of the vehicle.
Such notice shall contain:
      1.   A description of the vehicle.
      2.   The appraised value of the vehicle.
      3.   A statement as to whether the vehicle will be junked, dismantled or
otherwise disposed of.
   B.   Notify the registered owner and any person having a security interest
in the vehicle by registered or certified mail that the vehicle has been
removed and will be junked or dismantled or otherwise disposed of unless the
registered owner or the person having a security interest in the vehicle
responds and pays the costs of removal.
   C.   Failure to reclaim within fifteen (15) days after official
notification, a vehicle appraised at two hundred dollars ($200.00) or less,
constitutes a waiver of interest in the vehicle by any person having an
interest in the vehicle.
   D.   If all recorded interests in the vehicle appraised at two hundred
dollars ($200.00) or less is waived, either as provided in this section or by
written disclaimer by any person having an interest in the vehicle, the
department shall issue a certificate of dismantling to the automobile wrecker
to whom the vehicle may have been delivered or a certificate of ownership to
the garage owner if he elects to retain the vehicle and the vehicle is equipped
as required as in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 484. (Ord. 252, 7-12-1977)
7-3-7: DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES APPRAISED AT VALUE EXCEEDING TWO HUNDRED
DOLLARS:
If the vehicle is appraised at a value of more than two hundred dollars
($200.00), the chief of police shall dispose of it as provided in section
7-3-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 252, 7-12-1977)
7-3-8: LIEN ON STORED VEHICLE:
Whenever a vehicle has been removed to a garage or other place as provided by
section
 7-3-4 of this chapter, the owner of the garage shall have a lien on the
vehicle for the cost of towing and storing for a period not exceeding ninety
(90) days. If the vehicle is appraised at a value of two hundred dollars
($200.00) or less and is not reclaimed within the period prescribed in section
7-3-6 of this chapter, the owner of the garage may satisfy his lien by
retaining the vehicle and obtaining a certificate of ownership thereto as
provided in section
7-3-6 of this chapter. If the vehicle is appraised at a value of more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) and is not reclaimed within ninety (90) days, the
owner of the garage may satisfy his lien, in accordance with the provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes sections 108.267 through 108.360, inclusive. (Ord. 252,
7-12-1977)
7-3-9: UNLAWFUL ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
No person may abandon a vehicle upon any public highway or road. No person may
abandon a vehicle upon public or private property without the express or
implied consent of the owner or person in lawful possession or control of such
property. (Ord. 252, 7-12-1977)
7-3-10: UNLAWFUL POSSESSION OF UNREGISTERED VEHICLES UNFIT FOR USE; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Unless he first obtains a license pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
section 487.050, no person may for any reason keep more than two (2)
unregistered vehicles on real property owned by him or under his possession or
control if such vehicles are no longer intended for or in condition for lawful
use on the highway.
   B.   The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      1.   Premises used by licensed dealers, manufacturers or rebuilders.
      2.   Vehicles to be stored or used as a source for parts in conjunction
with the operation or maintenance of a fleet of vehicles for the carriage of
persons or property.
      3.   Premises used as a farm, ranch, mine or motor vehicle repair shop.
      4.   Any person engaged in the restoration of one or more vehicles
entitled to registration as a horseless carriage or otherwise having classic or
historic significance. (Ord. 252, 7-12-1977)
7-3-11: PENALTIES:
Every person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction therefor, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this
code. Each violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord. 252, 7-12-
1977)
CHAPTER 4
MOTORCYCLES AND MOPEDS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Driver's License; Exception
7-4-3: Operation
7-4-4: Operations Prohibited; Exceptions
7-4-5: Speed
7-4-6: Equipment Required
7-4-7: Penalties
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms whenever used in this chapter shall have the meaning
indicated:
   HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way maintained
by a public authority when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   MOPED: A vehicle which looks and handles essentially like a bicycle and can
be propelled either by peddling or by a small engine and: 1) is designed to
travel with not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the ground, but is
not a tractor; and 2) is capable of a maximum speed of not more than thirty
(30) miles per hour on a flat surface with not more than one percent (1%) grade
in any direction when the motor is engaged.
   MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle equipped with a seat or saddle for the use
of the driver and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in
contact with the ground, including a power cycle, but excluding a tractor and a
moped. (Ord. 247, 5-24-1977)
7-4-2: DRIVER'S LICENSE; EXCEPTION:
Except for a nonresident who is at least sixteen (16) years of age and is
authorized by the state of his residency to drive a motorcycle, a person shall
not drive a motorcycle upon a highway unless such person holds a valid
motorcycle driver's license issued pursuant to the laws of the state which
authorize such person to drive or operate said motorcycle. (Ord. 247, 5-24-
1977)
7-4-3: OPERATION:
A motorcycle or moped shall not be driven upon a highway while carrying more
than one person unless such motorcycle or moped is designed to carry more than
one person. A passenger shall ride either behind the driver and astride the
permanent or regular seat which was designed for two (2) persons, or astride
another seat firmly attached at the rear of the driver or in a sidecar
attached. Every such motorcycle or moped designed for transporting a passenger
shall be equipped with footrests adjusted to fit such passenger. (Ord. 247, 5-
24-1977)
7-4-4: OPERATIONS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
No driver of a two (2) or three (3) wheel vehicle shall carry any other person
on, upon or within such vehicle on any street or highway in the city, except as
hereinafter provided; provided, however, that if any two (2) or three (3) wheel
motor vehicle shall have either a double seating device with double foot rests
or a sidecar attachment providing a separate seat space with such sidecar
attachment for each person riding therein so that such person shall be seated
entirely within the body of said sidecar, then it shall be permissible for an
operator who has attained the age of fifteen (15) years or has had an
operator's license for at least six (6) months to carry a passenger. A
demonstration ride by a licensed dealer or his employee is excepted from the
provisions hereof. No motorcycle or moped shall be ridden upon any sidewalk of
the city. Handlebars on motorcycles and mopeds shall not exceed twelve inches
(12") in height, measured from the crown or point of attachment. No person
shall operate any motorcycle or moped equipped with handlebars that are more
than fifteen inches (15") in height above that portion of the seat occupied by
the driver and depressed by the weight of the driver. No rider of a motorcycle
or moped shall hold to any moving vehicle for the purpose of being propelled.
No driver of a motorcycle or moped shall pass other vehicles in between lanes
of traffic traveling in the same direction, authorized emergency vehicles
excepted. (Ord. 247, 5-24-1977)
7-4-5: SPEED:
No person shall operate any motorcycle or moped at a speed greater than the
speed limit legally posted; provided, however, at no time may an operator under
the age of fifteen (15) years or who has had an operator's license for less
than six (6) months operate a motorcycle or moped at a speed greater than
thirty five (35) miles per hour. (Ord. 247, 5-24-1977)
7-4-6: EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
The following equipment shall be required on all motorcycles and all mopeds
except on actual trail rides conducted outside of public roads and highways:
   A.   Rear View Mirrors: All motorcycles and mopeds covered under this
chapter shall be equipped with two (2) mirrors, containing a reflection surface
of not less than three inches (3") in diameter, mounted one on each side of the
vehicle and positioned so as to enable the operator to clearly view the highway
for a distance of two hundred feet (200') to the rear of his vehicle.
   B.   Windshield: All motorcycles and mopeds covered under this chapter shall
be equipped with a windshield of sufficient quality, size and thickness to
protect the operator from foreign objects, except that in lieu of such
windshield the operator shall wear glasses, goggles, or face shield of material
and design to protect him from foreign objects.
   C.   Brakes: All motorcycles and mopeds covered under this chapter shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of same to stop and hold
such vehicles, including two (2) separate means of applying brakes; one means
shall be effective to apply the brakes to the front wheel and one means shall
be effective to apply the brakes to the rear wheels. All such vehicles shall be
equipped with a stop lamp on the rear of the vehicle, which shall display a red
or amber light, or any shade of color between red and amber, visible from a
distance of not less than one hundred feet (100') to the rear in normal
sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon application of the rear service
brakes.
   D.   Speedometer: All vehicles covered under this chapter shall be equipped
with a properly operating speedometer capable of registering at least a maximum
legal speed limit for that vehicle.
   E.   Fenders: All vehicles covered under this chapter shall be equipped with
a fender over each wheel. All fenders shall be of the type provided by the
manufacturer, but can be made of other material.
   F.   Lights: All vehicles covered under this chapter shall carry at least
one lighted headlamp capable of showing a white light visible at least five
hundred feet (500') in the direction in which the same are proceeding, and one
taillamp mounted on the rear which when lighted, shall emit a red light plainly
visible from at least five hundred feet (500') to the rear, and such lights
required by this subsection shall be burning whenever such vehicles are in
motion during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset and one-half (1/
2) hour before sunrise and at any other time when, due to insufficient light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons and vehicles on the streets are not
clearly discernible at a distance of at least one thousand feet (1,000') ahead.
Every such headlamp on a vehicle covered under this subsection shall be located
at a height of not more than fifty four inches (54") or less than twenty four
inches (24") from the ground as measured from the center of the lamp to the
level ground upon which such vehicle stands without a load.
   G.   Muffler: Every motorcycle and moped operated or driven on public
highways of the city shall be equipped with a muffler or silencer which will
reduce the sound of the explosion of the engine to the greatest possible
degree; provided, that it shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate
or permit to be driven or operated any motor vehicle at any time with the
muffler cut out or not in operation.
   H.   Headgear: No person under the age of seventeen (17) years shall operate
or ride upon any vehicle covered under this chapter unless such person is
equipped with and wearing on the head a safety helmet of the type and design
manufactured for the use of the operators of such vehicles. A swell foundation
approved type safety helmet or the equivalent is acceptable. All safety helmets
shall consist of lining, padding and chinstraps and be of the type as not to
distort the view of the driver. The chinstrap shall be fastened in place.
   I.   Shoes: No person shall operate or ride upon any vehicle covered under
this chapter unless such person is wearing protective foot covering. Sandals,
thongs and open toed shoes are not considered protective foot covering.
   J.   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to operators or passengers of
three (3) wheeled vehicles which have an enclosed passenger compartment.
   K.   Reflectors: Every motorcycle and moped shall carry on the rear at least
one reflector, which shall be mounted at a height not less than twenty inches
(20") or more than sixty inches (60") from the ground as measured from the
center of the reflector to the level ground upon which such motorcycle or moped
stands without a load. Each such reflector shall be of a size and character and
so mounted as to be visible at night from all distances within three hundred
feet (300') when directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps.
   L.   Turn Signals: Every motorcycle manufactured after January 1, 1973,
which is sold or offered for sale and which is intended to be operated upon the
highways of this state, shall be equipped with electric turn signal lamps. Such
lamps shall be located on the front and rear and shall indicate an intention to
turn by flashing lights in the direction toward which the turn is to be made.
The lamps showing to the front shall be mounted on the same level and as widely
spaced laterally as practicable and, when signaling, shall emit a white or
amber light, or a shade of light between white and amber. The lamp showing to
the rear shall be mounted on the same level and as widely spaced laterally as
practicable, and, when signaling shall emit a red or amber light, or any shade
of light between red and amber. (Ord. 247, 5-24-1977)
7-4-7: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
therefor, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord.
261, 6-27-1978)
CHAPTER 5
RECKLESS DRIVING; DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE 1
(Rep. by Ord. 833, 8-14-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsections
  7-2-23B and C of this title.
CHAPTER 6
USE OF OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Definitions
7-6-2: Operator Requirements
7-6-3: Additional Restrictions Regarding Driving Or Operating Off-Highway
Vehicles
7-6-4: General Rules And Regulations
7-6-5: Designated Off-Highway Vehicle Routes
7-6-6: Enforcement
7-6-7: Towing And Storage Of Off-Highway Vehicles
7-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms, and phrases, and their derivations, when used in
this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates different meaning:
 
                           The entire width between the boundary lines of every
HIGHWAY:                   way maintained by a public authority when any part
                           of such way is open to the use of the public for
                           purposes of vehicular traffic.
                           Any all-terrain vehicle that includes seating
LARGE ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE: capacity for at least two (2) people abreast and
                           either:
                           A. At least two (2) additional back seats such that
                          there is a total seating capacity for at least four
                           (4) people; or
                          B. A truck bed located behind the two (2) front
                           seats.
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE:       A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for off-
                           highway and all-terrain use.
                          A. The term includes, but is not limited to:
                           1. An all-terrain vehicle, including, without
                           limitation, a large all-terrain vehicle without
                           regard to whether that large all-terrain vehicle is
                          registered by the Department of Motor Vehicles in
                           accordance with NRS 490.0825 as a motor vehicle
                           intended to be operated upon the highways of this
                           State;
OFF HIGHWAY      2. An all-terrain motorcycle;
VEHICLE: (cont.) 3. A dune buggy;
                4. A snowmobile; and
                5. Any motor vehicle used on public lands for the purpose of
                 recreation.
                B. The term does not include:
                1. A motor vehicle designed primarily for use in water;
                2. A motor vehicle that is registered by the Department of
                 Motor Vehicles in accordance with Chapter 482 of NRS;
                3. A low-speed vehicle as defined in NRS 484B.637; or
                4. Special mobile equipment, as defined in NRS 482.123.
TOW:             To transport an off-highway vehicle to a storage facility
                 using a truck or other vehicle suitable for such purpose.
TRAIL:           An unpaved path or track across unimproved land that is
                 authorized for use by off-highway vehicles.
                 A route not more than two (2) miles in length and designated
TRAIL CONNECTOR: by resolution that permits off-highway vehicles to travel to
                 and from one (1) or more trails. (Ord. 844, 10-8-2019)
 
7-6-2: OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter or under State law, a
person may operate an off-highway vehicle on a highway that is designated as an
off-highway vehicle route by resolution of the City Council for the purpose of
reaching a private or public area that is open for use by off-highway vehicles.
   B.   No person under the age of sixteen (16) shall operate an off-highway
vehicle on any highway.
   C.   No person shall operate an off-highway vehicle on any highway unless:
      1.   The person possesses a valid motor vehicle operator's license in
compliance with State law;
      2.   The person possesses evidence of liability insurance coverage for
the off-highway vehicle to the extent such insurance coverage and evidence of
coverage are required by NRS Chapter 490;
      3.   A certificate of registration is attached to the off-highway
vehicle; provided, a certificate of registration is not required for an off-
highway vehicle which:
         a.   Is owned and operated by:
            (1)   A federal agency;
            (2)   An agency of this state; or
            (3)   A county, incorporated city or unincorporated town in this
state;
         b.   Is part of the inventory of a dealer of off highway vehicles;
         c.   Is registered or certified in another state and is located in
this state for not more than ninety (90) days;
         d.   Is used solely for husbandry on private land or on public land
that is leased to the owner or operator of the off-highway vehicle; or
         e.   Is used for work conducted by or at the direction of a public or
private utility.
   D.   No person shall operate an off-highway vehicle on a highway for a
distance of more than two (2) miles.
   E.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection E.2 and in addition to the
requirements set forth in NRS 490.070, a person shall not operate an off-
highway vehicle on a highway unless the off-highway vehicle has:
      1.   At least one (1) headlamp that illuminates objects at least five
hundred feet (500') ahead of the vehicle;
      2.   At least one (1) tail lamp that is visible from at least five
hundred feet (500') behind the vehicle;
      3.   At least one (1) red reflector on the rear of the vehicle, unless
the tail lamp is red and reflective;
      4.   A stop lamp on the rear of the vehicle; and
      5.   A muffler which is in working order and which is in constant
operation when the vehicle is running.
   F.   A person shall not, except as otherwise provided in this Subsection F,
operate an off-highway vehicle on a highway that is not otherwise designated
for use by off-highway vehicles. A person may operate an off-highway vehicle on
a highway that is not otherwise designated for use by off-highway vehicles:
      1.   If the off-highway vehicle is operated on the highway for the
purpose of crossing the highway, comes to a complete stop before crossing and
crosses as close as practicable to perpendicular to the direction of travel on
the highway;
      2.   If the off-highway vehicle is operated on the highway for the
purpose of loading or unloading the off-highway vehicle onto or off of another
vehicle or trailer, if the loading or unloading is as close as practicable to
the place of operation of the off-highway vehicle; or
      3.   During an emergency if it is impossible or impracticable to use
another vehicle or if a peace officer directs the operation of the off-highway
vehicle.
      4.   If the off-highway vehicle is operated on a portion of highway that
is designated as a trail connector for a trail authorized for use by off-
highway vehicles for not more than two (2) miles. (Ord. 844, 10-8-2019)
7-6-3: ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS REGARDING DRIVING OR OPERATING OFF-HIGHWAY
VEHICLES:
   A.   No person who is sixteen (16) years of age or older who owns or
possesses an off-highway vehicle may give another person who is under sixteen
(16) years of age permission to operate the off-highway vehicle on any highway
without regard to whether the highway is designated as an off-highway vehicle
route.
   B.   The operator and each occupant of an off-highway vehicle that is being
driven on a highway shall wear a helmet.
   C.   The operator of an off-highway vehicle shall comply with the Elko
Traffic Code (Title 7, Chapter 2). (Ord. 844, 10-8-2019)
7-6-4: GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   No person shall leave or allow any off-highway vehicle to remain
unattended on any public highway or public property while the motor is running
or with the starting key left in the ignition.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person operating an off-highway vehicle to
make, permit, continue or cause to be made or to create any unreasonably loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noise that is audible to a person with ordinary
hearing within one hundred fifty feet (150') of any district zoned residential.
(Ord. 844, 10-8-2019)
7-6-5: DESIGNATED OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE ROUTES:
   A.   Off-highway vehicles shall only be used and operated on highways and
trails that are designated as off-highway vehicle routes or trail connectors by
resolution of the City Council.
   B.   The City may post signs establishing designated crossing routes over
streets, roads and highways whether or not designated as off-highway vehicle
routes.
   C.   No person shall operate an off-highway vehicle on a sidewalk. (Ord.
844, 10-8-2019)
7-6-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   A violation of this Chapter shall constitute a criminal offense. Any
person violating any provision of this Chapter shall, upon conviction therefor,
be punished as provided in Title 1, Chapter 3 of this Code.
   B.   Conviction of three (3) violations of this Chapter by an owner or
operator of an off-highway vehicle within a three (3) year period shall
constitute prima facie evidence of a nuisance and the Court may make such
orders as it deems necessary to abate such nuisance, including, without
limitation, an order prohibiting the owner or operator from operating or
permitting others to operate an off-highway vehicle on highways within the
City.
   C.   The responsibility for compliance with the provisions of this Chapter
shall rest with:
      1.   The operator of the off-highway vehicle, and
      2.   The owner of the off-highway vehicle who contributes to a violation,
or who enables or induces an operator to commit a violation, in which event the
operator and owner may be jointly or severally prosecuted for the violation.
   D.   It shall not be a defense to an alleged violation of this Chapter that
the owner or operator of the off-highway vehicle is a minor.
   E.   A parent or guardian who fails to properly supervise a minor and
thereby permits the minor to violate this Chapter may be held liable for the
violation committed by the minor. (Ord. 844, 10-8-2019)
7-6-7: TOWING AND STORAGE OF OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES:
   A.   Off-highway vehicles may be towed and stored by the City subject to
this Section.
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Sale, Exchange Or Lease Of City Real Property   1
Utility Occupancy Of Public Rights-Of-Way Or Public Easements, Smart Dig
Requirements, And City Excavation Permits   2
Park Commission   3
Franchise   4
Southwest Gas Corporation Franchise (Rep. by Ord. 793, 6-9-2015)   5
Bullion Road Sewer   6
Vacation And Abandonment Of City Streets, Rights-Of- Way, And Easements   7
Electrical System Franchise Fees   8
Elko Heat Company Franchise (Rep. by Ord. 773, 4-9-2013)   9
Alltel Nevada, Inc. Franchise (Rep. by Ord. 824, 9-26-2017)   10
Park Lands And Facilities   11
Telecommunications   12
Ruby View Golf Course   13
Elko Municipal Swimming Pool   14
Elko Regional Airport Advisory Board   15
Events On City Property   16
Public Tree Management   17
Public Improvement Standards   18
Sidewalk Cafes   19
Sidewalk Displays   20
Sidewalks, Curbs, Gutters   21
Revocable License To Occupy City Of Elko Property   22
CHAPTER 1
SALE, EXCHANGE OR LEASE OF CITY REAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-1-1: Requirement And Process For Using Appraisers
8-1-2: Notice For Sale Or Lease Of Real Property
8-1-3: Resolution Required For And Method Of Sale Or Lease Of Real Property
8-1-4: Exceptions To Public Auction Sales
8-1-5: Additional Power Of The City
8-1-6: Powers Regarding Eminent Domain
8-1-1: REQUIREMENT AND PROCESS FOR USING APPRAISERS:
   A.   The city shall comply with the requirements set forth in Nevada Revised
Statutes 268.059, and any amendments thereto approved by resolution of the city
council, regarding the sale or lease of real property.
   B.   The city shall maintain a list of all appraisers qualified to conduct
general appraisals in Elko County based on the records maintained by Nevada
real estate division of the department of business and industry, or any other
state division or department which shall hereafter take over the records,
pertaining to the qualifications of appraisers, which list shall be updated
annually on or about January 1. The city manager or designee shall determine
the qualifications of the foregoing appraisers qualified to conduct business in
the city of Elko, and shall compile a list of appraisers to present to the
governing body. The foregoing list of appraisers shall be: 1) reviewed and
updated annually on or about January 1, 2) organized at random, and 3) rotated
from time to time. The governing body's review and approval of such list shall
be sufficient for verification of qualifications pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 268.059, and any amendments thereto.
   C.   An appraiser chosen pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 268.059(1), or
any amendments thereto approved by resolution of the city council, must provide
a disclosure statement which includes, without limitation, all sources of
income of the appraiser that may constitute a conflict of interest and any
relationship of the appraiser with the property owner or the owner of an
adjoining property.
   D.   An appraiser shall not perform an appraisal on any real property
offered for sale or lease by the governing body if the appraiser or a person
related to the appraiser within the first degree of consanguinity or affinity
has an interest in the real property or an adjoining property. (Ord. 800, 1-26-
2016)
8-1-2: NOTICE FOR SALE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY:
The city shall comply with the requirements set forth in Nevada Revised
Statutes 268.061, and any amendments thereto approved by resolution of the city
council, regarding notice for sale or lease of real property. (Ord. 800, 1-26-
2016)
8-1-3: RESOLUTION REQUIRED FOR AND METHOD OF SALE OR LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY:
The city shall comply with the requirements set forth in Nevada Revised
Statutes 268.062, and any amendments thereto approved by resolution of the city
council, regarding a resolution declaring intention to sell or lease property
at auction.   (Ord. 800, 1-26-2016)
8-1-4: EXCEPTIONS TO PUBLIC AUCTION SALES:
The city shall comply with the requirements set forth in Nevada Revised
Statutes 268.063, and any amendments thereto approved by resolution of the city
council, regarding sale, lease or disposal of real property for redevelopment
or economic development purposes. (Ord. 800, 1-26-2016)
8-1-5: ADDITIONAL POWER OF THE CITY:
The city may:
   A.   Have and use a common seal, which it may alter at pleasure.
   B.   Purchase, receive, hold and use personal and real property wherever
situated.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in sections
8-1-1,
8-1-2 and
 8-1-3 of this chapter, sell, convey and dispose of such personal and real
property for the common benefit.
   D.   Determine what are public uses with respect to powers of eminent
domain.
   E.   Acquire, own and operate a public transit system both within and
without the city.
   F.   Receive bequests, devises, gifts and donations of all kinds of property
wherever situated in fee simple, in trust or otherwise, for charitable or other
purposes and do anything necessary to carry out the purposes of such bequests,
devises, gifts and donations with full power to manage, sell, lease or
otherwise dispose of such property in accordance with the terms of such
bequest, devise, gift or donation. (Ord. 800, 1-26-2016)
8-1-6: POWERS REGARDING EMINENT DOMAIN:
   A.   The city council may reconvey all the right, title and interest of the
city in and to any land donated, dedicated, acquired in accordance with Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 37, or purchased under the threat of an eminent domain
proceeding, for a public park, public square, public landing, agricultural
fairground, aviation field, automobile parking ground or facility for the
accommodation of the traveling public, or land held in trust for the public for
any other public use or uses, or any part thereof, to the person:
      1.   By whom the land was donated or dedicated or to his heirs, assigns
or successors, upon such terms as may be prescribed by a resolution of the
governing body; or
      2.   From whom the land was acquired in accordance with Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 37, or purchased under the threat of an eminent domain
proceeding, or to his heirs, assigns or successors, for an amount equal to the
amount paid for the land by the governing body.
   B.   If the governing body determines that maintenance of the property is
unnecessarily burdensome to the city or that reconveyance would be in the best
interest of the city and its residents, the governing body may formally adopt a
resolution stating that determination. Upon the adoption of the resolution, the
presiding officer of the governing body shall issue a written offer of
reconveyance to the person from whom the land was received or acquired or his
successor in interest.
   C.   If the person from whom the real property was received or acquired, or
his successor in interest:
      1.   Accepts the offer of reconveyance within forty five (45) days after
the date of the offer, the governing body shall execute a deed or reconveyance.
      2.   Refused to accept the offer of reconveyance or states in writing
that he is unable to accept the reconveyance, the governing body may sell or
lease the real property in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 800, 1-26-2016)
CHAPTER 2
UTILITY OCCUPANCY OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY OR PUBLIC EASEMENTS, SMART DIG
REQUIREMENTS, AND CITY EXCAVATION PERMITS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Title
8-2-2: Definitions, Terms
8-2-3: City Excavation Permits
8-2-3-1: Telecommunication Facility
8-2-4: Asphalt Pavement Repair
8-2-5: Emergency Excavations
8-2-6: New City Street Cuts
8-2-7: Construction Standards
8-2-8: Noninterference With Existing Utilities, Other Infrastructure And
Vertical Clearance
8-2-9: Relocation Of Utilities Or Infrastructure
8-2-10: Repair Of Public Roads And City Street Cuts
8-2-11: Liability Insurance
8-2-12: Bonding
8-2-13: Permit Fees
8-2-14: Contractor And Business Licenses
8-2-15: Inspection
8-2-16: Water Drainage
8-2-17: Abandoned Utility Facilities
8-2-18: Video Service Providers
8-2-19: Appeals
8-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as: UTILITY OCCUPANCY OF PUBLIC
RIGHTS-OF-WAY OR PUBLIC EASEMENTS, SMART DIG REQUIREMENTS, AND CITY EXCAVATION
PERMITS. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS, TERMS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
abbreviations shall have the meanings ascribed to them below. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number.
AFFILIATE: An entity that: (1) holds a certificate of public convenience and
necessity from the Public Utilities Commission of Nevada; and (2) directly or
indirectly through one or more intermediaries, is wholly owned or controlled
by, or is under common control of a holder of a certificate of authority.
CERTIFICATE OF AUTHORITY OR CERTIFICATE: A certificate issued by the Secretary
of State pursuant to NRS Chapter 711 which grants the holder of the certificate
a state-issued franchise to provide video service and construct and operate a
video service network within the service areas designated in the certificate.
COMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE: The technology, products and network connections
that allow for the transmission of communications over large distances.
CONSTRUCTION PLANS: Plans, profiles, cross-sections and other required details
for the construction of public improvements, prepared in conjunction with the
project and in compliance with standards of design and construction approved by
the City.
EMERGENCY: Sudden unexpected occurrence that involves clear and imminent danger
and requires immediate action to prevent or mitigate loss of life or damage to
health, property or essential public services.
EXCAVATE OR EXCAVATION: Any work or action in which earth, rock, pavement, or
other materials in the ground or underwater in a public right-of-way is moved,
removed, or otherwise displaced in any of the following ways: grading,
trenching, digging, ditching, or any other means.
EXCAVATION PERMIT: A permit required and issued by the City for any excavation
within a public right-of-way, to include a street cut.
EXCAVATOR: Any person who engages in excavation.
INFRASTRUCTURE: Any underground facility or overhead facility.
LONGITUDINAL ACCESS: Access to or the use of any part of a right-of-way that
extends generally parallel to or within the right-of-way.
MICRODUCT: A small-diameter (less than twenty (20) millimeter), flexible,
lightweight duct designed to provide a path for placing microfiber cable and
fiber optic cable with lower fiber counts. A microduct must meet industry
standards, to include required rigidity (crush) and temperature specifications.
MICROTRENCHING: Trenching by means of a cutting wheel designed for the purpose
of creating a narrow shallow trench that is typically less than two inches (2")
in width and is located below the asphaltic or cement layer of a road or
pedestrian way for the purpose of fiber optic cable installation utilizing
microduct installed below the asphaltic or concrete layer of a road or
pedestrian way.
NANOTRENCHING: Trenching by means of a cutting wheel designed for the purpose
of creating a narrow and shallow trench that is located within the asphaltic or
concrete layer of a road or pedestrian way for the purpose of fiber optic cable
installation with or without the utilization of microduct.
OPERATOR: Any person who owns, operates or maintains underground
telecommunication facilities.
PERMITTEE: An excavator who is authorized to perform work pursuant to an
excavation permit in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
PERSON: A natural person, any form of business or social organization and any
other legal entity including, but not limited to, a corporation, partnership,
association, trust or unincorporated organization, or any government,
governmental agency or political subdivision of a government.
PUBLIC EASEMENT: A right to use any area or alignment that has been conveyed to
the City for one or more public purposes.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: An area or alignment that has been dedicated to the City
for one or more public purposes.
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT: Any excavation project undertaken by a public entity.
TELECOMMUNICATION: The transmission of signs, signals, messages, words,
writing, images, sound or information of any nature by wire, radio, optical, or
electromagnetic systems. Telecommunication occurs when the exchange of
information between communication participants includes the use of technology.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY: Any cable, line, fiber, wire, conduit, inner duct,
access manhole, hand hole, tower, hut, pedestal, pole, box, splice panel,
transmitting equipment, receiving equipment, power equipment or other
equipment, system or device that is used to transmit, receive, produce or
distribute a signal for telecommunications purposes via wireless, wireline,
electronic or optical means, and any other outside plant materials provided by
the City.
UNDERGROUND FACILITY: Any underground or submerged conductor, pipe, structure,
conduit, or equipment used or installed for use in providing electric,
communications, gas, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, reuse water or any other
underground works.
USA: Underground Service Alert (USA), a non-profit mutual benefit organization
operating free call centers for excavators who are digging, blasting,
trenching, drilling, grading, excavating, or otherwise moving any earth for the
purpose of providing information about the locations of underground facilities.
VIDEO SERVICE: The provision by a video service provider over a video service
network of multichannel video programming generally considered comparable to
video programming delivered by a television broadcast station, cable service or
other digital television service, whether provided as part of a tier, on-demand
or on a per-channel basis, without regard to the technology used to deliver the
video service, including, without limitation, Internet protocol technology or
any successor technology. The term includes, without limitation: (a) cable
service; and (b) video service delivered by a community antenna television
system. The term does not include: (a) any video content, including, without
limitation, streaming video content, accessed via a service that enables users
to access content, information, electronic mail or other services that are
offered via the Internet, regardless of the provider of the video content; (b)
direct-to-home satellite services, which distribute or broadcast programming or
services by satellite directly to the subscriber's residence without the use of
ground receiving or distribution equipment, except at the subscriber's
residence or in the uplink process to the satellite; or (c) any wireless
multichannel video programming provided by a commercial mobile service
provider.
VIDEO SERVICE NETWORK: A wireline facility, or any component thereof, which is:
(a) located in the State of Nevada; (b) constructed in whole or in part in, on,
under or over any public right-of-way or highway; and (c) used to provide video
service. The term includes, without limitation: (a) a cable system; and (b) a
community antenna television system.
VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER OR PROVIDER: Any person that provides or offers to
provide video service over a video service network to subscribers in the State
of Nevada. The term includes, without limitation: (a) an incumbent cable
operator or other cable operator; (b) a community antenna television company;
and (c) a multichannel video programming distributor. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-3: CITY EXCAVATION PERMITS:
   A.   Permit Required: Prior to cutting or excavating within any public
rights-of-way or public easements within the City limits, a person must be
issued an excavation permit by the City.
   B.   Plan Submittal Required: Prior to applying for an excavation permit, a
person shall submit to the City for review and possible approval construction
plans that (1) are stamped by a registered Nevada Engineer, (2) depict the
locations of the proposed infrastructure and (3) comply with all applicable
franchise agreements (subject to the exception for video service providers) and
with local and State laws. Plans are not required for Emergency Repairs
performed under
8-2-5 or replacement of existing infrastructure.
   C.   Grounds For Rejection Of Plans: The City may reject any construction
plans submitted in accordance with the preceding subsection A on the following
grounds:
      1.   The construction plans fail to comply with applicable franchise
agreements or local and State laws;
      2.   The construction plans indicate that the excavation will result in
flooding, adversely affect the integrity of surrounding structures (to include
reducing soil stability), contaminate groundwater supplies, or create an
unreasonable safety hazard;
      3.   The construction plans indicate that the excavation will conflict
with existing underground facilities;
      4.   The construction plans indicate that the project lacks sufficient
engineering detail, traffic management plans, or environmental safeguards; or
      5.   The construction plans are inadequately drawn such that City staff
cannot reasonably assess the proposed project to determine compliance with
requirements of this Chapter.
   D.   Approved Plans Required: No permit required under the preceding
subsection C shall be issued without prior approved plans consistent with this
section.
   E.   State Permits Applicable: Prior to the cutting or excavation of any
State highway or route within the City limits, all State permits must be
obtained and a copy of each such permit must be filed with the City.
   F.   Traffic Control And Construction Plans; Depth Of Facilities: An
applicant for an excavation permit shall submit with the application a traffic
control plan and detailed construction plans, which plans must be approved by
the City prior to issuance of the excavation permit. Two (2) copies of the
traffic control plan and two (2) copies of the construction plans shall be
submitted with the application. The minimum depth of any excavation in a City-
owned right-of-way shall be twenty-four inches (24") below the surface of the
ground or, in cases of excavations below asphalt paving or sidewalks, a minimum
of twenty-four inches (24") below the bottom of the pavement or sidewalk.
   G.   Notification Prior To Excavation: The permittee must notify USA at
least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the start of any excavation.
   H.   Presence Of Form And Permit: A copy of the USA Dig Alert Location
Request Form and a copy of the City excavation permit shall be present on the
job site at all times work is in progress.
   I.   Cut Unavoidable: An applicant for an excavation permit requesting
permission to perform a street cut shall demonstrate that the cut is
unavoidable and that the permittee has fully evaluated other alignments which
would avoid a street cut.
   J.   Work Without Excavation Permit: If a person performs an excavation
without a permit, except in an emergency as defined in this chapter, the
permittee shall thereafter pay double the regular permit fee for that
excavation project.
   K.   Expiration Date: An excavation permit shall expire on a date determined
by the City, which date shall be no more than thirty (30) days from the date of
issuance. If a temporary patch is required due to a street cut, the permittee
shall pay an additional fee as established by resolution of the City Council.
   L.   Revocation Of Permit: The City may revoke an excavation permit at any
time for the failure of the permittee to comply with this chapter. (Ord. 899,
5-28-2025)
8-2-3-1: TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY:
   A.   Microtrenching activities shall comply with the applicable City of Elko
Standard Details for Public Works Construction.
   B.   Prohibitions: Nanotrenching in public rights-of-way is prohibited.
(Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-4: ASPHALT PAVEMENT REPAIR:
The permittee shall receive City approval for the construction of temporary and
permanent asphalt pavement repairs required as a result of the excavation. All
asphalt repairs shall be performed by a properly licensed contractor. The
permittee shall be responsible for proper placement of all backfill, subgrade,
base and asphalt, all of which shall comply with any applicable construction
standards adopted by the City. The contractor shall perform all required tests
to demonstrate the repair conforms to any applicable construction standards
adopted by the City. The contractor shall provide the test results to the City.
If repairs are made by the City, the permittee shall reimburse the City for
expenses incurred to construct temporary and permanent pavement patches at
rates based on time (as established by resolution of the City Council) and the
actual cost of materials, plus fifty percent (50%). (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-5: EMERGENCY EXCAVATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided in Section 8-2-18 regarding video service
providers, a person making an emergency excavation must obtain a City
excavation permit no later than the next business day. After completion of the
emergency excavation, the person shall be responsible for ensuring the repair
is completed in accordance with section 8-2-4. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-6: NEW CITY STREET CUTS:
Except in an emergency, if a permittee wishes to excavate within a street or
paved alley that is five (5) years old or less, the permittee must receive City
Council approval prior to excavation. In granting approval for a new excavation
permit pursuant to this section, the City Council may place any conditions on
the permit it determines are reasonably necessary to protect the City streets.
(Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-7: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All pipes, sewers, drains, lines, valves or other structures and appurtenances
which shall be laid and used shall be installed, constructed and maintained in
accordance with any applicable standard details and specifications, as adopted
and amended by the codes and ordinances of the City, all applicable State
Statutes, regulations and orders, (to include all applicable regulations and
orders of the Nevada Public Utilities Commission), and in a good and
workmanlike manner, and the pipes, sewers, drains, lines, valves or other
structures and appurtenances shall be maintained in compliance with all
applicable standards adopted by the City. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-8: NONINTERFERENCE WITH EXISTING UTILITIES, OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE AND
VERTICAL CLEARANCE:
   A.   All pipes, sewers, drains, lines, valves or other infrastructure and
appurtenances laid or placed by any person shall be located in City rights-of-
way so as not to obstruct or interfere with any pipes, sewers, drains, lines,
valves or other infrastructure and appurtenances already installed. The City
shall, upon request, provide to the permittee available information pertaining
to whether or not there is any such interference or obstruction; provided, due
to the passage of time, the City may no longer have records documenting the
locations of certain underground facilities within the City rights-of-way and,
accordingly, nothing herein shall be interpreted as creating a legal obligation
on the part of the City to provide accurate information as to the locations of
existing pipes, sewers, drains, lines, valves or other structures and
appurtenances. It shall be the permittee's responsibility to see that no
interference with or damage to existing infrastructure and appurtenances occurs
prior to and/or during excavation.
   B.   All overhead lines must be installed at a vertical height of fifteen
feet (15') over the entire span of the right-of-way or easement. (Ord. 899, 5-
28-2025)
8-2-9: RELOCATION OF UTILITIES OR INFRASTRUCTURE:
Any person who lays or places any pipes, sewers, drains, lines, valves or other
infrastructure and appurtenances shall relocate, without expense to the City,
any such pipes, sewers, drains, lines, valves or other infrastructure and
appurtenances when made necessary by any lawful change in any public street,
road or highway by the City. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-10: REPAIR OF PUBLIC ROADS AND CITY STREET CUTS:
If any portion of a sidewalk, curb, gutter, alley, public road or right-of-way
shall be damaged by reason of defects in any of the pipes, sewers, drains,
lines, valves or other infrastructure and appurtenances installed, utilized,
maintained or constructed, or by reason of any cause whatsoever, including the
subsidence of any cut in the public road, or the existence of any pipes,
sewers, drains, lines, valves or other infrastructure and appurtenances
constructed or maintained under this chapter, the person who initially
constructed such improvements shall, at his own cost and expense, within ten
(10) days, repair any such damage and restore such sidewalk, curb, gutter,
street, alley, public road or right-of-way, or portion thereof, to as good a
condition as it existed before such excavation, disturbance, work, or other
cause of damage occurred. Any subsurface or surface installations damaged by a
utility street cut or excavation of any kind in a City right-of-way shall be
repaired at the permittee's expense. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-11: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Before an excavation permit shall be issued under this chapter, any permittee,
with the exception of public utilities under the jurisdiction of the Nevada
Public Utilities Commission and having a current franchise with the City, shall
file with the City Clerk a certificate of insurance showing a minimum combined
single limit liability insurance policy of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00), such policy to include, but not be limited to, collapse and
underground damage. The foregoing policy shall name the City as an additional
insured. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-12: BONDING:
Any person obtaining a permit under this chapter shall, before obtaining and
excavation permit or in any manner changing the surface of the sidewalk, curb,
gutter, street, highway, avenue or alley, provide the City a bond or other
security guaranteeing that the obligor of the bond will pay to the City the
amount of the bond should the permittee fail, neglect or refuse to complete the
work, including the excavating and repair of the sidewalk, curb, gutter, public
street, highway, avenue or alley and all public utilities in proper condition
to the satisfaction of the City after the work provided for in the permit has
been finished. The bond or security shall be in an amount not less than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00). Notwithstanding the foregoing, public utilities
under the jurisdiction of the Nevada Public Utilities Commission and having a
current franchise with the City shall be considered bonded for purposes of this
section. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-13: PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Payment Required: All applicants for a City excavation permit shall pay
to the Public Works Department permit fees as set by resolution of the City
Council; provided, fees charged to video service providers shall be subject to
Section 8-2-18.
   B.   Estimated Permit Fees; When Paid: All estimated excavation permit fees
shall be paid at the time of filing the initial application.
   C.   Final Fees: Final permit fees shall be paid within thirty (30) calendar
days of the approval of the work by the City. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-14: CONTRACTOR AND BUSINESS LICENSES:
All excavations and related work required under this Chapter shall be performed
by contractors appropriately licensed by the Nevada Contractor's Board. All
permittees shall possess a current City business license. Permittees shall
provide copies of the foregoing licenses to the City prior to the commencement
of work. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-15: INSPECTION:
The permittee shall schedule all City inspections twenty-four (24) hours in
advance. Failure of the permittee to obtain inspections of the work to the
extent reasonably necessary to enable the City to determine compliance with
this Code, to include model codes adopted therein, shall result in the
revocation of the excavation permit. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-16: WATER DRAINAGE:
The permittee shall be responsible for maintaining surface water drainage at
all times during performance of the excavation work, to include redirecting
water drainage where appropriate, except as otherwise directed by the City. The
permittee shall, upon request by the City, submit to the City an appropriate
plan for water drainage control, in which event the work may not commence or
continue until or unless the water drainage control plan has been approved by
the City. The requirements set forth in a water drainage control plan shall,
upon approval by the City, become requirements of the excavation permit. (Ord.
899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-17: ABANDONED UTILITY FACILITIES:
A permittee with infrastructure in a City right-of-way that the permittee has
abandoned or intends to abandon may be required by the City, in the City's
discretion, to remove the infrastructure at the permittee's expense or, in the
alternative, to reimburse the City for the cost removal of the infrastructure.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the permittee is a public utility under the
jurisdiction of the Nevada Public Utilities Commission and has a current
franchise with the City, in the event of an inconsistency between the
requirements of this section and the terms of a franchise agreement, the terms
of the franchise agreement shall prevail. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-18: VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS:
   A.   Placement Of Facilities And Use Of Public Right-Of-Way Or Highway;
Management By City; Limitations; Permits Or Licenses; Fees; Emergency
Situations:
      1.   The City shall not require a video service provider to place its
facilities in ducts or conduits or on poles owned or leased by the City.
      2.   The City shall manage the use of any public right-of-way or highway
by video service providers in a manner that (a) is consistent with federal and
state law and the lawful police powers of the City; and (b) is competitively
neutral and does not: (1) discriminate among video service providers; or (2)
discriminate between video service providers and any other users of the public
right-of-way or highway for the construction and operation of facilities.
      3.   In managing any public right-of-way or highway, the City will:
         a.   Require a video service provider or affiliate that is
constructing, installing, working within, maintaining or repairing facilities
in, on, under or over any public right-of-way or highway to obtain an
excavation permit for such work; and
         b.   Inspect the construction, installation, maintenance or repair
work performed on such facilities.
      4.   An excavation permit issued under this section shall satisfy the
requirement of sections
8-2-4 through
8-2-17 of this chapter to the extent the permitted activity involves cutting or
excavating within any public rights-of-way or public easements within the City
limits, except as otherwise provided in chapter 711 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes.
      5.   If a video service provider makes a request for an excavation
permit, the City shall act upon the request not later than ten (10) business
days after the date on which the request is made.
      6.   The City shall charge a video service provider a fee to issue an
excavation permit or to perform any inspection authorized by this subsection.
The amount of any fee charged by the City pursuant to this subsection shall be
set by resolution and shall not exceed the actual costs incurred by the City in
administering the process of issuing such permits or licenses and performing
such inspections.
      7.   If there is a situation necessitating emergency response work or
repair in, on, under or over any public right-of-way or highway, a video
service provider may begin that work or repair without prior approval from the
City if the provider notifies the City as promptly as reasonably possible after
learning of the need for that work or repair.
   B.   Imposition Of Franchise Fee By City; Requirements, Conditions And
Limitations:
      1.   For the privilege of providing video service through a video service
network that occupies or uses, in whole or in part, any public right-of-way or
highway within the jurisdiction of the City, a video service provider shall pay
a franchise fee to the City in an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the
gross revenue that the provider received during that year from its subscribers
within the jurisdiction of the City.
      2.   The franchise fee shall be imposed equally and uniformly on all
video service providers operating within the jurisdiction of the City.
      3.   The entire amount of the franchise fee shall be paid by a video
service provider directly to the City in legal tender of the United States or
in a check, draft or note that is payable in legal tender of the United States.
      4.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection B5, the franchise fee
authorized by this section:
         a.   Is the only fee, tax, assessment or other charge that the City
may impose on a video service provider for the privilege of providing video
service or constructing or operating a video service network within the
jurisdiction of the City;
         b.   Is in lieu of any other fee, tax, assessment or charge that may
be imposed by the City on a video service provider for its occupation or use of
any public right-of-way or highway; and
         c.   Is in lieu of any recurring rental charge that may be imposed by
the City on a video service provider or an affiliate of such a provider for the
occupation or use of any public right-of-way or highway by a micro wireless
facility installed by the provider or affiliate pursuant to NRS 711.645.
      5.   This section does not restrict the right of the City to impose on a
video service provider or an affiliate: (a) the fees authorized by subsection 5
of NRS 711.640 and this section; and (b) any generally applicable and
nondiscriminatory fees, ad valorem taxes, sales taxes or other taxes that are
lawfully imposed on other businesses within the jurisdiction of the City.
   C.   Review and audit of video service providers; action to recover
underpayment: The City may review and audit the business records of a video
service provider and recover any underpayment of a franchise fee, together with
attorney fees and costs, in accordance with NRS 711.680. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
8-2-19: APPEALS:
   A.   Notice Of Appeal: Any person aggrieved by a decision of the City made
pursuant to or in relation to matters subject to this chapter may appeal the
decision by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk within thirty (30)
days of receiving notice of the decision. The notice of appeal shall contain
the following information: the name of the appellant, the location of the
property to which the decision relates, the date on which the appellant was
notified of the decision, a summary of the decision being appealed and a
statement of reason why the decision is being appealed. The failure of the
aggrieved person to file a notice of appeal in the manner stated in this
section shall result in a waiver of the aggrieved person's right to appeal. The
filing of a notice of appeal shall not stay the action of the City pending the
outcome of the appeal.
   B.   Investigation By City Council: Following the filing of a notice of
appeal, the City Council may, in its discretion, appoint a committee of the
City Council or an independent hearing officer to investigate the notice of
appeal, report findings of fact and make a recommendation for disposition to
the City Council.
   C.   Hearing Before City Council: The City Council shall conduct a hearing
on the appeal within forty-five (45) days from the date the notice of appeal is
filed with the City Clerk. The hearing shall be open to the public and shall be
conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
   D.   Hearing Procedures: The procedures pursuant to which the City Council
shall hear an appeal pursuant to this section are as follows:
      1.   The appellant shall first describe the decision being challenged,
state the grounds for the appeal and present a summary of the appellant's
argument.
      2.   The appellant may then testify, submit documents and/or call
witnesses in support of the appeal.
      3.   The City shall then state the grounds for opposing the appeal.
      4.   The City may submit documents and/or call witnesses in opposition to
the appeal.
      5.   The appellant may then present a rebuttal argument, witnesses and/or
documents. The failure of an appellant to provide argument, witnesses and/or
documents on rebuttal shall not be considered by the City Council in deciding
the appeal.
      6.   The appellant and the City, respectively, may present closing
arguments.
      7.   Appellant and the City are entitled to be represented by counsel,
and present testimony, evidence and argument on all issues raised on appeal.
      8.   The City Council may, if it appears helpful to a clear understanding
of the issues, consider matters not raised at the hearing.
      9.   All testimony by the appellant and the parties' witnesses shall be
under oath.
      10.   The rules of evidence shall not apply.
      11.   The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem may limit testimony or other proffered
evidence that is duplicative, unnecessarily argumentative or not reasonably
related to the matter being appealed.
      12.   The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem may terminate the hearing upon finding
that sufficient testimony, documents and arguments have been presented to
enable the City Council to fully deliberate and decide the appeal; provided,
the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem shall first request from the appellant a summary of
all remaining matters he or she intends to present at the hearing.
   E.   Decision By City Council: At the conclusion of the hearing, the City
Council shall make a final decision that is consistent with the requirements of
this title (to include the technical codes) to affirm, deny, condition or
modify the decision of the building official and shall within thirty (30) days
thereafter file a notice of decision with the City Clerk stating the decision.
   F.   Judicial Review: Any person who has appealed a decision by the City to
the City Council as per this section and is dissatisfied with the City
Council's decision may appeal to the Fourth Judicial District Court in Elko
County, Nevada. This shall be done by filing a petition for judicial review
within twenty-five (25) days from the date the notice of decision is filed with
the City Clerk. (Ord. 899, 5-28-2025)
CHAPTER 3
PARK COMMISSION
SECTION:
8-3-1: Appointment Of Park Commission
8-3-2: Remuneration
8-3-3: Inspector; Appointment, Duties
8-3-4: Compliance With Regulations
8-3-5: Notice Of Rules
8-3-1: APPOINTMENT OF PARK COMMISSION:
The city council shall have the right, power and authority, by resolution, to
appoint a park commission consisting of five (5) persons, who shall be
residents of the city and whose duty it shall be to adopt rules and regulations
for the protection of trees, bushes and shrubs situated within the city. (Ord.
47, 8-15-1929)
8-3-2: REMUNERATION:
The park commission shall serve without pay but shall be allowed the reasonable
expenses incurred by it or the members thereof in connection with their duties
as such. (Ord. 47, 8-15-1929)
8-3-3: INSPECTOR; APPOINTMENT, DUTIES:
The park commission is hereby authorized to appoint and employ an inspector,
whose salary shall be fixed and paid by the city council. Such inspector shall
be expert in the matter of diagnosing ailments and diseases of trees, bushes
and shrubs, providing the proper remedies therefor. He shall act under the
direction of the park commission, but subject at all times to the direction and
approval of the city council. Such inspector shall have the right, at all
reasonable times and hours, to enter upon any premises for the purpose of the
performance of his duties. (Ord. 47, 8-15-1929)
8-3-4: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
It shall be the duty of every owner and every occupant of premises upon which
are growing any trees, bushes or shrubs, to comply with all rules and
regulations promulgated by the park commission, and particularly to obey all
orders of the park commission with reference to the spraying or other treatment
of trees, bushes and shrubs. (Ord. 47, 8-15-1929)
8-3-5: NOTICE OF RULES:
The park commission shall give such notice as to it may be deemed reasonable,
either by publication or by posting, or by general newspaper publicity, as to
it may seem proper, to convey to the public information as to the rules thus
promulgated. (Ord. 47, 8-15-1929)
CHAPTER 4
FRANCHISE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Franchise
8-4-1: FRANCHISE:
!!! AN ORDINANCE GRANTING A FRANCHISE TO THE WESTERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY,
OVER CERTAIN STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   WHEREAS, THE WESTERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY is about to start the
construction of spur lines through the streets and highways in the city of
Elko; and
   WHEREAS, an emergency exists as no franchise has been obtained; and
   WHEREAS, irreparable damage will be occasioned by delay, by consent of the
majority of the whole city council, at a regular or meeting of said city
council of the city of Elko, convened on the 3rd day of June, 1924.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF ELKO:
That the right, permission, privilege and franchise to construct, maintain and
operate by steam or other lawful motive power, a single or double track
railroad of standard gouge, be and the same is hereby granted to the WESTERN
PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY, a corporation organized and existing under and by
virtue of the laws of the state of California, and to its successors and
assigns upon, along and across all streets, ways and public places along the
following route:
Beginning at a point on the easterly line of Third Street, distant north 31
degrees 35 minutes west approximately 140 feet from a concrete monument located
in said Third Street; then crossing said Third Street south 44 degrees 03
minutes west approximately 70 feet; thence on a curve to the left approximately
10 feet to the westerly line of said Third Street; thence continuing on said
curve approximately 258 feet; thence south 33 degrees 19 minutes west
approximately 300 feet, crossing Second Street and Commercial Street to the
northerly line of Block AA, thence continuing south 33 degrees 19 minutes west
approximately 150 feet to a point on the easterly side of First Street distant
thereon approximately 69 feet from the southwest corner of Block AA, thence
south 33 degrees 19 minutes west approximately 36 feet to the westerly line of
said First Street; thence south 33 degrees 19 minutes west approximately 128
feet to the northerly line of Main Street; thence south 33 degrees 19 minutes
west approximately 193 feet to the northerly right of way line of the main line
of The Western Pacific Railroad Company.
The franchise and authority hereby granted is granted subject to the following
conditions:
The franchise and authority hereinbefore granted is granted subject to such
reasonable police regulations as hereafter may be imposed by the city council
of the city of Elko, or by the proper governing body of said city of Elko, or
its successors.
The said WESTERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY shall, when required by the city
council of the city of Elko, construct and maintain on off streets crossing the
line of railroad herein above described, good and sufficient crossings for the
free and convenient passage of pedestrians, teams and vehicles, the said
crossings to be of the same width as the traveled portion of such streets, and
the space between the rails and tracks and for two feet (2') outside of the
outside rails at such crossings shall be planked or grade in such a manner that
vehicles can readily cross the aforesaid track or tracks.
The said WESTERN PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY shall, when required by the city
council of the city of Elko, construct under its tracks sufficient culverts or
waterways to allow the proper drainage of such streets as intersect the line of
railroad hereinabove described.
This franchise shall become effective thirty (30) days after its passage and
shall continue for a period of fifty (50) years thereafter. (Ord. 31, 6-3-1924)
CHAPTER 5
SOUTHWEST GAS CORPORATION FRANCHISE
(Rep. by Ord. 793, 6-9-2015)
CHAPTER 6
BULLION ROAD SEWER
SECTION:
8-6-1: Public Improvement Designated
8-6-1: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT DESIGNATED:
The city council does hereby declare its determination to make certain public
improvements by constructing a sewer main along Bullion Road (also known as a
westerly extension of Wilson Avenue) and Morse Lane, and portions thereof
within the city; to levy a special assessment and to defray so much of the
entire cost and expense of making such improvements along said streets and
portions thereof hereinafter particularly described as may be allowed by law
according to a frontage basis against the assessable lands, abutting upon the
street and portions thereof containing said improvements, which lands are also
specifically benefited by said improvements.
The city council has directed the city engineer to make estimates of the
expense of the improvements provided for in this chapter, together with
appropriate plats and diagrams of the work and of the locality to be improved,
and to file such estimates, plats and diagrams with the city clerk for public
examination. On July 11, said estimates, plats and diagrams were filed with the
city clerk by the city engineer, and said estimates, plats and diagrams are now
on file in the office of the city clerk and available for public examination.
The estimated total cost of said improvements is fourteen thousand four hundred
seventy two dollars ($14,472.00) for the labor, equipment, engineering and
materials. The cost and expense of this improvement shall include the cost of
surveys, plans, assessments, costs of construction and the fees and
compensation properly charged in the work of making this special assessment and
shall be included as part of such assessment.
The city council hereby determines and proposes to make said improvements as
they are more particularly shown and referred to and described in said
estimates, plats, diagrams and plans.
The street and portions thereof within which the city council proposes to
install said improvements are those set forth in the form of the notice of
determination contained in this chapter.
The city council is of the opinion, and hereby finds, that the improvements
provided for in this chapter are local improvements, the benefits of which are
special to the lands abutting upon or adjacent to or otherwise benefited by
such improvements, rather than general or public.
In the opinion of the city council, four and one-fourth percent (41/4%), or six
hundred fifteen dollars seventy seven cents ($615.77) amount of the expenses of
this improvement is justly apportionable to lands belonging to the city
abutting on such improvement and to any interior squares or spaces formed by
the intersection of streets where the abutting property is taxable, and such
proportionate share of the city shall be paid from the general fund or from the
proper street or district street fund, or partly from each, as the council
shall determine to be just, and the balance of the expense of this improvement
shall be assessed upon the taxable lots and premises abutting upon such
improvement or the streets in which such improvement is placed in proportion to
their number of feet frontage.
In no case shall the amount of any special assessment upon any lot or premises
for this improvement exceed the value of such lot or premises as shown upon the
latest tax list or assessment roll for state and county taxation. Any cost
exceeding the value of such lot or premises which would otherwise be chargeable
upon said lot or premises, shall be paid from the general fund of the city.
The assessments in connection with this improvement shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of the Elko city charter.
The city council will meet at the city office, Elko, Nevada, on September 12,
1967, at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., to hear and consider any
suggestions and objections that may be made by the parties in interest to the
proposed improvements, or any matters relating thereto.
Unless the owners of more than one-half (1/2) of the frontage to be assessed
shall file written objections thereto at or prior to such meeting, such
improvement or work shall be ordered.
The city clerk shall keep plats, diagrams and plans of the work and location to
be improved, together with the estimates of the expense thereof, on file in her
office for public inspection and examination and shall give notice of the
filing of such estimates, plats, diagrams and plans with the city clerk for
examination of the proposed improvements and location of the improvements, and
of the time the city council will meet and consider any suggestions and
objections that may be made by any parties in interest to said proposed
improvements. The said notice shall be given by publication in the "Elko
Independent", a newspaper published in the city of Elko, for at least two (2)
weeks and in addition by posting said notice in at least three (3) public
places in the city, one of which shall be in or near the post office of the
city, and in addition by posting notices in three (3) public places near the
site of said proposed work. The city clerk is authorized and directed to sign
said notice and it shall be in substantially the following form:
NOTICE OF DETERMINATION AND INTENTION OF THE CITY OF ELKO TO CONSTRUCT A
CERTAIN SEWER MAIN WITHIN BULLION ROAD AND MORSE LANE STREETS, AND PORTIONS
THEREOF, AND TO DEFRAY BY SPECIAL ASSESSMENT SO MUCH OF THE ENTIRE COST AND
EXPENSE THEREOF AS MAY BE ALLOWED BY LAW ACCORDING TO A FRONTAGE BASIS.
Notice is hereby given that on August 8th, 1967, the Board of Supervisors of
the City of Elko adopted and approved an Ordinance declaring the Boards's
determination to make certain public improvements by constructing sewer mains
within the Bullion Road and Morse Lane Streets and portions thereof within the
City and to defray, by special assessment, so much of the entire cost and
expense of making such improvements as may be allowed by law, according to a
frontage basis against the assessable lands and premises abutting upon the
streets and portions thereof containing said improvements.
In no case shall the amount of any special assessment upon any lot or premises
exceed the full value of said lot or premises as shown upon the latest tax list
or assessment roll for State and County taxation, and any added cost which
shall exceed the full value of any lot or premises shall be paid from the
general funds of the City.
The properties to be improved by the sewer main are those adjoining and
abutting upon the following described streets and portions thereof:
Beginning at the end of the existing 8" sewer main which is located in Bullion
Road (or a westerly extension of Wilson Avenue) and running southwesterly in or
under Bullion Road to the center of the intersection of Bullion Road and Morse
Lane, as Morse Lane is shown upon the RECORD OF SURVEY filed in the Office of
the Elko County Recorder under File No. 16823 on September 25, 1964, and from
the center of such intersection thence southerly in or under Morse Lane a
distance of approximately 1,186.88 feet to the center of the Cul-de-Sac which
is at the end of Morse Lane, this being the end of the proposed sewer main.
The estimated cost of this improvement is $14,472.00 for the labor, equipment,
engineering and materials necessary, plus any cost of surveys, plans,
assessments, fees and compensation properly chargeable to this work of
improvement and related incidental expenses to be included. The City shall pay
from its general fund, or other proper funds, four and one- fourth percent (41/
4%), or $615.77 amount of the estimate as its apportionable share of the
expense of such improvement for lands belonging to the City abutting on such
improvement and for any interior squares or spaces formed by the intersection
of streets involved. The balance of the expense of this improvement shall be
assessed upon the taxable lots and premises abutting upon such improvement or
the streets on which such improvement is placed in proportion to the number of
feet frontage and in accordance with the Elko City Charter.
Said Ordinance adopted and approved August 8th, 1967, and the plats and
diagrams and plans of the work and locality to be improved, together with the
estimates of the expense thereof, are on file for public inspection and
examination in the Office of the City Clerk, Elko, Nevada. All persons
interested are hereby referred to the same for further information.
The sewer main will be constructed of eight (8) inch sewer main pipe.
Said Board of Supervisors will meet at the City Hall, Elko, Nevada, on the 12th
day of September, 1967, at the hour of 7:00 P.M., to hear and consider any
suggestions and objections which may be made by parties in interest to the
proposed improvements, or any matters relating thereto. Unless the owners of
more than one-half of the frontage to be assessed shall file written objections
thereto, at or prior to such meeting, such improvements or work shall be
ordered.
DATED this 8th day of August, 1967.
            
         ALICE GEYER, City Clerk
(SEAL)
(Ord. 174, 8-8-1967)
CHAPTER 7
VACATION AND ABANDONMENT OF CITY STREETS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY, AND EASEMENTS
SECTION:
8-7-1: General Provisions
8-7-2: Application Filing
8-7-3: Procedure
8-7-4: Ratification Of Previous Vacations
8-7-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Purpose: This Section sets forth the process to be used by a property
owner seeking the vacation or abandonment of a City street, right-of-way, or
easement. This Section is subject to and shall not be construed to amend or
supersede any applicable statutory provision, to include NRS 278.480.
   B.   Order of the City Council: The City Council may, without action on the
part of the Planning Commission, enter an order approving the vacation or
abandonment of any City-owned street, right-of-way, or easement in accordance
with NRS 278.480 and Title 8, Chapter 7 of this Code.
   C.   Planning Commission Report: The City Council may, in its discretion,
refer any proposed vacation or abandonment to the Planning Commission, in which
event the Planning Commission shall thereafter issue a nonbinding report to the
City Council containing its advice and recommendations concerning the proposed
vacation. Nothing herein shall prevent the City Council from seeking the advice
and recommendations of any other governmental department, agency, or advisory
board, to include the Elko Redevelopment Agency.
   D.   Definitions: When used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have
the meanings ascribed thereto:
      1.   The term "right-of-way" shall have the meaning contained in NRS
278.0175.
      2.   The term "streets" shall have the meaning contained in NRS 278.018.
   E.   Recording: The order of the City Council approving the vacation or
abandonment of a street, right-of-way, or easement shall be recorded in the
office of the Elko County Recorder following approval or fulfillment of
conditions of conditional approval by the City Council in accordance with NRS
278.480(7). The vacation shall be effective upon recordation of the foregoing
order of the City Council.
   F.   Reservations and Exceptions; Dedications And Grants Of Easement: In the
vacation or abandonment of a street or right-of-way, the City Council may
reserve and/or except any easement or other property interest therefrom. The
City may also require any person to whom a street or right-of-way is proposed
to be vacated to deliver to the City a deed of dedication or grant of easement,
at the option of the City, dedicating or otherwise conveying to the City a
public utility easement within the area to be vacated; provided, the resolution
vacating the street or right-of-way may condition the vacation on the delivery
of such deed of dedication or grant of easement to the City fully executed and
in recordable form.
   G.   Street Vacation Procedures: The provisions of Chapter 1 of this Title 8
shall be subject to and shall not supersede the vacation procedures set forth
in Title 8, Chapter 7 of this Code. (Ord. 878, 2-14-2023)
8-7-2: APPLICATION FILING:
   A.   Application Process: An application for the vacation or abandonment of
a City street, right-of-way and/or easements shall be filed with the City
Planning Department on a form or forms furnished for this purpose. The
application shall be accompanied by a filing fee set by resolution by the City
Council.
   B.   Contents: The application for vacation or abandonment shall be complete
and contain the following information:
      1.   The name, mailing address, phone number, and email of the applicant
(s).
      2.   The name, mailing address, phone number, and email of property owner
(s) (if different from applicant(s)).
      3.   A description of all property adjacent to the area to be vacated or
abandoned, to include street addresses, Assessor's Parcel Numbers, and/or any
other information reasonably needed to identify the adjacent parcels.
      4.   A legal description of the area to be vacated or abandoned,
including dimensions and total area as determined by a properly licensed
surveyor.
      5.   A list of all public utilities located in the area proposed for
vacation or abandonment.
      6.   A plot plan prepared by a properly licensed surveyor depicting the
area to be vacated or abandoned, drawn to scale and showing property lines,
buildings, parking, driveways, and any other pertinent features requested by
the City.
      7.   Any other information that would assist the City in the review and
consideration of the application.
   C.   Copies and Attachments: The application shall include the following
documents:
      1.   One (1) .pdf of the entire application; and
      2.   One (1) set of legible reproducible plans (8 ½" X 11"). If the plans
are not legible as shown on 8 ½" X 11" plan sheets, the applicant shall
promptly submit plans on plan sheets which are legible. (Ord. 878, 2-14-2023)
8-7-3: PROCEDURE:
In addition to the requirements set forth in NRS 278.480 and any other
applicable statutes, the following procedures shall be followed in the
application for, review of, and possible approval of a vacation:
   A.   Placement on Agenda: Upon receipt of comments from all utilities and
video service providers notified in accordance with NRS 278.480(6), the
application shall be placed on the agenda for a regularly scheduled City
Council to take place within the next forty-five (45) calendar days or, if the
proposed vacation is referred to the Planning Commission for advice and
recommendations, to take place within thirty (30) days of the delivery of the
Planning Commission's report to the City Council, whichever is later.
   B.   Authority of Council; Findings: The City Council may approve,
conditionally approve, or deny the application. If the decision of the City
Council is to approve or conditionally approve the application, the decision
must include the following findings:
      1.   The proposed vacation does not materially injure the public;
      2.   The vacation or abandonment does not materially interfere with
public use of any current or planned street, sidewalk, utility infrastructure,
or other public improvement; and
      3.   The vacation or abandonment is compatible with, and does not
frustrate, the City of Elko Master Plan's goals and policies.
   C.   In the event a public utility easement is required in the area to be
vacated, the City Council may condition the approval on (1) the reservation of
a public utility easement in the instrument conveying title to the vacated
property or (2) the delivery of a fully executed and recordable deed of
dedication or grant of easement conveying the public utility easement to the
City. (Ord. 878, 2-14-2023)
8-7-4: RATIFICATION OF PREVIOUS VACATIONS:
All vacations and abandonments of streets, rights-of-ways or easements
heretofore made by the City are hereby ratified and confirmed, subject to the
terms and conditions contained in the order of the City Council approving the
vacation or abandonment. (Ord. 878, 2-14-2023)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTRICAL SYSTEM FRANCHISE FEES
SECTION:
8-8-1: Franchise Agreement; Fees
8-8-1: FRANCHISE AGREEMENT; FEES:
   A.   NV Energy shall, during the term of the franchise agreement, or any
renewal or extension thereof, pay to the City for the privilege of operating an
electrical transmission and distribution system under the franchise therein
granted, a sum equivalent to five percent (5%) of the annual gross receipts or
operating revenues taken in or received by NV Energy from all sales of
electricity within the City; provided, in accordance with Nevada Revised
Statutes 354.59889(2), the cumulative amount of any increases in fees imposed
by the City during any period of twenty four (24) months shall not exceed one
percent (1%) of the gross revenue of NV Energy from customers located within
the jurisdiction of the City. Accordingly, effective October 1, 2017,
franchisee will pay to the City an additional one percent (1%) over the current
two percent (2%) fee paid to the City, totaling the equivalent of three percent
(3%) of the annual gross receipts or operating revenues taken in or received by
the franchisee from all sales of electricity within the City; effective October
1, 2019, franchisee will pay to the City the equivalent of four percent (4%) of
the annual gross receipts or operating revenues taken in or received by the
franchisee from all sales of electricity within the City; effective October 1,
2021, franchisee will pay to the City the equivalent of five percent (5%) of
the annual gross receipts or operating revenues taken in or received by the
franchisee from all sales of electricity within the City.
   B.   The fee increase set forth in subsection A of this section shall not
become effective until at least ninety (90) days after the City has provided to
NV Energy any information that is necessary to identify each customer that is
affected by the fee imposed or increased by the City, including the address of
each customer, in the manner and to the extent provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 354.59885(3). (Ord. 821, 7-25-2017)
CHAPTER 9
ELKO HEAT COMPANY FRANCHISE
(Rep. by Ord. 773, 4-9-2013)
CHAPTER 10
ALLTEL NEVADA, INC. FRANCHISE
(Rep. by Ord. 824, 9-26-2017)
CHAPTER 11
PARK LANDS AND FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-11-1: Purpose
8-11-2: Public Events
8-11-3: Camping
8-11-4: Vehicles
8-11-5: Carnivals
8-11-6: Alcoholic Beverages
8-11-7: Fees And Charges For Park And Park Equipment Use
8-11-8: Elko City Parks And Recreation Board
8-11-1: PURPOSE:
It is to be the policy of the city to extend the use of the city park lands and
public parking facilities to its citizens in every reasonable way. It has been
recognized that these parks and public parking facilities can enhance the
quality of life for all residents of the city when utilized appropriately. To
secure the highest quality and availability, the city must commit enormous
resources into the maintenance and upkeep of its parks and public parking
facilities.
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to engage in any activity on
park property owned by the city that results in damage to the surface and/or
turf area or creates a safety hazard, as determined by the park superintendent,
or designee. Examples of uses that are deemed inappropriate include, but are
not limited to, golfing, ice blocking and skateboarding in areas other than
those that have been previously designated for that specific use. (Ord. 621, 6-
23-2004)
8-11-2: PUBLIC EVENTS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
   PARK PROPERTY: Park property owned by the city, including, but not limited
to, all sports complexes, playing fields (excluding Ruby View Golf Course),
HARP, Main City Park, Angel Park, Mountain View Park, Riverview/Southside Park,
5th Street Park, Greenbelt Park, and other facilities and all park equipment
owned by the city, which shall have fees established by the city council for
the use of such city owned park property.
   PRIVATE EVENT: Any event, function, sporting event or other gathering, to
which the general public is not invited, and held on park property owned by the
city.
   PUBLIC EVENT: Any event, function, sporting event or other gathering
sponsored by an organization, to which the general public is invited, and held
on park property owned by the city. Any event held on city park property to
which the general public is invited to attend, either through the sale of
tickets or other means of entry, will be considered a "public event" so long as
there are no restrictions on the allowed attendees.
   B.   Approvals Required:
      1.   Public Events:
         a.   A public event (excluding those events that have prior
contractual agreements with the city for the use of public property) may be
held only upon submission of a complete application, along with associated fees
paid as set forth by resolution of the city council, and approved by the
recreation coordinator or authorized designee.
         b.   Every organizer/sponsor of a public event on the city park
property must use the park reservation form provided by the parks and
recreation department for a public event.
         c.   If a public event includes vendors or fees for admission, the
event sponsor/organizer must include the public event application provided by
the city clerk's office, which includes:
            (1)   The name of and contact information for the person or persons
acting as the official representative of the organizer or sponsor of the public
event.
            (2)   Approval signature of the state department of taxation.
            (3)   Vendor business permit pursuant to section
4-1-16 of this code.
            (4)   Proof of one million dollar ($1,000,000.00) liability
insurance policy with the city named as additional insured.
         d.   The event organizer/sponsor will be responsible for any and all
repairs needed as a result of the event.
      2.   Private Events:
         a.   A private event may be held only upon submission of a complete
application, along with associated fees paid as set forth by resolution of the
city council, and approved by the recreation coordinator or authorized
designee.
         b.   Every organizer/sponsor of a private event in the city must use
the park reservation form provided by the parks and recreation department for a
private event.
   C.   Glass Containers: It shall be unlawful for any person to use or
physically possess any container for liquids made of glass, or a mixture of
glass, to be used for personal consumption. The police department may
confiscate any container in violation of this chapter.
   D.   Penalty: Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is an
infraction and shall be punished as set forth in section
1-3-1 of this code. (Ord. 712, 4-27-2010)
8-11-3: CAMPING:
   A.   Tents And Sleeping Bags: Tents and sleeping bags will be allowed only
within park lands upon approval by the city council, not to exceed two (2)
nights, in an approved area set by the parks department.
   B.   RV/Camper: One RV/camper which is associated with a "special event"
will be allowed per event and only in a designated area set by the parks
department. At no time will septage dumping be allowed within the parks. (Ord.
565, 6-14-2001)
8-11-4: VEHICLES:
The only vehicles allowed on landscaped and turf areas at any one time are:
   A.   Park maintenance and improvement vehicles.
   B.   Emergency vehicles.
   C.   Approved "special events" that are vehicle oriented (can be reviewed
for denial by the city council).
   D.   Temporary loading and unloading for "special events", to be removed
immediately upon completion of task (less than 10,000 GVWR). (Res. 36-99, 8-10-
1999)
8-11-5: CARNIVALS:
No carnivals will be allowed within the public park area or associated rights
of way. (Res. 36-99, 8-10-1999)
8-11-6: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
No alcoholic beverages are allowed within the public park area, except in
designated areas. (Res. 36-99, 8-10-1999)
8-11-7: FEES AND CHARGES FOR PARK AND PARK EQUIPMENT USE:
   A.   Park Reservations: Fees for the following park uses shall be set by
resolution of the city council for those events that are established as a
"public event" or "private event" pursuant to section
 8-11-2 of this chapter:
      1.   A standard daily reservation fee shall be required for any
designated space within the parks for all groups of people.
         a.   This fee includes the reservation of the space and four (4)
tables permanently located in that area.
         b.   Events that occur over multiple days must pay a reservation fee
to reserve the area for each day of the event including setup and takedown.
         c.   Events that use multiple areas of the parks will be required to
reserve each area and pay a separate fee for each area that will be used for
the event.
      2.   Groups of two hundred (200) or more people will be required to
submit a park reservation application a minimum of thirty (30) days prior to
the event and meet with parks department staff for event approval and
coordination.
      3.   Groups of two hundred (200) or more people will be required to pay a
security deposit. The deposit will be returned following the event if the
following conditions are met to the satisfaction of the parks superintendent or
approved designee:
         a.   All trash in the area has been cleared and placed in the
available receptacles. If additional receptacles will be necessary, they are to
be provided by the organizer of the event.
         b.   There is no damage to turf, trees, barbecue grills, shelters,
irrigation systems, or other amenities.
   B.   Equipment Rental: Fees for the following equipment uses shall be set by
resolution of the city council and pertain to all "public events" and "private
events" and events, either private or public, held outside the park property as
set forth in section
8-11-2 of this chapter:
      1.   Picnic table;
      2.   Trash can;
      3.   Barricade;
      4.   Seventy five (75) person capacity bleacher;
      5.   Stages (4);
      6.   Serving table;
      7.   In addition to the rental fee, a delivery charge may be charged for
each vehicle used to deliver the equipment to nonpark property.
   C.   Mobile Bleachers: Fees for the three hundred (300) person capacity
mobile bleachers shall be set by resolution of the city council with all uses,
including all public and private events (no matter where the use is located)
being subject to the charges established. (Ord. 712, 4-27-2010)
8-11-8: ELKO CITY PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD:
   A.   Parks And Recreation Advisory Board Creation: There is hereby created
the city of Elko parks and recreation advisory board. The board membership and
terms of office shall be determined by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Parks And Recreation Advisory Board Authority: The parks and recreation
advisory board is established to serve as a central point of communication for
the parks and recreation interests of the city of Elko and to assist the parks
and recreation director, city manager and the city council in formulating plans
and policies that pertain to park and swimming pool facilities, recreation
programs, and the care of trees on public property.
   C.   Parks And Recreation Advisory Board Duties: The parks and recreation
advisory board shall meet and adopt rules and procedures for the purpose of
fulfilling the duties imposed by this chapter:
      1.   Hold forums and meetings pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes to
promote the exchange of information.
      2.   Obtain public input.
      3.   Assist in the development of a parks, recreation, trails and open
space master plan and make recommendations that will ensure compliance with the
intent of the master plan.
      4.   Recommend park development standards and amendments for approval by
the city council.
      5.   Prepare and adopt a public tree master plan and complete the
requirements to obtain and maintain the Tree City USA award from the National
Arbor Day Foundation. (Ord. 685, 1-22-2008)
CHAPTER 12
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTION:
8-12-1: Definitions
8-12-2: Penalties
8-12-3: Other Remedies
8-12-4: Registration Of Telecommunications Carriers And Providers
8-12-5: Telecommunication License
8-12-6: License Agreement
8-12-7: Nonexclusive Grant Of License
8-12-8: License Rights Granted
8-12-9: Term Of Grant Of License
8-12-10: License Route
8-12-11: Location Of Facilities
8-12-12: Construction Permits For Licensee
8-12-13: Compensation To City
8-12-14: Service To The City
8-12-15: Amendment Of Grant Of License
8-12-16: Renewal Of License
8-12-17: Telecommunications Franchise
8-12-18: Franchise Agreement
8-12-19: Nonexclusive Grant Of Franchise
8-12-20: Term Of Grant Of Franchise
8-12-21: Franchise Rights Granted
8-12-22: Franchise Territory
8-12-23: Location Of Facilities
8-12-24: Construction Permits; Franchisee
8-12-25: Compensation To City
8-12-26: Nondiscrimination
8-12-27: Service To The City
8-12-28: Amendment Of Grant Of Franchise
8-12-29: Renewal Of Franchise
8-12-30: Fees And Compensation
8-12-31: Conditions Of Grant
8-12-32: Construction Standards
8-12-33: Existing Telecommunications Franchises
8-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, and the interpretation and enforcement
thereof, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings,
unless the context of the sentence in which they are used shall indicate
otherwise:
   AFFILIATE: A person that (directly or indirectly) owns or controls, is owned
or controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with another person.
   CITY: The city of Elko.
   CITY PROPERTY: Means and includes all real property owned by the city, or
other than "public streets" and "utility easements", as those terms are defined
in this section, and all property held in a proprietary capacity by the city,
which are not subject to right of way licensing and franchising as provided in
this chapter.
   EXCESS CAPACITY: The volume or capacity in any existing or future duct,
conduit, manhole, handhole or other utility facility within the public way that
is or will be available for use for additional telecommunications facilities.
   FCC OR FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION: The federal administrative agency,
or lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications
carriers, services and providers on a national level.
   OTHER WAYS: The highways, streets, alleys, utility easements or other rights
of way within the city, but under the jurisdiction and control of a
governmental entity other that the city.
   OVERHEAD FACILITIES: Utility poles, utility facilities and
telecommunications facilities located above the surface of the ground,
including the underground supports and foundations for such facilities.
   PERSON: Means and includes corporations, companies, associations, joint
stock companies or associations, firms, partnerships, limited liability
companies and individuals, and includes their lessors, trustees and receivers.
   PUBLIC STREET: Any highway, street, alley or other public right of way for
motor vehicle travel under the jurisdiction and control of the city which has
been acquired, established, dedicated or devoted to highway purposes not
inconsistent with telecommunications facilities.
   PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all "public streets" and "utility easements",
as those terms are defined in this section, now or hereafter owned by the city,
but only to the extent of the city's right, title, interest or authority to
grant a license or franchise to occupy and use such streets and easements for
telecommunications facilities.
   STATE: The state of Nevada.
   SURPLUS SPACE: That portion of the usable space on a utility pole which has
the necessary clearance from other pole users, as required by the orders and
regulations of the Nevada public utilities commission, to allow its use by a
telecommunications carrier for a pole attachment.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Means and includes every person that directly or
indirectly owns, controls, operates or manages plants, equipment or property
within the city, used or to be used for the purpose of offering
telecommunications service.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including,
but not limited to, cables, wires, conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennas,
electronics and other appurtenances used or to be used to transmit, receive,
distribute, provide or offer telecommunications services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The providing or offering for rent, sale or
lease, or in exchange for other value received, of the transmittal of voice,
data, image, graphic and video programming information between or among points
by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities, with or without benefit of any closed transmission medium.
   UNDERGROUND FACILITIES: Utility and telecommunications facilities located
under the surface of the ground, excluding the underground foundations or
supports for overhead facilities.
   UTILITY EASEMENT: Any easement owned by the city and acquired, established,
dedicated or devoted for public utility purposes not inconsistent with
telecommunications facilities.
   UTILITY FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including, but not
limited to, the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, wires, plant and
equipment located under, on or above the surface of the ground within the
public ways of the city and used or to be used for the purpose of providing
utility or telecommunications services. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-2: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be deemed
committed each day on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 543, 7-11-
2000)
8-12-3: OTHER REMEDIES:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial remedies
that the city may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-4: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS AND PROVIDERS:
   A.   Registration Required: All telecommunications carries and providers
that offer or provide any telecommunications service for a fee directly to the
public, either within the city, or outside the corporate limits from
telecommunications facilities within the city, shall register with the city
pursuant to this chapter on forms to be provided by the city clerk, which shall
include the following:
      1.   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including any
affiliates.
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the officer, agent or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration statement.
      3.   A description of the registrant's existing or proposed
telecommunications facilities within the city.
      4.   A description of the telecommunications services that the registrant
intends to offer or provide, or is currently offering or providing, to persons,
firms, business or institutions within the city.
      5.   Information sufficient to determine whether the registrant is
subject to public way licensing or franchising under this city.
      6.   Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied
for and received any construction permit, operating license or other approval
required by the federal communications commission to provide telecommunications
services or facilities within the city.
      7.   Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied
for and received any construction permit, operating license or other approval
required by the state to provide telecommunications services or facilities
within the city.
      8.   Such other information as the city clerk may reasonably require.
   B.   Registration Fee: Each application for registration as a
telecommunications carrier or provider shall be submitted with a registration
fee, which amount shall be set by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Purpose Of Registration: The purpose of registration under this chapter
is to:
      1.   Provide the city with accurate and current information concerning
the telecommunications carriers and providers who offer or provide
telecommunications services within the city, or that own or operate
telecommunications facilities within the city;
      2.   Assist the city in enforcement of this chapter;
      3.   Assist the city in the collection and enforcement of any municipal
taxes, franchise fees, license fees or charges that may be due the city;
      4.   Assist the city in monitoring compliance with local, state and
federal laws. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-5: TELECOMMUNICATION LICENSE:
Except as otherwise provided herein, any telecommunications carriers who desire
to construct, install, operate, maintain, or otherwise locate
telecommunications facilities in, under, over or across any public way of the
city for the sole purpose of providing telecommunications service to persons
and areas outside the city shall first obtain a license granting the use of
such public ways from the city.
   A.   License Application: Any person that desires a telecommunications
license pursuant to this chapter shall file an application with the city which
shall include the following information:
      1.   The identity of the license applicant, including all affiliates of
the applicant.
      2.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be
offered or provided by licensee over its telecommunications facilities.
      3.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
licensee to offer or provide such telecommunications services.
      4.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of
the facilities to be located within the city, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities.
         b.   The location, if any, for interconnections with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers.
         c.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
      5.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities, evidence
that surplus space is available for locating its telecommunications facilities
on existing utility poles along the proposed route.
      6.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing
ducts or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
         b.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      7.   If applicant is proposing any underground installation within new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
         a.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits.
         b.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits
after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      8.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion date.
      9.   A preliminary traffic control plan in accordance with the federal
highway administration manual on uniform traffic control devices.
      10.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to
construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
      11.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the
telecommunications facilities and services described in the application.
      12.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services.
      13.   All fees, deposits or changes required pursuant to this chapter.
      14.   Such other and further information as may be required by the city
manager.
   B.   Determination By City: Within one hundred twenty (120) days after
receiving a complete application under subsection A of this section, the city
council shall issue a written determination granting or denying the application
in whole or in part, applying the following standards. If the application is
denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for denial.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's
proposed facilities.
      4.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the license if granted.
      5.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the license is granted.
      6.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
      7.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region.
      8.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
license is granted.
      9.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the
proposed facilities.
      10.   Applicable federal and state telecommunications laws, regulations
and policies.
      11.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the
public ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-6: LICENSE AGREEMENT:
No license granted hereunder shall be effective until the applicant and the
city have executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms and
provisions under which the license to occupy and use public ways of the city
will be granted. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-7: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT OF LICENSE:
No license under this chapter shall confer any exclusive right, privilege,
license or franchise to occupy or use the public ways of the city for delivery
of telecommunications services or any other purposes. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-8: LICENSE RIGHTS GRANTED:
No license granted under this chapter shall convey any right, title or interest
in the public ways, but shall be deemed a license only to use and occupy the
public ways for the limited purposes and term stated in the grant. Further, no
license shall be construed as any warranty of title. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-9: TERM OF GRANT OF LICENSE:
The term of the agreement shall be specified in the license agreement. (Ord.
543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-10: LICENSE ROUTE:
A telecommunications license granted under this chapter shall be limited to a
grant of specific public ways and defined portions thereof. (Ord. 543, 7-11-
2000)
8-12-11: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Unless otherwise specified in a license agreement, all facilities shall be
constructed, installed and located in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists and is available
within such utility facility.
   B.   A licensee with permission to install overhead facilities shall install
its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing utility poles
only if surplus space is available.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the city, a licensee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the city, a grantee that currently occupies the same public way
shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of time,
which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent extraordinary
circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the city engineer, such
relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption of the public
ways.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future telecommunications carriers.
   F.   The specific location and routing of new telecommunications facilities
within a public street, easement and/or right of way shall be approved by the
city engineer. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-12: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS FOR LICENSEE:
All licensees are required to obtain construction permits for
telecommunications facilities as required in section
 8-12-31 of this chapter; provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the city and a licensee from agreeing to alternative plan review,
permit and construction procedures in a license agreement, provided such
alternative procedures provide substantially equivalent safeguards for
responsible construction practices. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-13: COMPENSATION TO CITY:
Each license granted under this chapter is subject to the city's right, which
is expressly reserved, to fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for
the property rights granted to the licensee; provided, nothing in this chapter
shall prohibit the city and a licensee from agreeing to the compensation to be
paid. Said compensation shall be set by the city and shall be substantially the
same for any licensee providing similar services. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-14: SERVICE TO THE CITY:
A licensee may be permitted to offer or provide telecommunications services to
persons or areas within the city upon submitting an franchise application for
approval pursuant to section
8-12-17 of this chapter. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-15: AMENDMENT OF GRANT OF LICENSE:
   A.   A new license application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to extend or locate its
telecommunications facilities in public ways of the city which are not included
in a license previously granted under this chapter.
   B.   If ordered by the city to locate or relocate its telecommunications
facilities in public ways not included in a previously granted license, the
city shall grant a license amendment without further application. (Ord. 543, 7-
11-2000)
8-12-16: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Renewal Applications: A grantee that desires to renew its license under
this chapter shall, not more than one hundred eighty (180) days nor less than
ninety (90) days before expiration of the current license, file an application
with the city for renewal of its license which shall include the following
information:
      1.   The information required pursuant to section
 8-12-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Any information required pursuant to the license agreement between
the city and the grantee.
   B.   Renewal Determinations: Within ninety (90) days after receiving a
complete application, the city council shall issue a written determination
granting or denying the renewal application in whole or in part, applying the
following standards. If the renewal application is denied, the written
determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
      4.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
the license agreement.
      5.   Applicable federal, state and local telecommunications laws, rules
and policies.
      6.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to
use the public ways will serve the community interest.
   C.   Obligation To Cure As Condition Of Renewal: No license shall be renewed
until any ongoing violations or defaults in the licensee's performance of the
license agreement, or of the requirements of this chapter, have been cured, or
a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the grantee has been
approved by the city. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-17: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE:
A telecommunications franchise shall be required of any telecommunications
carrier who desires to occupy public ways of the city and to provide
telecommunications services to any person or area in the city.
   A.   Franchise Application: Any person that desires a telecommunications
franchise pursuant to this section shall file an application with the city
which shall include the following information:
      1.   The identity of the franchise applicant, including all affiliates of
the applicant.
      2.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be
offered or provided by the franchise applicant over its existing or proposed
facilities.
      3.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
franchise to offer or provide such telecommunications services.
      4.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of
the facilities to be located within the city, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities.
         b.   The location, if any, for interconnection with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers.
         c.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
      5.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities, evidence
that surplus space is available for locating its telecommunications facilities
on existing utility poles along the proposed route.
      6.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing
ducts or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities;
         b.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      7.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
         a.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits;
         b.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits
after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      8.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion dates.
      9.   A preliminary traffic control plan in accordance with federal
highway administration manual on uniform traffic control devices.
      10.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to
construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
      11.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the
telecommunications facilities and services described in the application.
      12.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services.
      13.   Whether the applicant intends to provide cable service, video dial
tone service or other video programming service, and sufficient information to
determine whether such service is subject to cable franchising.
      14.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing
telecommunications facilities in the city that applicant intends to use or
lease.
      15.   A description of the services or facilities that the applicant will
offer or make available to the city and other public, educational and
governmental institutions.
      16.   A description of applicant's access and line extension policies.
      17.   The area or areas of the city the applicant desires to serve and a
schedule for build out to the entire franchise area.
      18.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to section
8-12-30 of this chapter.
      19.   Such other and further information as may be requested by the city
manager.
   B.   Determination By City: Within one hundred fifty (150) days after
receiving a complete application under this chapter, the city council shall
issue a written determination granting or denying the application in whole or
in part, applying the following standards. If the application is denied, the
written determination shall include the reasons for denial.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the franchise is granted.
      4.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the franchise is granted.
      5.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the franchise is granted.
      6.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
      7.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region.
      8.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
franchise requested is granted.
      9.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the
proposed facilities.
      10.   Applicable federal and state telecommunications laws, regulations
and policies.
      11.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the
public ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-18: FRANCHISE AGREEMENT:
No franchise shall be granted hereunder unless the applicant and the city have
executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms and provisions
under which the franchise to occupy and use public ways of the city will be
granted. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-19: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
No franchise granted under this chapter shall confer any exclusive right,
privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use the public ways of the city
for delivery of telecommunications services or any other purposes. (Ord. 543,
7-11-2000)
8-12-20: TERM OF GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
The term of grant of franchise shall be specified in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-21: FRANCHISE RIGHTS GRANTED:
No franchise granted under this chapter shall convey any right, title or
interest in the public ways, but shall be valid for a franchise only to use and
occupy the public ways for the limited purposes and term stated in the grant.
Further, no franchise shall be construed as any warranty of title. (Ord. 543,
7-11-2000)
8-12-22: FRANCHISE TERRITORY:
A telecommunications franchise granted under this chapter shall be limited to
the specific geographic area of the city to be served by the franchise grantee,
and the specific public ways necessary to serve such areas. (Ord. 543, 7-11-
2000)
8-12-23: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, all facilities shall be
constructed, installed and located in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists and is available
within such utility facility.
   B.   A franchise with permission to install its telecommunications
facilities on pole attachments to existing utility poles only, and then only if
surplus space is available.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the city, a franchisee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the city, a grantee that currently occupies the same public way
shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of time,
which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent extraordinary
circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the city engineer, such
relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption of the public
ways.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future carriers.
   F.   The specific location and routing of new telecommunications facilities
within a public street, easement and/or right of way shall be approved by the
city engineer. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-24: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS; FRANCHISEE:
All franchisees are required to obtain construction permits for
telecommunications facilities as required in section
8-12-31 of this chapter; provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the city and a franchisee from agreeing to alternative procedures
provide substantially equivalent safeguards for responsible construction
practices. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-25: COMPENSATION TO CITY:
Each franchise granted under this chapter is subject to the city's right, which
is expressly reserved, to fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for
the property rights granted to the franchisee; provided, nothing in this
chapter shall prohibit the city and franchisee from agreeing to the
compensation to be paid. Said compensation shall be set by the city and shall
be substantially the same for any franchisee offering similar services. (Ord.
543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-26: NONDISCRIMINATION:
A franchisee shall make its telecommunications services available to any
customer within its franchise area who shall request such service, without
discrimination as to the terms, conditions, rates or charges for grantee's
services; provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a
franchise from making any reasonable classifications among differently situated
customers. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-27: SERVICE TO THE CITY:
A franchisee shall make its telecommunications services available to the city
at its most favorable rate for similarly situated users, unless otherwise
provided in a license or franchise agreement. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-28: AMENDMENT OF GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   A new franchise application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to extend its franchise territory or to
locate its telecommunications facilities in public ways of the city which are
not included in a franchise previously granted under this chapter.
   B.   If ordered by the city to locate or relocate its telecommunications
facilities in public ways not included in a previously granted franchise, the
city shall grant a franchise amendment without further application. (Ord. 543,
7-11-2000)
8-12-29: RENEWAL OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Applications: A grantee that desires to renew its franchise under this
chapter shall, not more than two hundred forty (240) days nor less than one
hundred fifty (150) days before expiration of the current franchise, file an
application with the city for renewal of its franchise which shall include the
following information:
      1.   The information required pursuant to subsection
8-12-17A of this chapter.
      2.   Any information required pursuant to the franchise agreement between
the city and the grantee.
   B.   Renewal Determinations: Within one hundred fifty (150) days after
receiving a complete application under this section, the city council shall
issue a written determination granting or denying the renewal application in
whole or in part, applying the following standards. If the renewal application
is denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
      4.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
the franchise agreement.
      5.   Applicable federal, state and local telecommunications laws, rules
and policies.
      6.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to
use the public ways will serve the community interest.
   C.   Obligation To Cure As Condition Of Renewal: No franchise shall be
renewed until any ongoing violations of defaults in the grantee's performance
of the franchise agreement, or of the requirements of this chapter, have been
cured or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the grantee has
been approved by the city. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-30: FEES AND COMPENSATION:
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the payment and recovery of
all direct and indirect cost and expenses of the city related to the
enforcement and administration of this chapter.
   A.   Application And Review Fee:
      1.   Any applicant for a license or franchise pursuant to this chapter
shall pay a fee as established by resolution of the city council.
      2.   The application and review fee shall be deposited with the city as
part of the application filed pursuant to this chapter.
      3.   An applicant whose license or franchise application has been
withdrawn, abandoned or denied shall, within sixty (60) days of its application
and review fee written request, be refunded the balance of its deposit under
this chapter less all ascertainable costs and expenses incurred by the city in
connection with the application.
   B.   Other City Costs: All license or franchise grantees shall, within
thirty (30) days after written demand therefor, reimburse the city in
connection with any modification, amendment, renewal or transfer of the license
or franchise or any license or franchise agreement.
   C.   Reserved Compensation For Public Ways: The city reserves its right to
annually fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for the property
rights granted to a telecommunications license or franchise grantee. Nothing in
this chapter shall prohibit the city and a grantee from agreeing to the
compensation to be paid for the granted property rights.
   D.   Compensation For City Property: If the right is granted, by lease,
license, franchise or other manner, to use and occupy city property for the
installation of telecommunications facilities, the compensation to be paid
shall be fixed by the city.
   E.   Construction Permit Fee: Prior to issuance of a construction permit,
the permittee shall pay any required permit fees.
   F.   Regulatory Fees And Compensation: The regulatory fees and costs
provided for in this chapter, and any compensation charged and paid for the
public ways provided for in this chapter, are separate from, and additional to,
any and all federal, state, local and city taxes as may be levied, imposed or
due from a telecommunications carrier or provider, its customers or
subscribers, or on account of the lease, sale, delivery or transmission of
telecommunications services. (Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-31: CONDITIONS OF GRANT:
   A.   Location Of Facilities: All facilities shall be constructed, installed
and located in accordance with the following terms and conditions, unless
otherwise specified in a license or franchise agreement:
      1.   A grantee shall install its telecommunications facilities within an
existing underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists and is
available within such utility facility.
      2.   A grantee with permission to install overhead facilities shall
install its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing
utility poles only, and then only if surplus space is available.
      3.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the city, a grantee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
      4.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the city, a grantee that currently occupies the same public way
shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of time,
which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent extraordinary
circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the city engineer, such
relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption of the public
ways.
      5.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity
of a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future carriers.
      6.   The specific location and routing of new telecommunications
facilities within a public street, easement and/or right of way shall be
approved by the city engineer.
   B.   Construction Permits: All license or franchise grantees are required to
obtain construction permits for telecommunications facilities as required in
section
8-12-32 of this chapter. However, nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the
city and a grantee from agreeing to alternative plan review, permit and
construction procedures in a license or franchise agreement, provided such
alternative procedures provide substantially equivalent safeguards for
responsible construction practices.
   C.   Interference With Public Ways: No license or franchise grantee may
locate or maintain its telecommunications facilities so as to unreasonably
interfere with the use of the public ways by the city, by the general public or
by other persons authorized to use or be present in or upon the public ways.
All such facilities shall be moved by the grantee temporarily or permanently,
as determined by the city engineer.
   D.   Damage To Property: No license or franchise grantee nor any person
acting on a grantee's behalf shall take any action or permit any action to be
done which may impair or damage any city property, public ways of the city,
other ways or other property located in, on or adjacent thereto.
   E.   Notice Of Work: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, no license or franchise grantee, nor any persons acting on the
grantee's behalf, shall commence any nonemergency work in or about the public
ways of the city or other ways without ten (10) working days' advance notice to
the city.
   F.   Repair And Emergency Work: In the event of an unexpected repair or
emergency, a grantee may commence such repair and emergency response work as
required under the circumstances, provided the grantee shall notify the city as
promptly as possible, before such repair or emergency work or as soon
thereafter as possible if advance notice is not practicable.
   G.   Maintenance Of Facilities: Each license or franchise grantee shall
maintain its facilities in good and safe condition and in a manner that
complies with all applicable federal, state and local requirements.
   H.   Relocation Or Removal Of Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the city, a license or franchise grantee shall, at its own
expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate, change or alter the
position of any telecommunications facilities within the public ways whenever
the city council shall have determined that such removal, relocation, change or
alteration if reasonably necessary for:
      1.   The construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any city or
other public improvement in or upon the public way.
      2.   The operations of the city or other governmental entity in or upon
the public way.
   I.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the city, any grantee, telecommunications carrier, or other
person that owns, controls or maintains any unauthorized telecommunications
system, facility or related appurtenances within the public ways of the city
shall, at its own expense, remove such facilities or appurtenances from the
public ways of the city. A telecommunications system or facility is
unauthorized and subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the grantee's telecommunications
license or franchise.
      2.   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public ways of the city.
      3.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without prior
grant of a telecommunications license or franchise.
      4.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without prior
issuance of a required construction permit.
      5.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed at a location
not permitted by the grantee's telecommunications license or franchise.
   J.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any telecommunications facilities located
within the public ways of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary,
appropriate or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency.
   K.   Damage To Grantee's Facilities: Unless directly and proximately caused
by the wilful, intentional or malicious acts by the city, the city shall not be
liable for any damage to or loss of any telecommunications facility within the
public ways of the city as a result of or in connection with any public works,
public improvements, construction, excavation, grading, filling, or work of any
kind in the public ways by or on behalf of the city.
   L.   Restoration Of Public Ways, Other Ways And City Property:
      1.   When a license or franchise grantee, or any person acting on its
behalf, does any work in or affecting public ways, other ways or city property,
it shall, at its own expense, promptly remove any obstructions therefrom and
restore such ways or property to as good a condition as existed before the work
was undertaken, unless otherwise directed by the city.
      2.   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete
restoration required by this section, grantee shall temporarily restore the
affected ways or property. Such temporary restoration shall be at the
licensee's sole expense and the licensee shall promptly undertake and complete
the required permanent restoration when the weather or other conditions no
longer prevent such permanent restoration.
      3.   A grantee or other person acting in its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flag persons, lights, flares and other measures as required
for the safety of all members of the general public and to prevent injury or
damage to any person, vehicle or property by reason of such work in or
affecting such ways of property.
   M.   Facilities Maps: Each license or franchise grantee shall provide the
city with an accurate map or maps certifying the location of all
telecommunications facilities within the public ways. Each grantee shall
provide updated maps annually.
   N.   Duty To Provide Information: Within ten (10) days of a written request
from the city manager, each license or franchise grantee shall furnish the city
with information sufficient to demonstrate:
      1.   Grantee has complied with all requirements of this chapter.
      2.   All taxes, fees and/or charges due to the city in connection with
the telecommunications services and facilities provided by the grantee have
been properly collected and paid by the grantee.
      3.   All books, records, maps and other documents, maintained by the
grantee with respect to its facilities within the public ways shall be made
available for inspection by the city at reasonable times and intervals.
   O.   Leased Capacity: A license or franchise grantee shall have the right,
without prior city approval, to offer or provide capacity or bandwidth to its
customers; provided:
      1.   Grantee shall furnish the city with a copy of any such lease or
agreement.
      2.   The customer or lessee has complied, to the extent applicable, with
the requirements of this chapter.
   P.   Grantee Insurance: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, each grantee shall, as a condition of the grant, secure and maintain
the following liability insurance policies insuring both of grantee and the
city, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees
as coinsureds:
      1.   Comprehensive general liability insurance with limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability.
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
limit of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each person and three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each accident.
      3.   Workers' compensation within statutory limits and employer's
liability insurance with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00).
      4.   Comprehensive form premises-operations, explosions and collapse
hazard, underground hazard and products completed hazard with limits of not
less than three million dollars ($3,000,000.00).
      5.   The liability insurance policies required by this subsection shall
be maintained by the grantee throughout the term of the telecommunications
license or franchise, and such other period of time during which the grantee is
operating without a franchise or license hereunder, or is engaged in the
removal of its telecommunications facilities. Each such insurance policy shall
contain the following endorsements:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be cancelled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until 90 days after receipt by the city,
by registered mail, or a written notice addressed to the city manager of such
intent to cancel or not to renew.
      6.   Within sixty (60) days after receipt by the city of said notice, and
in no event later than thirty (30) days prior to said cancellation, the grantee
shall obtain and furnish to the city replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this subsection.
   Q.   General Indemnification: Each license or franchise agreement shall
include, to the extent permitted by law, grantee's express undertaking to
defend, indemnify and hold the city and its officers, employees, agents and
representatives harmless from and against any and all damages, losses and
expense, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of suit or defense,
arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or result from the
negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct
of the grantee or its affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or
subcontractors in the construction, operation, maintenance, repair or removal
of its telecommunications facilities, and in providing or offering
telecommunications services over the facilities or network, whether such acts
or omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a
grant agreement made or entered into pursuant to this chapter.
   R.   Performance And Construction Surety: Before a license or franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter is effective, and as necessary thereafter, the
grantee shall provide and deposit such monies, bonds, letters of credit or
other instruments in form and substance acceptable to the city as may be
required by this chapter or by an applicable license or franchise agreement.
   S.   Construction And Completion Bond: Unless otherwise provided in a
license or franchise agreement, a performance bond written by a corporate
surety acceptable to the city equal to at least one hundred percent (100%) of
the estimated cost of constructing grantee's telecommunications facilities
within the public ways of the city shall be deposited before construction is
commenced.
      1.   The construction bond shall remain in force until sixty (60) days
after substantial completion of the work, as determined by the city engineer,
including restoration of public ways and other property affected by the
construction.
      2.   The construction bond shall guarantee, to the satisfaction of the
city:
         a.   Timely completion of construction;
         b.   Construction in compliance with applicable plans, permits,
technical codes and standards;
         c.   Proper location of the facilities as specified by the city;
         d.   Restoration of the public ways and other property effected by the
construction;
         e.   The submission of "as built" drawings after completion of the
work as required by this chapter;
         f.   Timely payment and satisfaction of all claims, demands or liens
for labor, material or services provided in connection with the work.
   T.   Coordination Of Construction Activities: All grantees are required to
cooperate with the city and with each other:
      1.   By February 1 of each year, grantees shall provide the city with a
schedule of their proposed construction activities in, around or that may
affect the public ways.
      2.   Each grantee shall meet with the city, other grantees and users of
the public ways annually or as determined by the city to schedule and
coordinate construction in the public ways.
      3.   All construction locations, activities and schedules shall be
coordinated, as ordered by the city engineer, to minimize public inconvenience,
disruption or damages.
   U.   Assignments Or Transfers Of Grants: Ownership or control of a
telecommunications system, license or franchise may not, directly or
indirectly, be transferred, assigned or disposed of by sale, lease, merger,
consolidation or other act of the grantee, by operation of law or otherwise,
without the prior consent of the city, which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed, as expressed by ordinance and then only on such reasonable
conditions as may be prescribed therein.
      1.   No grant shall be assigned or transferred in any manner within
twelve (12) months after the initial grant of the license or franchise, unless
otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement.
      2.   Absent extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances, no grant,
system or integral part of a system shall be assigned or transferred before
construction of the telecommunications system has been completed.
      3.   Grantee and the proposed assignee or transferee of the grant or
system shall provide and certify the following information to the city not less
than one hundred fifty (150) days prior to the proposed date of transfer:
         a.   Complete information setting forth the nature, terms and
conditions of the proposed transfer or assignment;
         b.   All information required of a telecommunications license or
franchise applicant pursuant subsection
8-12-5A or
8-12-17A of this chapter, with respect to the proposed transferee or assignee;
         c.   Any other information reasonably required by the city.
      4.   No transfer shall be approved unless the assignee or transferee has
the legal, telecommunications, financial and other requisite qualifications to
own, hold and operate the telecommunications system pursuant to this chapter.
      5.   Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, the
grantee shall reimburse the city for all direct and indirect fees, costs, and
expenses reasonably incurred by the city in considering a request to transfer
or assign a telecommunications license or franchise.
      6.   Any transfer or assignment of a telecommunications grant, system or
integral part of a system without prior approval of the city under this
subsection or pursuant to a license or franchise agreement shall be void and is
cause for revocation of the grant.
   V.   Transactions Affecting Control Of Grant: Any transactions which
singularly or collectively result in a charge of ten percent (10%) or more of
the ownership or working control of the grantee, of the ownership or working
control of a telecommunications license or franchise, of the ownership or
working control of affiliated entities having ownership or working control of
the grantee or of a telecommunications system, or of control of the capacity or
bandwidth of grantee's telecommunications system, facilities or substantial
parts thereof, shall be considered an assignment or transfer requiring city
approval pursuant to subsection U of this section. Transactions between
affiliated entities are not exempt from city approval.
   W.   Revocation Or Termination Of Grant: A license or franchise granted by
the city to use or occupy public ways of the city may be revoked for the
following reasons:
      1.   Construction or operation in the city or in the public ways of the
city without a license or franchise grant of authorization.
      2.   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location.
      3.   Unauthorized substantial transfer of control of the grantee.
      4.   Unauthorized assignment of a license or franchise.
      5.   Unauthorized sale, assignment or transfer of grantee's franchise or
license assets, or a substantial interest therein.
      6.   Misrepresentation or lack of candor by or on behalf of a grantee in
any application to the city.
      7.   Abandonment of telecommunications facilities in the public ways.
      8.   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this
chapter.
      9.   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees or costs when and as due
the City.
      10.   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the grantee.
      11.   Violation of material provisions of this chapter.
      12.   Violation of the material terms of a license or franchise
agreement.
   X.   Notice And Duty To Cure: In the event that the City Manager believes
that grounds exist for revocation of a license or franchise, he shall give the
grantee written notice of the apparent violation or noncompliance, and
providing the grantee a reasonable period of time not exceeding thirty (30)
days to furnish evidence:
      1.   That corrective action has been, or is being actively and
expeditiously pursued, to remedy the violation or noncompliance.
      2.   That rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance.
      3.   That it would be in the public interest to impose some penalty or
sanction less than revocation.
   Y.   Hearing: In the event that a grantee fails to provide evidence
reasonably satisfactory to the City Manager as provided in subsection X of this
section, the City Manager shall refer the apparent violation or noncompliance
to the City Council. The City Council shall provide the grantee with notice and
a reasonable opportunity to be heard concerning the matter.
   Z.   Standards For Revocation Or Lesser Sanctions: If persuaded that the
grantee has violated or failed to comply with material provisions of this
chapter, or of a franchise or license agreement, the City Council shall
determine whether to revoke the license or franchise, or to establish some
lesser sanction and cure, considering the nature, circumstances, extent and
gravity of the violation as reflected by one or more of the following factors:
      1.   Whether the misconduct was egregious.
      2.   Whether substantial harm resulted.
      3.   Whether the violation was intentional.
      4.   Whether there is a history of prior violation of the same or other
requirements.
      5.   Whether there is a history of overall compliance.
      6.   Whether the violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted or cured.
(Ord. 543, 7-11-2000)
8-12-32: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   General: No person shall commence or continue with the construction,
installation or operation of telecommunications facilities within the City
except as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Construction Codes:
      1.   Telecommunications facilities shall be constructed, installed,
operated and maintained in accordance with all applicable Federal, State and
local codes, rules and regulations, including the National Electrical Safety
Code.
      2.   Telecommunications facilities shall be constructed and installed in
accordance with chapter 2, "Utility Occupancy Of Public Rights-Of-Way Or Public
Easements, Smart Dig Requirements, And City Excavation Permits", of this title.
   C.   Construction Permits: No person shall construct or install any
telecommunications facilities within the City without first obtaining any
required construction permit therefor, provided, however:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities within the City unless the telecommunications
carrier has filed a registration statement with the City pursuant to section
8-12-4 of this chapter.
      2.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities in the public ways unless the telecommunications
carrier has applied for and received a license or franchise pursuant to
sections
8-12-5 and
8-12-17 of this chapter.
      3.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities without payment of any and all construction
permit fees.
   D.   Applications: Applications for permits to construct telecommunications
facilities shall be submitted upon forms to be provided by the city and shall
be accompanied by drawings, plans and specifications in sufficient detail to
demonstrate:
      1.   That the facilities will be constructed in accordance with all
applicable codes, rules and regulations.
      2.   The location and route of all facilities to be installed on existing
utility poles.
      3.   The location and route of all facilities to be located under the
surface of the ground, including the line and grade proposed for the burial at
all points along the route which are within the public ways.
      4.   The location and route of all existing underground utilities,
conduits, ducts, pipes, mains and installations which are within the public
ways along the underground route proposed by the applicant.
      5.   The location of all other facilities to be constructed within the
city, but not within the public ways.
      6.   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent to the public ways.
      7.   The location and dimension and types of all trees within or adjacent
to the public ways along the route proposed by the applicant, together with
landscape plan for protecting, trimming, removing, replacing and restoring any
trees or areas to be described during construction.
   E.   Engineer's Certification: All permit applications shall be accompanied
by the certification of a registered professional engineer that the drawings,
plans and specifications submitted with the application comply with applicable
technical codes, rules and regulation.
   F.   Traffic Control Plan: All permit applications which involve work on,
in, under, across or along any public ways shall be accompanied by a traffic
control plan demonstrating the protective measures and devices that will be
employed, consistent with uniform manual of traffic control devices, to prevent
injury or damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to
efficient pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   G.   Issuance Of Permit: Within forty five (45) days after submission of all
plans and documents required of the applicants and payment of the permit fees
required by this chapter, the city engineer, if satisfied that the
applications, plans and document comply with all requirements of this chapter,
shall issue a permit authorizing construction of the facilities, subject to
such further conditions, restrictions or regulations affecting the time, place
and manner of performing the work as he may deem necessary or appropriate.
   H.   Construction Schedule: The permittee shall submit a written
construction schedule to the city engineer ten (10) working days before
commencing any working in or about the public ways. The permittee shall further
notify the city engineer not less than two (2) working days in advance of any
excavation or work in the public ways.
   I.   Compliance With Permit: All construction practices and activities shall
be in accordance with the permit and approved final plans and specifications
for the facilities. The city engineer and his representatives shall be provided
access to the work and such further information as he or she may require to
ensure compliance with such requirements.
   J.   Display Of Permit: The permittee shall maintain a copy of the
construction permit and approved plans at the construction site, which shall be
displayed and made available for inspection by the city engineer or his
representatives at all times when construction work is occurring.
   K.   Survey Of Underground Facilities: If the construction permit specifies
the location of facilities by depth, line, grade, proximity to other facilities
or other standards, the permittee shall cause the location of such facilities
to be verified by a registered Nevada land surveyor. The permittee shall
relocate any facilities which are not located in compliance with permit
requirements.
   L.   Noncomplying Work: Upon order of the city engineer, all work which does
not comply with the permit, the approved plans and specifications for the work
or the requirements of this title, shall be removed.
   M.   Completion Of Construction: The permittee shall promptly complete all
construction activities so as to minimize disruption of the city ways and other
public and private property. All construction work authorized by a permit
within city ways, including restoration, must be completed within one hundred
twenty (120) days of the date of issuance.
   N.   As Built Drawings: Within sixty (60) days after completion of
construction, the permittee shall furnish the city with two (2) complete sets
of plans, drawn to scale and certified to the city as accurately depicting the
location of all telecommunications facilities constructed pursuant to the
permit.
   O.   Restoration Of Improvements: Upon completion of any construction work,
the permittee shall promptly repair any and all public and private property
improvements, fixtures, structures and facilities in the public ways or
otherwise damaged during the course of construction, restoring the same as
nearly as practicable to its condition before the start of construction.
   P.   Landscape Restoration: All trees, landscaping and grounds removed,
damaged or disturbed as a result of the construction, installation,
maintenance, repair or replacement of telecommunications facilities, whether
such work is done pursuant to a franchise, license or permit shall be replaced
or restored as nearly as may be practicable, to the condition existing prior to
performance of work. All restoration work within the public ways shall be done
in accordance with landscape plans approved by the city engineer.
   Q.   Construction Surety: Prior to issuance of a construction permit, the
permittee shall provide a performance bond, as provided in subsection
8-12-31R of this chapter.
   R.   Exception: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, all telecommunications carriers are subject to the requirements of
this chapter.
   S.   Responsibility Of Owner: The owner of the facilities to be constructed
and, if different, the license or franchise grantee, are responsible for
performance of and compliance with all provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 543,
7-11-2000; amd. Ord. 889, 3-12-2024)
8-12-33: EXISTING TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISES:
Any franchise ordinances or agreements effective on the effective date hereof
shall remain in effect until the expiration or renewal date. Upon renewal, the
franchisee may be required to follow the provisions of this chapter, or may be
allowed to remain under the existing franchise, at the city's option. (Ord.
543, 7-11-2000)
CHAPTER 13
RUBY VIEW GOLF COURSE
SECTION:
8-13-1: Purpose
8-13-2: Rules And Regulations
8-13-3: Fees
8-13-1: PURPOSE:
The city provides public golfing facilities to the public through the Ruby View
golf course. (Ord. 558, 1-23-2001)
8-13-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
To enhance the golfer's experience, provide rules for safe play and to maintain
the quality and value of the Ruby View golf course, the city council may adopt
rules, regulations and policies for the Ruby View golf course. (Ord. 558, 1-23-
2001)
8-13-3: FEES:
The city council may set, by resolution, user fees and charges associated with
the Ruby View golf course. (Ord. 558, 1-23-2001)
CHAPTER 14
ELKO MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL
SECTION:
8-14-1: Purpose
8-14-2: Rules And Regulations
8-14-3: Fees
8-14-1: PURPOSE:
The city owns and operates the Elko municipal swimming pool and may set user
fees to fund its operation and adopt rules and regulations to ensure safe
operations of the pool. (Ord. 580, 2-12-2002)
8-14-2: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council may adopt rules and regulations to enhance the swimmer's
expertise and maintain the quality and safe operation of the Elko municipal
swimming pool. (Ord. 580, 2-12-2002)
8-14-3: FEES:
The city council may set, by resolution, user fees and charges associated with
the Elko municipal swimming pool. (Ord. 580, 2-12-2002)
CHAPTER 15
ELKO REGIONAL AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
8-15-1: Purpose
8-15-2: Duties And Responsibilities
8-15-3: Organizations And Terms Of Appointments
8-15-1: PURPOSE:
The city owns and operates the Elko regional airport and desires to establish
an airport advisory board to advise and give recommendations to the Elko
regional airport director. (Ord. 584, 5-28-2002)
8-15-2: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The airport advisory board is established to educate, support and promote the
aviation and aerospace industry, including the facilities, air carriers,
general aviation, fixed base operators and any other airport tenants for the
benefit of the Elko regional airport. (Ord. 584, 5-28-2002)
8-15-3: ORGANIZATIONS AND TERMS OF APPOINTMENTS:
The airport advisory board shall consist of seven (7) members, which shall
include at least one member of the city council. The members shall be appointed
by the city council. The members shall elect from their membership a chair and
vice chair in July of each odd numbered calendar year. (Ord. 584, 5-28-2002)
CHAPTER 16
EVENTS ON CITY PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-16-1: Definitions
8-16-2: Permit Required
8-16-3: Alcoholic Beverages
8-16-4: Application For Permit
8-16-5: Approval, Denial Or Revocation Of Permit
8-16-6: Permit Fees
8-16-7: Insurance
8-16-8: Glass Containers Prohibited
8-16-9: Special Events Curfew
8-16-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
   DOWNTOWN CORRIDOR: That area bounded by the northern right of way along
Railroad Street and the southern right of way along Commercial Street from 3rd
Street to 11th Street.
   FACILITY USE FEE: A fee as payment for the use or rental of a city facility
or real property.
   ORGANIZER/SPONSOR: Means, but not limited to, any individual, firm,
organization, club, partnership, corporation, or nonprofit that is responsible
for the organization of a public event.
   SPECIAL EVENT: Any planned gathering of persons, show, entertainment,
celebration, or similar activity of temporary duration open to the general
public which occupies any part of a street or other city property (excluding
city owned public park areas when the event does not include street closures),
and which hinders the general public in the ordinary and usual use of such
street or public property, and includes at least one of the following features:
   A.   Vendors;
   B.   The event is being held in the downtown corridor, or the event requires
closure of any city street, sidewalk, alley, right of way or public property
which is owned or controlled by the city. "Special events" do not include
parades or any prior contractual agreements made with the city for the use of
city property.
   VENDOR: Any individual, firm, organization, club, partnership, corporation
or nonprofit offering goods and/or services for sale to the public. (Ord. 592,
12-10-2002)
8-16-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
A special event will only be permitted on or upon any city street, sidewalk,
alley, park which includes street closures, right of way, or public property
which is owned or controlled by the city after submission of a complete
application and approved by the city council as outlined in section
 8-16-5 of this chapter. Determination of the completeness of the application
shall be made by the city manager or authorized designee. (Ord. 699, 9-23-2008)
8-16-3: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Sale Or Consumption Permitted: The sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages in conjunction with a special event may be permitted, provided any
procedures or criteria adopted by ordinance or resolution of the city council
are adhered to. An application for the sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages must be filed with an application for a special event permit and
follow all procedures set forth.
   B.   Application Procedure: An application for the sale or consumption of
alcoholic beverages shall follow the procedures set forth in section
4-5-4 of this code.
   C.   Fees: All license fees applicable, as set by resolution by the city
council, to the sale of alcoholic beverages must be paid in addition to any
special event fees.
   D.   Glass Containers Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to serve alcoholic
and nonalcoholic beverages in glass containers within an area designated for a
special event. (Ord. 592, 12-10-2002)
8-16-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Filing: The application for a permit under this chapter to conduct or
engage in any special event which involves the use of city streets, parks which
include street closures, rights of way, alleys, sidewalks, or other public
property owned or controlled by the city, shall be filed with the city clerk or
authorized designee. Such application shall be filed at least thirty (30) days
prior to the date that the permit is to become effective. Each application
shall be accompanied by the established fees set forth by resolution by the
city council.
   B.   Consideration Of Application Filed Later: The city manager or
authorized designee shall have the authority, in their discretion, to consider
any application for a permit which is filed later than the time prescribed in
this section.
   C.   Information Required: Every organizer/sponsor of a special event in the
city must file an application which is furnished by the city for the event. The
application must include, at least the following where applicable, as
determined by the city:
      1.   Event application which includes the following:
         a.   Name of the event;
         b.   The name, address and telephone number of the organizer/sponsor
conducting the proposed event;
         c.   The date or dates and the specific times the property is to be
utilized;
         d.   The streets or other property and the specific area or areas
which will be utilized in connection with the proposed use, event or activity;
and
         e.   Signature of an authorized representative from the Nevada
department of taxation.
      2.   Application to reserve city properties, indicating the area to be
used and the services being requested by the city.
      3.   Events contacts and sign off:
         a.   Name, address, telephone number and cellular number of the person
or persons responsible for coordinating or conducting the event;
         b.   Name, address, telephone number and cellular number of the
contact person or persons responsible for safety;
         c.   Name, address, telephone number and cellular number of the
contact person or persons responsible for security;
         d.   Name, address, telephone number and cellular number of the
contact person or persons responsible for traffic and parking; and
         e.   Approval signatures must be obtained from the police, fire,
street and park departments after the completion of the previous forms have
been completed in their entirety. The applicant will be required to contact
each department for preapproval if the event is being proposed to be held on
any city property.
      4.   Proof of a liability insurance policy in the amount deemed
appropriate by the city council with the city named as additional insured.
      5.   Special events vendor business license pursuant to section
4-1-16 of this code. The city recognizes that the organizer/sponsor of a
special event has all control and authority over the decision to allow or
refuse participation by any individual vendor.
      6.   Area mapping must be completed to include:
         a.   Location of event;
         b.   All proposed road and property closures;
         c.   Traffic control plan;
         d.   Emergency access plans to include traffic patterns and parking;
         e.   A detailed plan, including, but not limited to, the location of
all bandstands, bleachers, additional garbage disposal, electrical connections,
tables, barricades; and
         f.   Any additional information which the city deems reasonably
necessary to a fair determination of the application.
   D.   Use Of State Right Of Way: Every organizer/sponsor of a special event
in the city who is proposing the use of any state right of way in conjunction
with the city property for the event must file an application with the state
department of transportation with a copy to be furnished to the city along with
the application. (Ord. 592, 12-10-2002)
8-16-5: APPROVAL, DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Approval Required: All special events requiring the closure of a street
or right of way shall receive initial approval from the city council prior to
the event being held. Subsequent requests for the same special event may be
approved administratively after completion of the required application and
process as outlined in section
8-16-4 of this chapter.
   B.   Terms And Conditions Of Permit: In addition to the requirements of this
code or other applicable laws or rules or regulations, each permit shall
contain such terms and conditions regarding the time, place and manner of
utilizing the city streets or other property which are necessary and
appropriate under the circumstances as set forth by the city council.
   C.   Sanitation And Disposal Needs: It is the responsibility of the event
organizer/sponsor to provide for the sanitation and disposal needs as
identified through the application process to ensure the health and safety of
the participants and citizens.
   D.   Committee Established: A committee made up of the mayor, or mayor pro
tem in his absence, one city council member, the fire chief and the police
chief may revoke any permit if the committee determines that the organizer/
sponsor, applicant, agent, employee or associate of any such applicant cannot
meet the criteria set forth by the city council or has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter, or the provisions of any other applicable law, rule
or regulation. Any permit issued under this chapter may be revoked in this
manner to protect the safety of persons or property. If a special event is in
progress when any such revocation occurs, the committee shall have the
authority to take actions to protect city property and/or rights of way. (Ord.
699, 9-23-2008)
8-16-6: PERMIT FEES:
Except as otherwise provided, the applicant shall be required to pay all
applicable fees as established by the city council through resolution for the
use of city streets or other city owned or city controlled real and personal
property, including all city owned park and other equipment. The total amount
of fees due for the entire permit period must be paid to the city at least two
(2) working days prior to the date on which the permit becomes effective. (Ord.
606, 7-22-2002)
8-16-7: INSURANCE:
   A.   Each permit shall expressly provide that the permittee agrees to
defend, protect, indemnify and hold the city, its officers, employees and
agents free and harmless from and against any and all claims, damages,
expenses, loss or liability of any kind or nature whatsoever arising out of or
resulting from, the alleged acts or omissions of permittee, its officers,
agents, employees and invitees in connection with the permitted event or
activity; and the permit shall expressly provide that the permittee shall, at
permittee's own cost, risk and expense, pay for the defense of any and all
claims or legal actions that may be commenced or filed against the city, its
officers, agents or employees, and that permittee shall pay any settlement
entered into and shall satisfy any judgment that may be rendered against the
city, its officers, agents or employees as a result of the alleged acts or
omissions of permittee or permittee's officers, agents, employees and invitees
in connection with the uses, events or activities under the permit.
   B.   Concurrent with the issuance of a permit under this chapter, and as a
condition precedent to the effectiveness of the permit, the permittee shall
procure and maintain in full force and effect during the term of the permit a
policy of insurance from a reliable insurance company authorized to do business
in the state, which policy includes the city, its boards, officers, agents and
employees, as named insured or additional named insured and which provides the
coverage that the city council determines to be necessary and adequate under
the circumstances, and proof of insurance shall be submitted with the
application. Said insurance policy must provide liability coverage for the
activities of entertainers and vendors participating in a special event.
   C.   It is the responsibility of the organizer/sponsor to maintain the
condition of all city property being utilized in the event. The event
organizer/sponsor will be responsible for any and all repairs needed as a
result of the event. All expenses for repairs will be reimbursed at the actual
cost of the repairs by the event organizer/sponsor. (Ord. 618, 4-27-2004)
8-16-8: GLASS CONTAINERS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or physically possess any container
for liquids made of glass, or a mixture of glass, to be used for personal
consumption within an area designated for a special event. This section does
not apply to persons within an operating casino, hotel, bar or restaurant.
   A.   Confiscation: The police department may confiscate any container in
violation of this chapter.
   B.   Penalty: Any violation of the provisions of this chapter is an
infraction and shall be punished as set forth in section
1-3-1 of this code. (Ord. 592, 12-10-2002)
8-16-9: SPECIAL EVENTS CURFEW:
In all special events on city property in which alcohol will be sold or served
to the public and require a permit under this chapter, except those within the
city parks, it shall be unlawful for any juvenile to be idle, remain, wander,
stroll or play within the special event venue or within three hundred feet
(300') of the special event venue, either on foot or through any other mode of
transportation, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. during the dates in which the special event is being held or the
hours immediately following the conclusion of the event. A "juvenile" shall
mean a person under the age of eighteen (18).
   A.   A curfew violation in this section may be treated, for all purposes, as
curfew violations under title 5, chapter 16 of this code concerning minor
curfews.
   B.   Unless otherwise specifically provided herein or in conflict with the
provisions of this section, sections
5-16-2, "Definitions",
5-16-4, "Responsibility Of Owners Of Public Places", 5-16-5, "Parents'
Responsibility And Civil Liability", 5-16-7, "Procedures" and 5-16-8,
"Penalties", of this code are incorporated herein and shall apply to special
event curfew violations to the extent such provisions can be made applicable.
   C.   A juvenile in the direct care and custody of a parent or other person
awarded legal guardianship or acting in furtherance of employment duties
requiring his presence at the place and time where the juvenile is contacted
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section. For purposes of this
section, "direct care and custody of a parent" shall mean a juvenile within
thirty feet (30') of his/her parent or legal guardian and who is, at the time
and place the juvenile is contacted, exercising care and custody over the
juvenile. (Ord. 735, 5-10-2011)
CHAPTER 17
PUBLIC TREE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
8-17-1: Purpose
8-17-2: Applicability
8-17-3: Public Tree Protection
8-17-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare by providing for the regulation of the planting, maintenance,
and removing of public trees; to provide a basis for the professional
management of public trees; to provide for their enduring viability and safety;
and to perpetuate the many contributions they make to the financial, aesthetic,
and environmental well being of the city, its residents, and visitors. (Ord.
673, 4-10-2007)
8-17-2: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter concerns the management of all trees located in public parks.
(Ord. 673, 4-10-2007)
8-17-3: PUBLIC TREE PROTECTION:
It is unlawful for any person to damage, transplant, top, remove, or mutilate
any public tree without the consent of the Elko city parks and recreation
board. (Ord. 673, 4-10-2007; amd. Ord. 684, 1-22-2008)
CHAPTER 18
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
8-18-1: Title
8-18-2: Definitions
8-18-3: Provisions
8-18-4: Horizontal Control Datum
8-18-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
(Ord. 680, 10-23-2007)
8-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, certain words, terms and phrases are defined as
follows:
   ALLEY: A public way providing secondary vehicular access and service to
properties which also abut a street.
   ARTERIAL AND MINOR ARTERIAL STREETS: A general term describing large major
streets, including freeways, expressways and interstate roadways, and state
and/or county highways having city and regional continuity.
   COLLECTOR RESIDENTIAL AND LOCAL RESIDENTIAL STREETS: City streets serving
the primary function of providing access to abutting property:
Cul-De-Sac Street: A short collector residential and local residential street
having one end permanently terminating in and including a vehicular turning
area.
Marginal Access Street: A collector residential and local residential street
parallel to and abutting an arterial street which provides access to abutting
property, intercepts other collector residential and local residential streets,
and controls access to the arterial street.
   COLLECTOR STREET: A street generally with limited continuity serving the
primary function of moving traffic between arterial streets and local
residential streets, and the secondary function of providing access to abutting
properties.
   PRIVATE STREET: A nondedicated, privately owned right of way or limited
public way that affords the principal means of emergency and limited vehicular
access and connection from the public street system to properties created
through the division or subdivision of land.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS: A set of standards approved by the city
council regulating the design and construction of public improvements in the
city of Elko public roads or the city of Elko.
   PUBLIC ROAD AND PUBLIC ROADS: The public highways, streets, avenues, alleys,
bridges and ways as the same may now or hereafter exist within the city and
future additions thereto over which the city has jurisdiction.
   PUBLIC STREET: A dedicated public right of way that is part of the public
street system and which affords the principal means of emergency and general
vehicular access to abutting property.
   STREET: Any existing or proposed street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane,
parkway, place, bridge, viaduct or easement for public vehicular access; or, a
street shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law; or, a street in a
plat duly filed and recorded in the county recorder's office. A street includes
all land within the street right of way, whether improved or unimproved, and
includes such improvements as pavement, shoulder, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
parking space, bridges, viaducts, lawns and trees.
   STREET LINE: A line describing the limits of a street right of way. (Ord.
680, 10-23-2007)
8-18-3: PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall be known as the public improvement standards code of the
city of Elko, hereinafter "code". This chapter adopts the following public
improvement standards:
   A.   Latest edition of the "Standard Specifications For Public Works
Construction" ("Orange Book") as distributed to the cities and counties of
northern Nevada by the regional transportation commission (RTC) of Washoe
County, and
   B.   Latest edition of the "Standard Details" as distributed by the city of
Elko, and
   C.   Latest edition of the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices For
Streets And Highways" (MUTCD), and
   D.   Latest edition of the "American Water Works Association" (AWWA).
Certain sections of the public improvement standards may be added or deleted by
resolution.
All public improvement designs, construction, and modifications within the city
of Elko public roads or the city of Elko shall conform with the above adopted
public improvement standards, in addition to any other applicable codes or
amendments set forth by the Elko city council. (Ord. 680, 10-23-2007; amd. Ord.
850, 4-14-2020)
8-18-4: HORIZONTAL CONTROL DATUM:
The basis of bearings for all engineering plans submitted to the city of Elko
shall be based upon the following:
North American datum of 1983 (NAD83), Nevada east, U.S. feet, ground distance
using a datum adjustment ground to grid factor of 0.99964312740 and be
effective as of October 28, 2008. (Ord. 701, 10-14-2008, eff. 10-28-2008)
CHAPTER 19
SIDEWALK CAFES
SECTION:
8-19-1: Purpose
8-19-2: Definitions
8-19-3: Outdoor Dining Permit Required
8-19-4: Outdoor Dining In Public Rights Of Way Permitted
8-19-5: Required Sidewalk Clearance
8-19-6: Health Standards
8-19-7: Hours Of Operation
8-19-8: Special Closures
8-19-9: Permit Issuance Or Denial
8-19-10: Permit Revocation
8-19-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the aesthetics and economic vitality
of the city by providing safe and visually appealing opportunities for outdoor
dining. (Ord. 750, 5-22-2012)
8-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
   BAR: A business which is licensed and otherwise lawfully permitted to serve
alcoholic beverages for on premises consumption.
   OUTDOOR DINING: The use of sidewalks in city owned public rights of way for
the consumption of food and/or beverages in connection with a bar or restaurant
occupying an adjacent structure.
   RESTAURANT: A business licensed to serve food and beverages for on premises
consumption and which uses a kitchen on the premises for food preparation with
a minimum floor area of two hundred (200) square feet. (Ord. 750, 5-22-2012)
8-19-3: OUTDOOR DINING PERMIT REQUIRED:
Outdoor dining is not allowed without an outdoor dining permit as set forth in
this chapter. This chapter does not apply to outdoor dining authorized by a
special event permit issued pursuant to chapter 16 of this title. (Ord. 750, 5-
22-2012)
8-19-4: OUTDOOR DINING IN PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY PERMITTED:
Outdoor dining is not permitted where the speed, volume or nearness of
vehicular traffic is not compatible with sidewalk dining. All outdoor dining
areas must be adjacent to and incidental to the operation of an indoor bar or
restaurant. (Ord. 750, 5-22-2012)
8-19-5: REQUIRED SIDEWALK CLEARANCE:
Outdoor dining is permitted only where the sidewalk provides at least five feet
(5') of unimpeded clearance for pedestrians, unless an exception is granted. An
exception may only be granted if the city determines that, due to unique
circumstances, a lesser amount of clearance can safely accommodate all uses of
the public sidewalk and other public property in the vicinity of the outdoor
dining area. (Ord. 750, 5-22-2012)
8-19-6: HEALTH STANDARDS:
The operator shall not permit the following within or adjacent to the outdoor
dining area: unoccupied tables present with utensils, glasses, napkins,
condiments, busing service stations, or trash not promptly placed in a trash
receptacle. Outdoor food preparation is not allowed except in compliance with
conditions of an outdoor dining permit. All exterior surfaces within the
outdoor dining area shall be easily cleanable and shall be kept clean at all
times by the permittee. Restrooms sufficient for indoor and outdoor dining
shall be provided in the adjoining indoor bar or restaurant. The permittee
shall be responsible for maintaining the outdoor dining area, including the
sidewalk surface, furniture and adjacent areas in a clean and safe condition.
The permittee shall promptly dispose of any waste generated in their own
disposal facilities and shall not use any public wastebaskets. The permittee
may not place open flame heaters, candles or any devices which the city
determines to be fire hazards within the outdoor dining area. Smoking shall be
prohibited in outdoor dining areas to the maximum extent such prohibition is
permitted by state law. (Ord. 750, 5-22-2012)
8-19-7: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Outdoor dining is only permitted during the hours set forth in an outdoor
dining permit issued by the city. All outdoor furniture associated with the
permit shall be removed at the end of each business day. (Ord. 750, 5-22-2012)
8-19-8: SPECIAL CLOSURES:
Outdoor dining is a privilege. The city shall have the right and power, acting
through the city manager, or his or her designee, to prohibit the operation of
an outdoor dining area at any time because of anticipated or actual problems
and conflicts in the use of the sidewalk area or any other public property in
the vicinity of the outdoor dining area. Such problems and conflicts may arise
from, without limitation, scheduled festivals, parades, marches and similar
events, repairs to the street or sidewalk, demonstrations or emergencies. To
the maximum extent practicable, the permittee shall be given prior written
notice of any time period during which the operation of the outdoor dining area
will be prohibited by the city. (Ord. 750, 5-22-2012)
8-19-9: PERMIT ISSUANCE OR DENIAL:
   A.   Standards For Issuance: The city may issue an outdoor dining permit
upon such terms, conditions and fees as it deems appropriate, provided that
fees, if any, shall be set by resolution of the city council. The design and
signage of the proposed outdoor dining area must meet the minimum standards set
by the city. The city may change any minimum standards at any time, subject to
at least thirty (30) days' prior notice to all affected permittees. The city
may deny an outdoor dining permit application that fails to satisfy any
applicable city requirements. An outdoor dining permit shall, once issued,
notwithstanding any other provision in this code, entitle any person to hold,
carry or transport any open glass bottle which contains, previously contained
or is designed or intended to contain alcoholic beverages, provided such
bottles remain within the area subject to the permit.
   B.   Public Notice: Once it is determined that an applicant has met all of
the basic requirements, the city will issue a public notice, informing the
public that a permit is being considered to allow the applicant's business to
place tables and chairs in the sidewalk area. The public notice must be served
by United States mail or hand delivery to all adjacent operators of businesses
and the applicant must promptly thereafter provide the city with a certificate,
signed under penalties of perjury, stating that the public notice has been
served upon adjacent operators of businesses in the manner required by this
section.
   C.   Public Objections: If there are no objections from the public and all
applicable requirements have been satisfied, the application will be approved
and an outdoor dining permit will be issued. If there are objections from the
public, the city may, on that basis, deny the application.
   D.   Appeal To City Council: Any aggrieved person may appeal the approval or
denial of an outdoor dining permit to the city council within ten (10) calendar
days of the decision. Any appeal must be commenced by filing a notice of appeal
with the city clerk on a form provided by the city. In the event the city
council disagrees with the administrative decision, the permit shall be
immediately issued, provided, the city council may impose reasonable conditions
precedent to the issuance of the permit if the city council determines that
such conditions will remedy or mitigate any reason(s) for the denial decision
identified.
   E.   Prior Revocation: The city shall not issue an outdoor dining permit to
any applicant who was previously issued an outdoor dining permit which was
revoked by the city within one year prior to the date of the application,
provided the previously revoked outdoor dining permit was not later reinstated
by the city as the result of an appeal pursuant to this chapter.
   F.   Concurrent Outdoor Display Permits: Nothing in this chapter shall be
interpreted to preclude the city from issuing an outdoor dining permit for a
business that also has an outdoor display permit, provided all requirements
applicable to each type of permit are satisfied. Notwithstanding the preceding
sentence, the city may deny an outdoor dining permit if it is found to be
incompatible with a concurrent outdoor display permit issued to the same
applicant or permittee. (Ord. 750, 5-22-2012)
8-19-10: PERMIT REVOCATION:
   A.   Grounds For Revocation: The outdoor dining permit may be revoked by the
city if the permittee fails to comply with: 1) the requirements of this
chapter, 2) any applicable outdoor display guidelines issued by the city, 3)
the terms and conditions of any permit application signed and submitted by the
permittee or 4) any requirements stated on the outdoor dining permit, to
include any requirements incorporated by reference into the outdoor dining
permit. In addition to the foregoing, the outdoor dining permit may be revoked
by the city if the outdoor dining area is being operated in a manner which
constitutes a nuisance or if the operation of the outdoor dining area unduly
impedes or restricts the movement of pedestrians.
   B.   Appeal To City Council: In the event the city revokes an outdoor dining
permit, the permittee may, within no more than ten (10) days, appeal the
revocation decision to the city council, which shall conduct a hearing to
review the revocation decision. Any appeal must be commenced by filing a notice
of appeal with the city clerk on a form provided by the city. In the event the
city council disagrees with the revocation decision, the permit shall be
immediately reinstated subject to any conditions applicable to the previously
revoked permit, provided that the term of the permit shall be extended for a
period of time equal to the time between the date of revocation and the date of
reinstatement, and, further provided, the city council may impose reasonable
conditions precedent to the reinstatement of the permit if the city council
determines that such conditions will remedy or mitigate any reason(s) for the
revocation identified by the city. (Ord. 750, 5-22-2012)
CHAPTER 20
SIDEWALK DISPLAYS
SECTION:
8-20-1: Purpose
8-20-2: Definitions
8-20-3: Outdoor Display Permit Required
8-20-4: Outdoor Displays In Public Rights Of Way Permitted
8-20-5: Required Sidewalk Width
8-20-6: Health Standards
8-20-7: Hours Of Operation
8-20-8: Special Closures
8-20-9: Permit Issuance Or Denial
8-20-10: Permit Revocation
8-20-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the aesthetics and economic vitality
of the city by providing safe and visually appealing opportunities for outdoor
displays of merchandise. (Ord. 751, 5-22-2012)
8-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY: The use of sidewalks in city owned public rights of way for
the display of merchandise in connection with a retail business occupying an
adjacent structure.
   RETAIL BUSINESS: A business which sells goods to the public. (Ord. 751, 5-
22-2012)
8-20-3: OUTDOOR DISPLAY PERMIT REQUIRED:
Outdoor displays are not allowed without an outdoor display permit as set forth
in this chapter. This chapter does not apply to outdoor displays authorized by
a special event permit issued pursuant to chapter 16 of this title. (Ord. 751,
5-22-2012)
8-20-4: OUTDOOR DISPLAYS IN PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY PERMITTED:
Outdoor displays are not permitted where the speed, volume or nearness of
vehicular traffic is not compatible with the display. All outdoor display areas
must be adjacent to and incidental to the operation of an indoor retail
business which sells the same goods that are in the outdoor display. (Ord. 751,
5-22-2012)
8-20-5: REQUIRED SIDEWALK WIDTH:
Outdoor displays are permitted only where the sidewalk provides at least five
feet (5') of unimpeded clearance for pedestrians, unless an exception is
granted by the city. An exception may only be granted if the city determines
that, due to unique circumstances, a lesser amount of pedestrian clearance can
safely accommodate all uses of the public sidewalk and other public property in
the vicinity of the outdoor display area. (Ord. 751, 5-22-2012)
8-20-6: HEALTH STANDARDS:
The outdoor display area shall be kept clean at all times by the permittee. The
permittee shall be responsible for maintaining the outdoor display area,
including the sidewalk surface, furniture and adjacent areas in a clean and
safe condition. The permittee may not place open flame heaters, candles or any
devices which the city determines to be fire hazards within the outdoor display
area unless otherwise allowed by the fire department. The permittee shall
promptly and properly dispose of all waste generated in conjunction with the
outdoor display. Such solid waste shall be deposited in the permittee's own
trash receptacles and shall not use any public wastebaskets. (Ord. 751, 5-22-
2012)
8-20-7: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Outdoor displays are only permitted during the hours set forth in an outdoor
display permit issued by the city. All outdoor displays and merchandise shall
be removed at the end of each business day, unless a waiver is granted by the
city due to unique circumstances which render such removal impractical,
provided such waiver does not create an unreasonable risk to public health or
safety. (Ord. 751, 5-22-2012)
8-20-8: SPECIAL CLOSURES:
Outdoor displays are a privilege. The city shall have the right and power,
acting through the city manager, or his or her designee, to prohibit the
operation of an outdoor display area at any time because of anticipated or
actual problems and conflicts in the use of the sidewalk area or any other
public property in the vicinity of the outdoor display area. Such problems and
conflicts may arise from, without limitation, scheduled festivals, parades,
marches and similar events, repairs to the street or sidewalk, demonstrations
or emergencies. To the maximum extent practicable, the permittee shall be given
prior written notice of any time period during which the operation of the
outdoor display area will be prohibited by the city. (Ord. 751, 5-22-2012)
8-20-9: PERMIT ISSUANCE OR DENIAL:
   A.   Standards For Issuance: The city may issue an outdoor display permit
upon such terms, conditions and fees as it deems appropriate, provided fees, if
any, shall be set by resolution of the city council. The design and signage of
the proposed outdoor display area must meet the minimum standards set by the
city. The city may change any minimum standards at any time, subject to at
least thirty (30) days' prior notice to all affected permittees. The city may
deny an outdoor display permit application that fails to satisfy any applicable
city requirements. An outdoor display permit does not grant a permittee the
right to make sales in an outdoor display area.
   B.   Public Notice: Once it is determined that an applicant has met all of
the basic requirements, the city will issue a public notice, informing the
public that a permit is being considered to allow the applicant's business to
place a display in the sidewalk area. The public notice must be served by
United States mail or hand delivery to all adjacent property owners and the
applicant must promptly thereafter provide the city with a certificate, signed
under penalties of perjury, stating that the public notice has been served upon
adjacent business operators in the manner required by this section.
   C.   Public Objections: If there are no objections from the public and all
applicable requirements have been satisfied, the application will be approved
and an outdoor display permit will be issued. If there are objections from the
public, the city may, on that basis, deny the application.
   D.   Appeal To City Council: Any aggrieved person may appeal the approval or
denial of an outdoor display permit to the city council within ten (10)
calendar days of the decision. Any appeal must be commenced by filing a notice
of appeal with the city clerk on a form provided by the city. In the event the
city council disagrees with the administrative decision, the permit shall be
immediately issued, provided, the city council may impose reasonable conditions
precedent to the issuance of the permit if the city council determines that
such conditions will remedy or mitigate any reason(s) for the denial decision
identified.
   E.   Prior Revocation: The city shall not issue an outdoor display permit to
any applicant who was previously issued an outdoor display permit which was
revoked by the city within one year prior to the date of the application,
provided the previously revoked outdoor display permit was not later reinstated
by the city.
   F.   Concurrent Outdoor Dining Permits: Nothing in this chapter shall be
interpreted to preclude the city from issuing an outdoor display permit for a
business that also has an outdoor dining permit, provided all requirements
applicable to each type of permit are satisfied. Notwithstanding the preceding
sentence, the city may deny an outdoor display permit if it is found to be
incompatible with a concurrent outdoor dining permit issued to the same
applicant or permittee. (Ord. 751, 5-22-2012)
8-20-10: PERMIT REVOCATION:
   A.   Grounds For Revocation: The outdoor display permit may be revoked by
the city if the permittee fails to comply with: 1) the requirements of this
chapter, 2) any applicable outdoor display guidelines issued by the city, 3)
the terms and conditions of any permit application signed and submitted by the
permittee or 4) any requirements stated on the outdoor display permit, to
include any requirements incorporated by reference into the outdoor display
permit. In addition to the foregoing, the outdoor display permit may be revoked
by the city if the outdoor display area is being operated in a manner which
constitutes a nuisance or if the operation of the outdoor display area unduly
impedes or restricts the movement of pedestrians.
   B.   Appeal To City Council: In the event the city revokes an outdoor
display permit, the permittee may, within no more than ten (10) days, appeal
the revocation decision to the city council, which shall conduct a hearing to
review the revocation decision. Any appeal must be commenced by filing a notice
of appeal with the city clerk on a form provided by the city. In the event the
city council disagrees with the revocation decision, the permit shall be
immediately reinstated subject to any conditions applicable to the previously
revoked permit, provided that the term of the permit shall be extended for a
period of time equal to the time between the date of revocation and the date of
reinstatement, and, further provided, the city council may impose reasonable
conditions precedent to the reinstatement of the permit if the city council
determines that such conditions will remedy or mitigate any reason(s) for the
revocation identified by the city. (Ord. 751, 5-22-2012)
CHAPTER 21
SIDEWALKS, CURBS, GUTTERS
SECTION:
8-21-1: Permit Required
8-21-2: Plans To Be Approved
8-21-3: Sidewalk, Curb And Gutter Construction
8-21-4: Sidewalk Maintenance, Reconstruction And Repair
8-21-5: Penalties Enforcement
8-21-6: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
8-21-7: Injunctive Relief
8-21-8: Penalties
8-21-9: Remedies Not Exclusive
8-21-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install, construct, or lay, or cause to
be installed, constructed or laid, any sidewalk, curb or gutter within the
street lines established by the City without first obtaining a permit from the
City for that purpose. The issuance of a permit pursuant to this Section shall
be in addition to and not in lieu of any other permits required under the City
Code. (Ord. 841, 7-9-2019)
8-21-2: PLANS TO BE APPROVED:
Any sidewalk, curb or gutter constructed within the street lines established by
the City shall be in conformance with specifications and plans, and grades and
lines approved by the City. (Ord. 841, 7-9-2019)
8-21-3: SIDEWALK, CURB AND GUTTER CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Required; Exception: Except as otherwise provided in this Section,
sidewalks, curbs and gutters shall be required on all vacant lots or parcels of
land which are hereafter developed; or upon lots or parcels of land which are
merged or divided; or upon developed lots or parcels of land involving a change
in building occupancy and use of land; or upon any lot or parcel of land with
any building expansion or new construction involving the addition of gross
floor area greater than four hundred (400) square feet; or upon a lot or parcel
of land when a change of use results in a measurable increase in pedestrian or
vehicular traffic; provided, however, that upon the request of the City
Development Department or application by the property owner, or a tenant,
lessee or a contractor duly authorized to represent said property owner, and
for cause shown, the City Council may waive all or part of, the requirement for
the installation of the above described improvements, subject to Subsections B
and C of this Section.
   B.   Request To Waive Requirements By Development Department: Any request by
the City Development Department to waive all or part of the requirement to
install curb, gutter and sidewalk shall be based on the following criteria:
      1.   The presence or proposed installation of other substantially
equivalent or superior improvements in the vicinity of the lot or parcel of
land;
      2.   Conditions on the lot or parcel of land affecting the practicability
of installing the curb, gutter and sidewalk; and
      3.   Any other unique circumstances deemed by the City Development
Department to be appropriate grounds for waiving any or all of the foregoing
requirements relative to the installation of curb, gutter and sidewalk.
   C.   Request To Waive Requirements By Property Owner or Authorized
Representative: Any application to waive all or part of the requirement to
install curb, gutter and/or sidewalk by the property owner, or a tenant, lessee
or contractor duly authorized to represent said property owner:
      1.   Shall be based on evidence that it is impractical to install curb,
gutter and sidewalk because of circumstances beyond the reasonable control of
the applicant property owner; and
      2.   Shall include a filing fee paid to the City in an amount established
by resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 841, 7-9-2019)
8-21-4: SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE, RECONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR:
   A.   Responsibility Of Property Owners: It is the responsibility of all
property owners to reasonably maintain any sidewalk constructed of in a public
right of way that abuts the owner's property. This Subsection A is not intended
and shall not be relied upon to determine the standard of care in any civil
action for negligence to include an action asserting negligence per se.
   B.   Standards:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in the City Code or pursuant to
authority granted by the City Code, all sidewalks shall be constructed of
concrete with a minimum of four inches (4") in depth and with a width
determined as follows:
         a.   Four feet (4') for sidewalks along all unclassified roadways or
roadways classified as local residential in the City's Master Plan and along
roadways determined by the City Development Department to be functionally
equivalent to "local residential" as that term is used in the City's Master
Plan; or
         b.   Five feet (5') in width for all other sidewalks, to include
sidewalks along roadways classified as residential collector or higher in the
City's Master Plan or along roadways determined by the City Development
Department to be functionally equivalent to or higher than "residential
collector" as that term is used in the City's Master Plan.
      2.   All sidewalks shall be constructed, maintained, reconstructed, and
repaired in compliance with current City of Elko standards and federal and
state laws, to include all applicable provisions of Title II of the Americans
with Disabilities Act, Sections 504 and 795 of the Rehabilitation Act, and the
Fair Housing Act.
   C.   Reconstruction And Repair:
      1.   The City Development Manager or her or his designee may require the
reconstruction or repair of sidewalks under the following circumstances:
         a.   The reconstruction or repair of a sidewalk is required as a
condition of approval for a division, merger, or change in the use of the
abutting property, or;
         b.   The abutting property owner's actions resulted in damage to the
sidewalk necessitating repair or reconstruction; provided the City Development
Department may impose an assessment or other charge authorized by law on the
abutting property owner for any reconstruction or repair of a sidewalk if the
reconstruction or repair is performed by the City or its contractor in a public
right-of-way at the direction of the City Development manager or her or his
designee.
         c.   The abutting property owner abandons any existing curb cuts or
driveway approaches.
      2.   Any sidewalk ordered repaired or reconstructed by the City
Development Manager or her or his designee shall be repaired or reconstructed
by the owner of the property which abuts upon the sidewalk. The property owner
shall cause the reconstruction or repair to be constructed by a properly
licensed contractor, within a time period set by the City, not to exceed ninety
(90) days. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section, the City may,
at the request of the property owner and in the City’s sole discretion, accept
an appropriate bond for the needed repairs or reconstruction to allow for
completion at a later date due to weather. (Ord. 841, 7-9-2019; amd. Ord. 857,
4-27-2021)
8-21-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice of Violation: If a person violates a prohibition contained in
this Chapter or fails to meet a requirement of this Chapter, or fails to comply
with an order issued by the City Council pursuant to this Chapter to repair or
reconstruct a sidewalk, the City Development Department may order compliance by
written notice of violation to the responsible person.   
   B.   Deadline: If abatement of a violation or repair or reconstruction of a
sidewalk is required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such
abatement, repair, or reconstruction must be completed. In the event of an
order to repair or reconstruct a sidewalk, the foregoing notice shall further
advise that, should the violator fail to comply with the established deadline,
the work will be done by the City or its contractor and the expense thereof
shall be charged to the property owner. (Ord. 841, 7-9-2019)
8-21-6: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination to the
City Council. The notice of appeal must be received by the City Clerk within
thirty (30) days from the date of issuance of the notice of violation. A
hearing on the appeal before the Elko City Council shall take place within
forty-five (45) days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The
decision of the City Council shall be final and subject to judicial review;
provided, any petition for judicial review of a final decision by the City
Council shall be commenced within thirty (30) days of the date of the City
Council decision. (Ord. 841, 7-9-2019)
8-21-7: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
Chapter, the City may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which could create further violations or
compelling the person to perform work required by order of the City Council.
(Ord. 841, 7-9-2019)
8-21-8: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in Title 1, Chapter 3 of this Code. Each
day's violation of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 841, 7-9-2019)
8-21-9: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this Chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law and it is within
the discretion of the City to seek cumulative remedies. (Ord. 841, 7-9-2019)
CHAPTER 22
REVOCABLE LICENSE TO OCCUPY CITY OF ELKO PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-22-1: Intent
8-22-2: Revocable License Required
8-22-3: General Requirements
8-22-4: Application Filing
8-22-5: Review Of Application
8-22-6: Other Code Requirements Not Waived
8-22-1: INTENT:
The purpose of this Chapter is to set forth the requirements for the temporary
use and occupancy of City of Elko property, including public rights-of-way,
through the issuance of Revocable Licenses. (Ord. 881, 3-28-2023)
8-22-2: REVOCABLE LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to temporarily use or occupy City real
property without a Revocable License issued by the City pursuant to this
Chapter.
   A.   As used in this Chapter, the term "temporarily use or occupy" shall
mean the installation, construction or laying, or causing to be installed,
constructed or laid the following:
      1.   Any signs, parking, landscaping, fencing, infrastructure of any type
(either above or below ground), or other similar features on City property,
including within City rights-of-way and easements, in nonresidential zoning
districts.
      2.   Any landscaping, fencing, infrastructure (either above or below
ground), or similar features on City property in residential zoning districts
that is in excess of three (3) feet in height.
   B.   The following shall not be included within the meaning of the term
"temporarily use or occupy" as used in this Chapter:
      1.   The use or occupancy of City property by a public utility company
pursuant to an approved franchise agreement with the City to the extent allowed
by the franchise agreement.
      2.   Residential uses in residential zoning districts existing on the
date of enactment of this Ordinance.
The issuance of a Revocable License pursuant to this Chapter shall be in
addition to and not in lieu of any permits or other licenses required under the
City Code. (Ord. 881, 3-28-2023)
8-22-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A person authorized to use and occupy City property pursuant to this
Chapter shall be referred to herein as a "Licensee."
   B.   The physical area subject to a Revocable License issued pursuant to
this Chapter shall be referred to herein as the "Licensed Area."
   C.   The City may, in its discretion, require the Licensee to execute a
Revocable License Agreement in conjunction with the Revocable License. The
Revocable License may be included in the body of the Revocable License
Agreement. The Revocable License Agreement may set forth additional terms and
conditions for the temporary use and occupancy of property not inconsistent
with the requirements of this Chapter, to include providing for shared access
by third-parties. A Revocable License Agreement may require the Licensee to
obtain insurance coverage against liability for injuries or property damage on
the Licensed Area in amounts determined by the City, naming the City as an
additional insured.
   D.   The City shall record the Revocable License and, if applicable, the
Revocable License Agreement with the County Recorder within fourteen (14) days
of approval by the City Council or its designee.
   E.   Maintenance of the Licensed Area shall be the responsibility of the
Licensee. Failure of the Licensee to adequately maintain the Licensed Area may
result in suspension or revocation of the Revocable License. In the event the
Revocable License is revoked, the Licensee shall restore the Licensed Area to
its previous condition as soon thereafter as reasonably practicable, except as
otherwise provided in this Chapter or in a Revocable License Agreement.
   F.   Landscaping installed by the Licensee shall not be removed from the
Licensed Area without the issuance of an amended Revocable License approved by
the City Council or its designee. Unless otherwise ordered by the City Council,
all landscaping in the Licensee Area remaining after termination of a Revocable
License shall be the property of the City.
   G.   The Licensee shall not place buildings or accessory structures within
the Licensed Area.
   H.   The City and its contractors shall have unrestricted access to the
Licensed Area at all times. The City and its contractors may use and occupy the
Licensed Area so long as such use does not unreasonably interfere with
Licensee's use and occupancy of the Licensed Area pursuant to the Revocable
License.
   I.   Revocable Licenses and, if applicable, Revocable License Agreements,
may be assigned by Licensees to third-parties subject to the prior approval of
the City Council or its designee; provided, in the event of an approved
assignment, the assignee shall assume all terms and conditions of the Revocable
License or Revocable License Agreement, together with any additional terms and
conditions required by the City Council or its designee.
   J.   The Licensee shall be responsible for all injuries to persons or damage
to property arising out of or in an any manner pertaining to Licensee's
temporary use and occupancy of the Licensed Area, to the extent Licensed under
the laws of the State of Nevada. The foregoing includes, without limitation,
damage to City-owned property within the Licensed Area.
   K.   The City Council may revoke a Revocable License upon a finding that the
Licensee has violated a term or condition of the Revocable License or
associated Revocable License Agreement, or that the Licensed Area is needed for
a public purpose. The foregoing is in addition to any right of revocation set
forth in a Revocable License Agreement. (Ord. 881, 3-28-2023)
8-22-4: APPLICATION FILING:
   A.   Any person seeking a Revocable License shall file an Application with
the City Planning Department on a form furnished for that purpose.
   B.   An Application for a Revocable License shall be accompanied by a filing
fee pursuant to a fee schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council.
   C.   The Application shall be complete and shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The Applicant's name, mailing address, daytime telephone number, and
email address.
      2.   A legal description of the proposed Licensed Area and the Assessor's
Parcel Number(s) of the Licensed Area, or if the Licensed Area is within a
right-of-way, the Assessor's Parcel Number(s) of the adjacent parcel(s),
including a metes-and-bounds legal description of the Licensed Area prepared by
a licensed surveyor.
      3.   A description of all proposed uses of the proposed Licensed Area.
      4.   The dimensions and square footage of the proposed Licensed Area.
      5.   A plot plan drawn to scale showing:
         a.   Existing boundary lines, structures, sign(s), landscaping,
fencing, parking, and other physical features. This portion of the plot plan
must be prepared by a properly licensed surveyor.
         b.   Proposed improvements to the Licensed Area. This portion of the
plot plan must be prepared by a properly licensed design professional.
      6.   Any other information the Applicant and/or the City may deem
necessary or appropriate for the City's review of the Application.
   D.   The Applicant shall provide, at a minimum:
      1.   One (1) .pdf of the entire Application, and
      2.   One (1) set of legible plans on 8 ½" x 11 plan sheets. If the plans
are not legible as shown on 8 ½" x 11" plan sheets, the Applicant shall submit
plans on larger plan sheets which are legible.
   E.   Incomplete Applications shall be rejected by the City Planning
Department. (Ord. 881, 3-28-2023)
8-22-5: REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this Section, the City Council shall
review the Application and supporting data within thirty (30) days of the date
the Application is filed with the City Planning Department.
   B.   The City Council may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
Application based on the following criteria:
      1.   Whether the proposed Revocable License is likely to interfere with
the use of any current or planned street, sidewalk, utility infrastructure, or
other public improvements.
      2.   Whether the proposed Revocable License is likely to threaten public
health, safety, or welfare.
      3.   Whether the proposed Revocable License is likely to frustrate the
ability of the City to fulfill any goals or objectives in the Master Plan.
      4.   Whether the proposed Revocable License will lead to Licensee's
improvements becoming integrated into the Licensed Area, creating practical
difficulties if the Revocable License is revoked.
      5.   Any other reason determined by the City Council to be in the best
interest of the public.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, pursuant to Resolution 03-22, adopted by
the City Council on January 25, 2022, Revocable License Applications for
property along Idaho Street between VFW Drive on the west and 30th Street on
the east may be reviewed and decided administratively by City Staff, subject to
the following requirements:
      1.   The following improvements within City rights-of-way associated with
the abutting business or commercial activity shall require a Revocable License:
backflow prevention devices, grease interceptors, directional or advertising
signs, landscaping and irrigation systems, displays for automotive or similar
sales, off-street parking (provided the parking is surplus and exceeds that
required by the City Code), lighting, and other infrastructure as required by
the abutting business or commercial activity.
      2.   Any structures, displays or parking occupying the right-of-way shall
be set back a minimum of sixteen (16) feet from the improved roadway section
(back of existing or future sidewalk) to ensure adequate sight distance and
visibility for entering and exiting vehicles.
   D.   The following requirements shall apply to Licensees that are issued
administratively by City Staff:
      1.   City Staff shall review the Application within thirty (30) days of
the date the Application is filed with the City Planning Department.
      2.   City Staff may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the
Application based on any of the criteria set forth in Section 8-22-5(B), above.
All findings supporting a decision by City Staff to place conditions on or deny
an Application shall be in writing and provided to the Applicant.
      3.   The Applicant may appeal to the City Council a decision by City
Staff to place conditions on or deny an Application by filing a notice of
appeal with the City Planning Department within thirty (30) days of the date
the written findings of City Staff are provided to the Applicant. (Ord. 881, 3-
28-2023)
8-22-6: OTHER CODE REQUIREMENTS NOT WAIVED:
The issuance of a Revocable License pursuant to this Chapter shall not
constitute a waiver by the City of any requirement contained in the City Code,
to include off-street parking requirements and development standards, unless
the waiver is expressly stated, authorized under the City Code, and approved by
the City Council or its designee. (Ord. 881, 3-28-2023)
TITLE 9
HEALTH AND SANITATION
Elko Water Code   1
Elko Municipal Solid Waste And Recyclable Material Code   2
Reserved   3
Milk (Rep. by Ord. 792, 4-14-2015)   4
Elko Sewer Code   5
Illegal Discharge And Connection To Stormwater   6
Construction Site Runoff Control   7
Postconstruction Runoff Control And Water Quality Management   8
CHAPTER 1
ELKO WATER CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Short Title
9-1-3: Definitions
9-1-5: Water Service
9-1-7: Mandatory Connection
9-1-9: Discontinuance Of Service; Customer Request
9-1-11: Termination For Noncompliance With Rules
9-1-12: Regulating And Limiting Outdoor Use Of Municipal Water
9-1-15: Termination For Unsafe Apparatus
9-1-16: Cross Connection Control Code
9-1-17: Termination For Fraudulent Use Of Service
9-1-19: Restoration Of Service (Rep. by Ord. 536, 12-28-1999)
9-1-21: Refusal To Serve
9-1-23: Continuity Of Service
9-1-25: Service And Charges To All Water Users Outside City Limits
9-1-27: Water Connection Charges
9-1-29: Water Rates
9-1-30: Meter Tests And Meter Error Billing Adjustments
9-1-31: Meters On New Services
9-1-32: Water User Fees For Certain Commercial Customers
9-1-33: Temporary Service
9-1-35: Extension Of Water Main Facilities
9-1-37: Billing (Payment And Lien Rights)
9-1-39: Procedure For Termination Of Services For Nonpayment
9-1-41: Appeals
9-1-43: Penalties
9-1-45: Annual Review Of Financial Status
9-1-47: General Provisions
9-1-49: Rules And Regulations
9-1-51: Fixture Unit Value Table
9-1-53: Approval Fees For Certain Projects Requiring Five Acre Feet Or More Of
Water Per Year
9-1-54: Vacant Units In Apartment Complexes, Commercial Complexes And Mobile
Home Parks
9-1-55: Right Of Way Toll
9-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the ELKO WATER CODE. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
are to mean:
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Elko.
   CONNECTION CHARGES OR CONNECTION FEE: A fee charged in order to equalize the
investment in plant and equipment and other facilities made by the city of
Elko. The charge is for the right of service in the system.
   DIRECTOR: The city engineer or any of his duly authorized representatives.
   ELKO MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM OR WATER SYSTEM: The system of conduits, pumps,
tanks and structures used for the purpose of conveying from its sources,
treating in any manner and conveying to final points of use, all water services
requested of the city and on a schedule approved by the city council.
Specifically included as integral parts of the system are all conduits of any
nature forming a part of the general network of conduits or connected directly
or indirectly to said network; all pumps, treatment facilities, tanks and
structures of any kind used in connection with the collection, treatment and
disposition of water; and all appurtenances to any of the above, either
physically or functionally connected therewith.
   FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE LINE: Public fire protection service facilities
including but not limited to fire service tap, valves, pipes, fire hydrants,
fire department connections, and backflow devices.
   FIXTURE UNIT SURVEY: The tabulation of fixture units by physical inspection
or review of construction plans to determine the fixture unit count.
   FULL FRONTAGE: All lot lines of any lot, parcel or tract of property
adjacent to a road, street, alley or right of way, to include lots, parcels or
tracts containing multiple borders or edges, such as corner lots.
   HOOKUP CHARGE: See definition of Tap Fee Or Hookup Charge.
   PREMISES: A continuous tract of land, building or group of adjacent
buildings under a single control with respect to use of water and
responsibility for payment therefor. Subdivision of such use or responsibility
shall constitute a division into separate premises, as herein defined, except
that where more than one dwelling is being served through the same water
service, in which case each of said dwellings shall constitute a separate
premises and shall be subject to the same separate charges as if separate
single-family dwellings.
   TAP FEE OR HOOKUP CHARGE: A charge made by the department for installation
of a service to a customer. The cost includes installation of a corporation
stop on the main in front of the property and installation of the service line
and curb stop terminating the service line at a point at or near the property
line.
   WATER DEPARTMENT: The city of Elko water department, located at 1751 College
Avenue.
   WATER FIXTURE UNIT: A numerical value assigned to different types of
plumbing fixtures to reflect demand of the water system. Fixture units shall be
utilized for billing on the basis of demand of each user. A tabulation of the
numerical value assigned to the various types of plumbing fixtures is included
in section
9-1-51 of this chapter.
   WATER FIXTURE UNIT COUNT: The total water fixture units (WFUs) determined by
counting or estimating and assigned to an individual water billing account
number.
   WATER FIXTURE UNIT RATE: The dollar amount charged per water fixture unit
per month ($/WFU/mo). (Ord. 740, 8-9-2011; amd. Ord. 846,12-10-2019)
9-1-5: WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Applications:
      1.   Content: Each applicant for water service shall be required to sign,
on a form provided by the water department, an application which shall set
forth:
         a.   Date.
         b.   Location of premises to be served, giving street address and
description of property to be served.
         c.   Applicant's name and mailing address and the name and mailing
address of the legal owner of the premises.
         d.   Purpose for which the property will be used (residential,
commercial, apartments, etc.).
         e.   Person and address to which the monthly bills are to be mailed.
         f.   The date the applicant will be ready for water service.
         g.   The name of the contracting or plumbing agency that will be
hooking the premises to the city water system (new connections).
         h.   If the applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the
applicant shall provide written evidence of authorization to apply for service
from the legal owner of the property.
      2.   Purpose: The application is merely a written request for service and
does not bind the applicant to take service for any period of time, nor does it
bind the city to serve, except under reasonable conditions.
      3.   Responsibility: The legal owner is responsible for the payment of
all water charges at the premises for which an application is made. Only the
legal owner of the premises may request termination of water service or a
change in the person or address to which the monthly water bill is to be sent.
   B.   Change In Customer Equipment Or Operations: A customer making any
change in the size, character or extent of the equipment or operations for
which the service is utilized shall immediately file with the water department
a new application for additional service.
   C.   Charges For Service Taps (Tap Fee):
      1.   The city will install service pipes to a point at or near the
property line. In no case will a service connection be made unless the property
to be served fronts on a street or alley with an adequately sized main and the
distance the department has to run the service is less than seventy five feet
(75'). In no instance will service connections be installed across private
property. The property owner shall, at his cost, install the meter box, yoke
and complete the service line. If adequately sized mains are not available, any
required main extensions shall be extended in accordance with the terms and
conditions of this code. The adequacy or inadequacy of main sizes shall be
determined by the director.
      2.   Charges for service taps will be set from time to time by resolution
of the city council.
If the service is installed in an existing paved street or area, a street cut
permit shall be obtained from the city engineer's office and all costs
associated with the street cut, including, but not limited to, the street cut,
required excavation, repair of the street and any required traffic control
shall be paid by the applicant.
Services over two inches (2") will be charged at actual cost of labor,
materials and equipment, plus fifteen percent (15%) to cover overhead. In
addition, for all sizes of services, the actual cost will be charged, plus
fifteen percent (15%) overhead, when unusual conditions require excessive time
to complete, such as when a street of reinforced concrete must be trenched
manually, or when it is necessary to tunnel under a railroad or a street rather
than open trench, or to push or jack service pipe. Unusual conditions will be
determined by the director.
      3.   Charges for service taps shall be collected in advance, normally at
the time the building permit is issued. When services are to be at cost plus
overhead, an estimate of costs shall be first collected and when the actual
cost and overhead is determined, any overpayment will be refunded or an
underpayment billed.
   D.   Individual Service And Shutoff:
      1.   Each residence shall have an individual service and shutoff, whether
the homes are constructed on the same lot or not. Existing residences wherein
more than one are served by a single service shall be allowed to continue as
long as all bills for water service are kept current and so long as all rules
are abided by. The water department may, at its own discretion and at any time
the above conditions are violated, decline to furnish water until separate
services are provided. In all cases where water has been supplied to several
parties or tenants from connection with supply controlled by one valve, the
water department has contracted with one of the several parties and upon his or
their failure to abide by said rules and regulations the water may be shut off.
      2.   Billings for commercial accounts shall be based on individual
services and shut off whether or not there are several separate commercial
users of said service. One billing shall be made to the property owner or his
authorized agent.
   E.   Alterations Or Extensions: No person shall make any alterations or
extensions in any water pipe or fixture except in compliance with the
provisions of this code.
   F.   Service Lines: Service lines shall be placed in a covered trench with
at least forty two inches (42") cover over the pipe.
   G.   Master House Or Building Valve: Every building or premises served by a
water service line shall have a master house or building valve installed at the
expense of the owner, in addition to the city valve, so that the occupant or
owner can shut off the water supply to the building or premises without using
the city valve or requiring the water department to close any city or other
valves to permit repairs or to shut off the water to the property for any
purpose. The property owner's shutoff valve shall be located inside the
structure located upon his property.
   H.   Tampering Prohibited: No person, other than authorized city personnel,
shall open, close, operate, tamper with, tap or connect into any city valve or
any city mains, pipes, laterals, hydrants or other valves or pipes owned or
controlled by the city or used by the city in connection with the municipal
waterworks, unless authorized by the director.
   I.   Application: Application hereunder may be made by any owner of property
to be served, or such owner's duly authorized agent.
   J.   Exemptions: Except as herein provided, subdividers and developers who
install complete water facilities, including service taps to individual
services in their developments as provided in this code, are exempt from the
tap fees when these facilities are acceptably installed solely at the expense
of the subdivider or developer. The normal connection charge will be paid prior
to the issuance of grading and/or building permits.
   K.   Water Charge: The water charge begins when a service connection is
installed unless the water is ordered to be left shut off when the service
connection is ordered to be installed. Before water is turned on by the water
department for any purpose whatsoever, the property owner must sign a form in
which he guarantees payment of future water bills for the service required. The
person signing the guarantee form will be held liable for water used until the
city council is notified in writing to discontinue service or to transfer the
account to another property owner.
   L.   Water Used Without Water Service Application Being Made: A person
taking possession of premises and using water from an active service connection
without having made application to the water department for water service,
shall be held liable for the water delivered from the date of the last recorded
billing. If proper application for water service is not made upon notification
to do so by the water department, and if accumulated bills for service are not
paid immediately, the service may be discontinued by the water department
without further notice.
   M.   Damages Through Leaking Pipes And Fixtures: When turning on the water
supply as requested and the house or property is vacant, the water department
will endeavor to ascertain if water is running on the inside of the building.
If such is found to be the case, the water will be left shut off at the curb
stop. The city council's jurisdiction and responsibility ends at the property
line and the city council will in no case be liable for damages occasioned by
water running from open or faulty fixtures, or from broken or damaged pipes
inside the property lines. (Ord. 731, 4-12-2011)
9-1-7: MANDATORY CONNECTION:
Each owner of any real or personal property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, commercial, industrial or other like purposes situated
within the incorporated areas of the city shall connect to the city water
system. Connections to the water system shall be the sole responsibility of the
owner of the property so connected as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 323, 2-
19-1982)
9-1-9: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; CUSTOMER REQUEST:
   A.   Advance Notice: A customer may have service discontinued by giving not
less than one business day's advance notice thereof at the office of the water
department. Charges for service may be required to be paid until the requested
date of discontinuance or such later date as will provide not less than the
required one business day's advance notice.
   B.   Failure To Provide Notice: When such notice is not given, the customer
will be required to pay for service until one business day after the water
department has knowledge that the customer has vacated the premises or
otherwise has discontinued water service.
   C.   Exemption For Emergency: Emergency situations will not require this
prior notice. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-11: TERMINATION FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH RULES:
The water department may terminate service to any customer for violation of
these rules after it has given the customer written notice of such intention.
Where safety of water supply is endangered, service may be discontinued or
curtailed immediately without notice. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-12: REGULATING AND LIMITING OUTDOOR USE OF MUNICIPAL WATER:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. The
word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   CITY: The city of Elko.
   MUNICIPAL WATER: Water from the city water supply system, but does not
include the city wastewater treatment plant effluent. The effluent is not
subject to the regulations contained herein.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   B.   Voluntary Encouragement Of Certain Uses: Between the dates of September
16 through June 14 of each calendar year, all persons using municipal water
within the city are encouraged to voluntarily water yards, wash sidewalks,
driveways, filling station aprons, parking lots and other similar outdoor uses
of water on odd/even days. That is to say, persons living or working at odd
numbered addresses (addresses ending in 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9) are encouraged to use
municipal water for outdoor purposes on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays.
Persons living or working at even numbered addresses (addresses ending in 0, 2,
4, 6 and 8) are encouraged to use municipal water for outdoor purposes on
Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays. Irrigation of public park areas is encouraged
on Mondays and Thursdays. For dust abatement at construction sites, the use of
reuse water is encouraged.
   C.   Prohibition Of Certain Uses:
      1.   Between the dates of June 15 through September 15 of each calendar
year, it shall be a civil infraction subject to civil fines for any person to
use municipal water within the city for the following outdoor uses: watering
yards, watering sidewalks, driveways, filling station aprons, parking lots, the
outside of dwellings and office buildings and other outdoor surfaces except in
compliance with the following schedule:
         a.   With the exception of the city, persons living or working at odd
numbered addresses (addresses ending in 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9) shall only use
municipal water for the purposes stated above on Tuesdays, Thursdays and
Saturdays.
         b.   With the exception of the city, persons living or working at even
numbered addresses (addresses ending in 0, 2, 4, 6 and 8) shall only use
municipal water for purposes stated above on Wednesdays, Fridays and Sundays.
         c.   With the exception of the city, there shall be no use of
municipal water for the above stated purposes on Mondays.
         d.   The city park lands shall be irrigated on Sunday from ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. until Monday at eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., Tuesday from ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. until Wednesday at eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., and
Thursdays from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. until Friday at eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. Exceptions may be made for public parks that demonstrate stress from lack
of water.
         e.   Hand held watering of yards shall be permitted seven (7) days per
week.
         f.   Reuse water shall be used for dust abatement at construction
sites. The city engineer may permit use of fresh water for dust abatement in
certain situations at his/her discretion. Rules and regulations for the use of
reuse water, as determined by the city engineer and/or the state division of
environmental protection, shall be adhered to by users of reuse water.
         g.   The city manager or his designee may grant exceptions to the
above listed restrictions after application by a person, only for the following
demonstrated reasons:
            (1)   Fire safety concerns;
            (2)   Dust suppression;
            (3)   Establishing new turf;
            (4)   Installation of a moisture sensing irrigation system that has
been verified and approved by the city engineer or designee;
            (5)   Inability to irrigate on designated schedule due to verified
absence, disability or other legitimate reason, as determined by the city
manager.
      2.   Approved applications for exception from outdoor watering
restrictions shall be kept on file in the city clerk's office, and a copy will
be provided to the police department.
   D.   Prohibiting Waste Of Municipal Water: It shall be a civil infraction
for any person to waste municipal water within the city. Prima facie evidence
of waste of municipal water includes escaping through defective plumbing or,
when watering yards, gardens or other vegetation, permitting municipal water to
escape and flow onto adjoining property or into or along a public street, alley
or gutter.
   E.   Additional Prohibition Of Certain Uses:
      1.   If the conditions set forth in subsection E2 of this section occur,
additional prohibitions of use of water may be ordered by the city engineer
after approval by two (2) members of the city council. It shall be a civil
infraction subject to civil fines for any person to use municipal water for
those additional prohibited uses identified under this section.
      2.   The above mandatory civil infraction may be imposed if the following
conditions occur:
         a.   Two (2) members of the city council, together with the city
manager and the city engineer verify in writing that either of the two (2)
following conditions exist:
            (1)   The total water storage capacity of the city has dropped
below fifty percent (50%); and/or
            (2)   Daily water use exceeds maximum pumping ability.
         b.   The city has caused to be published in a newspaper of local
circulation, a one time notice that beginning at nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. the
next morning following the publication of the notice that the city will begin
issuing civil infraction citations for violations of the approved outdoor
watering requirements.
         c.   That prior to the issuance of a civil infraction citation to any
person, said person will first be issued a warning citation that upon the next
violation a civil infraction citation subject to a civil fine will be issued.
   F.   Compliance: The city council may, by majority vote at a properly
noticed meeting, discontinue the process of issuing mandatory civil infraction
citations and reinstate the voluntary compliance provisions of this section if
in its discretion the city council believes circumstances have sufficiently
changed so as to justify such action.
   G.   Notice Of Civil Infraction; Form: A notice of civil infraction must be
on a form which is prescribed by the police department and must contain the
following information:
      1.   The location in which the violation occurred;
      2.   The date and time of the violation;
      3.   The signature of the person who issued the notice of civil
infraction;
      4.   The section of this code which is allegedly being violated;
      5.   Information which advises of the manner in which and the time within
which the notice of civil infraction must be answered;
      6.   Any other reasonable information which is prescribed by the police
department.
   H.   Duties Of Respondent:
      1.   A person who responds to a notice of infraction must either:
         a.   "Admit" the commission of the infraction and pay the appropriate
civil fine; or
         b.   "Deny" liability for the infraction.
      2.   A person may "admit" pursuant to subsection H1a of this section by
paying the amount of the civil fine which is appropriate for the violation to
the municipal court.
      3.   A person may "deny" liability pursuant to subsection H1b of this
section by appearing in person before the municipal court at the time specified
on the notice of civil infraction.
   I.   Commencement Of Civil Action Procedure: If liability is denied in the
manner set forth herein or if there is no admission or denial within the
prescribed time, judicial enforcement of notices of infraction must be by way
of civil suit in the municipal court if the person denies liability. The civil
action may be commenced by the filing of a complaint in the name of the city
and the issuance of a summons with respect thereto and service of such
complaint and summons on the defendant must be made by certified mail, return
receipt requested, addressed to the defendant at his or her last known address
or in any other manner which is authorized by law. The proceedings in municipal
court for actions commenced pursuant to this subsection shall be governed by
rule 1 and rules 3 through 87 of the Nevada justice court rules of civil
procedure, except that there shall be no right of trial by jury.
   J.   Schedule Of Civil Fines: The civil fines imposed on any person
violating this water conservation section of this chapter shall be established
by a resolution as adopted by the city council.
   K.   Termination Of Service For Waste Of Water: Where negligent or wasteful
use of water exists from a customer's premises, the water department may
terminate the service if such practices are not remedied after it has given the
customer written notice to such effect by certified mail or citation issued by
the city police, three (3) days prior to proposed date of termination. (Ord.
620, 6-8-2004)
9-1-15: TERMINATION FOR UNSAFE APPARATUS:
If any condition is found to exist on a customer's premises which, in the
opinion of the director constitutes a hazard to health or which may contaminate
the water supply or which threatens to damage any portion of the city water
system or if the use of water thereon by apparatus, appliances, equipment or
otherwise is found to be detrimental or damaging to the water supply, the water
department or its customers, the service may be terminated without notice. The
water department will notify the customer immediately of the reasons for the
discontinuance and the corrective action to be taken by the customer before
service can be restored. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-16: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL CODE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is: 1) to protect the public water
supply against actual or potential contamination through cross connections by
isolating sources of contamination that may occur within a water user's
premises because of some undiscovered or unauthorized cross connection on the
premises; 2) to eliminate existing connections between drinking water systems
and other sources of water that are not approved as safe and potable for human
consumption; 3) to eliminate cross connections between drinking water systems
and sources of contamination; 4) to prevent the making of cross connection(s)
in the future.
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words, and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. The
word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   ASSE STANDARD: An official standard developed and approved by the American
Society of Sanitary Engineering.
   AWWA STANDARD: An official standard developed and approved by the American
Water Works Association (AWWA).
   AIR GAP SEPARATION: The unobstructed vertical distance or physical
separation between a point of free flowing discharge of water from a pipe that
supplies water to an open or nonpressurized vessel, tank or receptacle and the
overflow rim of that vessel, tank, or receptacle. An air gap must be at least
twice the effective diameter of that pipe or, if the pipe is affected by
sidewalls at least three (3) times the effective diameter of that pipe. In no
case shall an air gap separation be less than one inch (1").
   APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: Any assembly manufactured and
utilized to prevent back pressure and/or back siphonage in full conformance
with the standards established by the American Waterworks Association entitled,
AWWA C506 (current revision) standards for reduced pressure principle and
double check valve backflow prevention devices, and which have passed
laboratory and field evaluation tests performed by a recognized testing
organization which has demonstrated their competency to perform such tests.
   APPROVED WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply whose potability is regulated by a
state or local health agency.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER: An assembly that consists of a vacuum breaker
that contains an air inlet valve, a check seat and one or more air inlet ports,
in which the flow of water causes the air inlet valve to close the air inlet
ports; and when the flow of water stops:
      1.   The air inlet valve falls and forms a check valve against back
siphonage; and
      2.   The air inlet ports open to allow air to enter the pipe and satisfy
the vacuum.
      3.   Has been manufactured, tested and approved, by an approved backflow
testing laboratory, in accordance with the American Water Works Association
standard C512.
      4.   Does not protect against back pressure conditions.
   AUXILIARY SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the approved water supply.
   BACKFLOW: A flow condition, caused by a differential in pressure, that
causes the flow of water or other liquids, gases, mixtures or substances into
the distributing pipes of a potable supply of water from any source or sources
other than an approved water supply source. Back siphonage is one cause of
backflow. Back pressure is the other cause.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL: The duly appointed building official of the city of Elko,
Nevada. Any act stated in this plan that is required or authorized by the
"building official" may be done on his behalf by an authorized representative
of the city building department.
   CITY UTILITIES DIRECTOR: The duly appointed city utilities director of the
city of Elko, Nevada. Any act stated in this plan that is required or
authorized by the "city utilities director" may be done on his behalf by an
authorized representative of the city engineering department or the city water
department.
   CONTAMINATION: A degradation of the quality of the potable water by any
foreign substance which creates a hazard to the public health or which may
impair the usefulness or quality of the water.
   CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical plumbing arrangement whereby the public water
supply is connected, directly or indirectly, with any other water supply
system, sewer, drain, conduit, swimming pool, storage reservoir, plumbing
fixture or other device which contains or may contain contaminated water or
chemicals that are capable of contaminating the public water supply in the
event of "backflow", "back siphonage" or "back pressure". Bypass arrangements,
jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or changeover assemblies, or
other assemblies through which backflow could occur, shall be considered to be
cross connections.
   CUSTOMER: Any person, persons, firm or corporation that is provided potable
water from the public water supply system through a legal water service
connection to the public water supply distribution network.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD: Shall express the results of an evaluation of a health,
system, or plumbing hazard. The degree of hazard will be used to evaluate the
type of backflow and back siphonage protection required to protect the public
water supply.
   DOUBLE CHECK DETECTOR CHECK ASSEMBLY: An assembly that:
      1.   Is composed of two (2) spring loaded check valves;
      2.   A bypass assembly that contains a water meter and another double
check valve assembly; and
      3.   Has tightly closing, resilient seated shutoff valves attached at
each end.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY (DCVA): An approved backflow prevention assembly
that:
      1.   Is composed of two (2) independently acting, approved check valves;
      2.   Has tightly closing, resilient seated shutoff valves attached at
each end;
      3.   Is fitted with properly located, resilient seated test cocks; and
      4.   Has been manufactured, tested and approved, by an approved backflow
testing laboratory, in accordance with the American Water Works Association
standard C510.
   HEALTH HAZARD: Any condition, device, or practice in a water supply system
and/or its operation that creates, or may create, a danger to the health and
well being of a customer. Health hazards may occur on the customer's premises
and must be addressed to remedy the danger to the customer and/or the public
water supply.
   PERSON: Any individual, corporation, company, association, partnership,
municipality, public utility, or other public body or institution.
   PLUMBING HAZARD: A cross connection within a customer's potable water system
that may permit back siphonage in the event of a negative pressure in the
supply line or in the public water distribution system.
   PREMISES: Any and all areas on a water user's property which are served or
have the potential to be served by the public water system.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER (PVB): Approved assembly that:
      1.   Contains an independently operating, internally loaded approved
check valve and an independently operating, loaded air inlet valve located on
the discharge side of the approved check valve; and
      2.   Is equipped with properly located, resilient seated test cocks and
tightly closing, resilient seated shutoff valves that are attached at each end
of the assembly.
      3.   Does not protect against back pressure conditions.
   PUBLIC HEALTH OFFICER: Shall be a representative of the Nevada bureau of
consumer health with the authority to enforce state public health requirements.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A system for the provision of piped water to the public
for human consumption that has fifteen (15) or more service connections or
regularly serves an average of twenty five (25) individuals daily at least
sixty (60) days out of the year.
   RECLAIMED WATER: A wastewater, which as a result of treatment is suitable
for uses other than potable use.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW (RPPB): An approved assembly that:
      1.   Contains two (2) independently acting approved check valves and a
hydraulically operating, mechanically independent pressure relief valve that is
located between the approved check valves and below the upstream check valve;
      2.   Has properly located, resilient seated test cocks and tightly
closing, resilient seated shutoff valves at each end of the assembly;
      3.   Is designed to protect against pollution and contamination under
conditions of back siphonage or back pressure; and
      4.   Has been manufactured, tested and approved by an approved backflow
testing laboratory, in accordance with the American Water Works Association
standard C511.
   REDUCED PRESSURE DETECTOR ASSEMBLY (RPDA): An assembly that:
      1.   Is composed of a line sized, reduced pressure principle assembly;
      2.   A bypass assembly that contains a water meter and another reduced
pressure principle assembly; and
      3.   Has tightly closing, resilient seated shutoff valves attached at
each end.
   RESIDENTIAL DUAL CHECK VALVE: An approved assembly that:
      1.   Contains two (2) inline spring loaded poppet check cartridges;
      2.   Meets the performance requirements specified in the American Society
of Sanitary Engineering standard #1024.
   SERVICE CONNECTION: Refers to the point of connection of a customer's piping
to the water supplier's facilities. Except, when the customer's water piping
system distributes to more than one family dwelling, each dwelling shall be
considered as a service connection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD: Threat to the physical properties of the public or the
customer's potable water system by a material not dangerous to the health but
aesthetically objectionable that would have a degrading effect on the quality
of the potable water within the system.
   WATER DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR: Shall be that person or persons employed by the
Elko city water department that have been trained and are qualified to perform
the designated inspection work.
   WATER SUPPLIER: The person who owns or operates an approved water supply
system.
   WATER USER: Any person obtaining water from an approved water system.
   C.   Cross Connection Protection Requirements:
      1.   General Provisions:
         a.   Unprotected cross connections with the public water supply are
prohibited. The Nevada administrative code requires the state health officer's
written approval to interconnect water supplies.
         b.   Whenever backflow protection has been found necessary, the city
of Elko will require the water user to install an approved backflow prevention
assembly by and at the user's expense for continued services or before new
service will be granted. For new water meter sets, the required backflow
assembly shall be installed, inspected, and approved. Certified test results
must be provided to the city of Elko within five (5) days of meter set, unless
the city of Elko, or its designee approves otherwise. The service will be
locked off if inspections and certifications are not completed as specified
above. A fee will be established by resolution for additional inspections.
         c.   Wherever backflow protection has been found necessary on a water
supply line entering a water user's premises, any and all water supply lines
for the city of Elko mains entering such premises, buildings, or structures
shall be protected by an approved backflow prevention assembly. The type of
assembly to be installed will be in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
      2.   Where Protection Is Required:
         a.   Each service connection from the city of Elko water system for
supplying water to premises that have an auxiliary water supply shall be
protected against backflow of water from the premises into the public water
system unless the auxiliary water supply is an approved water supply. The
Nevada administrative code requires the state health officer's written approval
to interconnect water supplies.
         b.   Each service connection from the city of Elko water system for
supplying water to the premises in which any substance is handled in such
fashion as may allow its entry into the water system shall be protected against
backflow of the water from the premises into the public system. This shall
include the handling of process waters and waters originating from the city of
Elko water system which have been subjected to deterioration of its sanitary
quality.
         c.   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed on the service
connection to any premises having: 1) internal cross connections that cannot be
permanently corrected and controlled to the satisfaction of the city of Elko,
or 2) intricate plumbing and piping arrangements or where entry to all portions
of the premises is not readily accessible for inspection purposes, making it
impractical or impossible to ascertain whether or not cross connections exist.
         d.   Each service connection from the city of Elko water system for
supplying water to premises with fire sprinkler or fire suppression systems
must have a cross connection control system.
      3.   Type Of Protection Required:
         a.   The type of protection that shall be provided to prevent backflow
into the approved water supply shall be appropriate for the degree of hazard
that exists on the water user's premises. The type of protective assembly that
shall be required (listing in an increasing level of protection) includes:
double check valve assembly (DC), reduced pressure principle backflow
prevention assembly (RP), and an air gap separation (AG). The water user may
choose a higher level of protection than required by the city of Elko. The
minimum types of backflow protection required to protect the approved water
supply at the user's water connection are provided in the Nevada administrative
code. Situations that are not covered by the Nevada administrative code shall
be evaluated on a case by case basis, and the city of Elko shall determine the
appropriate backflow protection.
         b.   When two (2) or more services supply water from different street
mains to the same building, structure, or premises through which an interpreted
main flow may occur, each water service shall have at least a standard check
valve to be located adjacent to and on the property side of the respective
meters. These check valves shall not be considered adequate if backflow
protection is deemed necessary to protect the mains from pollution or
contamination, in which case the installation of approved backflow assemblies
should be required.
   D.   Backflow Prevention Assemblies:
      1.   Approved Backflow Prevention Assemblies:
         a.   Only backflow prevention assemblies which have been manufactured,
tested, and approved according to AWWA specifications shall be acceptable for
installation by a water user connected to the city of Elko's potable water
system.
      2.   Backflow Prevention Assembly Installation:
         a.   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in a manner
prescribed in the AWWA standards, the uniform plumbing code, and specifically
NAC 445A.6723-6724 inclusive, as adopted by the city of Elko.
            (1)   Air Gap Separation (AG): An air gap must be at least twice
the effective diameter of that pipe, or, if the pipe is affected by sidewalls
at least three (3) times the effective diameter of that pipe. In no case shall
an air gap separation be less than one inch (1"). An air gap must be installed
in a manner prescribed in the AWWA standards, the uniform plumbing code, and
specifically NAC 445A.6723 as adopted by the city of Elko. No water use shall
be provided from any point between the service connection and the air gap
separation. The water inlet piping shall terminate a distance of at least two
(2) pipe diameters from the supply inlet, but in no case less than one inch
(1") above the overflow rim of the receiving tank.
            (2)   Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow Prevention Assembly (RP):
The approved reduced pressure principle assembly shall be installed on the
user's side of and as close to the service connection as practical. Measured
from the bottom of the assembly the assembly shall be installed a minimum of
twelve inches (12") above grade, floor, or platform and not more than thirty
six inches (36") above grade, floor or platform and with a minimum of twelve
inches (12") side clearance. The assembly shall be installed so that it is
readily accessible for maintenance and testing. An approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly must be installed in a manner prescribed
in AWWA standards, the uniform plumbing code, and specifically NAC 445A.67235
as adopted by the city of Elko. Water supplied from any point between the
service connection and the RP assembly shall be protected in a manner approved
by the city of Elko.
            (3)   Double Check Valve Assembly (DC): The approved double check
valve assembly shall be installed on the user's side of and as close to the
service connection as possible. The assembly shall be installed inside a heated
vault or similar structure and readily accessible for testing and maintenance.
The assembly must be installed a minimum of twelve inches (12") above grade,
floor, or platform, and not more than thirty six inches (36") above grade,
floor, or platform. A minimum of twenty four inches (24") of clearance between
the side of the assembly with test cocks and the side of the vault and a
minimum of twelve inches (12") clearance between the assembly and the side of
the vault. An approved double check valve assembly must be installed in a
manner prescribed in the AWWA standards, the uniform plumbing code, and
specifically NAC 445A.6724 as adopted by the city of Elko.
            (4)   Atmospheric Vacuum Breaker Assembly: Atmospheric vacuum
breaker assemblies do not protect against back pressure conditions. Any
installation of atmospheric vacuum breaker assemblies shall be approved by the
city of Elko. The assembly shall be installed at least six inches (6") higher
than the final outlet. An approved atmospheric vacuum breaker assembly must be
installed in a manner prescribed in the AWWA standards and the uniform plumbing
code as adopted by the city of Elko.
            (5)   Pressure Vacuum Breaker Assembly: Pressure vacuum breaker
assemblies do not protect against back pressure conditions. Any installation of
pressure vacuum breaker assemblies shall be approved by the city of Elko. The
assembly shall be installed at least six inches (6") to twelve inches (12")
higher than the existing outlet. An approved pressure vacuum breaker assembly
must be installed in a manner prescribed in the AWWA standards and the uniform
plumbing code as adopted by the city of Elko.
            (6)   Residential Dual Check Valve Assembly: The approved
residential dual check valve assembly shall be installed on the user's side and
as close to the service connection as possible. Any installation of residential
dual check valve assemblies shall be approved by the city of Elko. An approved
residential dual check valve assembly must be installed in a manner prescribed
in the uniform plumbing code as adopted by the city of Elko.
      3.   Backflow Prevention Assembly Testing And Maintenance:
         a.   Testing Frequency; Report: The owner of any premises on which, or
on account of which, backflow prevention assemblies are installed shall have
the assemblies tested by a certified person who has demonstrated competency in
testing of these assemblies to the city of Elko. Backflow prevention assemblies
must be tested at least annually and immediately after installation, relocation
or repair. The city of Elko may require a more frequent testing schedule if it
is determined to be necessary. No assembly shall be placed back in service
unless it is functioning as required. A report in a form acceptable must be
filed with the city of Elko each time an assembly is tested, relocated or
repaired. The assemblies shall be serviced, overhauled, or replaced whenever
they are found to be defective, and all costs of testing, repair, and
maintenance shall be borne by the water user.
         b.   Backflow Prevention Assembly Removals: Approval must be obtained
from the city of Elko before a backflow prevention assembly is removed,
relocated, or replaced.
            (1)   Removal: The use of an assembly may be discontinued and the
assembly removed from service upon presentation of sufficient evidence to the
city of Elko to verify that a hazard no longer exists or is not likely to be
created in the future.
            (2)   Relocation: An assembly may be relocated following
confirmation by the city of Elko that the relocation will continue to provide
the required protection and satisfy installation requirements. A retest will be
required following the relocation of the assembly.
            (3)   Repair: An assembly may be removed for repair, provided the
water use is either discontinued until the repair is completed and the assembly
is tested and returned to service, or the service connection is equipped with
other backflow protection approved by the city of Elko. The retest will be
required following the repair of the assembly.
            (4)   Replacement: An assembly may be removed and replaced provided
the water use is discontinued until the replacement assembly is installed and
tested. All replacement assemblies must be approved by the city of Elko and
must be appropriate with the degree of hazard involved. A retest will be
required following the replacement of the assembly.
   E.   Administrative Procedures:
      1.   Water System Survey:
         a.   The city of Elko will review all requests for new service to
determine if backflow protection is needed. Plans and specifications must be
submitted to the city of Elko upon request for review of possible cross
connection hazards as a condition of service for new service connections. If it
is determined that a backflow prevention assembly is necessary to protect the
public water system, the required assembly must be installed before service
will be granted.
         b.   The city of Elko may require an on site inspection to evaluate
cross connection hazards. The city of Elko will transmit a written notice
requesting an inspection appointment to each affected water user. Any water
user who cannot or will not allow an on premises inspection of the premises'
piping system shall be required to install the backflow prevention assembly or
air gap which the city of Elko considers necessary. Wherever the safety of the
water supply is endangered services may be discontinued immediately without
notice.
         c.   The city of Elko may, at its discretion, require a reinspection
for cross connection hazards of any premises to which it serves water. The city
of Elko will transmit a written notice requesting an inspection appointment to
each affected water user. Any water user who cannot or will not allow an on
premises inspection of the premises' piping systems shall be required to
install the backflow prevention or air gap which the city of Elko considers
necessary. Wherever the safety of the water supply is endangered services may
be discontinued immediately without notice.
      2.   Customer Notification; Assembly Installation:
         a.   The city of Elko will notify the water user of the survey
findings, listing the corrective actions to be taken if any are required. A
period of up to ninety (90) days will be given to complete all corrective
actions required, including installation and testing of approved backflow
prevention assemblies or air gap, unless a written extension is granted.
         b.   A second notice will be sent to each water user who does not take
the required corrective actions prescribed in the first notice, within the
period allowed. The second notice will give the water user up to thirty (30)
days to take the required corrective action. If no action is taken within the
thirty (30) day period, the city of Elko may terminate water service to the
affected water user until the required corrective actions are taken.
      3.   Customer Notification; Testing And Maintenance:
         a.   The city of Elko will notify each affected water user when it is
time for the backflow prevention assembly installed on their service connection
to be tested or the air gap to be inspected. This written notice shall give the
water user thirty (30) days to have the assembly tested or air gap inspected
and supply the water user with the necessary form to be completed and
resubmitted to the city of Elko.
         b.   A second notice shall be sent to each water user who does not
have the backflow prevention assembly tested or air gap inspected as prescribed
in the first notice within the thirty (30) day period allowed. The second
notice will give the water user up to thirty (30) days to have the backflow
prevention assembly tested or the air gap inspected. If no action is taken
within the thirty (30) day period, the city of Elko may terminate water service
to the affected water user until the subject assembly is tested or air gap
inspected.
   F.   Water Service Termination:
      1.   General: When the city of Elko encounters water users that represent
a clear and immediate hazard to the water supply that cannot be immediately
abated, the city of Elko will institute the procedure for discontinuing the
city of Elko water service.
      2.   Basis For Termination: Conditions or water uses that create a basis
for water service termination include, but are not limited to, the following
items:
         a.   Refusal to install a required backflow prevention assembly or air
gap separation;
         b.   Refusal to test a backflow prevention assembly or inspect an air
gap separation;
         c.   Refusal to repair a faulty backflow prevention assembly;
         d.   Refusal to replace a faulty backflow prevention assembly;
         e.   Direct or indirect connection between the public water system and
a sewer line;
         f.   Unprotected direct or indirect connection between the public
water system and a system or equipment providing the potential of contaminating
the public water supply;
         g.   Unprotected direct or indirect connection between the public
water system and an auxiliary water system;
         h.   A situation that presents an immediate health hazard to the
public water system.
      3.   Water Service Termination Procedure:
         a.   For conditions in subsection F2a, F2b, F2c, or F2d of this
section, the city of Elko will terminate service to the customer's premises
after two (2) written notices have been sent by first class regular mail
specifying the corrective action needed and the time period in which it must be
done. If no action is taken within the allotted time period, water service may
be terminated.
         b.   For high risk conditions in subsection F2e, F2f, F2g, or F2h of
this section, the city of Elko will terminate the water supply and lock the
service valve. The water service will remain inactive until the city of Elko
has approved corrections of violations.
   G.   Enforcement, Penalties: The city of Elko shall have the authority to
enforce this section.
It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation at any time to make or
maintain or cause to be made or maintained, temporarily or permanently, for any
period of time whatsoever, any cross connection between plumbing pipes or water
fixtures being served with water by the city of Elko water system and any other
source of water supply or to maintain any sanitary fixture or other
appurtenances or fixtures which, by reason of their construction, may cause or
allow backflow of water or other substances into the water supply system of the
city of Elko and/or the service of water pipes or fixtures of any customer of
the city of Elko. (Ord. 688, 3-25-2008, eff. 5-1-2008)
9-1-17: TERMINATION FOR FRAUDULENT USE OF SERVICE:
When the water department has discovered that a customer has obtained service
by fraudulent means, or has diverted the water service for unauthorized use,
the service to that customer may be discontinued without notice. The water
department will not restore service to such customer until that customer has
complied with the water code and rules and reasonable requirements of the water
department and the water department has been reimbursed for the full amount of
the service rendered and the actual cost to the water department incurred by
reason of the fraudulent use. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-19: RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
(Rep. by Ord. 536, 12-28-1999)
9-1-21: REFUSAL TO SERVE:
   A.   Conditions For Refusal: The water department may refuse to serve an
applicant for service under the following conditions:
      1.   If the applicant fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   If the intended use of the service is of such nature that it will be
detrimental or injurious to existing customers.
      3.   If, in the judgment of the director, the applicant's installation
for utilizing the service is unsafe or hazardous, or subject to freezing, or of
such nature that satisfactory service cannot be rendered.
      4.   Where service has been discontinued for fraudulent use, the director
will not serve an applicant until it has been determined that all conditions of
fraudulent use or practice have been corrected.
   B.   Notification To Customers: When an applicant is refused service under
the provisions of this chapter, the water department will notify the applicant
that he may appeal the decision of the water department to the city council.
(Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-23: CONTINUITY OF SERVICE:
   A.   Emergency Interruptions:
      1.   The water department will make all reasonable efforts to prevent
interruptions to service and when such interruptions occur will endeavor to
reestablish service with the shortest possible delay consistent with the safety
of its customers and the general public.
      2.   Where any emergency interruption of service affects the service to
any public fire protection device, the water department will promptly endeavor
to notify the fire department headquarters of such interruption and of
subsequent restoration of normal service.
   B.   Scheduled Interruptions: Whenever the water department finds it
necessary to schedule an interruption to its service, it will, where feasible,
notify all customers to be affected by the interruptions, stating the
approximate time and anticipated duration of the interruption. Scheduled
interruptions will be made at such hours as will provide least inconvenience to
the customers consistent with reasonable water department operations.
   C.   Apportionment Of Supply During Times Of Shortage: During times of
threatened or actual water shortage, the director will apportion the supply in
the manner that appears most suitable under circumstances then prevailing, and
with due regard to public health and safety. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-25: SERVICE AND CHARGES TO ALL WATER USERS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
   A.   The city council shall have authority to make and enter into such
contract as may be necessary, convenient or proper with respect to water
service to improved property outside the territorial limits of the city and
with respect to the payment of proper charges for such service, including,
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, connection charges, and
justly relating to, but in no case less than the rates established for users
within the city; provided that no such contract shall impair the ability of the
water department to properly service its customers within the city.
   B.   All water charges (connection charges and user charges), except tap
fees, to applicants and customers of any class outside the city limits shall be
one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the amount normally charged for services
within the city limits for such classification. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-27: WATER CONNECTION CHARGES:
   A.   Connection Fee: For each initial or new connection made to the water
system, there shall be charged an initial payment in the form of a connection
fee which shall be set by resolution of the city council in accordance with the
following schedules:
      1.   Residential And Other Housing Units:
         a.   For each residential or other housing unit, multi-family
dwelling, apartment house or trailer court, the charge shall be fifty (50)
times the monthly bill until changed by resolution of the city council,
determined by the water fixture unit rate in effect and the established water
fixture unit count.
         b.   The connection charge shall apply to all parcels and lots which
have not previously been served by the municipal water system and each lot of
any new subdivision to be served by the municipal water system.
      2.   Commercial And Industrial Connections:
         a.   For all initial or new commercial and industrial water
connections, the connection fee shall be fifty (50) times the monthly bill
until changed by resolution of the city council determined by the water fixture
unit rate in effect and the water fixture unit count determined by the building
inspector.
         b.   Note: Water lines installed for fire protection only with normal
service usage are exempt from the connection charge.
      3.   Modification And Expansion Of Facilities:
         a.   If any premises is modified or expanded, increasing the WFU
count, the connection charge will be fifty (50) times the monthly bill until
changed by resolution of the city council. The monthly bill shall be, for
purposes of this subsection, determined by the water fixture unit rate in
effect times the net increase in the water fixture unit count (net increase WFU
x 50 x WFU rate).
         b.   In converting a residential building to commercial use or
developing a commercial use on a lot with previous water service (in which the
building has been demolished or removed), the applicant shall pay the
connection charge based upon the net increase in fixture units. In the event
there is no record of the fixture units in the original structure, the
applicant will be credited sixty six (66) fixture units unless changed by
resolution of the city council. In no case will a refund be granted for a new
reduction in fixture units.
      4.   Determination Of Water Fixture Unit Count: The building inspector
will conduct a fixture unit survey at the time a building permit is requested.
This will be done off of construction drawings provided by the applicant. The
final count will be based on a final inspection by the building inspector of
any completed structure.
   B.   Payment: The water connection charge shall be payable on demand to the
city at the time the building inspector issues a building permit.
   C.   Water Fixture Unit Count: Until further resolution of the city council,
the water fixture unit count and resulting rates for water use and consumption
for residences shall be based on the following water fixture units (WFU) per
dwelling unit:
 
                                                              WFU
All single-family dwellings                                    66
All multiple-family dwellings (duplex, triplex and quadraplex) 66
Apartments                                                     46
Trailers in trailer courts (RV parks not included)             66
 
   D.   Places Of Worship: Churches, synagogues and other facilities for
religious worship shall be charged at the minimum commercial rate.
   E.   Other Water Users: All water users not specifically set forth in
subsection C of this section shall be classified as commercial or industrial
users and water fixture units will be determined on the basis of the "fixture
unit value table" contained in section
9-1-51 of this chapter. (Ord. 694, 4-22-2008)
9-1-29: WATER RATES:
   A.   Residential: Rates for water use and consumption shall be set by
resolution of the city council.
   B.   Classes Of Service Other Than Residential:
      1.   Rates Set By Resolution: Rates for water use and consumption for all
other classes and types of uses shall be set by resolution of the city council.
      2.   Water Fixture Unit Count For Existing Accounts: The water fixture
unit count for all existing accounts shall be determined by the citywide
fixture unit survey conducted in November 1981.
      3.   New Water Fixture Counts: New water fixture counts shall be
determined by the building inspector who will conduct a fixture unit survey at
the time a building permit is requested from the construction drawings provided
by the applicant or when a final building inspection is done by the building
inspector of the completed structure.
      4.   Revision Of Water Fixture Unit Count: The director, or his designee,
may revise any water fixture unit count based on a resurvey of any
establishment or property at his sole discretion.
      5.   Resurvey Of Water Fixture Unit Count; Fee: The property owner may
also request a resurvey of his water fixture unit count at any time upon
payment of a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      6.   Meter Rates:
         a.   As an alternative to the water fixture unit method of billing,
the city will bill based upon a metered quantity consumed. The user must submit
a method of reporting meter readings satisfactory to the director to assure
safeguards against tampering with the meter. Once the user selects to use a
meter as a basis of his billing, he may revert to a WFU basis only on the
anniversary date of his selection to use the meter as the basis for billing.
The user shall purchase his water meter from the city and the user shall pay
all costs incurred in installing such meter.
         b.   The meter rate shall be set by resolution of the city council.
      7.   Fire protection service line fee will be set by resolution of the
city council.
   C.   Minimum Charge: The minimum charge for water service for any
classification of water user shall be based on sixty six (66) WFUs times the
rate per water fixture unit for such classification.
   D.   Public Facilities: Water fees shall be assessed for all public
buildings unless specifically waived by the city council as part of a lease of
public property.
   E.   Changes In Rates: All changes in user rates for water use and
consumption shall first be proposed to the city council at a regularly
scheduled meeting. The proposed change in rates shall not be acted upon until
the following regularly scheduled or subsequent meeting. (Ord. 560, 1-23-2001;
amd. Ord. 561, 2-27-2001; Ord. 846, 12-10-2019)
9-1-30: METER TESTS AND METER ERROR BILLING ADJUSTMENTS:
   A.   Meter Tests:
      1.   On Consumer Request:
         a.   A customer may request the city test the meter serving his/her
premises.
         b.   The charge for the test shall be an amount to be specified by
resolution of the city council. The customer will be required to deposit the
full amount with the city prior to the test being performed.
         c.   The full deposit including shipping, testing, and labor will be
returned to the customer if the meter is found to register more than two
percent (2%) inaccurate.
         d.   The meter may be tested by an outside meter manufacturer or its
agency, or by a reliable organization equipped for water meter testing.
         e.   A report showing the results of the test will be furnished to the
customer.
   B.   Meter Error Billing Adjustments:
      1.   Fast Meters: When, upon testing, a meter is found to be registering
more than two percent (2%) fast, the city will refund to the customer the
amount of the overcharge based on the corrected meter readings for the period
the meter was in use but not to exceed three (3) months.
      2.   Slow Meters: When, upon testing, a meter is found to be registering
more than two percent (2%) slow, the city will bill the consumer for the amount
of the undercharge based on the corrected meter readings for the period the
meter was in service but not to exceed three (3) months.
      3.   Nonregistering Meters: The city may bill the consumer for water
consumed while the meter was nonregistering for a period not to exceed three
(3) months at an estimate of the consumption based upon the consumer's prior
use during the same season of the previous year if conditions were unchanged,
or at an estimate based upon a reasonable comparison with the use of other
consumers during the same period, receiving the same class of service under
similar conditions.
      4.   General: When the city determines that a meter is malfunctioning or
it is found that an error in a meter is due to a certain cause, the date of
which can be determined, the overcharge or undercharge will be computed back
to, but not beyond, such date.
      5.   Estimation: When a meter has been removed for testing, if available,
a replacement meter will be substituted to track usage. In the event a
replacement meter is not available, the usage will be accounted for and
estimated based on historical data of the customer's prior use or a reasonable
comparison of other customers under similar conditions.
The customer is responsible for the purchase of the initial meter. The city
will maintain and replace thereafter at the city's expense, except in cases of
vandalism, fraud or damage caused by the customer. (Ord. 689, 3-11-2008)
9-1-31: METERS ON NEW SERVICES:
All new water services (excluding the replacement of an existing water service
not on metered service) shall be made with the user purchasing from the city
the water meter brand required by the city at the user's expense and also
installing the appropriate meter box approved by the director. The city will
install the water meter. The city may not charge the user any cost greater than
the city cost of purchasing and installing the required water meter. (Ord. 641,
6-28-2005)
9-1-32: WATER USER FEES FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS:
   A.   Authorized: Any metered commercial business which maintains and
beautifies the Nevada department of transportation (NDOT) right of way for
State Route 225 (Mountain City Highway) will be charged for water use only as
related to the maintenance and beautification of the right of way.
   B.   Metering: The metered commercial customer's water use for right of way
irrigation shall be determined as follows:
      1.   Measuring the actual volume of water used through a secondary water
meter; or
      2.   If circumstances allow, subtracting the winter water usage (when the
right of way is not being irrigated) from the summer water usage (when the
right of way is being irrigated), as recorded on the master water meter. Any
such customer shall inform the water department of the dates when the right of
way irrigation began and when it stopped. (Ord. 656, 10-25-2005)
9-1-33: TEMPORARY SERVICE:
   A.   Duration Of Service: Temporary service connections shall be
disconnected and terminated within six (6) months after installation unless an
extension of time is granted in writing by the director.
   B.   Deposit: The applicant shall deposit, in advance, the estimated cost of
installing and removing the facilities required to furnish said service,
exclusive of the cost of salvageable material. Upon discontinuance of service,
the actual cost shall be determined and an adjustment made as an additional
charge, refund or credit. If service is supplied through a fire hydrant, the
applicant will be charged in accordance with the following rate schedule:
 
Flat charge per connection, for both installation and removal of service $75.00
facilities, including meter
Each additional move of facilities to another location                   25.00
 
   C.   Installation And Operation: All facilities for temporary service to the
customer connection shall be made by the water department and shall be operated
in accordance with its instructions.
   D.   Responsibility For Meters And Installations: The customer shall use all
possible care to prevent damage to the meter or to any other loaned facilities
of the water department which are involved in furnishing temporary service from
the time they are installed until they are removed, or until forty eight (48)
hours' notice in writing has been given to the water department that the
contractor or other person is through with the meter or meters and the
installation. If the meter or other facilities are damaged, the cost of making
repairs shall be paid by the customer.
   E.   Supply From Fire Hydrant: An applicant for temporary use of water from
a fire hydrant must secure a permit therefor from the water department and pay
the regular fee charged for the temporary service connection and provide
himself with a hydrant wrench necessary to operate such hydrant, or pay the
water department fifteen dollars ($15.00) for the loan of such equipment, and
pay for the water use in accordance with the meter readings at the rates
prescribed by the city council. The water department will notify the fire
department of any such connections and/or use.
   F.   Unauthorized Use Of Hydrants: Tampering with any fire hydrant for the
unauthorized use of water therefrom, or for any other purpose, is a city
offense, punishable by fine and/or incarceration.
   G.   Rates: The rates for temporary service shall be one dollar fifty cents
($1.50) per one thousand (1,000) gallons. The minimum charge for water shall be
fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month. Water charges shall be billed monthly.
   H.   Credit: The applicant shall pay the estimated cost of service in
advance or shall be otherwise required to establish credit. (Ord. 323, 2-19-
1982)
9-1-35: EXTENSION OF WATER MAIN FACILITIES:
Water main facilities may be extended by subdivider, developer, property owner
or other persons in accordance with plans and specifications submitted to and
approved by the city engineer.
   A.   Construction And Extension: The inside diameter of every water main
shall not be less than ten inches (10"), except as may be determined by the
city engineer. The subdivider, developer, property owner or other persons shall
construct all water mains in accordance with the plans and specifications as
submitted and approved by the city engineer and pay any and all costs for the
minimum size water main required for this development as determined by the city
engineer. Every water main extension must be extended across the full frontage
of the developer's or property owner's property and not only to the closest
corner of their property.
   B.   Connection: Upon connection to the water system, the subdivider,
developer, property owner or other persons shall dedicate all water mains
located on property owned or controlled by the city to the city. Upon
dedication and after the one year contractor warranty period has expired, the
city will operate and maintain the water main located on said property.
   C.   Construction Of Larger Mains: Whenever, in the opinion of the city
council or city engineer, it is necessary that a water main be constructed of a
larger capacity than the minimum capacity set forth in subsection A of this
section, then the city shall pay the difference in pipe material cost for the
oversized water main. The subdivider, developer, property owner or other person
shall be required to purchase materials, construct and install such oversized
water main required.
   D.   Reimbursement: In a situation where water main facilities are required
to be extended at least one hundred feet (100') from an existing main and the
city council determines that the area through which the main will be extended
is well suited for growth, the city council may determine to apply the
following reimbursement process:
      1.   Water main facilities may be extended by a subdivider, developer,
property owner or other person (the applicant).
      2.   The actual cost of extending the water main (cost of materials and
labor only) shall be paid by the applicant.
      3.   The city may thereafter collect from any water user connecting
directly to such extension an extension connection fee which is represented by
that fraction of the actual cost of such extension, as approved by the city, as
the number of front feet or acreage, or combination of the two (2), which may
be served by such extension when connected to the city water system.
      4.   Extension connection fees, together with regular fees collected
pursuant to section
9-5-29 of this title from new water users above the extension, shall be paid by
the city to the applicant originally installing such extension up to an amount
equal to ninety percent (90%) of the cost of the extension.
         a.   The use of connection fees for payment to the applicant shall be
limited to not longer than seven (7) years after the date said extension is
originally connected to the city water system.
         b.   The use of extension connection fees for payment to the applicant
shall not be limited in time.
         c.   The city shall in no way be obligated to assure that the
applicant making such extension is paid ninety percent (90%) of the total costs
thereof nor to initiate any action or incur any expense to collect any sum to
be paid to the applicant.
      5.   Where different applicants contribute to the making of the
extension, such sums shall be refunded to such applicants prorated according to
the amounts which they separately contributed toward the extension and pursuant
to the preceding plan.
   E.   Special Reimbursement Agreements: Where special conditions exist in the
opinion of the city which justify reimbursement to the person paying the costs
of a main extension which justify reimbursement on any basis other than that
provided in subsection D of this section, the city council may authorize a
special reimbursement contract by the city and the person or persons
constructing the main extension. Said special reimbursement agreement shall be
made and entered into prior to acceptance of the work and water main by the
city. (Ord. 494, 12-9-1997)
9-1-37: BILLING (PAYMENT AND LIEN RIGHTS):
All bills for water services shall be rendered monthly or bimonthly at the
established rate in advance, or such bills may be rendered on a regularly
established day of each and every period in which the service was rendered.
Each bill shall show the amount of the water service charge. In the event the
water bill, or any part thereof, is not paid in full within fifteen (15) days
after the date when billed, it will be considered delinquent and subject the
customer and property owner to termination of service, and allow the city to
claim a lien on the property for the amount of the bill. In all cases, the
property owner shall be ultimately responsible for the payment of the water
bill. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-39: PROCEDURE FOR TERMINATION OF SERVICES FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Delinquency: On the sixteenth day succeeding the mailing of
any water bill, or in the event the sixteenth day falls on a holiday, Saturday
or Sunday, then on the next succeeding working day, all charges to that date,
whether or not billed, are deemed due and payable. Upon nonpayment of such
water charges, the water billing shall be considered delinquent and the finance
department shall mail notice to the legal owner or the applicant for service
and shall either mail a copy of the notice to the occupant or post a copy of
the notice on the premises of the occupant at the address receiving service,
notifying the owner and occupant that the water service will be terminated on a
specific date, which date shall not be less than ten (10) days after the date
of mailing or posting such delinquency notice.
   B.   Request To Be Heard: The owner or applicant applying for service or
occupant of the premises may request to present his position concerning
termination of water services to the city council and the city council's action
will be final.
   C.   Failure To Appear: Failure of the owner, customer or occupant to appear
before the city council after having requested such right, as provided above,
will cause the water service to be terminated.
   D.   Lien For Services: On the date of termination of water services, or any
date thereafter, the finance department may cause to be filed with the county
recorder a statement of the amount due and unpaid for water services and a
description of the property to which the services were rendered to perfect a
lien against the property.
   E.   Vacation Of Premises; Notice Required: Upon vacating the premises, all
customers desiring to discontinue water service shall notify the water
department not less than one business day prior to vacating the premises.
Unless discontinuance of service is ordered, the customer shall be liable for
charges whether or not the water is used.
   F.   Delinquency Penalty: When payment is not made prior to five o'clock (5:
00) P.M. the working day immediately preceding the date the service is
scheduled for termination, the finance department shall charge a one hundred
dollar ($100.00) delinquent penalty.
   G.   Failure To Pay: If payment is made after five o'clock (5:00) P.M. the
working day immediately preceding the date the service is scheduled for
termination, and said payment does not include the one hundred dollar ($100.00)
delinquent penalty, the water service shall be disconnected and the one hundred
dollar ($100.00) delinquent penalty will remain due and payable.
   H.   Reconnections: The water department will endeavor to make reconnections
for water shutoffs during regular working hours on the day of the request, if
conditions permit, otherwise reconnections will be made on the regular working
day following the day the request is made.
   I.   Reconnections Other Than Working Hours: When a customer has requested
that the reconnection be made at other than regular working hours, the water
department will reasonably endeavor to so make the reconnection if practicable
under the circumstances, but will be under no obligation to do so. (Ord. 536,
12-28-1999)
9-1-41: APPEALS:
The city council shall review any decision made by the director, or his
representatives or agents in interpreting, applying or enforcing the provisions
of this chapter, upon receipt of an application or petition, in writing,
requesting a review of such decision. In exercising its powers of review, the
city council may, in conformity with the provisions of the law, reverse or
affirm wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements, decision or
determination of the director appealed from and make such order, requirement or
determination as ought to be made. The city council may also initiate a review
of the director's interpretation of the provisions of this chapter by a motion
and by a vote of a majority of the quorum or a majority of the members present
if such number exceeds a quorum. In all cases, the decision of the city council
shall be final. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-43: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3
of this code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-45: ANNUAL REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATUS:
The city council will annually review the statement of expenditures and
revenues of the department. The city council will use the information from the
review and recommendations from the city clerk, auditors and the director to
adjust schedules of rates, fees and charges for all service by the department.
System revenues shall be sufficient at all times, after making reasonable
allowances for contingencies and errors in estimates to pay the operation and
maintenance expenses and produce net revenues to retire any outstanding
indebtedness, and maintain any reserve accounts for system replacement and
capital improvements. If recommended actions are not taken, the city council
shall specifically address why recommended action was not taken. (Ord. 323, 2-
19-1982)
9-1-47: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pools And Tanks: When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired
for filling a swimming pool or other purposes, arrangements must be made with
the water department prior to taking such water. Permission to take water in
unusual quantities will be given only if it can be safely delivered through the
water department facilities and if other consumers are not inconvenienced
thereby.
   B.   Responsibility For Equipment: The customer shall, at his own risk and
expense, furnish, install and keep in good and safe condition all equipment
that may be required for receiving, controlling, applying and utilizing water,
and the water department shall not be responsible for any loss or damage caused
by the improper installation of such equipment, or the negligence or wrongful
act of the customer or of any of this tenants, agents, employees, contractors,
licensees or permittees in installing, maintaining, operating or interfering
with such equipment. The water department shall not be responsible for damage
to property caused by faucets, valves and other equipment that are open when
water is turned on at the curb stop, either originally or when turned on after
a temporary shutdown.
   C.   Water Connections: No residential customer shall be allowed more than
one water service per residence. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-49: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The board shall have the power to adopt and may from time to time amend rules
and regulations for the operation of the Elko municipal water system including,
but not limited to, rules and regulations concerning the method of hooking up
and the type of use of water, so long as such rules and regulations are not in
conflict with federal or state statutes or this chapter. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-51: FIXTURE UNIT VALUE TABLE:
Fixture unit surveys are conducted and fixture units established in accord with
the following table:
Description Of Fixture Fixture Value Per Unit
Description Of Fixture                                   Fixture Value Per Unit
Continuous flow per GPM                                     200
Dishwashers:                                              
   Conveyor                                              100
   Residential                                           8
   Under counter                                         10
Disposals                                                   50
Drinking fountains                                          2
Floor drains:                                               4
   Grease, oil, solids                                   6
Hose bibs                                                   2
Landscaping per 1,000 square feet                           12
Laundry:                                                    4
   Tub and faucets                                       4
   Clothes washer:                                       16
Automatic 8 pound                                           20
12 – 19 pound                                             22
20 – 39 pound                                             24
40 – 50 pound                                             1.5
50+ per pound of machine weight
Receptors for refrigerator, coffee urn, soft drinks, ice    2
machines, etc.
Showers, per head, and drain                                4
Sinks:                                                    
Bar                                                         2
Flushing rim (clinic)                                       12
Industrial; wash up, etc.                                   6
Kitchen                                                     4
Lavatory                                                    2
Swimming pool per 100 square feet                           5
Trailer parks:                                            
   Dump station                                          25
   Recreational vehicle park, per pad                    7
Urinals:                                                  
Pedestal-siphon                                             12
Stall                                                       4
Trough/2 foot                                               6
Wall                                                        4
Water closet:                                             
Flush valve                                                 12
Tank                                                        8
Water for cooling per ton                                   15
 
For fixture types not listed, fixture units shall be estimated by using similar
use and performance description.
For nonresidential facilities which operate or are open to the public in excess
of twelve (12) hours per day, a multiplier of 1.5 shall be applied to the
fixture unit value per unit. (Ord. 323, 2-19-1982)
9-1-53: APPROVAL FEES FOR CERTAIN PROJECTS REQUIRING FIVE ACRE FEET OR MORE OF
WATER PER YEAR:
   A.   Project Defined: As used in this section, "project" means any
development, including new construction and expansion or modification of
existing development, that requires the use of five (5) acre feet or more of
water per year and requires the approval of an officer or agency of a local
government.
   B.   Exception: This section does not apply to:
      1.   A publicly owned project;
      2.   A "subdivision", as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes section
278.230;
      3.   A parcel map filed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section
278.461;
      4.   A division of land pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes sections
278.471 through 278.4725, inclusive; or
      5.   A planned unit development pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 278A.
   C.   Charges: Each owner or developer of an approved project must pay
seventy five dollars ($75.00), together with a ten dollar ($10.00)
administrative fee, plus fifty cents ($0.50) per acre foot of water, or
fraction thereof, required by the project to the city upon approval of the
project. The determination of the number of acre feet of water shall be
determined by the projected water use table adopted by the city and on file in
the city clerk's office.
   D.   Report And Information:
      1.   Each local governmental officer or agency that is required to
approve a project shall file a report of each project the officer or agency
approves, on a form provided by the administrator of the division of water
planning of the state department of conservation and natural resources.
      2.   The owner or developer of an approved project must provide the city
with the following information for the report:
         a.   The name and mailing address of the owner or developer of the
project;
         b.   A legal description of the location of the project;
         c.   A description of the project, including a summary of the amount
of water required annually for the project;
         d.   A statement concerning how the water will be supplied; and
         e.   If the water is self-supplied, the source of the water and
identification of the water rights.
      3.   The local governmental officer or agency shall file all reports for
the projects approved during a quarter of the calendar year on or before
fifteen (15) days after the last day of the quarter.
      4.   The report is to be submitted to the administrator of the division
of water planning of the state department of conservation and natural
resources, together with the required fee. (Ord. 406, 11-27-1990)
9-1-54: VACANT UNITS IN APARTMENT COMPLEXES, COMMERCIAL COMPLEXES AND MOBILE
HOME PARKS:
   A.   Exemption Requirements: Any owner (or the owner's authorized
representative) of an apartment complex, commercial complex or mobile home park
containing more than one rental unit or space (hereinafter "unit") served by a
single water service connection may obtain an exemption from monthly water user
fees for any vacant rental unit, provided the following requirements are met:
      1.   The entire apartment complex, commercial complex or mobile home park
must utilize the fixture unit method for the determination of water fees for
the entire month during which the exemption is sought;
      2.   The unit for which the exemption is sought must be vacant for thirty
(30) continuous days during the month for which the exemption is sought;
      3.   The unit for which the exemption is sought must be offered to the
public for rent and must constitute a separate "premises";
      4.   The owner (or the owner's authorized representative) of the
apartment complex, commercial complex or mobile home park must request an
exemption for the vacant unit on a form specified by the city, which form shall
be entitled "verification of nonoccupancy";
      5.   The fully completed and executed verification of nonoccupancy form
shall be received by the finance department no later than the twentieth day of
the month during which the unit is vacant, and if the unit is rented after the
twentieth day of the month, then the city must be notified;
      6.   Exemptions for months other than the month in which the verification
of nonoccupancy form is received by the finance department shall not be
granted;
      7.   The customer may submit the verification of nonoccupancy form by
fax, in person, by mail, or by depositing the form in the city drop box; and
      8.   The verification of nonoccupancy form must be signed under oath and
dated by the owner (or the owner's authorized representative) of the apartment
complex, commercial complex or mobile home park.
   B.   Amount: The exemption shall be in an amount corresponding to the
fixture unit count applicable to the vacant unit.
   C.   Not Granted For Individual Fixtures: Exemptions shall not be granted
for individual fixtures within premises, regardless of whether the fixture has
been in use during any given month.
   D.   Resurveys: Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the owner
of a premises from requesting the city to perform a resurvey of fixtures on the
premises for the purpose of making adjustments to the fixture count.
   E.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply to this section:
   APARTMENT COMPLEX: A building or tract of land containing two (2) or more
family dwelling units, at least one of which is offered for rent to the public,
all of which are owned by a common person or group of persons.
   COMMERCIAL COMPLEX: A building or tract of land containing two (2) or more
commercial units, at least one of which is offered for rent to the public, all
of which are owned by a common person or group of persons.
   MOBILE HOME PARK AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Shall have the meanings
ascribed to those terms in section
 3-5-3 of this code.
   F.   Transient Lodging Rental Business Not Applicable: Notwithstanding any
other provisions contained in this chapter, the exemption from water fees
described in this section shall not apply to vacant rooms, spaces or other
accommodations in a "transient lodging rental business", as that term is
defined title 4, chapter 6 of this code. (Ord. 629, 11-23-2004)
9-1-55: RIGHT OF WAY TOLL:
The Elko municipal water utility shall pay a right of way toll, to be charged
to the water enterprise fund, to the city of Elko as follows:
   A.   Commencing August 1, 2010, equal to 2.5 percent of the gross receipts
derived by it from each utility bill of a customer of the Elko municipal water
utility during each calendar year; said payments shall be made on or before the
fifteenth day of each month of the month immediately following collection of
such revenues, and each payment shall equal 2.5 percent of the aforesaid gross
revenues obtained by the Elko municipal water utility, its successor or
assigns.
   B.   Upon its receipt of payments of the right of way toll collected and
transmitted to the city of Elko pursuant to subsection A of this section, the
city of Elko shall allocate one hundred percent (100%) of the proceeds to the
city's general fund. (Ord. 714, 7-27-2010, eff. 8-1-2010)
CHAPTER 2
ELKO MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLABLE MATERIAL CODE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Short Title
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: Deposit Upon Public Place
9-2-4: Collection And Disposal
9-2-5: Receptacles
9-2-6: Scavengers
9-2-7: Vehicles Transporting Solid Waste
9-2-8: Fly Breeding Conditions
9-2-9: Right Of Entry
9-2-10: Conflict With Other Codes Or Ordinances
9-2-11: Enforcement
9-2-12: Collection And Hauling Of Municipal Solid Waste
9-2-13: Rates To Be Charged
9-2-14: Failure To Remove
9-2-15: Status Of Disposed Municipal Solid Waste
9-2-16: Operation Of City Landfill
9-2-17: Certain Acts Unlawful
9-2-18A: Violation And Penalty
9-2-18B: Injunctive Relief
9-2-18C: Violations May Be Deemed A Public Nuisance
9-2-18D: Criminal Penalties
9-2-18E: Suspension Or Termination Of Landfill Access
9-2-18F: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation And/Or Suspension Or Termination Of
Landfill Access
9-2-19: Remedies Cumulative
9-2-20: Council To Make Regulations
9-2-21: City Landfill User Fee
9-2-22: Repeal Of Ordinances And Resolutions; No Retroactive Effect
9-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the CITY OF ELKO MUNICIPAL
SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLABLE MATERIAL CODE. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter and any franchise collection agreement, the
following words and phrases shall, when used in this Chapter, have the meaning
respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   BULKY ITEMS: Furniture, household or industrial appliances, shipping crates
and containers, and other large bulky or heavy objects not normally discarded
on a regular basis at residential, commercial or industrial premises.
   CITY: The City of Elko, Nevada, a municipal corporation, and all of the
territory lying within the municipal boundaries of the City as presently
existing or as such boundaries may be modified during the term.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: A City official specifically charged with the
enforcement of the City Code pursuant to NRS 171.17751 and Title 1, Chapter 15
of the City Code, as amended.
   COLLECTION: Collection of municipal solid waste (MSW) and its transportation
to a disposal site.
   COMMERCIAL PREMISES: Any premises occupied by stores, offices and other
commercial facilities providing goods or services.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE: Includes waste building materials,
packaging and rubble resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and
demolition operations on pavement, houses, commercial buildings and other
structures.
   DISPOSAL FEE: The amount paid to a municipal solid waste management business
for the collection, transportation and disposal of municipal solid waste.
   DISPOSAL SITE: The Elko Municipal Landfill and any other site selected by
the City Council for the disposal (to include recycling) of municipal solid
waste.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL: The Code Enforcement Officer and, if so designated by
subsequent ordinance or resolution of the City Council, the following persons,
each of whom has the authority to prepare, sign and serve Citations and take
other enforcement actions pursuant to NRS 171.17751 and this Chapter:
      A.   The Fire Chief or any Fire Department employees designated by the
Fire Chief;
      B.   The Building Official;
      C.   Any solid waste management inspector;
      D.   Any housing inspector;
      E.   Any licensing inspector;
      F.   Any zoning enforcement officer;
      G.   Any parking enforcement officer; and
      H.   Any animal control officer.
   ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS: All federal and state statutes and county and City
ordinances concerning public health, safety and the environment including, by
way of example and not limitation, the Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 United States Code Sections 9601 et
seq.; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 United States Code
Sections 6901 et seq.; the federal Clean Water Act, 33 United States Code
Sections 1351 et seq.; the Occupational Safety and Health Act, 29 United States
Code Sections 651 et seq.; as currently in force or as hereafter amended, and
all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A contract between the City and a municipal solid waste
management business entered in accordance with NRS 268.081(3), permitting the
displacement or limitation of competition for the collection and disposal of
garbage and other waste.
   FRANCHISEE: A municipal waste management business under contract with the
City pursuant to this Chapter and NRS 268.081(c) for the storage, collection,
transportation, hauling, processing, recycling and/or disposal of municipal
solid waste.
   GARBAGE: All kitchen and table food waste, and animal or vegetable waste
that attends or results from the storage, preparation, cooking or handling of
foodstuffs.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE: Any substance defined as a "hazardous substance" under
NRS 40.504.
   INDUSTRIAL PREMISES: Premises occupied by manufacturing operations and other
industrial facilities.
   INSTITUTIONAL PREMISES: Premises occupied by educational, healthcare,
correctional, research and other similar facilities.
   LANDFILL FEE: The amount paid to dispose of municipal solid waste at the
Elko Municipal Landfill.
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE (MSW): Any garbage, refuse or rubbish, construction
and demolition waste, discarded home and industrial appliances, junk vehicles,
waste tires, ashes, incinerator residue, street refuse, dead animals, manure,
vegetable or animal solid or semi-solid wastes, and other discarded material,
including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material resulting
form institutional, industrial, commercial, mining, agriculture operations and
from any residential or community activities. The term "municipal solid waste"
shall not include: (1) hazardous or excluded waste; (2) low-level radioactive
waste; (3) untreated medical waste which is regulated pursuant to Nevada
Administrative Code Chapter 444; (4) recyclable materials which have been
segregated from other waste material by the waste generator; (5) solid or
dissolved materials from domestic sewage; (6) solid or dissolved materials from
irrigation flows; (7) industrial discharges that are point sources subject to
permit under 33 U.S.C. § 1342; or (8) source, special nuclear, or by-product
material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. §§
2011-2021, 2022-2286i, 2296a-2297h-13).
   MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT BUSINESS: Any person who engages in the
storage, collection, transportation, hauling, processing, recycling and/or
disposal of municipal solid waste on behalf of another person.
   OCCUPANT: A tenant or lessee of real property.
   OCCUPIED OR OCCUPANT: A tenancy or lease of real property.
   OFFICER: Includes any elected or appointed member of the City of Elko
government.
   OWNER: The person holding legal title to real property.
   PERSON: An individual, limited liability company, association, partnership,
political subdivision, government agency, municipality, industry, public or
private corporation, or any other entity whatsoever.
   PREMISES: Any land or building in the City where MSW is generated or
accumulated.
   PUTRESCIBLE WASTES: Organic material subject to rapid decomposition that can
lead to odors, gases and other nuisances.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Materials which are capable of being recycled and
which may be segregated from other waste material for collection and recycling,
rather than collection and disposal.
   RECYCLE/RECYCLING: The process of collecting, sorting, cleaning, treating
and reconstituting materials that would otherwise become MSW and returning
these materials to the economic mainstream in the form of raw materials for
new, reused or reconstituted products which meet the quality standards to be
used in the marketplace.
   REFUSE: Any (a) garbage; (b) sludge from a: (1) plant that treats
wastewater; (2) plant that treats the water supply; or (3) facility for
controlling air pollution; or (c) other discarded material, including solid,
semi-solid, liquid or contained gaseous material, resulting from industrial or
commercial operations or community activities. The term "refuse" does not
include: (a) any discarded material, including solid, semi-solid, liquid or
contained gaseous material, resulting from mining or agricultural activities
which is excluded from a plan for a system for the management of solid waste
pursuant to NRS 444.620; (b) solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage;
or (c) industrial discharges that are point sources subject to NRS 445A.465.
   RESIDENTIAL PREMISES: Single-family homes, townhouses, multi-unit buildings
such as apartments and condominiums, and mobile home parks.
   RESPONDENT: A person or persons determined by the City to be in violation of
this Chapter, to include a person to whom a Notice of Violation or Citation is
issued.
   RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes such as ashes, paper, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, plastics, and rubber
byproducts.
   SEGREGATED FROM OTHER WASTE MATERIAL:
      A. The placement of recyclable materials in separate containers by the
waste generator, or other person;
      B. The binding of recyclable materials separately from other waste
material by the waste generator, or other person;
      C. The physical separation of recyclable materials from other waste
material by the waste generator, or other person.
   TON: A short ton of two thousand (2,000) pounds avoirdupois.
   WASTE GENERATOR: The owner or occupant of premises which initially produce
MSW. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-3: DEPOSIT UPON PUBLIC PLACE:
It is unlawful for any person to deposit upon the streets, alleys, public
grounds or upon any vacant lot of the City, any MSW of any nature, except at
such times and places and under such regulations as the City Council may from
time-to-time permit or adopt. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-4: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
Except as may be otherwise provided, the collection and removal of any and all
MSW herein provided shall be performed by the City and/or one or more MSW
management businesses approved by the City Council and subject to a franchise
agreement with the City.
   A.   By City:
      1.   The City Council may carry out the provisions of this Chapter;
      2.   May haul all or part of the MSW; and
      3.   May purchase such equipment as may be required to carry out the
provisions of this Chapter; and
      4.   May charge and collect fees for services provided pursuant to this
Chapter.
   B.   By Contractor:
      1.   Franchise Agreement: The City Council may, if deemed in the best
interests of the City, enter into a franchise agreement with one or more
municipal waste management businesses for the storage, collection,
transportation, hauling, processing, recycling and/or disposal of MSW within
the City, as well as the assessment and collection of service charges. When
awarding such an agreement under this Chapter, the City Council shall include
provisions necessary to safeguard the City and its residents. These provisions
must specifically ensure that the City bears no responsibility for the actions
of the municipal waste management business or any damages arising from the
collection, transportation, or disposal of MSW.
      2.   Written Agreement Required: A franchise granted under this section
shall not take effect until a formal written agreement is executed between the
franchisee and the City. This agreement must incorporate all requirements
outlined herein. The franchisee shall be responsible for the following
obligations:
         a.   Ensuring Service Availability: MSW collection services must be
provided at regularly scheduled times to business locations, public spaces, and
any other areas designated by the City. MSW must be promptly removed in
compliance with the franchise terms.
         b.   Scheduled Collection: The franchisee must collect MSW from all
designated business locations, public spaces, and other specified sites within
the City at least once per week.
         c.   Maintaining Cleanliness During Collection: When collecting MSW,
the franchisee must ensure all collected waste is properly deposited into
collection trucks, leaving no trace, such as scattered debris, on streets,
alleys, public spaces, or private properties used for waste collection.
         d.   Providing Secure, Adequate Equipment: Collection equipment must
be designed and constructed to be safe, clean, and fully enclosed to prevent
waste from spilling, blowing away, or being scattered in any manner within the
City's streets, alleys, or public spaces.
         e.   Keeping Equipment In Proper Condition: All collection equipment
must be modern, watertight, and well-maintained, and exterior surfaces must
remain clean.
      3.   Guarantee Against Liability: The franchisee shall take all
reasonable and appropriate precautions to prevent injury or damage to persons
or property while performing duties under the franchise. The franchisee shall
further covenant, contract, and agree to indemnify and hold harmless the City
and all franchise customers from whom MSW is removed against any claims,
damages, costs, fees, or liabilities arising from injury or damage caused by
the franchisee, its agents, or employees during the collection, hauling, or
disposal of garbage, rubbish, and waste materials under the franchise
agreement. Additionally, the franchise agreement shall provide that if the City
is sued by any party seeking damages for injury or property loss resulting from
actions taken during the execution of the franchise, the franchisee, along with
its heirs, successors, and assigns, shall provide full legal defense and cover
any judgments rendered against the City in such cases. Furthermore, the
franchisee must maintain liability insurance coverage of at least five hundred
thousand dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury and five hundred thousand
dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage.
         a.   Worker's Compensation: The franchisee shall, at it's own cost,
obtain and maintain for the full term of the franchise agreement, a Worker's
Compensation policy.
         b.   Bond Provided: The franchisee shall provide a performance bond or
time certificate in an amount determined by the City Council to ensure faithful
performance of the requirements of the franchise, the form of bond or time
certificates subject to approval by the City attorney.
         c.   Performance Requirement: The franchise agreement shall provide
that in the event the franchisee fails to perform any condition of the
franchise, fails to abide by all of the laws, rules and regulations pertaining
to the franchise or become bankrupt or insolvent, the City shall have the right
to terminate the franchise agreement so awarded if the franchisee fails to
correct the deficiency within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice
of such deficiency from the City Council.
         d.   Transfer Limitation: The franchise agreement shall provide that
no assignment or transfer of the franchise shall be made without written
consent of the City Council.
         e.   Responsibility Requirement: The franchise agreement shall provide
that the franchisee is responsible to the City Council or other officials
designated by the City Council for compliance with the franchise agreement.
         f.   Scope of Franchise: The franchise agreement shall define the
scope of franchise to exclude any categories of MSW excluded under this
Chapter.
      4.   Proposal; Award of Franchise Agreement:
         a.   Before soliciting franchisee proposals, the City Council shall
issue a notice that includes the solicitation for proposals and access to all
necessary information through an online portal or otherwise. Any person
submitting a proposal must include all required statements and specifications
outlined by the City Council, including descriptions, plans, and details of all
equipment used or intended for use, as well as the proposed fees for regular
services and additional or special refuse hauling. In awarding one or more
franchise agreements under this provision, the City Council shall evaluate the
type of equipment utilized, the qualifications and reliability of the
applicant, the proposed rates and charges, and any other pertinent factors,
including the financial offer made to the City for the franchise award.
         b.   The City Council reserves the right to waive formalities in the
franchise agreement award process. It may grant one or more franchise
agreements or other contracts with specific designations, distinctions, or
restrictions regarding districts, areas, types of hauling, pricing, or other
factors, as deemed appropriate. These franchise agreements and other contracts
may be granted exclusively to a single municipal waste management business or
may be exclusive within certain districts, hauling categories, or other defined
parameters. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-5: RECEPTACLES:
   A.   Receptacles Required:
      1.   No owner or occupant of any public or private premises shall permit
to accumulate upon his premises any MSW except in receptacles that comply with
this section. These receptacles shall be of adequate capacity and be provided
in sufficient number to hold all MSW that accumulates between collections.
Individual family residences shall not use more than three (3) receptacles with
a capacity of not more than ninety five (95) gallons each.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or deposit, or cause to
be dumped or deposited, any MSW in any receptacle not owned or maintained by
him or by an approved franchisee; provided, in no event shall a person deposit
MSW in a receptacle provided by a franchisee to another person without
authorization from the person using the receptacle.
      3.   The lids or covers of refuse containers or receptacles shall be kept
securely in place at all times, except when the refuse is being deposited or
removed for collection, so that flies and other insects may not have access to
the contents thereof.
   B.   Placing For Collection:
      1.   All receptacles, containers, bins or enclosures used by commercial
or industrial establishments and residential users shall be placed in areas
designated by the City or by an approved franchisee.
      2.   Receptacles may be placed in the City right of way only when
collected by the City or by an approved franchisee.
      3.   No receptacles, containers, bins or enclosures shall be placed
beneath a fire escape or so as to restrict egress from an exit door. None shall
be placed under a street floor window unless the window is of fire-resistant
construction. All containers, receptacles, bins or enclosures shall be required
to meet the construction and placement specifications provided in this Chapter,
except that the sanitation department may temporarily waive these requirements
in extreme hardship cases.
   C.   Special Handling of MSW:
      1.   All large types of MSW such as boxes, cartons and crates must be
broken down and fit within the receptacle allowing the lids or covers to be
kept securely in place.
      2.   Tree trimmings, branches and limbs shall be cut and fit within the
receptacle allowing the lids or covers to be kept securely in place.
      3.   Ashes shall be soaked with water prior to placing in a receptacle
for collection.
      4.   Placement of any material that is not MSW within receptacles for
collection by the City or by an approved franchise collector, including,
without limitation, the following types of material is prohibited: septic tank
or cesspool pumping, hazardous waste, toxic chemicals, insecticides,
radioactive material, explosives and flammable material.
      5.   Body wastes and debris shall not be placed with MSW for collection,
but shall be disposed of directly by the owner or occupant the premises wherein
such matter is accumulated; however, animal offal of domestic pets may be
placed with MSW provided it is securely wrapped.
      6.   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, occupant or contractor
to dispose of or cause to be disposed of all construction rubbish or debris
accumulated as a result of construction operations.
      7.   Every contractor or builder engaged in the erection or repair of a
building shall provide a receptacle for the deposit of MSW. The contractor or
builder shall keep surroundings free of debris and trash at all times.
      8.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall place any MSW upon any
private or public property not owned or under the control of said person, firm
or corporation, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, in addition to any fine
which may be imposed for violation of any provision of this code, shall be
liable for all charges which may be assessed for the removal of said MSW. It is
unlawful for any person not authorized by the City to remove any MSW from any
existing or any previously operational landfill of the City. (Ord. 479, 12-10-
1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-6: SCAVENGERS:
It is unlawful for any person not authorized by the owner of an MSW receptacle
to remove any MSW from a receptacle or scatter the same upon a public alley,
street or public place. It is unlawful for any person not authorized by the
City to remove any MSW from any City landfill or to scatter the same upon a
public alley, street, public place or the area of the landfill. (Ord. 479, 12-
10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-7: VEHICLES TRANSPORTING SOLID WASTE:
It is unlawful for any person, to include a franchisee to haul or cause to be
hauled on or along any public street or alley any MSW unless it shall be
contained in vehicles or receptacles constructed to prevent the contents from
falling, leaking, or spilling or any noxious odor escaping therefrom, and to
prevent any flies, insects or rodents from having access to the contents. Every
person, to include a franchisee or other MSW management business hauling any
MSW along any street or alley shall replace immediately in the conveyance used
for such hauling any of the contents which may fall therefrom in or upon any
street, alley or public or private premises. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord.
900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-8: FLY BREEDING CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises To Be Kept Free of Fly Breeding Substances: It shall be the
responsibility of every owner or occupant, of any premises within the City to
keep the premises at all times clean and inoffensive and free from any
accumulation of MSW including garbage, refuse, ashes, rubbish, putrescible
wastes, vegetable waste, animal offal, carcasses of dead animals and any other
conditions wherein houseflies or other flies will breed.
   B.   Fly Breeding Conditions Declared Nuisance; Abatement; Penalty: Any
condition wherein flies breed is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. Any
person who, upon written notification of the sanitation department, its
authorized agent or the City Clerk, fails purposely to abate such nuisance
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. If found guilty by the municipal court, the
nuisance shall be abated and removed by the City at the expense of such person.
(Ord. 479, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-9: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The Enforcement Official may enter any building, structure or other property
during regular City business hours and at other reasonable times for the
purposes of investigating compliance with this Chapter 2, subject to the
following:
   A.   If the building, structure or other property to be inspected is
occupied, the Enforcement Official shall present official City credentials,
including photo identification, to the owner or other person having charge or
control of the building, structure or other property, state the reason for the
inspection and request entry.
   B.   If the building, structure or other property to be inspected is
unoccupied, the Enforcement Official shall make a reasonable effort to locate
the owner or other person having charge or control of the building, structure
or other property and request entry.
   C.   Consent to enter buildings, structures or other property may be
obtained by any means, including but not limited to written, facsimile,
telephonic, email or in-person consent. In addition, a property owner's
application for any permit or approval with respect to an activity in or on a
building, structure or other property shall be deemed to be consent for the
Enforcement Official or his or her designee to enter the building, structure or
other property to perform any inspections, measurements, sampling, or other
action required to review and process the application; provided, that if the
Enforcement Official intends to enter a building or structure, the Enforcement
Official shall first contact the owner or occupant and arrange a mutually
convenient time for the entry. The owner's or occupant's failure to consent to
entry or to arrange a mutually convenient time for entry shall be grounds for
the City to deny the application for the permit or approval.
   D.   If, for any reason allowed under this Chapter, entry to a building,
structure or other property is refused or if the Enforcement Official is unable
to obtain such consent, the City shall have recourse to every remedy provided
by law to secure entry, including but not limited to application to a court of
competent jurisdiction for an administrative search warrant or other remedy.
   E.   Nothing in this Code requires a City officer, official or employee to
obtain the property owner's consent: 1) to an inspection that is conducted
while the officer, official or employee remains on adjacent public property,
such as a public right-of-way, or on other adjacent property, or 2) to enter
property in which the City has a written easement, license or other property
right for purposes authorized in the applicable instrument. (Ord. 479, 12-10-
1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-10: CONFLICT WITH OTHER CODES OR ORDINANCES:
Whenever the provisions of this Chapter shall conflict with any other
provisions of this code or other ordinance, the provisions of this Chapter
shall prevail. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-11: ENFORCEMENT:
When an owner or occupant of land being served under the provisions of this
Chapter has had charges or penalties assessed against them, and payment has not
been received, the City Clerk may assign the account to a bona fide collection
agency or institute legal action for the recovery of the amount due. (Ord. 479,
12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-12: COLLECTION AND HAULING OF MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE:
   A.   Hours: The time of collection and hauling of MSW shall be between the
hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
   B.   Exceptions to Exclusive Franchise Requirements: The following
constitute exceptions to the requirement that persons utilize the franchisee
for the collection, transportation and disposal of MSW in the City:
      1.   Landscaping Businesses: A person properly licensed to perform
landscaping or gardening services may collect, transport and dispose of lawn
clippings, branches, leaves and similar material generating by gardening or
landscaping services performed by that person as an incidental part of such
service and not as a hauling business, so long as the person utilizes equipment
owned or operated in connection with that person's landscaping or gardening
business.
      2.   Owners And Occupants: An owner or occupant of a building, structure
or other real property may collect, transport and dispose of MSW generated by
the owner or occupant at that building, structure or real property.
      3.   City: The City may collect, transport and dispose of MSW located on
any City property, to include rights-of-way.
      4.   Natural Disasters: The City Manager may authorize any person to
collect, transport and dispose of MSW resulting from a natural disaster
declared by the City Council.
      5.   Other Materials: Any person may collect, transport and dispose of
materials not included in the definition of "MSW;" provided, nothing herein
shall be interpreted to amend any obligations otherwise applicable under
federal, state and local law, or the rules of the Elko Municipal Landfill.
      6.   Governmental Entities: Any governmental entity may collect,
transport and dispose of MSW through its own forces and as otherwise preempted
by federal or state law. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-13: RATES TO BE CHARGED:
   A.   Charges Authorized: A charge shall be made and collected by the
franchisee from all occupied premises in the City for services rendered under
the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Amount; Disputes: From the collection, removal and disposal of MSW
there shall be a flat monthly charge to be based upon the size of the service
container and for extra services. This charge shall be specifically indicated
in the franchise agreement and shall not be changed except by consent of the
City Council in accordance with the franchise agreement. In case of dispute
over service or charge for service, the City Manager shall investigate and
decide the proper service and charge for service. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996; amd.
Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-14: FAILURE TO REMOVE:
   A.   Order To Remove; Nuisance; Lien: If at any time accumulation of MSW,
refuse or other waste material is not hauled or removed, or MSW or garbage
becomes offensive and is not removed by the owner or person responsible for the
same, an order for such removal may forthwith be made by the City Council. If
not removed within the time required by such order, the City shall declare the
same a nuisance, have such material removed in whatever manner may be
reasonable and shall collect the reasonable charges and costs of such removal
from the person or entity violating this provision and/or the property
involved. The City may file a lien upon the property. Such lien shall be
perfected by filing with the county recorder a statement by the City Clerk of
the amount of the expenses and charges due and unpaid and describing the
property subject to the lien. Such lien shall be coequal with the latest lien
thereon to secure the payment of general taxes. The lien shall not be subject
to extinguishment by the sale of any of the property on account of the
nonpayment of general taxes. Such lien shall be prior and superior to all
claims, encumbrances and titles other than the liens of assessment and general
taxes.
   B.   Ashes And Clinkers: No hot ashes or clinkers shall be kept in any
building or basement, but must be moved outside and placed in a metal container
and kept ten inches (10") away from any building or wooden fence and shall not
be placed directly under any roof or protruding part of a building.
   C.   Notices: Notices to owners under this section and under any other
provision of this Chapter may be given personally by the Enforcement Official
or by registered mail, addressed to the owner at his last known address or
address appearing on the tax rolls or otherwise general delivery, Elko, Nevada.
   D.   Responsibility Of Owner: Anything in this Chapter to the contrary
notwithstanding, the Owner shall be responsible for removal of MSW from his
premises and for otherwise complying with the terms of this Chapter whether
such Owner is in possession personally or through a tenant or otherwise, and
the Owner shall in each instance be responsible for all costs and charges for
removal of refuse whether the same accrued during occupancy of the premises by
the Owner or by an occupant or while vacant or otherwise. Nothing contained in
this section shall be construed as relieving from any civil or criminal
liability the person actually responsible for any violation of this Chapter.
(Ord. 479, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-15: STATUS OF DISPOSED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE:
All MSW at the City landfill, of any nature or description, for any length of
time, no matter how short, is deemed abandoned and becomes the property of the
City. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-16: OPERATION OF CITY LANDFILL:
All dumping of any MSW, shall be in conformity to the following provisions:
   A.   Dumping shall be performed during, and access to the City landfill
limited to, only those hours of operation adopted from time to time by the City
Council and posted at the main entrance to the City landfill.
   B.   All dumping of any materials, of any nature or description, be it
ashes, garbage, refuse or rubbish, and all access within the City landfill area
shall be at the direction of the City landfill operator.
   C.   There shall be no burning at the City landfill, except under the
direction of the City landfill operator.
   D.   There shall be no scavenging or salvaging about the City landfill nor
removal of any material, of any nature or description (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996;
amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-17: CERTAIN ACTS UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to collect or remove refuse in or from the
City except as permitted under this Title 9, Chapter 2. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996;
amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-18A: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3 of this code.
Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be deemed a separate
offense. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996)
   A.   Notice of Violation: In the event the City determines that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this Chapter 2, the
Enforcement Official may issue a Notice of Violation to the Respondent; the
Notice of Violation may impose a criminal penalty or civil liability in
accordance with this Section
9-2-18A.
   B.   Contents of the Notice of Violation: The Notice of Violation shall
contain the following information and statements:
      1.   The name of the Respondent;
      2.   The location where the violation occurred;
      3.   A description of the nature of the violation;
      4.   A citation to the applicable section(s) of this Chapter;
      5.   If applicable, the corrective, mitigating and/or remedial action(s)
needed to abate the violation;
      6.   The date(s) when the Enforcement Official observed the violation;
      7.   A statement of the criminal penalty or civil liability being imposed
upon the Respondent and the reasons therefor;
      8.   A statement that the failure of the Respondent to pay the criminal
penalty or civil liability within thirty (30) calendar days may result in
referral to the City Attorney for legal action;
      9.   The Enforcement Official's signature and contact information; and
      10.   A description of the Respondent's right to an administrative
hearing and appeal rights or, alternatively, a citation to the provisions of
this Chapter setting forth the Respondent's right to an administrative hearing
and appeal rights.
      11.   Service: The Notice of Violation shall be served by certified mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to the Respondent. In addition to service
in accordance with the preceding sentence, a Notice of Violation may be
personally served on the Respondent if it is reasonably practicable to do so.
      12.   Effective Upon Service: The Notice of Violation shall be effective
upon personal service or upon receipt by certified mail, return receipt
requested, whichever is earlier. Each person who serves a Notice of Violation,
regardless of the method of service, shall prepare a sworn affidavit specifying
the date, time, and method of service.
   C.   Citations: The Enforcement Official or her or his designee shall have
the authority to prepare, sign and serve written Citations on persons accused
of violating a provision of this Chapter. All citations so issued and served
shall comply with the requirements of NRS 171.1773 and NRS 171.17751(5).
   D.   Issuance by Enforcement Official: The Enforcement Official may, in
accordance with NRS 171.17751, prepare, sign and serve a Citation on a
Respondent who violates the Code.
   E.   Form and Content: A Citation issued pursuant to this section shall be
in the form of a complaint issued in the name of "The City of Elko," shall
state whether the City seeks to impose a criminal penalty or civil liability
for the violation, and shall contain the following:
      1.   A notice to appear in court;
      2.   The name and address of the Respondent;
      3.   The state registration number of the Respondent's vehicle, if any;
      4.   The offense charged, including a brief description of the offense
and the corresponding Code citation;
      5.   The time when and place where the person is required to appear in
court;
      6.   The amount of the civil penalty, if any;
      7.   The factors considered in determining the civil penalty, if
applicable; and
      8.   Such other pertinent information as may be necessary.
   F.   Duties of Respondent:
      1.   A person who responds to a Citation must either:
         a.   Admit the commission of the infraction and pay the appropriate
civil fine; or
         b.   Deny liability for the infraction.
      2.   A person may admit commission of the infraction by paying to the
municipal court the civil fine shown on the Citation.
      3.   A person who denies liability for the infraction must appear in
person before the municipal court.
      4.   The failure of a person to respond to a Citation within the time
stated therein shall be deemed a denial of liability.
   G.   Civil Liability Instead Of Criminal Sanction: In the City's discretion,
a Respondent may be subject to civil liability to the City in an amount not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) instead of a criminal sanction for each
violation of this Chapter, subject to the following schedule for each violation
constituting the same offense:
      1.   For the first violation more than thirty (30) calendar days after
the previous violation: not to exceed two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00);
      2.   For the second violation fifteen (15) or fewer calendar days after
the previous violation, not to exceed three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00);
and
      3.   For the third or greater violation fifteen (15) or fewer calendar
days after the second violation, not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      Each day that a violation is willfully permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate violation subject to an additional civil penalty. The
payment of a civil penalty shall not exempt the offender from compliance with
the requirements of this Chapter.
   H.   Determination Of Civil Penalties; Accrual And Amount:
      1.   In determining the date when civil penalties start to accrue, the
Enforcement Official shall consider the date when the City first discovered the
violation as evidenced by the issuance of a Citation or any other written
notice or correspondence to the Respondent.
      2.   In determining the amount of civil penalties to be assessed on a
daily rate, the Enforcement Official shall consider the following factors:
         a.   The duration of the violation.
         b.   The frequency of recurrence of the violation.
         c.   The seriousness of the violation.
         d.   The history of the violation.
         e.   The Respondent's conduct after issuance of a Citation, Notice of
Violation, or other written notice pursuant to this Chapter.
         f.   The good faith effort by the Respondent to comply.
         g.   The economic impact of the penalty on the Respondent.
         h.   The impact of the violation upon the community.
         i.   Any other factors that justice may require.
   I.   The City Manager shall have the authority, but not the obligation, to
establish a penalty schedule for the Enforcement Official to use as a guideline
in determining the amount of civil penalties in appropriate cases and to
establish procedures for the use of this penalty schedule. (Ord. 479, 12-10-
1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-18B: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
Chapter, the City may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which could create further violations or
compelling the person to terminate the violation. (Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-18C: VIOLATIONS MAY BE DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter that is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, is hereby
declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be abated pursuant to the provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 268 or restored at the violator's expense, and/
or civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such
nuisance may be taken. The provisions of this Section
9-2-18C and the City Nuisance Code are in addition to and not in lieu of the
other enforcement provisions set forth in this Chapter. (Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-18D: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
Any person who has violated or continues to violate the requirements of this
Chapter, to include any requirement set forth in a Notice of Violation issued
under this Chapter, shall be subject to a criminal penalty of no more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each day a person violates this Chapter or
remains in violation of this Chapter shall be a separate violation. In
addition, any person who has violated or continues to violate this Chapter may
be subject to criminal prosecution under federal or state laws. (Ord. 900, 6-
24-2025)
9-2-18E: SUSPENSION OR TERMINATION OF LANDFILL ACCESS:
   A.   Landfill Privileges: Access to the Elko Municipal Landfill is hereby
declared to be a privilege and not a right.
   B.   Notice of Landfill Suspension/Termination: A person's privilege to use
the Elko Municipal Landfill may be suspended or terminated by the Enforcement
Official by service of a Notice of Landfill Suspension/Termination upon the
person or the person's agent or representative by personal service and/or by
USPS Certified Mail.
   C.   Suspension: The Enforcement Official may temporarily suspend a person's
access to the Elko Municipal Landfill for a period of up to ninety (90)
calendar days under the following circumstances:
      1.   The person disposes of hazardous materials, prohibited items, or
fails to follow landfill guidelines;
      2.   The person fails to pay fees required for disposal;
      3.   The person engages in unsafe behavior, such as unauthorized
scavenging or reckless dumping;
      4.   The person is found to be contributing to pollution or violating
environmental laws; or
      5.   The person violates any provision of this Chapter, to include,
without limitation, the proscription against collecting or removing refuse in
or from the City other than haul his own refuse.
   D.   Termination: The Enforcement Official may permanently terminate a
person's access to the Elko Municipal Landfill under the following
circumstances:
      1.   The person repeatedly disregards the provisions of this Chapter;
      2.   The person repeatedly disregards landfill regulations, such as
dumping hazardous waste or prohibited materials;
      3.   The person engages in illegal dumping, fraud, or other unlawful
activities related to waste disposal within the City;
      4.   The person causes significant environmental harm, such as
contaminating groundwater or violating federal or state environmental laws,
within the City.
      5.   The person poses a danger to landfill workers or other users,
through violence, harassment, or reckless behavior; or
      6.   A court order permanently bans the person from accessing the Elko
Municipal Landfill.
   E.   Nothing herein shall be interpreted to preclude the issuance of a
Notice of Violation in addition to a Notice of Landfill Suspension/Termination.
(Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-18F: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND/OR SUSPENSION OR TERMINATION OF
LANDFILL ACCESS:
   A.   Notice of Appeal Rights: A Notice of Violation or Notice of Landfill
Suspension/ Termination issued pursuant to this Chapter 2 shall include a
written notice setting forth the Respondent's appeal rights pursuant to this
Section
9-2-18F.
   B.   Appeal to City Manager: A Respondent served with a Notice of Violation
or Notice of Landfill Suspension/Termination may, within fourteen (14) calendar
days of service thereof, appeal the determination of the Enforcement Official
to the City Manager by filing a "Notice of Appeal to the City Manager" with the
City Clerk containing a statement of the basis for the appeal. The City Manager
or the City Manager's designee shall schedule and conduct a hearing on the
Notice of Violation within fourteen (14) calendar days thereafter, upon no less
than seven (7) calendar days' advance notice to the Respondent, unless
otherwise agreed by the Respondent and the City. At the hearing before the City
Manager or the City Manager's designee, the respondent and the City shall each
be given an opportunity to present arguments and evidence, to include witness
testimony. The rules of evidence shall not apply. The City Manager or the City
Manager's designee may terminate the hearing at a time determined in advance by
the City Manager or the City Manager's designee, provided a reasonable time
shall be given to permit the Respondent and the City to present their
respective arguments and evidence. The City Manager or City Manager's designee
may terminate a hearing at any time upon a determination that the additional
evidence and argument to be proffered by the Respondent and the City will be
duplicative or not relevant to the issues to be resolved. The City Manager or
the City Manager's designee shall issue and serve a written decision upon the
Respondent with five (5) business days of the hearing.
   C.   Appeal To City Council: A Respondent or other person aggrieved by a
decision of the City pursuant to this Chapter may, within fourteen (14)
calendar days of service of the decision of the City Manager on the Notice of
Violation or Notice of Landfill Suspension/Termination or other decision of the
City pursuant to this Chapter, appeal the decision to the City Council by
filing a "Notice of Appeal to the City Council" with the City Clerk containing
a statement of the basis for the appeal. The City Council shall, within forty-
five (45) calendar days thereafter, conduct a hearing on the decision of the
City Manager or other City official. At the hearing before the City Council,
the Respondent and the City shall each be given an opportunity to present
arguments and evidence, to include witness testimony. The rules of evidence
shall not apply. The City Council may terminate the proceeding at a time
determined in advance by the City Manager, provided a reasonable time shall be
given to permit the Respondent and the City to present their respective
arguments and evidence. The City Council may terminate a hearing at any time
upon a determination that the additional evidence and argument to be proffered
by the Respondent and the City will be duplicative or not relevant to the
issues to be resolved. The City Council shall render a decision at the hearing,
to include a continuation thereof in the event the hearing is tabled.
   D.   Service: Service upon the Respondent for purposes of this Section
9-2-18F shall mean personal service or service by certified mail, return
receipt requested.
   E.   Compliance With Notice of Violation Pending Appeal: A Respondent to
whom a Notice of Violation or Notice of Landfill Suspension/Termination has
been issued must comply with the requirements stated therein pending an appeal
or appeals pursuant to this Section
9-2-18F. Each day the Respondent fails to comply with the Notice of Violation
or Notice of Landfill Suspension/Termination during the appeal period shall be
deemed an additional violation of this Chapter, subject to all criminal and
civil remedies herein contained.
   F.   Waiver: The failure of a Respondent to appeal a decision within the
times required in this Section
9-2-18F shall result in the waiver of those appeal rights.
   G.   Finality of City Council Decision; Judicial Review: The decision of the
City Council at an appeal hearing pursuant to this Section
9-2-18F shall be final for purposes of judicial review. Any action for judicial
review shall be commenced by filing a petition with the District Court for the
Fourth Judicial District, in and for the County of Elko, State of Nevada, no
more than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the decision of the City
Council at an appeal hearing pursuant to this Section
9-2-18F. (Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-19: REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
Any and all remedies herein provided shall be deemed cumulative. The City and
the officers thereof shall in addition thereto have the right to exercise and
enforce all rights and remedies otherwise created or existing, including the
right of injunction, the right of abatement of nuisances, the right of action
for damages, the right of prosecution for violation of any statute of the state
or other laws of the City and any other right existing or available, including
all rights arising from breach of any contract or contracts awarded hereunder
and the right to proceed under the provisions of section
9-2-14 of this Chapter, notwithstanding the issuance of contracts or licenses
under the provisions of said section, if it should appear that refuse is not
being satisfactorily hauled or disposed of by any contractor or licensee. (Ord.
479, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-20: COUNCIL TO MAKE REGULATIONS:
The City Council is authorized to make any and all necessary or proper
regulations to carry out and enforce the provisions of this Chapter, including
all matters as to notices, procedures, regulations of hours, segregation of
districts, classifications of services, routes of travel, regulation of
landfill grounds or disposal site and similar matters. Licensees, contractors
and owners hauling their own refuse shall be bound by all such rules and
regulations of which notice may be given as required by the City Council and,
as to method of disposal of refuse at the disposal site, by notices posted at
such site or on the road leading thereto, and a violation of the requirements
of such notices shall be deemed a violation of this Chapter punishable as
herein provided. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-21: CITY LANDFILL USER FEE:
Any person or entity of any name or nature using the City landfill for disposal
of garbage, rubbish, waste material or other refuse, shall pay a fee therefor
in such an amount as shall be determined and set from time to time by
resolution of the City Council. The City Council may set said fees based upon
the volume of garbage, rubbish, waste material and other refuse hauled. (Ord.
567, 6-26-2001; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
9-2-22: REPEAL OF ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS; NO RETROACTIVE EFFECT:
   A.   All ordinances or parts of ordinances and resolutions in conflict
herewith are hereby repealed, but only to the extent of such conflict.
   B.   If any section, clause or provision of this Chapter shall for any
reason be held to be invalid, unenforceable or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, the invalidity, unenforceability or unconstitutionality
of such section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect any remaining
provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to apply retroactively, nor
shall it be construed to amend any franchise agreements in effect on the date
of enactment of Ordinance 900, and all provisions set forth in any existing
franchise agreement shall remain in effect until its termination under the
terms thereof. (Ord. 479, 12-10-1996; amd. Ord. 900, 6-24-2025)
CHAPTER 3
RESERVED
CHAPTER 4
MILK
(Rep. by Ord. 792, 4-14-2015)
CHAPTER 5
ELKO SEWER CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Short Title
9-5-3: Definitions
9-5-5: Matter Excluded From All Sewers
9-5-7: Matter Excluded From Storm Sewers
9-5-9: Matter Excluded From Sanitary Sewers
9-5-11: Sewer Service
9-5-15: Discontinuance Of Service
9-5-17: Termination For Noncompliance With Rules
9-5-19: Termination For Unsafe Apparatus
9-5-21: Termination For Fraudulent Use Of Service
9-5-23: Restoration Of Service
9-5-25: Refusal To Serve
9-5-27: Continuity Of Service
9-5-29: Sewer Connection Charges
9-5-30: Treated Effluent Construction Water Metered Rates And Installation
Charges
9-5-31: Sewer Rates
9-5-32: Waiver Of Sewer User Fees For Certain Commercial Customers
9-5-33: Extension Of Sewer Main Facilities
9-5-35: Billing (Payment And Lien Rights)
9-5-36: Right Of Way Toll
9-5-37: Termination Of Service Procedure For Nonpayment
9-5-39: Appeals
9-5-41: Penalties
9-5-43: Biennial Review Of Operational Maintenance Charges
9-5-45: Inspection Of Sewers And Attachments
9-5-47: Testing Of Sewage Waste
9-5-49: Septic Tank Contents
9-5-51: Designation Of Places And Manner Of Discharge Of Septic Tank Contents
9-5-53: Determination Of Character Of Waste Matter
9-5-54: National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
9-5-55: Pretreatment Of Sewage
9-5-57: Grease, Oil, And Sand Interceptors
9-5-59: Certain Installations Unlawful
9-5-61: Mandatory Connections
9-5-63: Design, Construction Of New Connections, Inflow Sources
9-5-65: Rules And Regulations
9-5-67: Credit
9-5-69: Notification
9-5-71: Inconsistent Agreements
9-5-73: Fixture Unit Value Table
9-5-74: Vacant Units In Apartment Complexes, Commercial Complexes And Mobile
Home Parks
9-5-75: Resurveys Of Fixtures
9-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the ELKO SEWER CODE. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context requires otherwise, the following
are to mean:
   BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C), expressed in parts per
million by weight.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT CHARGE: The charge to the user to produce revenues to
retire outstanding indebtedness and maintain reserve accounts for capital
improvements to the sewer system, expressed as dollars per month per fixture
unit ($/mo/SFU).
   CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Elko.
   CONNECTION CHARGES: A fee charged in order to equalize the investment in
plant and equipment and other facilities made by the city of Elko. The charge
is for the right of service in the system. All connection charges and fees go
to the sewer capital improvement fund.
   DIRECTOR: The city engineer or any of his duly authorized representatives.
   ELKO MUNICIPAL SEWER SYSTEM OR SEWER SYSTEM: The system of conduits, pumps,
treatment plants and structures used for the purpose of conveying from their
source, treating in any manner and conveying to final points of disposal all
wastes of any nature permitted by this chapter to enter said system.
Specifically included as integral parts of the system are all conduits of any
nature forming a party of the general network of conduits or connected directly
or indirectly to said network; all pumps, treatment plants and structures of
any kind used in connection with the collection, treatment and disposal of the
wastes handled by the system; and all appurtenances to any of the above, either
physically or functionally connected therewith. "Sanitary sewers", as defined
in this section, are all included as parts of the municipal sewer system.
   FIXTURE UNIT SURVEY: The tabulation of sewer fixture units by physical
inspection or review of construction plans to determine the fixture unit count.
   FULL FRONTAGE: All lot lines of any lot, parcel or tract of property
adjacent to a road, street, alley or right of way, to include lots, parcels or
tracts containing multiple borders or edges, such as corner lots.
   HOOKUP CHARGE: See definition of Tap Fee Or Hookup Charge 1 .
   PREMISES: A continuous tract of land, building or group of adjacent
buildings under a single control with respect to use of sewer and
responsibility for payment therefor. Subdivision of such use or responsibility
shall constitute a division into separate "premises", as defined in this
definition, except that where more than one dwelling is being served through
the same sewer service in which case each of said dwellings shall constitute a
separate premises and shall be subject to the same separate charges as if
separate single-family dwellings.
   REPLACEMENT COST: The cost to replace items which in the normal course of
operation become nonfunctional. This cost is distinguished from capital
improvement cost by being less than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for a
singular replacement.
   SANITARY SEWERS: Those sewers which are designated to carry all waste matter
permitted by this chapter to enter the system, other than surface drainage
water.
   SEWER DEPARTMENT: The city of Elko water department, located at 1751 College
Avenue.
   SEWER FIXTURE UNIT (SFU): A numerical value assigned to different types of
plumbing fixtures to reflect flow contribution to the sewer system. Fixture
units shall be utilized for billing on the basis of flow contribution for each
user. A tabulation of the numerical value assigned to the various types of
plumbing fixtures is included in section
9-5-73 of this chapter.
   SEWER FIXTURE UNIT COUNT OR SURVEY: The tabulation of the fixture units by
physical unit or inspection or review of construction plans to fixture unit
determine the fixture unit count.
   SEWERAGE FIXTURES: Approved type installed receptacles, devices or
appliances which are supplied with water or which receive liquid or liquidborne
wastes and discharge such wastes into the drainage system to which they may be
directly or indirectly connected. Industrial or commercial tanks, vats and
similar processing equipment are not sewerage fixtures, but may be connected to
or discharged into approved sewerage fixtures.
   STORM SEWERS: Those sewers which are designated to carry surface drainage
water and such other waters as are not required to be disposed of through the
sanitary sewer system, in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewerage or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   USER CHARGE: A charge to the user in order to cover operation, maintenance
and replacement costs associated with the "sewer system", expressed as dollars
per SFU per month. (Ord. 740, 8-9-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 9-1-3 of this title.
9-5-5: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM ALL SEWERS:
   A.   General Prohibitions: No industrial user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass-through,
interference, or results in pollutant concentrations that do not allow the city
of Elko to comply with its WDRs (water discharge requirements). These general
prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW (publicly owned treatment works)
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other federal, state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   B.   Specific Prohibitions: No industrial user shall introduce or cause to
be introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or
wastewater:
      1.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      2.   Wastewater having a pH less than 6.5 measured at the point where
discharge enters the sewer main, or otherwise causing corrosive structural
damage to the POTW or equipment. In addition, the user must also meet the
city's local limit in section
9-5-54 of this chapter;
      3.   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than one-fourth inch (1/4") in any dimension, such as ashes, cinders,
sand earth, coal rubbish, mineralized inorganic grit, metal particles or
shavings, or any matter which is chemically or physically stable for at least
five (5) days at twenty degrees centigrade (20°C) or which would form a deposit
or obstruction or damage or reduce the capacity of the sewer into which it was
placed;
      4.   Pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants in excess of three
hundred (300) parts per million (1,000,000) as five (5) day BOD (biochemical
oxygen demand), or in excess of five hundred (500) parts per million
(1,000,000) COD (chemical oxygen demand), released in a discharge at a flow
rate and/or pollutant concentration which, either singly or by interaction with
other pollutants, will cause interference with the POTW;
      5.   Wastewater having a temperature greater than one hundred forty
degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C), or which will inhibit biological activity in
the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that
the temperature at the introduction into the POTW treatment plant exceeds one
hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C);
      6.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, matter containing
animal or vegetable greases, products of mineral oil, or oil of any nature in
excess of three hundred (300) parts per million (1,000,000), or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause pass-through, interference, or
results in pollutant concentrations in biosolids in excess of limits set forth
in 40 CFR 503;
      7.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      8.   Trucked or hauled pollutants;
      9.   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      10.   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent;
      11.   Any radioactive wastes. In the event of an accidental spill of
radioactive material into any public sewer, the person responsible shall:
         a.   Immediately notify the director; and
         b.   Render such technical or other assistance to the city within its
power to prevent the POTW from becoming contaminated with radioactivity;
      12.   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water, and unpolluted wastewater, unless specifically
authorized by the director;
      13.   Sludges, screenings, reverse osmosis brines, resin regeneration
brines, or residues from the pretreatment of industrial wastes;
      14.   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the director
in a wastewater discharge permit;
      15.   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      16.   Detergents, surface active agents, or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW, or are not biodegradable;
      17.   Any dispersed biodegradable oils and fats, such as lard, tallow, or
vegetable oil, and any fats, oils, or greases of animal origin in amounts that
will cause pass-through or interference, or results in pollutant concentrations
in biosolids that do not allow the city of Elko to comply with its WDRs;
      18.   Wastewater causing two (2) readings on an explosion hazard meter at
the point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, of more than
ten percent (10%) or any single reading over five percent (5%) of the lower
explosive limit of the meter;
      19.   Liquid matter of any nature containing suspended solids;
      20.   Any matter that would be poisonous to or inhibit the biologic
organisms associated with any sewage treatment process, and which in the
opinion of the director or his appointee, might interfere with the in excess of
one thousand (1,000) parts per million (1,000,000); satisfactory operation of
any treatment facility or any portion of the sewer system;
      21.   Mineralized inorganic grit or metallic particles or shavings that
would cause the pollutant concentrations in the biosolids that do not allow the
city of Elko to comply with its WDRs;
      22.   Hair in quantities that may cause disruption in the operation of
sampling or other equipment utilized within the sewer system.
Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section shall not be
processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to the POTW.
Upon obtaining the written approval of the director, sewage wastes or other
matters herein excluded may be discharged into the sewage system upon payment
to the city of the additional costs for processing the same as hereinafter
provided and set forth. (Ord. 675, 11-13-2007)
9-5-7: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM STORM SEWERS:
In addition to the matter excluded heretofore, all other matter of any nature
shall be excluded from those parts of the sewer system designated by the
director as storm sewers, excepting only surface drainage waters. Such drainage
water shall be directed into storm sewer only under the authorization and
direction of the director. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-9: MATTER EXCLUDED FROM SANITARY SEWERS:
In addition to the matter excluded heretofore, all surface drainage water shall
be excluded from all parts of the sewer system designated by the director as
the sanitary sewer system. This shall include roof drains and other sources of
uncontaminated water. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-11: SEWER SERVICE:
   A.   Applications:
      1.   Content: Each applicant for sewer service shall be required to sign,
on a form provided by the sewer department, an application which shall set
forth:
         a.   Date.
         b.   Location of premises to be served, giving street address and
description of property to be served.
         c.   Applicant's name and mailing address and the name and mailing
address of the legal owner of the premises.
         d.   Purpose for which the property will be used (residential,
commercial, apartments, etc.).
         e.   Person and address to which the monthly bills are to be mailed.
         f.   The date the applicant will be ready for sewer service.
         g.   The name of the contracting or plumbing agency that will be
hooking the premises to the city sewer system (new connections).
         h.   If the applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the
applicant shall provide written evidence of authorization to apply for service
from the legal owner of the property.
      2.   Purpose: The application is merely a written request for service and
does not bind the applicant to take service for any period of time, nor does it
bind the city to serve, except under reasonable conditions.
      3.   Responsibility: The legal owner is responsible for the payment of
all sewer charges at the premises for which an application is made. Only the
legal owner of the premises may request termination of sewer service or a
change in the person or address to which the monthly sewer bill is to be sent.
   B.   Change In Customer Equipment Or Operations: A customer making any
change in the size, character or extent of the equipment or operations for
which the service is utilized shall immediately file with the sewer department
a new application for additional service.
   C.   Sewer Service Laterals: All sewer service laterals shall be constructed
and maintained by the property owner in accordance with sewer department
standards, rules and regulations. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
   D.   Installation Of Sewer Service In Existing Paved Street: If the sewer
service is installed in an existing paved street or area, a street cut permit
shall be obtained from the city engineer's office and all costs associated with
the street cut, including, but not limited to, the street cut, required
excavation, repair of the street and any required traffic control shall be paid
by the applicant. (Ord. 522, 12-8-1998)
9-5-15: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Water Service Discontinued: Sewer service will normally be considered
terminated when the water service to the property has been shut off. The
billing for sewer service will be discontinued at that time and the customer
will be billed in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   Continued Billing: If, in the opinion of the director, unusual
circumstances warrant continued billing for sewer service or partially billing
for service, the customer shall be so notified. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-17: TERMINATION FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH RULES:
The sewer department may terminate water and/or sewer service to any customer
for violation of these rules after it has given the customer written notice of
such intention. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-19: TERMINATION FOR UNSAFE APPARATUS:
If any condition is found to exist on a customer's premises which constitutes a
hazard to health or which threatens to damage any portion of the city sewer
system, the service may be terminated without notice. The sewer department will
notify the customer immediately of the reasons for the discontinuance and the
corrective action to be taken by the customer before service can be restored.
(Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-21: TERMINATION FOR FRAUDULENT USE OF SERVICE:
When the sewer department has discovered that a customer has obtained service
by fraudulent means, the service to that customer may be discontinued without
notice. The sewer department will not restore service to such customer until
that customer has complied with this sewer code and rules and reasonable
requirements of the sewer department, and the sewer department has been
reimbursed for the full amount of the service rendered and the actual cost to
the sewer department incurred by reason of the fraudulent use. (Ord. 324, 2-19-
1982)
9-5-23: RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
Sewer service shall be considered restored and subject to billing at such a
time as the water reconnection takes place. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-25: REFUSAL TO SERVE:
   A.   Conditions For Refusal: The sewer department may refuse to serve an
applicant for service under the following conditions:
      1.   If the applicant fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   If the intended use of the service is of such a nature that it will
be detrimental or injurious to existing customers.
      3.   If, in the judgment of the sewer department, the applicant's
installation for utilizing the service is unsafe or hazardous, or subject to
freezing, or of such nature that satisfactory service cannot be rendered.
      4.   Where service has been discontinued for fraudulent use, the sewer
department will not serve an applicant until it has determined that all
conditions of fraudulent use or practice have been corrected. (Ord. 324, 2-19-
1982)
      5.   If, in the judgment of the sewer department or the state division of
environmental protection, there is insufficient capacity to serve the
applicant. (Ord. 385, 9-13-1988)
   B.   Notification To Customers: When an applicant is refused service under
the provisions of this chapter, the sewer department will notify the applicant
that he may appeal the decision of the sewer department to the city council.
(Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-27: CONTINUITY OF SERVICE:
   A.   Emergency Interruptions: The sewer department will make all reasonable
efforts to prevent interruptions to service and when such interruptions occur
will endeavor to reestablish service with the shortest possible delay
consistent with the safety to its customers and the general public.
   B.   Scheduled Interruptions: Whenever the sewer department finds it
necessary to schedule an interruption to its service it will, where feasible,
notify all customers to be affected by the interruptions, stating the
approximate time and anticipated duration of the interruption. Scheduled
interruptions will be made at such hours as will provide least inconvenience to
the customers consistent with reasonable sewer department operations. (Ord.
324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-29: SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES:
   A.   Connection Fee: For each initial or new connection made to the sewer
system, there shall be charged an initial payment in the form of a connection
fee which shall be set by resolution by the city council in accordance with the
following schedules:
      1.   Residential:
         a.   For each residential or other housing unit, multi-family
dwelling, apartment house or trailer court, the charge shall be thirty dollars
($30.00) per sewer fixture unit (SFU) until the charge is changed by resolution
of the city council. The number of SFUs is determined in subsection C of this
section.
         b.   The connection charge shall apply to all parcels and lots which
have not previously been served by the municipal sewer system and each lot of
any new subdivision to be served by the municipal sewer system.
      2.   Commercial And Industrial: For all initial or new commercial and
industrial sewer connections, the connection fee shall be thirty dollars
($30.00) per SFU until the charge is changed by resolution of the city council.
The number of SFUs is determined by using the schedule for commercial and
industrial buildings as set forth in section
9-5-73 of this chapter.
      3.   Modification And Expansion Of Facilities:
         a.   If any modification or expansion to the premises increases the
SFU count, the connection charge will be thirty dollars ($30.00) times the net
increase in SFUs until the charge is changed by resolution of the city council.
         b.   In converting a residential building to commercial use or
developing a commercial use on a lot with previous sewer service (in which the
building has been demolished or removed), the applicant shall pay the
connection charge based upon the net increase in fixture units. In the event
there is no record of the fixture units in the original structure, the
applicant will be credited fifty (50) fixture units. In no case will a refund
be granted for a new reduction in fixture units.
      4.   Determination Of Sewer Fixture Unit Count: The building inspector
will conduct a fixture unit survey at the time a building permit is requested.
This will be done off of construction plans provided by the applicant. The
final count will be based on a final inspection by the building inspector of
any completed structure. (Ord. 453, 3-14-1995)
   B.   Payment: The sewer connection charge shall be payable on demand to the
city at the time the building inspector issues a building permit.
   C.   Sewer Fixture Unit Count: Until further resolution of the city council,
the sewer fixture unit count and resulting rates for sewer use and connection
for residences shall be based on the following sewer fixture units (SFU) per
dwelling unit:
 
                                                               SFU
All single-family dwellings                                    50
All multiple-family dwellings (duplex, triplex and quadraplex) 50
Apartments                                                     50
Trailers in trailer courts (RV parks not included)             50
Trailers on private lots                                       50
 
   (Ord. 385, 9-13-1988)
   D.   Other Sewer Users:
      1.   All sewer users not specifically set forth in subsection C of this
section shall be classified as commercial or industrial users and SFUs will be
determined on the basis of the "sewer fixture value table" contained in section
 9-5-73 of this chapter.
      2.   The minimum SFU count for the purposes of calculating the monthly
capital improvements charge under this subsection shall be two hundred (200).
      3.   The minimum SFU count for the purpose of calculating the sewer
connection charge under this subsection shall be fifty (50). (Ord. 513, 8-11-
1998)
9-5-30: TREATED EFFLUENT CONSTRUCTION WATER METERED RATES AND INSTALLATION
CHARGES:
   A.   Treated Effluent Construction Water Metered Rate: The meter rate for
use of treated effluent shall be established by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Deposit: The applicant shall deposit with the Elko city clerk the cost
of installing and removing the metering facilities required to furnish the
service. The applicant will be charged in accordance with the following rate
schedule:
      1.   Flat charge per connection, for both installation and removal of
metering facilities, in such amount as specified by resolution of the city
council.
      2.   Additional relocation of metering facilities to another location, in
such amount as specified by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Application, Installation And Operation: An application for treated
effluent construction water service must be completed by the applicant, and
approved by the water reclamation facility (WRF) superintendent, or city
designee, prior to treated effluent construction water service. All facilities
for treated effluent construction water service to an applicant shall be
installed at designated sites by the (WRF) department and shall be operated in
accordance with their written instructions. All applicants shall provide
themselves with a hydrant wrench and summer valve necessary to operate the
metering facilities.
   D.   Responsibility For Installed Metering Facilities: The applicant shall
use all possible care to prevent damage to the metering facilities from the
time they are installed until they are removed, or until forty eight (48)
hours' written notice has been given to the WRF department that the applicant
has completed its use of the metering facilities. If the metering facilities or
other facilities are damaged, the cost of making repairs shall be paid by the
applicant.
   E.   Unauthorized Use Of Hydrants: Tampering with any fire hydrant for the
unauthorized use of treated effluent construction water therefrom, or for any
other purpose, is a city offense, punishable by fine and/or incarceration.
   F.   Duration Of Service: Reuse construction water service connections shall
be disconnected and terminated within six (6) months after installation unless
an extension of time is granted in writing by the utilities director. (Ord.
687, 3-11-2008)
9-5-31: SEWER RATES:
The sewer charge for the billing period established by the city shall be as
follows:
   A.   Sewer User Charge:
      1.   A charge levied to cover the user proportionate share of operation,
maintenance and replacement of the sewage facilities based upon the following
formulas:
       C u = Ct x F u ÷ 12
                Ft   
Where:
         Monthly user charge for operation and maintenance including
Cu     = replacement costs (this charge will be adjusted to reflect the charge
         for the billing period).
Ct     = Total annual operation and maintenance costs.
Fu     = Total fixture units for the individual user.
Ft     = Total number of fixture units in the Elko system.
The above formula applies to all sewer users and, in addition, those users
discharging pollutant loading higher than "normal domestic sewage" shall be
charged a "surcharge".
The following formula will be utilized in calculating the surcharge:
       Cs = BcB + ScS + PcP ÷ 12
Where:
Cs     = Monthly surcharge to user (to be adjusted to reflect the billing
         period established by the city).
Bc     = Annual operation and maintenance cost for treatment of a unit of BOD
         above a predetermined base level.
B      = Annual units of BOD above base level.
Sc     = Annual operation and maintenance for treatment of a unit of suspended
         solids above a base level.
S      = Annual units of suspended solids above a base level.
Pc     = Annual operation and maintenance cost for treatment of a unit of other
         pollutants above a base level.
P      = Annual units of pollutants above base level.
 
      2.   The surcharge is to be included when the pollutant loading units are
above a base level, but in no case is a reduction in charge permitted if waste
is below the base level for "normal domestic strength" sewage.
      3.   Fixture units for nonresidential users will be determined by every
user based upon the table contained in section
9-5-73 of this chapter.
   B.   Capital Improvement Charge: A capital improvement charge may be levied
by the city. This charge will be determined by the city supervisors and will be
included on the customer's billing statement as an item separate from the user
charge.
   C.   Sewer Rate Schedule:
      1.   Rates for sewer user charges shall be set by resolution of the city
council.
      2.   Septic receiving charge shall be set by resolution of the city
council.
   D.   Meter Rates:
      1.   As an alternative to the sewer fixture unit method of billing, the
city will bill based upon forty seven percent (47%) of the metered quantity of
water consumed. The user must submit a method of reporting meter readings
satisfactory to the director to assure safeguards against tampering with the
meter. Once the user selects to use a meter as a basis of his billing, he may
revert to an SFU basis only on the anniversary date of his selection to use the
meter as the basis for billing. The user shall purchase his meter from the city
and the user shall pay all costs incurred in installing such meter.
      2.   The meter rate shall be set by resolution of the city council.
   E.   Streetlight Utility Charge: Streetlight utility charges shall be based
upon the following sewer fixture units and shall be set by resolution.
 
Residential:
   50 SFU (minimum)
Commercial:
   1 to 50 SFU (minimum)
   51 to 500 SFU
   501 to 3,000 SFU
   3,001 or more
 
   F.   Public Facilities: Sewer fees shall be assessed for all public
buildings unless specifically waived by the city council as part of a lease of
public property. (Ord. 541, 10-26-2000; amd. Ord. 560, 1-23-2001)
   G.   Rate Changes: All changes in user rates for sewer use shall first be
proposed to the city council at a regularly scheduled meeting. The proposed
change in rates shall not be acted upon until the following regularly scheduled
or subsequent meeting. (Ord. 561, 2-27-2001)
9-5-32: WAIVER OF SEWER USER FEES FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS:
   A.   Any sewer fees related to the maintenance and beautification of the
Nevada department of transportation (NDOT) right of way for State Route 225
(Mountain City Highway) will be waived for any commercial business which has
installed a water utility meter, and which business agrees to maintain the NDOT
right of way abutting its property.
   B.   Additionally, in order to qualify for the waiver of sewer fees, the
metered commercial customer's water use for right of way irrigation shall be
determined as follows:
      1.   Measuring the actual volume of water used through a secondary water
meter; or
      2.   If circumstances allow, subtracting the winter water usage (when the
right of way is not being irrigated) from the summer water usage (when the
right of way is being irrigated), as recorded on the master water meter. Any
such customer shall inform the water department of the dates when the right of
way irrigation began and when it stopped. (Ord. 657, 10-25-2005)
9-5-33: EXTENSION OF SEWER MAIN FACILITIES:
Sewer main facilities may be extended by subdivider, developer, property owner
or other persons in accordance with plans and specifications submitted to and
approved by the city engineer.
   A.   Construction And Extension: The inside diameter of every sewer main
shall not be less than eight inches (8"), except as may be determined by the
city engineer. The subdivider, developer, property owner or other persons shall
construct all sewer mains in accordance with the plans and specifications as
submitted and approved by the city engineer and pay any and all costs for the
minimum size sewer main required for this development as determined by the city
engineer. Every sewer main extension must be extended across the full frontage
of the developer's or property owner's property and not only to the closest
corner of their property, provided, however, that the city council may modify
or waive the foregoing requirements contained in this sentence if one or more
of the following conditions can be met: the requirements are: 1) not
economically feasible, 2) will discourage future development, or 3) will not
serve the best interests of the public.
   B.   Connection: Upon connection to the sewer system, the subdivider,
developer, property owner or other persons shall dedicate all sewer mains
located on property owned or controlled by the city to the city. Upon
dedication and after the one year contractor warranty period has expired, the
city will operate and maintain the sewer main located on said property.
   C.   Construction Of Larger Mains: Whenever, in the opinion of the city
council or city engineer, it is necessary that a sewer main be constructed of a
larger capacity than the minimum capacity set forth in subsection A of this
section, the city shall pay the difference in pipe material cost for the
oversized sewer main. The subdivider, developer, property owner or other person
shall be required to purchase materials, construct and install such oversized
sewer main required.
   D.   Reimbursement: In a situation where sewer main facilities are required
to be extended at least one hundred feet (100') from an existing main and the
city council determines that the area through which the main will be extended
is well suited for growth, the city council may determine to apply the
following reimbursement process:
      1.   Sewer main facilities may be extended by a subdivider, developer,
property owner or other person (the applicant).
      2.   The actual cost of extending the sewer main (cost of materials and
labor only) shall be paid by the applicant.
      3.   The city may thereafter collect from any sewer user connecting
directly to such extension an extension connection fee which is represented by
that fraction of the actual cost of such extension, as approved by the city, as
the number of front feet or acreage, or combination of the two (2), which may
be served by such extension when connected to the city sewer system.
      4.   Extension connection fees, together with regular fees collected
pursuant to section
9-5-29 of this chapter from new sewer users above the extension, shall be paid
by the city to the applicant originally installing such extension up to an
amount equal to ninety percent (90%) of the cost of the extension.
         a.   The use of connection fees for payment to the applicant shall be
limited to not longer than seven (7) years after the date said extension is
originally connected to the city sewer system.
         b.   The use of extension connection fees for payment to the applicant
shall not be limited in time.
         c.   The city shall in no way be obligated to assure that the
applicant making such extension is paid ninety percent (90%) of the total costs
thereof, nor to initiate any action or incur any expense to collect any sum to
be paid to the applicant.
      5.   Where different applicants contribute to the making of the
extension, such sums shall be refunded to such applicants prorated according to
the amounts which they separately contributed toward the extension and pursuant
to the preceding plan.
   E.   Special Reimbursement Agreements: Where special conditions exist in the
opinion of the city which justify reimbursement to the person paying the costs
of a main extension which justify reimbursement on any basis other than that
provided in subsection D of this section, the city council may authorize a
special reimbursement contract by the city and the person or persons
constructing the main extension. Said special reimbursement agreement shall be
made and entered into prior to acceptance of the work and sewer main by the
city. (Ord. 746, 5-8-2012)
9-5-35: BILLING (PAYMENT AND LIEN RIGHTS):
All bills for sewer services shall be rendered monthly or bimonthly at the
established rate in advance, or such bills may be rendered on a regularly
established day of each and every period in which the service was rendered.
Each bill shall show the amount of the sewer service charge. In the event the
sewer bill, or any part thereof, is not paid in full within fifteen (15) days
after the date when billed, it will be considered delinquent and subject the
customer and property owner to termination of service and allow the city to
claim a lien on the property for the amount of the bill. In all cases the
property owner shall be ultimately responsible for the payment of the sewer
bill. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-36: RIGHT OF WAY TOLL:
The Elko municipal sewer utility shall pay a right of way toll, to be charged
to the sewer enterprise fund, to the city of Elko as follows:
   A.   Commencing August 1, 2010, equal to 2.5 percent of the gross receipts
derived by it from each utility bill of a customer of the Elko municipal sewer
utility during each calendar year; said payments shall be made on or before the
fifteenth day of each month of the month immediately following collection of
such revenues, and each payment shall equal 2.5 percent of the aforesaid gross
revenues obtained by the Elko municipal sewer utility, its successor or
assigns.
   B.   Upon its receipt of payments of the right of way toll collected and
transmitted to the city of Elko pursuant to subsection A of this section, the
city of Elko shall allocate one hundred percent (100%) of the proceeds to the
city's general fund. (Ord. 715, 7-27-2010, eff. 8-1-2010)
9-5-37: TERMINATION OF SERVICE PROCEDURE FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   On the sixteenth day succeeding the mailing of any sewer bill, or in
the event the sixteenth day falls on a holiday, Saturday or Sunday, then on the
next succeeding working day, all charges to that date, whether or not billed,
and all charges accrued for sewer services, are deemed due and payable. Upon
nonpayment of such sewer charges, the sewer billing shall be considered
delinquent and the finance department shall mail notice to the legal owner or
the applicant for service and shall either mail a copy of the notice to the
occupant or post a copy of the notice on the premises of the occupant at the
address receiving service, notifying the owner and occupant that the sewer
service will be terminated on a specific date, which date shall not be less
than ten (10) days after the date of mailing or posting such delinquency
notice.
   B.   The owner or applicant applying for service or occupant of the premises
may request to present his position concerning termination of sewer services to
the city council and the city council action will be final.
   C.   Failure of the owner, customer or occupant to appear before the city
council after having requested such right, as provided above, will cause the
sewer service to be terminated.
   D.   On the date of termination of sewer services, or any date thereafter,
the finance department may cause to be filed with the county recorder a
statement of the amount due and unpaid for sewer services and a description of
the property to which the services were rendered to perfect a lien against the
property.
   E.   Upon vacating the premises, all customers desiring to discontinue sewer
service shall notify the sewer department not less than one business day prior
to vacating the premises. Unless discontinuance of service is ordered, the
customer shall be liable for charges whether or not the sewer is used.
   F.   Termination of sewer services shall be accomplished by disconnection of
water service at the subject address. (Ord. 537, 12-28-1999)
9-5-39: APPEALS:
The city council shall review any decision made by the director or his
representatives or agents in interpreting, applying or enforcing the provisions
of this chapter, upon the receipt of an application or petition in writing,
requesting a review of such decision. In exercising its powers of review, the
city council may, in conformity with the provisions of the law, reverse or
affirm wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements, decision or
determination of the director appealed from and make such order, requirement or
determination as ought to be made. The city council may also initiate a review
of the director's interpretation of the provisions of this chapter by a motion
and by a vote of a majority of the quorum or a majority of the members present
if such number exceeds a quorum. In all cases, the decision of the city council
shall be final. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-41: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in title 1, chapter 3
of this code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-43: BIENNIAL REVIEW OF OPERATIONAL MAINTENANCE CHARGES:
The city council shall review not less often than every two (2) years the
contribution of users and user classes, the total cost of operation and
maintenance of treatment works and its approved user charge system. The city
council shall revise the charges for users or user classes to accomplish the
following:
   A.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes as required herein.
   B.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and maintenance
costs necessary for the proper operation and maintenance (including
replacement) of the treatment works.
   C.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-45: INSPECTION OF SEWERS AND ATTACHMENTS:
   A.   Inspection; Notice: The director, or other authorized city officials or
employees of the city, may enter upon premises drained by any side sewer or
connected with any public sewer at all reasonable hours to ascertain whether or
not the provisions of the ordinances of the city relative to sewerage have been
followed. If such sewer, or its attachments, are in conflict with the
provisions of any law or ordinance in regard thereto, the owner of said
premises, or his agent, shall, upon notice, cause such sewer or its attachments
to be so altered, repaired or reconstructed as to make them conform to the
requirements of the laws and ordinances within fifteen (15) days from the time
of receipt of such notice.
   B.   Wastewater Survey: When requested by the director, or other authorized
city staff, all industrial users must submit information on the nature and
characteristics of their wastewater by completing a wastewater survey prior to
commencing their discharge. The director, or other authorized city staff, is
authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require
industrial users to update the survey. Failure to complete this survey shall be
reasonable grounds for terminating service to the industrial user and shall be
considered a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 675, 11-13-2007)
9-5-47: TESTING OF SEWAGE WASTE:
The director, or any authorized city officials or employees of the city, may
enter upon any and all premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing of sewage waste in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter; and it is unlawful for any
person to prevent or attempt to prevent any such entrance or obstruct or
interfere with any such officer or employee while so engaged. (Ord. 324, 2-19-
1982)
9-5-49: SEPTIC TANK CONTENTS:
It is unlawful for anyone to discharge the contents of any septic tank,
cesspool or chemical toilet into the sewer system of the city, except in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-51: DESIGNATION OF PLACES AND MANNER OF DISCHARGE OF SEPTIC TANK CONTENTS:
The director shall designate in writing the particular points where the
contents of septic tanks, cesspools or chemical toilets can be discharged into
the sewer system, and the manner in which said contents shall be discharged. No
matter prohibited from sewers by this chapter shall be permitted to be so
discharged. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-53: DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER OF WASTE MATTER:
Before any matter of any nature may be discharged into the sewer system, which
discharge might reasonably be considered a violation of this chapter, the
controlling characteristic of such matter shall be determined to the
satisfaction of the director. The responsibility of initiating such
determinations of any costs involved and of submitting the results and the
decision as to whether or not a permit shall be issued, shall be the
responsibility of the director. The fact that any matter has been discharged
into the sewer system prior to the passage of this chapter or subsequent
thereto, but without any objection from the director, does not constitute a
valid right to so discharge such matter. If, upon discovery by the director at
any time that any matter being discharged into the sewer does not conform to
the requirements of this chapter, the director may immediately stop the
discharge of such matter into the sewer system. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-54: NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
The categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 CFR chapter I, subchapter N,
parts 405-471 are hereby incorporated.
   A.   Concentration Or Mass Limits: Where a categorical pretreatment standard
is expressed only in terms of either the mass or the concentration of a
pollutant in wastewater, the director or authorized city staff may impose
equivalent, or more stringent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 CFR 403.6(c).
   B.   Alternate Limits: When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment
standard is mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the
director or authorized city staff shall impose an alternate limit.
   C.   Variance: A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment
standard if the user can prove, in the opinion of the director or authorized
city staff, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in 40 CFR
403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally different from
the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical pretreatment
standard.
   D.   Net Gross Adjustment: A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a
categorical standard in accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
   E.   Local Limits: The following pollutant limits are established to protect
against pass-through, interference, or pollutant concentrations in biosolids
that do not allow the city of Elko to comply with its WDRs. No person shall
discharge wastewater containing in excess of the following daily maximum
concentration limits, as determined from the analysis of any grab or composite
sample collected:
Parameter Local Limit (mg/l Unless Otherwise Noted)
Parameter                             Local Limit (mg/l Unless Otherwise Noted)
Arsenic                               MR
Cadmium                               MR
Chromium (total)                      MR
Copper                                MR
Lead                                  MR
Mercury                               MR
Molybdenum                            MR
Nickel                                MR
Selenium                              MR
Silver                                MR
Zinc                                  MR
Biochemical oxygen demand                300
Chemical oxygen demand                   500
Total suspended solids                   1,000
Ammonia                                  40
Oil and grease                           300
pH (standard units) (allowable range) 6.5 - 8.5
MR = monitor and report (all analysis to be completed using current standard
method accepted by the U.S. EPA)
 
      1.   The above limits apply at the point where the wastewater is
discharged to the POTW. The director or authorized city staff may impose more
restrictive limitations, or mass limitations in addition to, or in place of,
the concentration based limitations through any industrial user's discharge
permit.
      2.   The above limits may be revised from time to time by the city as may
be deemed necessary to protect the POTW from pass-through, interference, or
pollutant concentrations in WRF biosolids or WRF effluent that do not allow the
city of Elko to comply with its WDRs, or as may be required by the applicable
federal, state, or local pretreatment standards.
      3.   The director or authorized city staff may authorize discharges
containing higher concentrations on a site specific basis, provided that the
concentrations of such discharges shall not cause pass-through, interference,
or result in pollutant concentrations in WRF biosolids or WRF effluent that do
not allow the city of Elko to comply with its WDRs. Upon approval by the
director or authorized city staff, site specific limitations shall be
established through the terms specified in the user's wastewater discharge
permit. The director or authorized city staff may impose mass limitations in
addition to, or in place of, concentration based limitations, due to reduced
water usage by an industrial user. (Ord. 675, 11-13-2007)
9-5-55: PRETREATMENT OF SEWAGE:
When at any time it becomes necessary or desirable to discharge into the sewer
system any matter from any source which does not conform to the requirements
outlined in this chapter, it is hereby required that such matter may be
discharged into the sewer system, the producer thereof shall pretreat the same
at his own expense to a degree that will produce an effluent which does conform
to the said requirements. Such pretreatment plans shall be understood to
include grease traps, chemical or biochemical plants, sedimentation chambers
and any other devices which effect a change of any nature in the
characteristics of the matter being treated. Any and all such devices and
equipment shall be subject to the approval of the director, shall not be put
into operation without a written permit of approval issued by the director,
shall be provided with all necessary features of construction to permit
inspection of operations and testing of material passing through them, and
shall be open to the inspection of the director at any time; but the producer,
in lieu of the treatment of said sewage as hereinabove provided for, may, with
the written approval of the director being first obtained, discharge said
sewage, waste or other matter into said sewage system, subject to the
provisions of this chapter and subject to the payment of the additional cost of
the treatment hereof, as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-57: GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the director or authorized city staff, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, oil in
excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand and other harmful ingredients
including mineralized inorganic grit; except that such interceptors shall not
be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the director or authorized city
staff, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection. All interceptors shall be exterior, inground installations,
provided that as to dischargers at existing locations as of the effective date
of this chapter, where it is physically impossible to locate an interceptor at
an exterior, inground location, the director or authorized city staff may grant
an exception allowing the interceptor to be placed in an approved interior
location.
   B.   Fat, oil, grease, and sand interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature. They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped
with easily removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and
watertight.
   C.   Where installed, all fat, oil, grease, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times. It is specifically prohibited to maintain interceptors by
bacteriological, chemical, or enzymatic addition or treatment.
   D.   Wastewater discharge permits may be issued to users of fat, oil,
grease, and sand interceptors. Permits shall establish minimum requirements for
the design, operation, maintenance, and performance of the equipment. Permits
may include other information as described in this chapter.
   E.   The discharge of waste to a grease, oil, and sand interceptor is
subject to all sections of this chapter.
   F.   Purchase and installation of the interceptor shall be at the user's
expense. No exceptions shall be made to the requirements of this section due to
expense, size of the installation, or difficulties in locating the interceptor
within the site boundary.
   G.   Cleaning and maintenance records shall be kept by user and shall be
made available for review by the director or authorized city staff at any time.
Records of any analysis conducted on the water or other contents of the
equipment shall be made available for review by the director or authorized city
staff at the request of the director or authorized city staff. The director or
authorized city staff may require submittal of maintenance records to the city
for review at any time. (Ord. 675, 11-13-2007)
9-5-59: CERTAIN INSTALLATIONS UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful to so install, change, bypass, adjust or alter any metering
device or any piping arrangement connected therewith as to show the quantity of
sewage discharged from the premises to be less than the actual quantity. (Ord.
324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-61: MANDATORY CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Unless a modification or waiver is granted in accordance with
subsection B of this section, each owner of houses, buildings, or other
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, commercial,
industrial or other like purposes situated within the incorporated areas of the
city shall connect to such sewer within ninety (90) days after such sewer is
available for use wherever such public sewer line is within three hundred feet
(300') of any building discharging sanitary or industrial waste. Connections to
the sewer system are the sole responsibility of the owner of the property so
connected.
   B.   The city council may modify or waive the requirements of this section
if it determines that unique circumstances exist whereby the requirements: 1)
are in conflict with an existing agreement to which the city is a party at the
time of adoption hereof or 2) will not serve the best interests of the public,
provided the modification or waiver is consistent with state law. (Ord. 746, 5-
8-2012)
9-5-63: DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION OF NEW CONNECTIONS, INFLOW SOURCES:
No new connection shall be made to the municipal sewer system unless the same
is properly designed and constructed; inflow sources as defined to EPA rules
and regulations section 35.905.11, including, but not limited to, roof leaders,
cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from
storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, stormwaters, surface runoff,
street wash waters or drainage shall not be permitted to be connected to the
sewer system. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-65: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The city council shall have the power and duty to adopt and may from time to
time amend rules and regulations for the operation of the municipal sewer
system including, but not limited to, rules and regulations concerning the
method of hooking up and the type of use of the sewer so long as such rules and
regulations are not in conflict with law, this chapter or EPA rules and
regulations section 35.905.11. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-67: CREDIT:
   A.   Establishment And Maintenance: Each applicant for service shall
establish and maintain credit to the satisfaction of the sewer department
before service will be rendered.
   B.   Loss And Reestablishment Of Credit: Any amount due for sewer service
that remains unpaid for twenty (20) days after presentation of a bill therefor,
during the depositor's first year of service, may be deducted from the
guarantee deposit and service shall be subject to discontinuance until the
deposit is again restored to the original amount. Any such unpaid amount
accruing subsequently to the depositor's first year of service, where the
premises are owned by the depositor, may also be deducted from any guarantee
deposit remaining in the department's possession. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-69: NOTIFICATION:
Each user will be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a regular
bill, of the rate and that portion of user charges or ad valorem taxes which
are attributable to wastewater treatment services. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-71: INCONSISTENT AGREEMENTS:
The city council members may have preexisting agreements which address:
   A.   The reservation of capacity in the city treatment works; or
   B.   The charges to be collected by the city council in providing wastewater
treatment services or reserving capacity.
This user charge system shall take precedence over any terms or conditions of
agreements or contracts between the city council and users (including
industrial users, special districts, other municipalities or federal agencies
or installations) which are inconsistent with the requirements of section 204
(b)(1)(A) of the act and the regulations of the U.S. EPA, September 27, 1978.
(Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-73: FIXTURE UNIT VALUE TABLE:
Fixture unit surveys are conducted and fixture units established in accordance
with the following table:
Description Of Fixture Fixture Value Per Unit
Description Of Fixture                                   Fixture Value Per Unit
Bathroom group:                                           
   Sewer closet                                        
   Sink                                                
   Bathtub and/or shower                                       14
    with flushometer                                           18
Bathtub (with or without shower)                               4
Bedpan washer and sterilizer                                   5
Bidet                                                          4
Car wash per stall                                             24
Continuous flow per GPM                                        200
Dental unit cuspidor                                           2
Dental unit lavatory                                           2
Dishwashers:                                              
   Conveyor                                                 100
   Residential                                              8
   Under counter                                            10
Disposals                                                      50
Drinking fountains                                             2
Floor drains:                                                  4
   Grease, oil, solids                                      6
Hose bibs                                                      2
Landscaping per 1,000 square feet                              12
Laundry:                                                       4
   Tub and faucets                                          4
   Clothes washer:                                     
Automatic 8 pound                                              16
12 – 19 pound                                                20
20 – 39 pound                                                22
40 – 50 pound                                                24
50+ per pound of machine weight                                1.5
Receptors for refrigerator, coffee urn, soft drinks, ice       2
machines, etc.
Recycled                                                       16
Showers per head and drain                                     4
Sinks                                                     
   Bar                                                      2
   Flushing rim (clinic)                                    12
   Industrial; wash up, etc.                                6
   Kitchen                                                  4
   Lavatory                                                 2
Swimming pool per 100 square feet                              5
Trailer parks:                                            
   Dump station                                             25
   Recreational vehicles park per pad                       7
Urinals:                                                  
   Pedestal-siphon                                          12
   Stall                                                    4
   Trough/2 foot                                            6
Water closet:                                             
   Flush valve                                              12
   Tank                                                     8
Water for cooling per ton charged under intermittent      
flow
 
For fixture types not listed, fixture units shall be estimated by using similar
use and performance description.
For nonresidential facilities which operate or are open to the public in excess
of twelve (12) hours per day, a multiplier of 1.5 shall be applied to the
fixture unit value per unit. (Ord. 324, 2-19-1982)
9-5-74: VACANT UNITS IN APARTMENT COMPLEXES, COMMERCIAL COMPLEXES AND MOBILE
HOME PARKS:
   A.   Exemption; Requirements: Any owner (or the owner's authorized
representative) of an apartment complex, commercial complex or mobile home park
containing more than one rental unit or space (hereinafter "unit") served by a
single sewer service connection may obtain an exemption from monthly sewer user
fees for any vacant rental unit, provided the following requirements are met:
      1.   The entire apartment complex, commercial complex or mobile home park
must utilize the fixture unit method for the determination of sewer fees for
the entire month during which the exemption is sought;
      2.   The unit for which the exemption is sought must be vacant for thirty
(30) continuous days during the month for which the exemption is sought;
      3.   The unit for which the exemption is sought must be offered to the
public for rent and must constitute a separate "premises";
      4.   The owner (or the owner's authorized representative) of the
apartment complex, commercial complex or mobile home park must request an
exemption for the vacant unit on a form specified by the city, which form shall
be entitled "verification of nonoccupancy";
      5.   The fully completed and executed verification of nonoccupancy form
shall be received by the finance department no later than the twentieth day of
the month during which the unit is vacant, and if the unit is rented after the
twentieth day of the month, then the city must be notified;
      6.   Exemptions for months other than the month in which the verification
of nonoccupancy form is received by the finance department shall not be
granted;
      7.   The customer may submit the verification of nonoccupancy form by
fax, in person, by mail or by depositing the form in the city drop box; and
      8.   The verification of nonoccupancy form must be signed under oath and
dated by the owner (or owner's authorized representative) of the apartment
complex, commercial complex or mobile home park.
   B.   Amount Of Exemption: The exemption shall be in an amount corresponding
to the fixture unit count applicable to the vacant unit.
   C.   Individual Fixtures Not Exempt: Exemptions shall not be granted for
individual fixtures within premises, regardless of whether the fixture has been
in use during any given month.
   D.   Resurvey: Nothing contained in this section shall preclude the owner of
a premises from requesting the city to perform a resurvey of fixtures on the
premises for the purpose of making adjustments to the fixture count.
   E.   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply to this section:
   APARTMENT COMPLEX: A building or tract of land containing two (2) or more
family dwelling units, at least one of which is offered for rent to the public,
all of which are owned by a common person or group of persons.
   COMMERCIAL COMPLEX: A building or tract of land in a nonresidential zoning
district containing two (2) or more commercial units, at least one of which is
offered for rent to the public, all of which are owned by a common person or
group of persons.
   MOBILE HOME PARK AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Shall have the meanings
ascribed to those terms as defined in section
3-5-3 of this code.
   F.   Nonapplicable: Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this
chapter, the exemption from sewer fees described in this section shall not
apply to vacant rooms, spaces or other accommodations in a "transient lodging
rental business", as that term is defined in title 4, chapter 6 of this code.
(Ord. 628, 11-23-2004)
9-5-75: RESURVEYS OF FIXTURES:
   A.   Authorized: The director, or his designee, may revise any sewer fixture
unit count based on a resurvey of any premises at his sole discretion.
   B.   Request By Property Owner: The property owner may request a resurvey of
his sewer fixture unit count at any time upon payment of the fee described in
section
9-1-29 of this title. (Ord. 628, 11-23-2004)
CHAPTER 6
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION TO STORMWATER
SECTION:
9-6-1: Purpose
9-6-2: Definitions
9-6-3: Applicability
9-6-4: Responsibility For Administration
9-6-5: Ultimate Responsibility
9-6-6: Discharge Prohibitions
9-6-7: Suspension Of MS4 Access
9-6-8: Commercial Or Industrial Activity, Including Construction Activity
9-6-9: Monitoring Of Discharges
9-6-10: Requirement To Prevent, Control, And Reduce Stormwater Pollutants By
The Use Of Best Management Practices Or Proper Waste Management
9-6-11: Watercourse Protection
9-6-12: Notification Of Spills
9-6-13: Enforcement
9-6-14: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation And/Or Stop Work Order
9-6-15: Injunctive Relief
9-6-16: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
9-6-17: Criminal Penalties
9-6-18: Remedies Not Exclusive
9-6-19: Stormwater Management Utility Fees
9-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents of the City through regulation of non-stormwater
discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4), waters of the
United States, and watercourses. This Chapter establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the MS4 to comply with the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process and to:
   A.   Regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 resulting from
discharges,
   B.   Prohibit illegal connections and discharges to the MS4, and
   C.   Provide for the inspection, surveillance and monitoring procedures
necessary to ensure compliance with this Chapter.(Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the words and
terms defined in this section shall have the following meanings:
             Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, general good housekeeping
             practices, pollution prevention and educational practices, maintenance procedures,
BEST         and other management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants
MANAGEMENT   directly or indirectly to the MS4, a watercourse, or waters of the United States,
PRACTICES    to include stormwater, receiving water, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs
(BMPs):      include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control site
             runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
             materials storage. BMPs may be structural or nonstructural.
CITY:        The City of Elko, Nevada to include its departments, agencies, officials, and
             employees.
             The Clean Water Act (formerly referred to as the Federal Water Pollution Control
CLEAN WATER  Act or Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972) Pub. L. 92-500, as
ACT:         amended Pub. L. 95-576, Pub. L. 96-483, and Pub. L. 97- 117, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et
             seq.
COMMERCIAL   A task, conduct, enterprise, or undertaking of any kind with the goal of earing an
ACTIVITY:    economic profit.
             An activity subject to an NPDES construction stormwater general permit issued by
             the State of Nevada. The term “construction activity” includes NPDES construction
CONSTRUCTION activities on a land disturbance of one (1) acre or more. The term “construction
ACTIVITY:    activity” also includes a land disturbance of less than one (1) acre if part of a
             larger common plan of development or sale that disturbs, or is proposed to
             disturb, one (1) acre or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to,
             clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
CONTAMINANT: Any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or matter which is
             added to water.
             Any source of water pollution which is diffused to the extent that it is not
DIFFUSE      readily discernible and cannot be confined to a discrete conveyance. This term is
SOURCE:      intended to be equivalent to the term "nonpoint source" as used in federal
             statutes and regulations.
             Any addition of a contaminant, pollutant, or pollutants to the MS4, waters of the
DISCHARGE:   United States, or a watercourse, including a "discharge of pollutant" as defined
             in 40 CFR § 122.2.
DISCHARGER:  A person who permits or causes a discharge into the MS4 or a watercourse.
ENFORCEMENT  The City department or agency designated to enforce this Chapter, to include its
AGENCY:      director, employees, and designees.
ENFORCEMENT  The City Environmental Coordinator, City Code Enforcement Officer, or any other
OFFICIAL:    City employee designated to serve as an Enforcement Official by the City Council
             to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
FACILITY,    Any source of a discharge, including land or appurtenances thereto, that is
OPERATION OR subject to regulation under an NPDES permit. The foregoing includes an action
ACTIVITY:    performed by or associated with a person or organization, such as a business
             organization, in the production of goods or delivery of services.
             Any person, by site location, whose act, or process produces "solid waste" as
GENERATOR:   defined in NRS 444.490, "hazardous material" as defined in NRS 459.7024, extremely
             hazardous material" as defined in NRS 459.7022, or "hazardous waste" as defined in
             NRS 459.432.
             Any material, substance or waste that is or has the characteristic of being
             hazardous, toxic, ignitable, reactive or corrosive, including, without
             limitations, petroleum, PCBs, asbestos, materials known to cause cancer or
             reproductive problems and those materials, substances and/or waste, including
             infectious waste, medical waste, and potentially infectious waste, which are or
             later become regulated by any local governmental authority, the state of Nevada,
HAZARDOUS    or the United States government, including, but not limited to, substances defined
MATERIALS:   as "hazardous substances", "hazardous materials", "toxic substances", or
             "hazardous wastes" in the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and
             liability act of 1980, as amended, 43 USC section 9601 et seq.; the hazardous
             materials transportation act, 40 USC section 1801 et seq.; the resource
             conservation and recovery act, 43 USC section 6901 et seq.; all corresponding and
             related state of Nevada and local statutes, ordinances and regulations, including,
             without limitation, any dealing with underground storage tanks; and in any other
             environmental law, regulation or ordinance now existing or hereinafter enacted.
             Either of the following:
             A.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, which allows
             an illegal discharge to enter the storm water conveyance system including, but not
             limited to, any conveyances which allow non-storm water discharge including, but
ILLEGAL      not limited to, sewage and process wastewater to enter the storm water conveyance
CONNECTIONS: system and any connections to the storm water conveyance system from indoor drains
             and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
             allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
             B.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use to
             the storm water conveyance system which has not been documented in plans, maps, or
             equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
ILLEGAL      Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the MS4, a watercourse, or
DISCHARGE:   waters of the United States, except as exempted in section
             9-6-6(A) of this chapter.
INDUSTRIAL   An activity subject to an NPDES industrial permit as set forth in 40 CFR section
ACTIVITY:    122.26(b)(14).
MUNICIPAL    A collection of structures (retention basins, ditches, underground pipes, etc.)
SEPARATE     owned and operated by the City and not connected to the sanitary sewer system that
STORM SEWER  is designed to gather stormwater and discharge it, without treatment, into local
SYSTEM       streams and rivers.
(MS4):
MUNICIPAL
SEPARATE     A permit allowing the City to legally discharge stormwater into local streams and
STORM SEWER  rivers through the municipal separate storm sewer system.
SYSTEM (MS4)
PERMIT:
NATIONAL
POLLUTANT
DISCHARGE    A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC
ELIMINATION  1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United
SYSTEM       States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area
(NPDES)      wide basis.
STORM WATER
DISCHARGE
PERMIT:
NON-STORM
WATER        Any discharge that is not composed entirely of storm water.
DISCHARGE:
PERSON:      Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm, corporation or other
             entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or the owner's agent.
PERSONAL     Hand delivery by and to an adult.
SERVICE:
             Anything which causes or contributes to pollution, either directly or indirectly.
             Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: sediment, petroleum products,
             paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; nonhazardous
POLLUTANT,   liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or
POLLUTION,   other discarded or abandoned objects, ordnances, and accumulations, so that the
OR POLLUTE:  same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and
             fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens;
             dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; waste and residues that result
             from constructing a building or structure; site development of any kind; and
             noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
PREMISES:    Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or
             unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
             A person to whom a Notice of Violation, Stop Work Order, citation, or notice of
             civil infraction has been issued pursuant to this Chapter or a person who is
             formally accused by the City of violating this Chapter. The term "respondent"
RESPONDENT:  shall include any person defending a Notice of Violation, Stop Work Order,
             citation, notice of civil infraction, or complaint issued on the basis of a
             violation of this Chapter or who is otherwise subject to any punitive measure
             pursuant to this Chapter.
             An order issued by the Enforcement Official which requires that all sources and/or
STOP WORK    causes of a non-stormwater discharge or polluted stormwater, to include activities
ORDER:       not permitted under an approved Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan on a site, be
             stopped.
STORM WATER: Any surface flow runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form
             of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STORMWATER
CONSTRUCTION A permit issued by the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection for stormwater
GENERAL      disharges associated with construction activity.
PERMIT:
             Publicly owned facilities by which storm water is collected and/or conveyed,
STORM WATER  including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems, municipal streets,
CONVEYANCE   gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and
SYSTEM:      detention basins, natural and human made drainage channels, reservoirs, and any
             other drainage structures.
STORM WATER  A document, approved by federal, state, or local agencies in accordance with
POLLUTION    federal, state, or local law, which describes the best management practices and
PREVENTION   activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify sources of
PLAN         pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or reduce
(SWPPP):     pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance systems, and/or
             receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable and posted on-site.
WASTEWATER:  Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm water, discharged from
             a facility.
             Any drainage or structure through which water may pass or drain and any body of
WATERCOURSE: water, including, but not limited to, lakes, ponds, rivers, streams, and bodies of
             water which have been delineated by federal, state, or local agencies in
             accordance with federal, state, or local laws.
 
In the event a term is used in this Chapter is not defined in this Chapter, but
is defined in another Chapter in this Title 9, the definition contained in the
other Chapter shall apply. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-3: APPLICABILITY:
This Chapter regulates all water generated on any developed and undeveloped
lands that enters the MS4, a watercourse, or waters of the United States,
unless properly exempted by an authorized enforcement agency. The provisions of
this Chapter 6, to include enforcement provisions, shall be in addition to and
not in lieu of the provisions of Chapters 7 and 8 of this Title 9. (Ord. 863,
7-13-2021)
9-6-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The City shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
Chapter to include delegating enforcement authority in a manner consistent
herewith. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-5: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this Chapter are
minimum standards; therefore compliance with this Chapter does not ensure that
there will be no contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of
pollutants. The prevention of contamination, pollution, or unauthorized
discharges of pollutants is the responsibility of each person subject to the
applicable provisions of Title 9 of the City Code, federal and state law, and
the holder of an NPDES permit or other permit pertaining to discharges. The
acts and omissions of employees and agents in the course and scope of their
employment or official duties shall be deemed the acts and omissions of their
employers and principals, except as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 863, 7-13-
2021)
9-6-6: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Prohibition of Illegal Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the MS4, a watercourse, or waters of the United States
any materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants and hazardous material
or waters containing any pollutants, as described herein, that cause or
contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than
storm water.
   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the
MS4, a watercourse, or waters of the United States is prohibited except that
the following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions established by
this Chapter:
      1.   Water line flushing or other potable water sources, landscape
irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground water,
foundation or footing drains (not including active ground water dewatering
systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, natural springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated and in compliance with all federal and state
requirements), or firefighting activities.
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the enforcement agency as being
necessary to protect public health and safety.
      3.   Dye testing so long as notification is provided to the enforcement
agency prior to the time of the test.
      4.   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit,
waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered
under authority of the federal or state environmental protection agency with
jurisdiction, provided the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided written approval has been granted for any discharge
to the MS4.
   B.   Prohibition Against Illegal Connections:
      1.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illegal
connections to the MS4 is prohibited.
      2.   The foregoing prohibition expressly includes, without limitation,
illegal connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under the City Code, law, or practices applicable or prevailing at
the time of connection.
      3.   A person is considered to be in violation of this Chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-7: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
   A.   Suspension Due to Illegal Discharges in Emergency Situations: The City
may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or impending discharge which presents
or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or to the
health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4, a watercourse, or waters of the
United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued
in an emergency, the enforcement agency may take such steps as deemed necessary
to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to
minimize danger to persons.
   B.   Suspension Due to The Detection of Illegal Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this Chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illegal discharge. The
authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may appeal the decision following
the process set forth in Section
9-6-14 below.
   C.   A person commits an offense by reinstating MS4 access to the premises
after access was terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior
approval of the enforcement agency. Violations are subject to enforcement
pursuant to Section
9-6-13 below. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-8: COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY, INCLUDING CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY:
Any person who discharges non-stormwater into the MS4, a watercourse, or waters
of the United States shall comply with the applicable provisions of this
Chapter. Any person who is subject to an NPDES storm water discharge permit
issued by any local, state, or federal entity shall comply with all provisions
of such permit. Proof of compliance with the permit may be required in a form
acceptable to the City prior to allowing a discharge of any kind into the MS4.
(Ord. 863, 7- 13-2021)
9-6-9: MONITORING OF DISCHARGES:
   A.   Applicability:
      1.   This section applies to all facilities that have storm water
discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction
activity.
   B.   Access to Facilities:
      1.   The owner or operator of any facility shall permit the City to enter
and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this Chapter as often as may
be necessary to determine compliance with this Chapter to include disengaging
security devices and notifying onsite personnel, such as security guards.
      2.   A facility owner or operator shall provide the City reasonable
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying records that must be maintained pursuant to a permit to
discharge storm water, and the performance of any additional duties pertaining
to discharges as defined by local, state, and federal law.
      3.   The City is authorized to install on any permitted facility such
devices as are necessary in the opinion of the City to conduct monitoring and/
or sampling of the facility's storm water discharge.
      4.   The City is authorized to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary to measure stormwater flow and quality. The
facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense.
All devices used to measure storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      5.   Any impediment to safe and easy access to the facility to be
inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the operator at the
written or verbal request of the City and shall not be replaced until
authorized by the City. The costs to remove such impediment to safe and easy
access shall be borne by the owner or operator.
      6.   An unreasonable delay in providing the City access to a permitted
facility to investigate a potential violation of a storm water discharge permit
shall be a violation of this Chapter. The owner or operator of a facility
required to maintain an NPDES permit to discharge storm water associated with
industrial activity violates this Chapter by failing or refusing to provide the
City reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting
any activity authorized or required by this Chapter.
      7.   If the City is refused access to any part of a facility and if the
City determines it must inspect and/or sample a discharge to verify compliance
with this Chapter or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the City may apply
for an administrative search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-10: REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR PROPER WASTE MANAGEMENT:
All generators shall manage the discharge of waste in accordance with all
federal, state, and local laws. Generators shall also identify all waste to
ensure compliance with applicable laws and shall use BMPs for any activity,
operation, or facility which may result in a discharge, or cause or contribute
to pollution or contamination the MS4 or a watercourse, except as otherwise
provided under federal, state, and local waste disposal laws. Operators shall
utilize appropriate BMPs for all activities regulated by this Chapter. A person
who holds a valid permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated
with an industrial activity or construction activity shall comply with the
terms and conditions thereof. BMPs for all activities regulated by this Chapter
shall be included in a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) to the
extent necessary to comply with the requirements of an NPDES permit.
In the event the City determines that a person has not properly implemented a
SWPPP or that the SWPPP requires modification to prevent the discharge or
possible discharge of pollutants into the MS4 or a watercourse, the City may,
in its sole discretion, instruct the person to correct the specified
deficiencies within ten (10) calendar days. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-11: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Any person who owns, occupies, or possesses property (to include a lessee)
through which a watercourse passes, shall keep and maintain that part of the
watercourse within the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation,
and other materials or object that may pollute, contaminate, or significantly
restrict the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner,
occupant, or person in possession shall maintain existing privately owned
structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures will
not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical integrity of the
watercourse. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-12: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
If any person responsible for a facility or operation, or emergency response
for a facility or operation has information pertaining to any known or
suspected release of materials which cause or may result in illegal discharges,
that person shall promptly take all reasonably necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of a release
of hazardous materials, the person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous material, the person shall notify the appropriate City
department or official either in person, by telephone, or by electronic mail no
later than the next business day. Notifications in person or by telephone shall
be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the City within three
(3) business days of the in-person or telephonic notice. If the discharge of
prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment,
the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on site
written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three (3) years. The
foregoing notification requirements are in addition to and not in lieu of any
applicable notification requirements under federal and state law. The failure
to provide notice as required in this section shall constitute a violation of
this Chapter. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-13: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice of Violation: In the event the City determines that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this Chapter 6, the
City may compel compliance by serving a written Notice of Violation or Stop
Work Order upon the discharger or the discharger's agent or representative by
personal service. A Notice of Violation issued under this section may require,
without limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      2.   The elimination of illegal connections or discharges;
      3.   That discharges, practices, or operations causing nonpoint source
pollution immediately cease and desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      5.   The payment of a fine established by this Chapter or by resolution
of the City Council to cover administrative and remediation costs; and/or
      6.   Implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   B.   Stop Work Order: In the event an unlawful or unpermitted discharge
threatens the MS4, waters of the United States or a watercourse, or endangers
the health or safety of any person, the City shall issue a Stop Work Order to
the discharger, which shall be served by personal service upon the discharger
or the discharger's agent or representative. If the discharger fails to obey
the Stop Work Order immediately, the City shall take such action as may be
necessary to insure compliance with this Chapter 6, including, but not limited
to, submitting a request for the arrest of the discharger by a peace officer
and/or an order for the immediate cessation of the discharger's ability to
discharge, to include the immediate stoppage of all work at a construction site
or other development. A Stop Work Order issued pursuant to this section shall
remain in effect until the City determines that the respondent has completed
all abatement, remediation, restoration activities and/or other requirements
therein specified.
   C.   Deadline: If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected
property is required, the Notice of Violation shall set forth a deadline by
which such remediation or restoration must be completed. Should the respondent
fail to perform the remediation or restoration therein specified by the
deadline, the work may be done by the City or a designated governmental agency
or contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the respondent.
   D.   Citations: The Environmental Enforcement Official or her or his
designee shall have the authority to prepare, sign and serve written citations
on persons accused of violating a provision of this Chapter where there is a
criminal sanction. All citations so issued and served shall comply with the
requirements of NRS 171.1773 and NRS 171.17751(5).
   E.   Civil liability instead of criminal sanction: Any person who violates
this Chapter may be subject to civil liability to the City in an amount not to
exceed $500 instead of a criminal sanction.
   F.   Civil liability; notice of civil infraction: The Environmental
Enforcement Official or her or his designee may issue a notice of civil
infraction to any person who violates this Chapter. The notice of violation
must be issued on a form containing the following information:
      1.   The location where the violation occurred;
      2.   The date and time of the violation;
      3.   The signature of the Environmental Enforcement Official or other
authorized person who issues the notice of civil infraction;
      4.   The section of this code that allegedly is being violated;
      5.   Information about the manner and time within which the notice of
civil infraction must be answered;
      6.   The amount of the civil fine; and
      7.   Any other information relevant to the violation and applicable
provisions of this Chapter.
   G.   Civil liability; duties of respondent:
      1.   A person who responds to a notice of civil infraction must either:
         a.   Admit the commission of the infraction and pay the appropriate
civil fine; or
         b.   Deny liability for the infraction.
      2.   A person may admit commission of the infraction by paying to the
municipal court the civil fine shown on the notice of civil infraction.
      3.   A person who denies liability for the infraction must appear in
person before the municipal court.
   H.   Commencement of civil action; procedure: Judicial enforcement of a
notice of civil infraction must be by way of a civil suit in the municipal
court if a person denies liability. A civil action may be commenced by the
filing of a complaint in the name of the City and the issuance of a summons
with respect thereto, and service of such complaint and summons on the
defendant must be made by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed
to the defendant at his/her last known address or in any other matter which is
authorized by law. The proceedings in municipal court for actions commenced
pursuant to this Chapter shall be governed by Rules 1 and 3 through 87 of the
Justice Court Rules of Civil Procedure.
   I.   Civil Fines: A respondent who commits a civil infraction under this
Chapter shall subject to a civil fine in the amount of $500.00 per infraction.
(Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-14: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND/OR STOP WORK ORDER:
   A.   A Notice of Violation or Stop Work Order issued pursuant to this
Chapter 6 shall include a written notice setting forth the respondent's appeal
rights pursuant to this Section
9-6-14.
   B.   A respondent served with a Notice of Violation or Stop Work Order may,
within fourteen (14) calendar days of service thereof, appeal the determination
of the Enforcement Official to the City Manager by filing a "Notice of Appeal
to the City Manager" with the City Clerk containing a statement of the basis
for the appeal. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall schedule
and conduct a hearing on the Notice of Violation or Stop Work Order within
fourteen (14) calendar days thereafter, upon no less than seven (7) calendar
days' advance notice to the respondent, unless otherwise agreed by the
respondent and the City. At the hearing before the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee, the respondent and the City shall each be given an
opportunity to present arguments and evidence, to include witness testimony.
The rules of evidence shall not apply. The City Manager or the City Manager's
designee may terminate the hearing at a time determined in advance by the City
Manager or the City Manager's designee, provided a reasonable time shall be
given to permit the respondent and the City to present their respective
arguments and evidence. The City Manager or City Manager's designee may
terminate a hearing at any time upon a determination that the additional
evidence and argument to be proffered by the respondent and the City will be
duplicative or not relevant to the issues to be resolved. The City Manager or
the City Manager's designee shall issue and serve a written decision upon the
respondent with five (5) business days of the hearing.
   C.   A respondent may, within fourteen (14) calendar days of service
thereof, appeal the decision of the City Manager or the City Manager's designee
to the City Council by filing a "Notice of Appeal to the City Council" with the
City Clerk containing a statement of the basis for the appeal. The City Council
shall, within forty-five (45) calendar days thereafter, conduct a hearing on
the decision of the City Manager or City Manager's designee. At the hearing
before the City Council, the respondent and the City shall each be given an
opportunity to present arguments and evidence, to include witness testimony.
The rules of evidence shall not apply. The City Council may terminate the
proceeding at a time determined in advance by the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee, provided a reasonable time shall be given to permit the
respondent and the City to present their respective arguments and evidence. The
City Council may terminate a hearing at any time upon a determination that the
additional evidence and argument to be proffered by the respondent and the City
will be duplicative or not relevant to the issues to be resolved. The City
Council shall render a decision at the hearing, to include a continuation
thereof in the event the hearing is tabled.
   D.   Service upon the respondent for purposes of this Section
9-6-14 shall mean service by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   E.   A respondent to whom a Notice of Violation or Stop Work Order has been
issued must comply with the requirements stated therein pending an appeal or
appeals pursuant to this Section
9-6-14.
   F.   The failure of a respondent to appeal a decision within the times
required in this Section
9-6-14 shall result in the waiver of those appeal rights.
   G.   The decision of the City Council at an appeal hearing pursuant to this
Section
9-6-14 shall be final for purposes of judicial review. Any action for judicial
review shall be commenced by filing a petition with the District Court for the
Fourth Judicial District, in and for the County of Elko, State of Nevada, no
more than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the decision of the City
Council at an appeal hearing pursuant to this Section
9-6-14. (Ord. 863, 7-13- 2021)
9-6-15: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
Chapter, the City may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which could create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-16: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter is hereby determined to be a threat to public health, safety, and
welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be abated pursuant to
the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 268 or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken. The provisions of this Section
9-6-16 and the City Nuisance Code are in addition to and not in lieu of the
other enforcement provisions set forth in this Chapter. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-17: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
Any person who has violated or continues to violate the requirements of this
Chapter, to include any requirement set forth in a Notice of Violation or Stop
Work Order issued under this Chapter, shall be subject to a criminal penalty of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each day a person violates this Chapter or
remains in violation of this Chapter shall be a separate violation. In
addition, any person who has violated or continues to violate this Chapter may
be subject to criminal prosecution under federal or state laws.
The City may recover all attorney fees, court costs and other expenses incurred
in the enforcement of this Chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-18: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this Chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-6-19: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY FEES:
To offset the cost of operating the City MS4, there is hereby established a
Stormwater Management Utility Fee. The Stormwater Management Utility Fee shall
be charged to each person who is provided water service by the City, shall be
in addition to all other charges assessed under Title 9, Chapter 1 (Elko Water
Code), and may be billed monthly. The Stormwater Management Utility Fee shall
be calculated on the basis of the sewer fixture unit (SFU) count of the water’s
premises, as follows:
 
 
Residential:               
50 SFU (minimum)          $1.00
Commercial or Industrial:  
1 to 50 SFU (minimum)     1.00
51 to 500 SFU             0.02 per SFU
501 to 3,000 SFU          0.01 per SFU
3,001 or more             0.005 per SFU
 
(Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
CHAPTER 7
CONSTRUCTION SITE RUNOFF CONTROL
SECTION:
9-7-1: Purpose
9-7-2: Definitions
9-7-3: Applicability
9-7-4: Responsibility For Administration
9-7-5: Ultimate Responsibility
9-7-6: Stormwater Construction General Permit; Construction Site Discharge
Regulations And Requirements
9-7-7: Requirement To Prevent, Control, And Reduce Storm Water Pollutants By
The Use Of Best Management Practices
9-7-8: Inspection
9-7-9: Enforcement
9-7-10: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation And/Or Stop Work Order
9-7-11: Injunctive Relief
9-7-12: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
9-7-13: Criminal Penalties
9-7-14: Remedies Not Exclusive
9-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents of the City through regulation of construction
activities to manage and control pollution from construction sites affecting
the MS4, waters of the United States, and watercourses. This Chapter
establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the MS4
to comply with the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit process and to:
   A.   Provide for protection of storm water, ground water, water bodies,
watercourses, and wetlands pursuant to and consistent with the Clean Water Act,
and the NPDES permit issued to the City,
   B.   Manage and control the amount of pollutants in storm water discharges
into the MS4, soil erosion, sediment discharge, and sediment on public
roadways, and
   C.   Ensure adequate drainage, storm water management and soil conservation
measures are utilized at construction sites.(Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the words and
terms defined in this section shall have the following meanings ascribed to
them:
               Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, general good housekeeping
               practices, pollution prevention and educational practices, maintenance procedures,
BEST           and other management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants
MANAGEMENT     directly or indirectly to the MS4, a watercourse, or waters of the United States,
PRACTICES      to include storm water, receiving water, or storm water conveyance systems; BMPs
(BMPs):        include treatment practices, operating procedures, and other practices to control
               site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
               materials storage. BMPs may be structural or nonstructural.
CITY:          The City of Elko, Nevada, to include its departments, agencies, officials and
               employees.
CLEAN WATER    The Clean Water Act (formerly referred to as the Federal Water Pollution Control
ACT:           Act or Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972) Pub. L. 92- 500, as
               amended Pub. L. 95-576, Pub. L. 96-483 and Pub. L. 97-117, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.
CLEARING:      Any activity which removes vegetative cover.
               An activity subject to an NPDES construction stormwater general permit issued by
               the State of Nevada. The term “construction activity” includes NPDES construction
CONSTRUCTION   activities on a land disturbance of one (1) acre or more. The term “construction
ACTIVITY:      activity” also includes a land disturbance of less than one (1) acre if part of a
               larger common plan of development or sale that disturbs, or is proposed to
               disturb, one (1) acre or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to,
               clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
CONSTRUCTION   Any parcel of land on which construction activity is performed.
SITE:
               Any addition of a contaminant, pollutant or pollutants to the MS4, waters of the
DISCHARGE:     United State or a watercourse, including a “discharge of pollutant” as defined in
               40 CFR § 122.2.
ENFORCEMENT    The City of Elko Environmental Coordinator, City Code Enforcement Officer, or any
OFFICIAL:      other City of Elko employee designated to serve as an Enforcement Official by the
               City Council to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
EROSION        Any measure designed to prevent erosion.
CONTROL:
               The work of ensuring a level base, or one with a specified slope, for a
GRADING:       construction work such as a foundation, the base course for a road or railway, or
               landscape and garden improvements, or surface drainage. Grading may involve
               excavation, placement of fill material, or both.
MUNICIPAL      A collection of structures (retention basins, ditches, underground pipes, etc.)
SEPARATE STORM owned and operated by the City and not connected to the sanitary sewer system that
SEWER SYSTEM   is designed to gather stormwater and discharge it, without treatment, into local
(MS4):         streams and rivers.
MUNICIPAL
SEPARATE STORM A permit allowing the City to legally discharge stormwater into local streams and
SEWER SYSTEM   rivers through the municipal separate storm sewer system.
(MS4) PERMIT:
NATIONAL
POLLUTANT
DISCHARGE      A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC
ELIMINATION    1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United
SYSTEM (NPDES) States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general
STORM WATER    areawide basis.
DISCHARGE
PERMIT:
NON-STORM      Any discharge to storm water conveyance system and/or storm water that is not
WATER          composed entirely of storm water.
DISCHARGE:
PERIMETER      A barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a site either by filtering sediment-
CONTROL:       laden runoff, or diverting it to a sediment trap or basin.
PERSON:        Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm, corporation or other
               entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or the owner's agent.
PHASING:       Clearing a parcel of land in distinct phases, with stabilization of each phase
               before clearing the next phase.
               Anything which causes or contributes to pollution either directly or indirectly.
               Pollutants may include, but are not limited to: sediment, petroleum products,
               paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other automotive fluids; nonhazardous
               liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or
POLLUTANT:     other discarded or abandoned objects, ordnances, and accumulations, so that the
               same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and
               fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and
               pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues
               that result from constructing a building or structure; site development of any
               kind; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
PREMISES:      Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, whether improved or
               unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
               A person to whom a notice of violation, stop work order, citation or notice of
               civil infraction has been issued pursuant to this Chapter or a person who is
               formally accused by the City of violating this Chapter. The term "respondent"
RESPONDENT:    shall include any person defending a notice of violation, stop work order,
               citation, notice of civil infraction or complaint issued on the basis of a
               violation of this Chapter or who is otherwise subject to any punitive measure
               pursuant to this Chapter.
SEDIMENT       Any measure that prevents sediment from leaving the site.
CONTROL:
STABILIZATION: Any practice that prevents exposed soil from eroding.
               The first land disturbing activity associated with development, including land
START OF       preparation such as clearing, grading and filling, installation of streets and
CONSTRUCTION:  walkways, excavation for basements, footings, foundations, and erection of
               temporary forms.
               An order issued by the Enforcement Official which requires that all sources and/or
STOP WORK      causes of a non- stormwater discharge or polluted stormwater, to include all
ORDER:         activities not permitted required under an approved Stormwater Pollution
               Prevention Plan on a site, be stopped.
STORM WATER:   Any surface flow runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form
               of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STORMWATER
CONSTRUCTION   A permit issued by the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection for stormwater
GENERAL        discharges associated with construction activity.
PERMIT:
               Publicly owned facilities by which storm water is collected and/or conveyed,
STORM WATER    including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems, municipal streets,
CONVEYANCE     gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and
SYSTEM:        detention basins, natural and human made drainage channels, reservoirs, and any
               other drainage structures.
               A document, approved by federal, state, or local agencies in accordance with
STORM WATER    federal, state, or local law, which describes the best management practices and
POLLUTION      activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify sources of
PREVENTION     pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or reduce
PLAN (SWPPP):  pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance systems, and/or
               receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable and posted on-site.
               Any drainage or structure through which water may pass or drain to any body of
WATERCOURSE:   water, including, but not limited to, lakes, ponds, rivers, streams, and bodies of
               water which have been delineated by federal, state, or local agencies in
               accordance with federal, state, or local laws. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
 
9-7-3: APPLICABILITY:
This Chapter regulates all water discharged from any construction site subject
to an NPDES Construction Stormwater General Permit issued by the State of
Nevada. Included in this regulations are protections against off-site impacts
of erosion and sedimentation from construction sites, including prohibitions
against polluting substances such as construction materials and waste. This
Chapter also contains or incorporates regulations requiring on-site containment
to prevent drainage or transportation by storm water into the MS4, a
watercourse, or waters of the United States. The regulations further require
that BMP’s be implemented at all construction sites. The performance standards
set forth in the City "Construction Site Best Management Practices Handbook"
(the “BMP Manual”) including addenda and updates, all of which are available
for review and copying at the City offices, are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein for the purpose of establishing the appropriate BMPs and
standards related thereto. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-7-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The City shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
Chapter, to include delegating enforcement authority in a manner consistent
herewith. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-7-5: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this Chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, compliance with this Chapter does not ensure that
there will be no contamination, pollution, or unauthorized discharge of
pollutants. The prevention of contamination, pollution, or unauthorized
discharges of pollutants is the responsibility of each person subject to the
applicable provisions of Title 9 of the City Code and federal and state law,
and the holder of an NPDES permit or other permit pertaining to discharges. The
acts and omissions of employees and agents in the course and scope of their
employment or official duties shall be deemed the acts and omissions of their
employers and principals, except as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 863, 7-13-
2021)
9-7-6: STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PERMIT; CONSTRUCTION SITE DISCHARGE
REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A valid Stormwater Construction General Permit issued by the State is
required for all projects that require grading, site development, building,
site drainage, or encroachment that will disturb an area of one (1) acre or
more or construction activities disturbing less than one (1) acre if part of a
larger common plan of development or sale that would disturb one (1) acre or
more (including public works projects).
   B.   Prior to issuance of any of the above referenced permits (grading, site
development, building, site drainage, or encroachment), the following must be
submitted to the Development Department for review:
      1.   Construction permit submittal checklist;
      2.   Performance standards compliance checklist;
      3.   Copy of a Notice of Intent (NOI) submitted to the Nevada Division of
Environmental Protection;
      4.   Proof of acceptance of the NOI by the Nevada Division of
Environmental Protection; and
      5.   Copy of the project SWPPP.
   C.   The City will issue a grading permit to an applicant only upon approval
by the City of the items set forth in Section
9-7-6(B), to include a SWPPP that satisfies all applicable federal, state and
City requirements.
   D.   The installation and maintenance of storm water controls shall comply
with the City-approved SWPPP.
   E.   A person commits a violation of this Chapter by permitting,
authorizing, directing or engaging in a construction activity without a valid
Stormwater Construction General Permit issued by the State, unless otherwise
exempt pursuant to the City Code or federal or state law. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-7-7: REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
Any person who engages in or is responsible for a construction activity, to
include grading on a construction site, shall identify and implement BMPs
consistent with the standards set for the City BMP manual. The City may require
any person engaged in or responsible for a construction activity to implement
additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the discharge of
pollutants into the MS4, a watercourse, or waters of the United States.
Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit and/or
Stormwater Construction General Permit authorizing the discharge of storm water
associated with construction activity may, at the discretion of the City, be
deemed equivalent to compliance with the provisions of this section. BMPs shall
be included in a SWPPP if the BMPs are required for compliance with an NPDES
permit and/or a Stormwater Construction General Permit. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-7-8: INSPECTION:
   A.   The City may inspect any location where a construction activity is
occurring in accordance with the provisions of this Section
9-7-8.
   B.   The owner or occupant of any property where a construction activity is
occurring shall permit the City to enter and inspect the property to determine
compliance with this Chapter and to take any enforcement action permitted under
this Chapter.
   C.   In the event the City determines that a person holding a Stormwater
Construction General Permit has not properly implemented an approved Storm
Water Pollution Prevention Plan or that the Storm Water Pollution Prevention
Plan requires modification to prevent the discharge or possible discharge of
pollutants to the MS4, a watercourse, or waters of the United States, the City
may grant the person a period not to exceed ten (10) calendar days to correct
the identified deficiencies. If the City determines existing erosion,
perimeter, or sediment controls are insufficient or place the City at risk of
violating its NPDES permit, the City may order the person to remove, place, or
modify the controls. The failure of a person to comply with an order issued
pursuant to the preceding sentence shall, without limitation, be a violation of
this Chapter.
   D.   A Stop Work Order may be issued to a person engaged in or responsible
for a construction activity if the City determines that there is an unlawful or
unpermitted discharge at the construction site.
   E.   A complaint of any violation of this Chapter that is submitted to the
City shall be promptly investigated. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-7-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice of Violation: In the event the City determines that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this Chapter, the
City may compel compliance by serving a written Notice of Violation upon the
discharger or the discharger’s agent or representative by certified mail,
return-receipt requested. A Notice of Violation issued under this section shall
require that the violation(s) be corrected within no more than ten (10)
calendar days. A Notice of Violation issued under this section may require,
without limitation:
      1.   That the acts or omissions resulting in a discharge immediately
cease;
      2.   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property; and
      3.   The payment of a fine established by the Chapter or by resolution of
the City Council to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
      4.   Implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   B.   Stop Work Order: In the event an unlawful or unpermitted discharge from
a construction activity threatens the MS4, waters of the United States or a
watercourse, or endangers the health or safety of any person, the City shall
issue a Stop Work Order to the discharger, which shall be served by personal
service upon the discharger or the discharger's agent or representative. If the
discharger fails to obey the Stop Work Order immediately, the City shall take
such action as may be necessary to insure compliance with this Chapter,
including, but not limited to, submitting a request for the arrest of the
discharger by a peace officer and/or an order for the immediate cessation of
the discharger's ability to discharge, to include the immediate stoppage of all
work at a construction site. For purposes of this section, an unpermitted
discharge shall include a discharge from a construction site that has not
implemented the proper source control or treatment BMPs. A Stop Work Order
issued pursuant to this section shall remain in effect until the City
determines that the respondent has completed all abatement, remediation,
restoration activities and/or other requirements therein specified.
   C.   Deadline: If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected
property is required, the Notice of Violation shall set forth a deadline within
which such remediation or restoration must be completed. Should the respondent
fail to perform the remediation or restoration therein specified by the
deadline, the work may be done by the City or a designated governmental agency
or contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the respondent.
   D.   Citations: The Environmental Enforcement Official or her or his
designee shall have the authority to prepare, sign and serve written citations
on persons accused of violating a provision of this Chapter where there is a
criminal sanction. All citations so issued and served shall comply with the
requirements of NRS 171.1773 and NRS 171.17751(5).
   E.   Civil liability instead of criminal sanction: Any person who violates
this Chapter may be subject to civil liability to the City in an amount not to
exceed $500 instead of a criminal sanction.
   F.   Civil liability; notice of civil infraction: The Environmental
Enforcement Official or her or his designee may issue a notice of civil
infraction to any person who violates this Chapter. The notice of violation
must be issued on a form containing the following information:
      1.   The location where the violation occurred;
      2.   The date and time of the violation;
      3.   The signature of the Environmental Enforcement Official or other
authorized person who issues the notice of civil infraction;
      4.   The section of this code that allegedly is being violated;
      5.    Information about the manner and time within which the notice of
civil infraction must be answered;
      6.   The amount of the civil fine; and
      7.   Any other information relevant to the violation and applicable
provisions of this Chapter.
   G.   Civil liability; duties of respondent:
      1.   A person who responds to a notice of civil infraction must either:
         a.   Admit the commission of the infraction and pay the appropriate
civil fine; or
         b.   Deny liability for the infraction.
      2.   A person may admit commission of the infraction by paying to the
municipal court the civil fine shown on the notice of civil infraction.
      3.   A person who denies liability for the infraction must appear in
person before the municipal court.
   H.   Commencement of civil action; procedure: Judicial enforcement of a
notice of civil infraction must be by way of a civil suit in the municipal
court if a person denies liability. A civil action may be commenced by the
filing of a complaint in the name of the City and the issuance of a summons
with respect thereto, and service of such complaint and summons on the
defendant must be made by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed
to the defendant at his/her last known address or in any other matter which is
authorized by law. The proceedings in municipal court for actions commenced
pursuant to this Chapter shall be governed by Rules 1 and 3 through 87 of the
Justice Court Rules of Civil Procedure.
   I.   Civil Fines: A respondent who commits a civil infraction under this
Chapter shall subject to a civil fine in the amount of $500.00 per infraction.
   J.   Lien: The City shall have a lien pursuant to NRS 108.222 on any
property upon which work is performed by the City or its contractor in
correcting a violation of this Chapter pursuant to this Section
9-7-9. The lien shall be calculated, perfected and enforced in accordance with
NRS 108.221, et seq. (Mechanics' and Materialmen's Liens).
   K.   Withholding of Approvals: Should the City perform work on the
installation, maintenance, or removal of stormwater control measures pursuant
to this Section
9-7-9, the respondent shall reimburse the City the full amount of that expense
prior to issuance of any permit, final approval or certificate of occupancy
associated with property upon which the work is performed, and the City shall
withhold all permits, final approvals and/or certificates of occupancy for the
property or which have been requested by the respondent until the expense is
fully reimbursed to the City. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-7-10: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND/OR STOP WORK ORDER:
   A.   A Notice of Violation or Stop Work Order issued pursuant to this
Chapter 7 shall include a written notice setting forth the respondent's appeal
rights pursuant to this Section
9-7-10.
   B.   A respondent served with a Notice of Violation or Stop Work Order may,
within fourteen (14) calendar days of service thereof, appeal the determination
of the Enforcement Official to the City Manager by filing a "Notice of Appeal
to the City Manager" with the City Clerk containing a statement of the basis
for the appeal. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall schedule
and conduct a hearing on the Notice of Violation or Stop Work Order within
fourteen (14) calendar days thereafter, upon no less than seven (7) calendar
days' advance notice to the respondent, unless otherwise agreed by the
respondent and the City. At the hearing before the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee, the respondent and the City shall each be given an
opportunity to present arguments and evidence, to include witness testimony.
The rules of evidence shall not apply. The City Manager or the City Manager's
designee may terminate the hearing at a time determined in advance by the City
Manager or the City Manager's designee, provided a reasonable time shall be
given to permit the respondent and the City to present their respective
arguments and evidence. The City Manager or City Manager's designee may
terminate a hearing at any time upon a determination that the additional
evidence and argument to be proffered by the respondent and the City will be
duplicative or not relevant to the issues to be resolved. The City Manager or
the City Manager's designee shall issue and serve a written decision upon the
respondent with five (5) business days of the hearing.
   C.   A respondent may, within fourteen (14) calendar days of service
thereof, appeal the decision of the City Manager or the City Manager's designee
to the City Council by filing a "Notice of Appeal to the City Council" with the
City Clerk containing a statement of the basis for the appeal. The City Council
shall, within forty-five (45) calendar days thereafter, conduct a hearing on
the decision of the City Manager or City Manager's designee. At the hearing
before the City Council, the respondent and the City shall each be given an
opportunity to present arguments and evidence, to include witness testimony.
The rules of evidence shall not apply. The City Council may terminate the
proceeding at a time determined in advance by the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee, provided a reasonable time shall be given to permit the
respondent and the City to present their respective arguments and evidence. The
City Council may terminate a hearing at any time upon a determination that the
additional evidence and argument to be proffered by the respondent and the City
will be duplicative or not relevant to the issues to be resolved. The City
Council shall render a decision at the hearing, to include a continuation
thereof in the event the hearing is tabled.
   D.   Service upon the respondent for purposes of this Section
9-7-10 shall mean service by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   E.   A respondent to whom a Notice of Violation or Stop Work Order has been
issued must comply with the requirements stated therein pending an appeal or
appeals pursuant to this Section
9-7-10.
   F.   The failure of a respondent to appeal a decision within the times
required in this Section
9-7-10 shall result in the waiver of those appeal rights.
   G.   The decision of the City Council at an appeal hearing pursuant to this
Section
9-7-10 shall be final for purposes of judicial review. Any action for judicial
review shall be commenced by filing a petition with the District Court for the
Fourth Judicial District, in and for the County of Elko, State of Nevada, no
more than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the decision of the City
Council at an appeal hearing pursuant to this Section
9-7-10. (Ord. 863, 7-13- 2021)
9-7-11: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
Chapter, the City may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which could create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-7-12: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter is hereby determined to be a threat to public health, safety, and
welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be abated pursuant to
the provision of Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 268 or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken. The provisions of this Section
9-7-12 and the City Nuisance Code are in addition to and not in lieu of the
other enforcement provisions set forth in this Chapter. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-7-13: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
Any person who has violated or continues to violate the requirements of this
Chapter, to include any requirement set forth in a Notice of Violation or Stop
Work Order issued under this Chapter shall be subject to a criminal penalty of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each day a person violates this Chapter or
remains in violation of this Chapter shall be a separate violation. In
addition, any person who has violated or continues to violate this Chapter may
be subject to criminal prosecution under federal or state laws.
The City may recover all attorney fees, court costs and other expenses incurred
in the enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(863, 7-13-2021)
9-7-14: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this Chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(863, 7-13-2021)
CHAPTER 8
POSTCONSTRUCTION RUNOFF CONTROL AND WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
9-8-1: Purpose
9-8-2: Definitions
9-8-3: Applicability
9-8-4: Responsibility For Administration And Compliance
9-8-5: NDSR Application, Post Construction Stormwater Quality Management Plan
(PSQMP) Review and O&M Contract
9-8-6: Public Works Projects
9-8-7: Enforcement And Penalties
9-8-8: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
9-8-9: Injunctive Relief
9-8-10: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
9-8-11: Criminal Penalties
9-8-12: Remedies Not Exclusive
9-8-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter implements the City's Post-Construction Stormwater Management BMP
Program for new development and significant redevelopment (NDSR) projects as
described in the City of Elko Stormwater Management Plan; Best Management
Practices Manual, NPDES Post-Construction Stormwater Controls for New
Development and Significant Re-Development Projects, City of Elko, Nevada and
any subsequent revisions that are adopted by resolution of the City Council
(the "BMP Manual"); and National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
General Permit for Discharges from Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems
(Permit No. NVS040000 as of the date of enactment of this Ordinance). This
Chapter furthers the City's goals of preventing downstream violations of water
quality standards by pollutants of concern to the maximum extent practicable
caused or contributed to by stormwater discharges from post-construction
projects, and promoting the improvement of ambient water quality by reducing
the discharge of pollutants in stormwater. (Ord. 863, 7-13- 2021)
9-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the words and
terms defined in this section shall have the following meanings ascribed to
them:
ACCELERATED      Erosion caused by development activities that exceeds the natural processes by
EROSION:         which the surface of the land is worn away by the action of water, wind, or
                 chemical action.
APPLICANT:       A person who has filed an NDSR Application.
                 Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, general good housekeeping
                 practices, pollution prevention and educational practices, maintenance
BEST MANAGEMENT  procedures, and other management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of
PRACTICES        pollutants directly or indirectly to the MS4, a watercourse or waters of the
(BMPs):          United States, to include stormwater, receiving water, or stormwater conveyance
                 systems. BMPs include treatment practices, operating procedures, and other
                 practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal,
                 or drainage from raw materials storage. BMPs may be structural or nonstructural.
BMP OWNER:       Any person, such as a property owner or developer, who seeks to own, operate,
                 conduct, develop or maintain a Project.
CHANNEL:         A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks that conducts
                 continuously or periodically flowing water.
CITY:            The City of Elko, Nevada, to include its departments, agencies, officials and
                 employees.
                 The Clean Water Act (formerly referred to as the Federal Water Pollution Control
CLEAN WATER ACT: Act or Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972) Pub. L. 92-500,
                 as amended Pub. L. 95-576, Pub. L. 96-483 and Pub. L. 97-117, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et
                 seq.
                 The appropriation of land, or an easement or other interest therein, by the
DEDICATION:      owner, for the use of the public, and accepted for such use by or on behalf of
                 the public.
                 The temporary storage of storm runoff as part of a stormwater management
DETENTION:       practice with the goals of controlling peak discharge rates and providing
                 gravity settling of pollutants.
DETENTION        A detention basin or alternative structure designed for the purpose of temporary
FACILITY:        storage of stream flow or surface runoff and gradual release of stored water at
                 controlled rates.
DEVELOPER:       A person who undertakes land disturbance activities.
                 Any disturbance of land including clearing, grubbing, or grading in addition to
                 the construction of facilities. "Development" does not include “construction
DEVELOPMENT:     activities” as that term is defined in Elko City Code Section
                 9-7-2, tenant improvements or other similar building improvements not involving
                 site work.
DEVELOPMENT      The City of Elko Development Department or any other City of Elko department
DEPARTMENT:      appointed to implement and/or enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
                 Any addition of a contaminant, pollutant or pollutants to the MS4, waters of the
DISCHARGE:       United States or a watercourse, including a "discharge of pollutant" as defined
                 in 40 CFR § 122.2.
DRAINAGE         The right to use the land of another for the removal or conveyance of
EASEMENT:        stormwater.
ENFORCEMENT      The City of Elko Environmental Coordinator, City Code Enforcement Officer, or
OFFICIAL:        any other City of Elko employee appointed to serve as an Enforcement Official by
                 the City Council to enforce the provisions of this Chapter.
EROSION AND      A plan designed to minimize accelerated erosion and sediment runoff at a
SEDIMENT CONTROL development.
PLAN:
EROSION CONTROL: Any measure that designed to prevent erosion.
FACILITY:        A Stormwater Facility, On Site Facility or Off Site Facility.
                 A natural resource conservation service (USDA-NRCS) classification system in
HYDROLOGIC SOIL  which soils are categorized into four (4) runoff potential groups. The groups
GROUP (HSG):     range from "A" soils, with high permeability and little runoff production, to
                 "D" soils, which have low permeability rates and produce much more runoff.
IMPERVIOUS       Those surfaces that cannot effectively infiltrate rainfall (e.g., building
COVER:           rooftops, pavement, sidewalks, driveways, etc.).
INDUSTRIAL       A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to a
STORMWATER       commercial industry or group of industries which regulates the pollutant levels
PERMIT:          associated with industrial stormwater discharges or specifies on site pollution
                 control strategies.
INFILTRATION:    The process of percolating stormwater into the subsoil.
                 An area that is inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a
JURISDICTIONAL   frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of vegetation
WETLAND:         typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, commonly known as
                 hydrophytic vegetation.
                 Any activity that increases the volume or peak flow discharge rate of rainfall
                 runoff from the land surface. This may include grading, grubbing, digging,
LAND DISTURBANCE cutting, scraping, or excavating the soil; also included within the definition
ACTIVITY:        of "land disturbance activity" are compaction, placement of fill materials,
                 paving, construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any activity which
                 bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of any natural or manmade
                 watercourse.
LANDOWNER:       One who is recognized and held responsible by the law as the owner of real
                 property.
                 LID features are considered public domain treatment controls. LID is an approach
                 to land development or redevelopment that works to manage stormwater close to
                 its source. LID employs principles and techniques used in designing sites
                 (starting from site layout, and grading and compaction phases of construction)
                 that disturb only the smallest area necessary, minimize soil compaction and
LOW IMPACT       imperviousness, preserve natural drainages, vegetation and buffer zones, and
DEVELOPMENT      utilize on-site stormwater treatment techniques. LID sites reduce and compensate
(LID):           for a development's impact(s) on hydrology and water quality. Rather than
                 conventional hardpiping from impervious surfaces, implementing LID principles
                 and practices, stormwater can be managed in a way that reduces the impact of
                 built-up areas and promotes the natural movement of stormwater within an
                 ecosystem or watershed. Applied on a broad scale, LID can support and promote a
                 watershed's hydrologic and ecological functions.
MAXIMUM EXTENT   Refers to the technology-based discharge standard for MS4s to reduce pollutants
PRACTICABLE      in stormwater discharges established by CWA § 402(p).
(MEP):
MUNICIPAL        A collection of structures (retention basins, ditches, underground pipes, etc.)
SEPARATE STORM   owned and operated by the City and not connected to the sanitary sewer system
SEWER SYSTEM     that is designed to gather stormwater and discharge it, without treatment, into
(MS4):           local streams and rivers.
NATIONAL
POLLUTANT
DISCHARGE        A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated pursuant to 33
ELIMINATION      USC 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United
SYSTEM (NPDES)   States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general
STORM WATER      areawide basis.
DISCHARGE
PERMIT:
                 A document submitted to the City requesting permission to engage in an NDSR,
NDSR             subject to approval of a PSQMP and execution of an O&M Contract. Approval of the
APPLICATION:     NDSR Application, without more, does not constitute approval by the City to
                 engage in an NDSR.
NEW DEVELOPMENT  Land-disturbing activities, structural development, redevelopment and/or
OR SIGNIFICANT   creation of impervious surfaces on a site, whether or not the site was
REDEVELOPMENT    previously developed.
(NDSR):
                 A source of waterborne sediments, nutrients or organic and toxic substances
NONPOINT SOURCE  originating from activities involving the use of land, such as agriculture,
POLLUTION:       mining, forestry, urban development or construction. The term does not include a
                 discharge at a specific, single location such as a pipe.
                 Refers to techniques that aim to change human behavior to reduce the amount of
                 pollutants that enter stormwater systems (pollution prevention). Nonstructural
NONSTRUCTURAL    measures may include minimization and/or disconnection of impervious surfaces,
BMP:             development design that reduces the rate and volume of runoff, public outreach
                 and education, and/or restoration or enhancement of natural areas. A list of
                 nonstructural BMPs is shown in Table 6-1 of the BMP Manual.
OFF-SITE         A stormwater management measure located outside the subject property boundary
FACILITY:        and described in the application submittal for land development activity.
ON-SITE          A stormwater management measure located within the subject property boundary and
FACILITY:        described in the application submittal for land development activity.
                 A recorded legally-binding agreement between the City and a BMP Owner that acts
OPERATIONS AND   as a property deed restriction, and which provides for long term maintenance of
MAINTENANCE      stormwater management practices. The O&M Contract serves to document the agreed
(O&M) CONTRACT:  upon maintenance schedule and commitment by the BMP Owner to perform
                 maintenance.
                 The current National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) General
PERMIT:          Permit for Discharges from Small Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems, (Permit
                 No. NVS040000 at the time of enactment of this Ordinance), issued to the City of
                 Elko and other public entities.
                 Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm, corporation or
PERSON:          other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or the owner's
                 agent.
                 A term used to distinguish stormwater practices used during site construction
POSTCONSTRUCTION (otherwise known as "construction stormwater" or "erosion and sediment control")
STORMWATER:      from those that are used on a permanent basis to control runoff once
                 construction is complete and a Notice of Termination has been approved by the
                 Nevada Division of Environmental Protection (NDEP).
                 A document which describes the BMPs and activities to be implemented by a person
                 or business at a development to preserve the integrity of the MS4, waters of the
                 United States and watercourses, including maintenance and protection of the
POSTCONSTRUCTION physical, biological, and chemical qualities of watercourses; to prevent an
STORMWATER       increase in the rate of stormwater runoff; to minimize any increase in
QUALITY          stormwater runoff volume; to minimize impervious (i.e. paved) areas; to maximize
MANAGEMENT PLAN  the protection of existing drainage features and existing vegetation; to
(PSQMP):         minimize land clearing and grading; to minimize soil compaction; and to use
                 other structural or nonstructural BMPs that prevent or minimize changes in
                 stormwater runoff. As used in this Chapter, a PSQMP shall be equivalent to and
                 shall meet the requirements applicable to an "operations and maintenance plan"
                 as that term is used in the BMP Manual.
PROJECT:         An NDSR or any "project" listed in Subsection 3.2.1 (Project Applicability)
                 (together with any amendments thereto) of the BMP Manual.
RECHARGE:        A hydrologic process where water moves downward from surface water to
                 groundwater.
                 Development, rehabilitation, expansion, or demolition that disturbs the ground
REDEVELOPMENT:   surface or increases the impervious area on a previously developed or disturbed
                 site.
                 A person to whom a notice of violation, citation or notice of civil infraction
                 has been issued pursuant to this chapter or a person who is formally accused by
RESPONDENT:      the City of violating this chapter. The term "respondent" shall include any
                 person defending a notice of violation, citation, notice of civil infraction or
                 complaint issued on the basis of a violation of this chapter or who is otherwise
                 subject to any punitive measure pursuant to this chapter.
REVEGETATION:    The recreation of plant communities that cannot be easily distinguished from the
                 healthy native plant communities surrounding them or in their general proximity.
                 Techniques that aim to reduce the quantity and improve the quality of stormwater
SOURCE CONTROL:  at or near its source by using infrastructure, natural physical resources or
                 changes in practices.
STORMWATER:      Any surface flow runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water from any form
                 of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
                 A generic term used interchangeably with "stormwater practice" or "stormwater
STORMWATER BMP:  treatment practice." Stormwater BMPs can be either "structural" or
                 "nonstructural."
                 Publicly owned facilities by which stormwater is collected and/or conveyed,
STORMWATER       including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems, municipal
CONVEYANCE       streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities,
SYSTEM:          retention and detention basins, natural and humanmade drainage channels,
                 reservoirs and any other drainage structures.
                 The use of structural or nonstructural practices that are designed to reduce
STORMWATER       stormwater runoff pollutant loads, discharge volumes, peak flow discharge rates
MANAGEMENT:      and detrimental changes in stream temperature that affect water quality and
                 habitat.
STORMWATER       A comprehensive program to manage the quality of stormwater discharged from the
MANAGEMENT       MS4.
PROGRAM (SWMP):
STORMWATER       An invention, contrivance or machine designed to capture pollutants and
TREATMENT        contaminants from surface water runoff before they reach the MS4, waters of the
DEVICE:          United States, a watercourse or a body of water.
                 Public domain treatment controls or manufactured (proprietary) treatment
                 controls. Public domain treatment controls are those that can be designed by an
STRUCTURAL BMPS  engineer and have been implemented and tested by numerous communities through
OR STRUCTURAL    the nation. Manufactured (proprietary) treatment controls are patented devices
TREATMENT        that have been engineered and constructed by private companies. In either case,
CONTROLS:        engineering plans must be developed. A list of structural BMPs is shown in Table
                 7-1 of the BMP Manual (together with any amendments thereto). A list of
                 manufactured (proprietary) treatment controls is shown in Table 8-1 of the BMP
                 Manual (together with any amendments thereto).
WATER QUALITY    The storage needed to capture and treat ninety percent (90%) of the average
VOLUME (WQv):    annual stormwater runoff volume. Numerically, WQv will vary as a function of
                 long term rainfall statistical data.
                 Any drainage or structure through which water may pass or drain and any body of
WATERCOURSE:     water, including, but not limited to, lakes, ponds, rivers, streams, and bodies
                 of water which have been delineated by federal, state, or local agencies in
                 accordance with federal, state, or local laws.
 
In the event a terms used in this Chapter is not defined in this Chapter, but
is defined in another Chapter in this Title 9, the definition contained in the
other Chapter shall apply. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-8-3: APPLICABILITY:
This Chapter applies to all Projects during planning, design and/or
construction. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-8-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION AND COMPLIANCE:
The Development Department shall implement and enforce this Chapter through the
Development Application and PSQMP review processes, the enforcement provisions
of this Chapter and an Operations and Maintenance (O&M) Contract. Projects that
do not satisfy the requirements of this Chapter (including those portions of
the SWMP, BMP Manual and Permit that are incorporated herein by reference),
will not receive approval by the Development Department and may not commence or
proceed. Development Department approval of the PSQMP is required for final
approval by the City.
This Chapter incorporates portions of the SWMP, BMP Manual and Permit by
reference. These documents are available for inspection and copying during
normal business hours at the office of the City of Elko Environmental
Coordinator, 1751 College Avenue, Elko, Nevada. References to the BMP Manual
and Permit shall include any subsequent amendments thereto, to include
renumbered or retitled provisions containing the applicable substantive
requirements.
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this Chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, compliance with this Chapter does not ensure that
there will be no contamination, pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of
pollutants. The prevention of contamination, pollution, or unauthorized
discharges of pollutants is the responsibility of each person subject to the
applicable provisions of Title 9 of the City Code, federal and state law, and
the holder of an NPDES permit or other permit pertaining to discharges. The
acts and omissions of employees and agents in the course and scope of their
employment or official duties shall be deemed the acts and omissions of their
employers and principals, except as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 863, 7-13-
2021)
9-8-5: NDSR APPLICATION, POSTCONSTRUCTION STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN
(PSQMP) REVIEW AND O&M CONTRACT:
   A.   Project Requirements: No Project subject to this Chapter, the BMP
Manual, or the Permit shall commence or continue unless:
      1.   A properly completed NDSR Application has been approved by the
Development Department;
      2.   A PSQMP has been (a) determined to satisfy the requirements of this
Chapter, (b) approved by the Development Department and (c) recorded with the
Elko County Recorder; and
      3.   An O&M Contract has been (a) executed by the BMP Owner and the City
and (b) recorded with the Elko County Recorder.
   B.   NDSR Application: The NDSR Application shall be submitted on a form
provided by the City and shall contain the following information:
      1.   The name, address, telephone number and email address of the BMP
Owner.
      2.   A detailed description of the Project of the potential impacts that
the NDSR will have on the City, specifically related to stormwater quantity and
quality, including supporting documentation and all information needed to
complete the forms in the Appendix of the BMP Manual.
   C.   PSQMP: The PSQMP shall be written by a design engineer or plan designer
and contain the following:
      1.   Identification of:
         (a)   The BMP Owner(s);
         (b)   The parties or parties responsible for operation and maintenance
of the BMPs; and
         (c)   Source(s) of funding for continued operation and maintenance of
the BMP(s).
      2.   A schedule for BMP implementation, maintenance and monitoring
consistent with the requirements and guidelines set forth in the SWMP, the BMP
Manual (to include, without limitation, Subsection 3.2.6) and the Permit
(together with any amendments to the applicable provisions in either document).
      3.   A description of the Stormwater Facility and its components,
inspection priorities, an inspection schedule for each component, a description
of routine and infrequent maintenance tasks, and a schematic for each BMP
consistent with the requirements and guidelines set forth in the BMP Manual.
      4.   The planning and design principles described in Section 4 of the BMP
Manual.
      5.   Any further actions required by the City to bring BMPs into
compliance with applicable standards.
      6.   As-built plans for any Stormwater Facilities located on-site after
final construction is completed.
      7.   The elements described in Subpart VI.E. of the Permit (together with
any amendments thereto).
   D.   O&M Contract Elements: The O&M Contract shall contain the following
elements:
      1.   The contract document signed by the BMP Owner and the City
containing the terms and conditions set forth in this section;
      2.   The PSQMP; and
      3.   A drawing of easements on a system location map with sufficient
detail and accuracy to enable the City or the BMP Owner to locate the BMPs.
   E.   O&M Contract Terms and Conditions: The O&M Contract shall contain the
following terms and conditions:
      1.   The BMP Owner shall (a) provide for adequate long-term maintenance
and continuation of the stormwater control measures (including the BMPs and/or
Stormwater Facility) described in the PSQMP and shown on an attached location
map, deed of easement or drawing, and (b) ensure that the BMPs and/or
Stormwater Facility are and remain in proper working condition in accordance
with the SWMP, approved design standards, rules and regulations, and applicable
laws.
      2.   The BMP Owner shall inspect and perform preventative maintenance
activities at intervals described in the inspection schedule included in the
O&M Contract and/or PSQMP, together with ongoing and regular landscaping and
trash removal as needed.
      3.   The BMP Owner shall submit an annual report to the City according to
a schedule established by the City in the O&M Contract. The report shall
include the PSQMP (together with any amendments or revisions thereto)
documenting the inspection schedule; times of inspection; remedial actions
taken to repair, modify or reconstruct the BMPs and/or Stormwater Facility; the
state of control measures; and notification of any planned change in the
responsibility for the BMPs and/or Stormwater Facility.
      4.   The BMP Owner shall grant to the City or its agent or contractor the
right of entry at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner for the purpose
of inspecting, operating, installing, constructing, reconstructing, maintaining
or repairing the BMPs and/or Stormwater Facility.
      5.   The BMP Owner shall grant to the City the necessary easements and
rights-of-way to maintain perpetual access from public rights-of-way to the
BMPs and/or Stormwater Facility by the City or its agent or contractor.
      6.   If, upon inspection, the City finds that the BMP Owner has failed to
properly maintain the BMPs and/or Stormwater Facility, the City may order the
work performed within thirty (30) days. In the event the work is not performed
within the specified time, the BMP Owner agrees to allow the City to enter the
property and take whatever steps it reasonably deems necessary to maintain the
BMPs and/or Stormwater Facility. This provision shall not be construed to allow
the City to erect any structure of a permanent nature on land owned by the BMP
Owner without first obtaining the BMP Owner's written approval.
      7.   The City is not required to maintain or repair the BMPs and/or
Stormwater Facility. The BMP Owner shall reimburse the City upon demand for its
costs incurred in the maintenance of the BMPs and/or Stormwater Facility.
      8.   If the BMP Owner fails to pay the City for the above costs within
fourteen (14) calendar days of receipt of written demand therefor, the BMP
Owner authorizes the City to recover the cost from the BMP Owner through
appropriate legal action and the BMP Owner will be liable for the reasonable
expenses of collection, court costs and attorney fees.
      9.   The BMP Owner and its heirs, administrators, executors, assigns and
successors in interest shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless the City and
its officers, agents and employees from and against any and all damages,
accidents, casualties, occurrences, claims, suits, actions, costs or attorney's
fees which might arise or be asserted, in whole or in part, against the City
from the construction, presence, existence or maintenance of the BMPs and/or
Stormwater Facilities subject to the O&M Contract. In the event a claim is
asserted against the City, its officers, agents or employees, the City shall
notify the BMP Owner and the BMP Owner shall indemnify and defend at the BMP
Owner's expense any suit based on the claim. If any judgment or claim against
the City, its officers, agents or employees is allowed, the BMP Owner will pay
all costs and expenses in connection therewith. The City will not indemnify,
defend or hold harmless the BMP Owner from any claims arising from any failure
of a BMP and/or Stormwater Facility, regardless of any language in any document
the BMP Owner may prepare or provide.
      10.   The BMP Owner shall not transfer, assign or modify its
responsibilities with respect to the O&M Contract without the City's prior
written consent.
      11.   No waiver of any provision of the O&M Contract shall affect the
right of any party to thereafter enforce such a provision or to exercise any
right or remedy available.
      12.   The BMP Owner shall record a map showing and accurately defining
the easements for BMPs and/or Stormwater Facilities. The map must (a) reference
the County Recorder's book and page numbers where the O&M Contract and its
attachments are recorded and (b) contain a note stating that the BMP Owner is
responsible for maintaining the BMPs and/or Stormwater Facilities.
      13.   The BMP Owner shall record the O&M Contract (including attachments)
with the Elko County Recorder and the O&M Contract (including attachments)
shall constitute a covenant running with the land and shall be binding upon the
BMP Owner and the BMP Owner's heirs, administrators, executors, assigns and
successors in interest. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-8-6: PUBLIC WORKS PROJECTS:
In the event a Project subject to this Chapter is a public works project
pursuant to NRS Chapter 338, in addition to the other requirements of this
Chapter, the Enforcement Official or her or his designee may inspect the
Project periodically throughout the course of the work thereon to verify
compliance with this Chapter, the PSQMP and O&M Contract. The results of all
such inspections shall be reported to the City of Elko Public Works Department
and City Manager. The remedies provided under this Chapter or an O&M Contract
shall be in addition to any remedies provided under a public works contract.
(Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-8-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice of Violation: In addition to any remedies provided under the O&M
Contract, in the event the City determines that a person has violated a
prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this Chapter 8, to include
applicable portions of the BMP Manual incorporated herein or an approved PSQMP,
the City may compel compliance by serving a written Notice of Violation upon
the BMP Owner or the BMP Owner's agent or representative by certified mail,
return-receipt requested. A Notice of Violation issued under this section may
require, without limitation:
      1.   That the acts or omissions resulting in a discharge cease
immediately or no later than a specified date;
      2.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property; and
      3.   The payment of a fine established by this Chapter or by resolution
of the City Council to cover administrative and remediation costs; and/or
      4.   Implementation of BMPs.
   B.   Deadline: If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected
property is required, the Notice of Violation shall set forth a deadline by
which such remediation or restoration must be completed. Should the respondent
fail to perform the remediation or restoration therein specified by the
deadline, the work may be done by the City or a designated governmental agency
or contractor and the expense thereof shall be charged to the respondent.
   C.   Citations: The Enforcement Official or her or his designee shall have
the authority to prepare, sign and serve written citations on persons accused
of violating a provision of this Chapter where there is a criminal sanction.
All citations so issued and served shall comply with the requirements of NRS
171.1773 and NRS 171.17751(5).
   D.   Civil liability instead of criminal sanction: In addition to any
remedies provided under the O&M Contract, any person who violates this Chapter
may be subject to civil liability to the City in an amount not to exceed $500
instead of a criminal sanction.
   E.   Civil liability; notice of civil infraction: The Enforcement Official
or her or his designee may issue a Notice of Civil Infraction to any person who
violates this Chapter. The Notice of Civil Infraction must be issued on a form
containing the following information:
      1.   The location where the violation occurred;
      2.   The date and time of the violation;
      3.   The signature of the Enforcement Official or other authorized person
who issues the Notice of Civil Infraction;
      4.   The section of this Chapter that allegedly is being violated;
      5.   Information about the manner and time within which the Notice of
Civil Infraction must be answered;
      6.   The amount of the civil fine; and
      7.   Any other information relevant to the violation and applicable
provisions of this Chapter.
   F.   Civil liability; duties of respondent:
      1.   A person who responds to a notice of civil infraction must either:
         a.   Admit the commission of the infraction and pay the appropriate
civil fine; or
         b.   Deny liability for the infraction.
      2.   A person may admit commission of the infraction by paying to the
municipal court the civil fine shown on the notice of civil infraction.
      3.   A person who denies liability for the infraction must appear in
person before the municipal court.
   G.   Commencement of civil action; procedure: Judicial enforcement of a
notice of civil infraction must be by way of a civil suit in the municipal
court if a person denies liability. A civil action may be commenced by the
filing of a complaint in the name of the City and the issuance of a summons
with respect thereto, and service of such complaint and summons on the
defendant must be made by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed
to the defendant at his or her last known address or in any other matter which
is authorized by law. The proceedings in municipal court for actions commenced
pursuant to this chapter shall be governed by Rules 1 and 3 through 87 of the
Justice Court Rules of Civil Procedure.
   H.   Civil Fines: A respondent who commits a civil infraction under this
Chapter shall subject to a civil fine in the amount of $500.00 per infraction.
   I.   Lien: The City shall have a lien pursuant to NRS 108.222 on any
property upon which work is performed by the City or its contractor in
correcting a violation of this Chapter pursuant to this Section
9-8-6. The lien shall be calculated, perfected and enforced in accordance with
NRS 108.221, et seq. (Mechanics' and Materialmen's Liens).
   J.   Withholding of Approvals: Should the City perform work on the
installation, maintenance, or removal of stormwater control measures pursuant
to this Section
9-8-6, the respondent shall reimburse the City the full amount of that expense
prior to issuance of any permit, final approval or certificate of occupancy
associated with property upon which the work is performed, and the City shall
withhold all permits, final approvals and/or certificates of occupancy for the
property or which have been requested by the respondent until the expense is
fully reimbursed to the City. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-8-8: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   A Notice of Violation issued pursuant to this Chapter 8 shall include a
written notice setting forth the respondent's appeal rights pursuant to this
Section
9-8-8.
   B.   A respondent served with a Notice of Violation, within fourteen (14)
calendar days of service thereof, may appeal the determination of the
Enforcement Official to the City Manager by filing a "Notice of Appeal to the
City Manager" with the City Clerk containing a statement of the basis for the
appeal. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall schedule and
conduct a hearing on the Notice of Violation within fourteen (14) calendar days
thereafter, upon no less than seven (7) calendar days' advance notice to the
respondent, unless otherwise agreed by the respondent and the City. At the
hearing before the City Manager or the City Manager's designee, the respondent
and the City shall each be given an opportunity to present arguments and
evidence, to include witness testimony. The rules of evidence shall not apply.
The City Manager or the City Manager's designee may terminate the hearing at a
time determined in advance by the City Manager or the City Manager's designee,
provided a reasonable time shall be given to permit the respondent and the City
to present their respective arguments and evidence. The City Manager or City
Manager's designee may terminate a hearing at any time upon a determination
that the additional evidence and argument to be proffered by the respondent and
the City will be duplicative or not relevant to the issues to be resolved. The
City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall issue and serve a written
decision upon the respondent with five (5) business days of the hearing.
   C.   A respondent may, within fourteen (14) calendar days of service
thereof, appeal the decision of the City Manager or the City Manager's designee
to the City Council by filing a "Notice of Appeal to the City Council" with the
City Clerk containing a statement of the basis for the appeal. The City Council
shall, within forty-five (45) calendar days thereafter, conduct a hearing on
the decision of the City Manager or City Manager's designee. At the hearing
before the City Council, the respondent and the City shall each be given an
opportunity to present arguments and evidence, to include witness testimony.
The rules of evidence shall not apply. The City Council may terminate the
proceeding at a time determined in advance by the City Manager or the City
Manager's designee, provided a reasonable time shall be given to permit the
respondent and the City to present their respective arguments and evidence. The
City Council may terminate a hearing at any time upon a determination that the
additional evidence and argument to be proffered by the respondent and the City
will be duplicative or not relevant to the issues to be resolved. The City
Council shall render a decision at the hearing, to include a continuation
thereof in the event the hearing is tabled.
   D.   Service upon the respondent for purposes of this Section
9-8-8 shall mean service by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   E.   A respondent to whom a Notice of Violation has been issued must comply
with the requirements stated therein pending an appeal or appeals pursuant to
this Section
9-8-8.
   F.   The failure of a respondent to appeal a decision within the times
required by this Section
9-8-8 shall result in the waiver of those appeal rights.
   G.   The decision of the City Council at an appeal hearing pursuant to this
Section
9-8-8 shall be final for purposes of judicial review. Any action for judicial
review shall be commenced by filing a petition with the District Court for the
Fourth Judicial District, in and for the County of Elko, State of Nevada, no
more than thirty (30) calendar days from the date of the decision of the City
Council at an appeal hearing pursuant to this Section
9-8-8. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-8-9: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
chapter, the City agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which could create further violations or
compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 863, 7-13- 2021)
9-8-10: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
Chapter is hereby determined to be a threat to public health, safety, and
welfare, and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be abated pursuant to
the provision of Nevada Revised Statutes Chapter 268 or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken. The provisions of this Section
9-8-10 and the City Nuisance Code are in addition to and not in lieu of the
other enforcement provisions set forth in this Chapter 8. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-8-11: CRIMINAL PENALTIES:
Any person who has violated or continues to violate the requirements of this
Chapter, to include any requirement set forth in a Notice of Violation issued
under this Chapter, shall be subject to a criminal penalty of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). Each day a person violates this Chapter or remains in
violation of this Chapter shall be a separate violation. In addition, any
person who has violated or continues to violate this Chapter may be subject to
criminal prosecution under federal or state laws. The City may recover all
attorney fees, court costs and other expenses incurred in the enforcement of
this Chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
9-8-12: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this Chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law and it is within
the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies. (Ord. 863, 7-13-2021)
 
