CITY CODE
of
ELY, NEVADA
2001
Code current through:
Ord. 762, passed 6-12-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Ely, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 762, passed 6-12-2025. Ordinances of the City adopted after
said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the extent that they
are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City office in order to
ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has been amended,
superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
BILL NO. 2025-03
ORDINANCE NO. 763
 
An Ordinance amending Title 5, Police Regulations, Chapter 1, General Offenses,
Section 16(G)(1), under Prostitution, of the City of Ely Municipal Code, to
designate the area in which such activity is permitted as the following: on
High Street from an eastern boundary of Second Street to a western boundary
that is 550 feet west of Second Street.
WHEREAS, N.R.S. 266.105 empowers the Ely City Council to pass ordinances
necessary for the municipal government and the management of the affairs of the
City, for execution of all powers vested in the City, and for making effective
the provisions of Chapter 266 of the Nevada Revised Statutes;
WHEREAS, the City Council for the City of Ely has approved the proposed
amendment of Title 5, Police Regulations, Chapter 1, General Offenses, Section
16(G)(1), under Prostitution, of the City of Ely Municipal Code, to designate
the area in which such activity is permitted as the following: on High Street
from an eastern boundary of Second Street to a western boundary that is 550
feet west of Second Street.
NOW, THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Ely DOES AMEND ELY MUNICIPAL
CODE TITLE 1, CHAPTER 5, SECTION 16(G)(1) AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.   Ordinance Enactment.   
Title 1, Chapter 5, Section 16(G)(1) is hereby amended to the following:
G.   Houses Of Ill Fame:
1.   Permitted In Certain Areas: It shall be unlawful for any owner, or agent
of any owner, or any other person, to keep any house of ill fame or any place
to which persons may resort for lewd or lascivious purposes or purposes of
prostitution or to let or rent to any person whomsoever, for any length of time
whatever, to be kept or used for any purposes above-named any house, room,
structure, house trailer or other mobile equipment adapted for human
habitation, within the city other than High Street from an eastern boundary of
Second Street to a western boundary that is 550 west of Second Street. The city
reserves the right to limit the number of such establishments which may operate
within the area specified herein. (Prior Code § 15-26)
Section 2.   Effective Date.   This ordinance shall become effective twenty
days after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
 
Section 3.    Proposing Party.    The foregoing ordinance was proposed by
Councilwoman Melody Van Camp, at the regularly scheduled meeting of the Ely
City Council on June 12, 2025, read by title and referred to the City Council
of the City of Ely, as a committee of the whole.
Section 4.   Notice.      Notice of filing of such ordinance, City of Ely
Ordinance 763 (2025-03) was duly given by publication as required by law.
Section 5.    Reading.    It was read in full at the regular meeting on August
14, 2025 by the following vote:
 
VOTE:       AYES: ________________
NAYES: ________________
ABSENT: ________________
ABSTAIN: ________________
Approved this 14th day of August 2025
 
__________________________________
NATHAN ROBERTSON, MAYOR
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
__________________________________________
JENNIFER LEE, CITY CLERK
 
Approved as to form and content:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/10b4de754d7013ff1b231d611507a501ecf0a234/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2301_2235x404.jpg]
Chris Arabia, Esq., City Attorney
 
 
 
BILL NO. 2025-04
ORDINANCE NO. 764
 
An Ordinance amending Title 1, Administration, Chapter 6, City Officers and
Employees, Section 6, Requirement to Be a Resident of White Pine County, Part
1, Purpose, and Part 2 Requirement, to bring the Ely Municipal Code into
alignment with Nevada Revised Statutes 266.400 by exempting the City Attorney
from the requirement that City employees reside in White Pine County.
WHEREAS, N.R.S. 266.105 empowers the Ely City Council to pass ordinances
necessary for the municipal government and the management of the affairs of the
City, for execution of all powers vested in the City, and for making effective
the provisions of Chapter 266 of the Nevada Revised Statutes; and
WHEREAS, N.R.S. 266.400 provides in pertinent part as follows:
1. The city council, by ordinance, may require, as a qualification for an
appointive office of the city, other than city attorney, and for appointment as
a deputy pursuant to N.R.S. 266.455, that the person appointed reside actually,
and not constructively, within:
     (a) The limits of the city; or
     (b) The county in which the city is located. [Bold Added.] and
WHEREAS, the Ely City Council desires to bring the Ely Municipal Code into
alignment with N.R.S. 266.400(1);
WHEREAS, the Ely City Council has approved the proposed amendment of Title 1,
Administration, Chapter 6, City Officers and Employees, Section 6, Requirement
to Be a Resident of White Pine County, Part 1-A, Purpose, and Part 2,
Requirement, to bring the Ely Municipal Code into alignment with Nevada Revised
Statutes 266.400(1) by exempting the City Attorney from the requirement that
City employees reside in White Pine County.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Ely City Council DOES AMEND ELY MUNICIPAL CODE TITLE 1,
CHAPTER 6, SECTION 6, PART 1-A and PART 2 AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1.   Ordinance Enactment.
Title 1, Chapter 6, Section 6, Part 1-A of the Ely Municipal Code is hereby
amended to the following:
A.   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that employees, including
appointed employees, other than city attorney, hired after February 13, 2019,
obtain residency in White Pine County within six (6) months of being hired by
the City.
Title 1, Chapter 6, Section 6, Part 2 of the Ely Municipal Code is hereby
amended to the following:
Effective February 13, 2019 and thereafter, unless repealed, amended or
modified by the City, all new hire employees, other than city attorney,
including employees covered by collective bargaining agreements, shall be
required to prove they have established and will maintain a bona fide residence
within White Pine County for the term of their employment. The failure to
obtain and maintain such residency shall be grounds for involuntary
termination.
Section 2.   Effective Date.   This ordinance shall become effective twenty
days after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
Section 3.    Proposing Party.    The foregoing ordinance was proposed by Mayor
Nathan Robertson, at the regularly scheduled meeting of the Ely City Council on
July 24, 2025, read by title and referred to the City Council of the City of
Ely, as a committee of the whole.
Section 4.   Notice.      Notice of filing of such ordinance, City of Ely
Ordinance 764 (Bill No. 2025-04) was duly given by publication as required by
law.
Section 5.    Reading.    It was read in full at the regular meeting on August
14, 2025 by the following vote:
VOTE:       AYES: ________________
NAYES: ________________
ABSENT: ________________
ABSTAIN: ________________
Approved this 14th day of August 2025
 
__________________________________
NATHAN ROBERTSON, MAYOR
 
ATTEST:
 
 
__________________________________________
JENNIFER LEE, CITY CLERK
 
Approved as to form and content:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/10b4de754d7013ff1b231d611507a501ecf0a234/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2306_2235x404.jpg]
Chris Arabia, Esq., City Attorney
 
 
 
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-713
ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF HEYBURN, DEDICATING J STREET REALIGNMENT PORTIONS ON
NORTH SIDE OF INTERSECTION WITH STATE HIGHWAY 24/30, AMENDING ALL HEYBURN MAPS
TO INCLUDE THE NEW J STREET, PROVIDING EFFECTIVE DATE.
   WHEREAS, Idaho Code 50-1309 and 40-2302 outlines the requirements of
dedicating a road, street, or highway; and
   WHEREAS, Heyburn redesigned the north side of the intersection between J
Street and State Highway 24/30; and
   WHEREAS, Heyburn acquired parcels of property of property from adjacent
parcels for the redesigned intersection; and
   WHEREAS, Heyburn vacated the portions of the old alignment to adjacent
property owners; and
   WHEREAS, the newly acquired parcels need dedicated as a street; and
   WHEREAS, construction will be done in cooperation with the Idaho
Transportation Department when State Highway 24/30 is redone, estimated in
2027; and
   WHEREAS, Heyburn approves and accepts the creation of these new road
portions and confirms such by this Ordinance; now
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Council of City of Heyburn as follows:
   1.   J Street is now created and dedicated from RPH2225198000Z on the
northeast side of J Street and Highway 24/30, owned by City of Heyburn, known
by the legal description:
A portion of the lands of Daniel T Barger, Warranty Deed No. 519268, recorded 4
October 2012, Minidoka County Records.
Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.
Section 15: A part of Block 198 of the Heyburn Townsite of 1954.
Commencing at the intersection of 15th and “J” Streets monumented by a 1/2"
rebar and thence along the centerline of “J” Street south 0°16’39” East 759.99
feet to a 1/2” rebar at the centerline intersection of the extension of the
boundary between Blocks 198 and 199 of the City of Heyburn and “J” Street;
thence along a survey tie line North 89°43’21” East 40.00 feet to a point on
the east boundary of “J” Street and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;
Thence along the east boundary of “J” Street North 0°16’39” West 29.81 feet to
a point of curvature;
Thence along a curve to the left, a bearing to the center North 9°53’11” West
with radius 35.00 feet, length 32.23 feet, tangent 17.36 feet, delta 52°45’53”,
chord 31.11 feet and chord bearing North 53°43’53” East to a point on the north
ROW of Highway 30;
Thence along said Highway ROW South 27°20’56” West 54.27 feet to the True Point
of Beginning.
   represented by the attached map is approved, accepted, and confirmed as a
roadway, street, or highway owned and maintained by the City of Heyburn.
   2.   J Street is now created and dedicated from RPH2225225000V on the
northwest side of J Street and Highway 24/30, owned by City of Heyburn, known
by the legal description:
A portion of the lands of Dale & Sheila Adams Revocable Trust, Warranty Deed
No. 341932, recorded 28 August 2017, Minidoka County Records.
Township 10 South, Range 23 East, Boise Meridian, Minidoka County, Idaho.
Section 15: A part of Blocks 224 and 225 of the Heyburn Townsite of 1954.
Commencing at the intersection of 15th and “J” Streets monumented by a 1/2"
rebar and thence along the centerline of “J” Street south 0°16’39” East 449.98
feet; thence along a survey tie line South 89°43’21” West 40.00 feet to a point
on the west boundary of “J” Street and the TRUE POINT OF BEGINNING;
Thence along a non-tangent curve to the right with a bearing to the center
South 89°54’17” West with radius 136.70 feet, length 86.71 feet, tangent 44.87
feet, delta 36°20’33”, chord 85.26 feet and chord bearing South 18°04’33” West
to a point of reverse curvature;
Thence along a reverse curve to the left with radius 140.27, length 217.34
feet, tangent 137.30 feet, delta 88°46’29”, chord 196.24 feet and chord bearing
South 8°08’25” East to a point on the west boundary of “J” Street;
Thence along said west “J” Street boundary North 0°16’39” West 275.32 feet to
the True Point of Beginning.
   represented by the attached map is approved, accepted, and confirmed as a
roadway, street, or highway owned and maintained by the City of Heyburn.
   3.   J Street as provided in the attached map shall be added to all Heyburn
maps, including Heyburn Road and Street Map, Heyburn Parking Map, and the
Heyburn Zoning Map as needed by amendment to include this realignment of J
Street.
4.   This ordinance shall be in full force and effect upon passage, approval,
and publication according to law.
   PASSED and ADOPTED by the City Council of City of Heyburn, State of Idaho.
   DATED 13 August 2025
                  THE CITY OF HEYBURN
 
 
                  _________________________
                  MAYOR
                  DICK GALBRAITH
ATTEST
 
 
_________________________
CITY CLERK
ASHLEE LANGLEY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BILL NO. 2025-05
ORDINANCE NO. 765
 
 
An Ordinance amending Ely Municipal Code Title 2, Boards and Commissions, by
adding Chapter 6, to create a City of Ely Historic Preservation Commission.
 
WHEREAS, N.R.S. 266.105 empowers the Ely City Council to pass ordinances
necessary for the municipal government and the management of the affairs of the
City, for execution of all powers vested in the City, and for making effective
the provisions of Chapter 266 of the Nevada Revised Statutes (“N.R.S.”);
WHEREAS, N.R.S. 278 and N.R.S. 384 contemplate the identification,
preservation, and maintenance of areas, district, sites, and buildings having
significant historic character, cultural, interest, or value as part of the
culture, development, and heritage of the City;
WHEREAS, the Ely City Council deems it in the best interest of the City of Ely
and its residents to create and establish a Historic Preservation Commission to
facilitate and promote the identification, preservation, and maintenance of
areas, districts, sites, and buildings in the City of Ely that have significant
historic character, interest, or value; to educate the public about the
benefits of historic preservation; to make recommendations about historic
preservation to the Ely City Council; and to conduct research to aid in the
identification of historic resources within the City of Ely and maintain an
inventory of the results of such research;
WHEREAS, the Ely City Council has approved the proposed amendment of Title 2,
Board and Commissions, to add Chapter 6, which creates and establishes a
Historic Preservation Commission;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Ely City Council DOES HEREBY AMEND ELY MUNICIPAL CODE TITLE
2 BY ADDING CHAPTER 6, WHICH CREATES AND ESTABLISHES A HISTORIC PRESERVATION
COMMISSION:
 
   Section 1   Enacting Provisions.   The Ely Municipal Code Title 2 is amended
in the following manner:
Section 1.1   Amendment.   Ely Municipal Code Title 2 is amended by adding
Chapter 6, Historic Preservation Commission, which creates and establishes said
commission and which will read as follows:
Title 2, Chapter 6
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
Sections:
   2-6-1   Short Title
   2-6-2   Purpose
   2-6-3   Definitions
   2-6-4   Historic Preservation Commission Established
   2-6-5   Commission Membership
   2-6-6   Commission Organization
   2-6-7   Commission Powers, Duties, and Responsibilities
2-6-1:   Short Title.
The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known, and may be cited, as the
“Historic Preservation Ordinance.”
2-6-2:   Purpose.
The purposes of this chapter are the following:
A.   To promote the economic, historical, and education welfare of the City of
Ely;
 
B.   To foster civic pride in the accomplishments of the past;
 
C.   To aid and facilitate in the identification, preservation, and maintenance
of the historic integrity of the City of Ely for the benefit of the City of
Ely’s residents, visitors, investors, and property owners;
 
D.   To conduct research to identify historic resources within the City of Ely
and to maintain in inventory of the results of that research;
 
E.   To make recommendations about historic preservation and related issues to
the Ely City Council;
 
F.   To educate the public about the benefits of the historic preservation of
areas, districts, sites, structures, buildings, objects, and other historic
resources; and
 
G.   To create and provide mechanisms for identifying, interpreting, and
preserving the significant historic, cultural, and architectural resources of
the City of Ely that constitute elements of the City of Ely’s cultural, social,
economic, political, and architectural history.
2-6-3:   Definitions.
The terms, phrases, words and their derivations contained in this chapter have
the following meanings unless the context requires otherwise, or unless another
meaning is ascribed to the term, phrase or word in another section of this
chapter:
A.   "City" or "city" means the City of Ely.
 
B.   "Commission" or "commission" means the City of Ely Historic Preservation
Commission.
 
C.   "Historic preservation" means the identification, evaluation, conducting
research and maintaining an inventory of the results of such research,
recording, documenting, curating, acquiring, managing, protecting, restoring,
rehabilitating, stabilizing, maintaining, interpreting, conserving, and
education related to objects, buildings, structures, sites, districts, and
areas significant in the history, architecture, archaeology or culture of the
City of Ely, the State of Nevada, or the nation.
 
D.   "Historic resource" means any object, building, structure, site, district
or area that is significant in the history, architecture, archaeology or
culture of the city, the state or the nation.
2-6-4:   Historic Preservation Commission.
The City of Ely Historic Preservation Commission is established.
2-6-5:   Commission membership.
A.   The commission shall consist of five members.
 
B.   The mayor, subject to confirmation by the city council, shall appoint
members of the commission.
 
1.   Appointment shall be for a term of two years, with two of the five terms
beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30 of odd-numbered years and three terms
beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30 of even-numbered years, except:
 
a.   An appointment to fill a vacancy not occurring because of the expiration
of a term (as described immediately above) shall be for the balance of the
unexpired term; and
 
b.   The initial appointment of members shall have two members appointed to
serve until July 1, 2026 and three members appointed to serve until July 1,
2027.
 
2.   Members may be reappointed in the same manner as an initial appointment or
reappointment to serve an additional term.
 
3.   Members may be removed:
 
a.   by the mayor for absence from three consecutive commission meetings; and,
 
b.   upon recommendation of the mayor with concurrence of a majority vote of
the city council for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.
 
C.    Members of the commission shall be appointed based upon a demonstrated
interest, competence, or knowledge in history or historic preservation, and at
least one member must meet the Secretary of the Interior’s Professional
Qualifications Standards in a preservation-related field, unless the State
Historic Preservation Office (“SHPO”) grants a waiver of this requirement.
Preservation-related fields include, but are not necessarily limited to, the
following: architecture, historic architecture, history, architectural history,
urban planning, archaeology, engineering, conservation, landscape architecture,
law, or other historic preservation-related disciplines.
2-6-6:   Commission Organization.
A.   The commission is authorized to make rules deemed necessary or desirable
for carrying out the powers, duties and responsibilities as set forth in this
chapter. All formally adopted rules must be ratified by majority vote of the
city council.
 
B.   The commission shall elect officers from its membership consisting of a
chairperson to preside at commission meetings, a vice-chairperson to preside at
commission meetings in the absence of the chairperson, and a secretary to keep
a record of the commission meetings, proceedings, and actions.
 
C.   The commission shall meet from time to time, as frequently as the
commission deems necessary to conduct commission business, exercise the powers
of the commission, and perform and discharge duties and responsibilities of the
commission.
D.   Commission meetings shall be open to the public and comply with the
requirements of N.R.S. 241.
2-6-7:   Commission Powers, Duties, and Responsibilities.
The commission is an advisory body to the city council and planning commission
on matters of historic preservation and resources, and is authorized to:
A.   Conduct a survey or surveys of local historic resources to determine
suitability for historic preservation.
 
B.   Conduct research on historic preservation issues and maintain an inventory
of such research.
 
C.   Make recommendations about the planning processes and activities for
historic resources undertaken by the city, county, state, or federal government
and agencies of such entities.
 
D.   Advise the city council, recommend ordinances, and otherwise provide
information for the purposes of historic preservation in the city.
 
E.   Promote and conduct educational and interpretive programs on historic
preservation and historic resources in the city.
 
F.   Cooperate with federal, state, and other local governments in pursuit of
the objectives of historic preservation.
 
G.   Enter private property, buildings, or structures in the performance of
commission official duties only with the express consent of the owner or
occupant thereof.
 
H.   Review nominations of historic resources located within the city limits to
the National Register of Historic Places.
   Section 1.2   Reenactments.   All other chapters of Title 2 of the Ely
Municipal Code are reenacted without change.
Section 2.   Effective Date.   This ordinance shall become effective twenty
days after its passage, approval, and publication according to law.
Section 3.    Proposing Party.    The foregoing ordinance was proposed by Mayor
Nathan Robertson, at the regularly scheduled meeting of the Ely City Council on
August 14, 2025, read by title and referred to the City Council of the City of
Ely, as a committee of the whole.
Section 4.   Notice.      Notice of filing of such ordinance, City of Ely
Ordinance 765 (2025-05) was duly given by publication as required by law.
Section 5.    Reading.    It was read in full at the regular meeting on
September 11, 2025, by the following vote:
VOTE:       AYES:    ________________
NAYES:    ________________
ABSENT:    ________________
ABSTAIN:    ________________
Approved this 11th day of September 2025
 
__________________________________
NATHAN ROBERTSON, MAYOR
 
ATTEST:
 
 
__________________________________________
JENNIFER LEE, CITY CLERK
 
Approved as to form and content:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/10b4de754d7013ff1b231d611507a501ecf0a234/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2311_2235x404.jpg]
Chris Arabia, Esq., City Attorney
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 554
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE CITY OF ELY, NEVADA MUNICIPAL CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Ely, Nevada, as
follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Ely, Nevada prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc. containing
the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the City,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE 1
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
 
Notes
1 1. For state law as to codification of ordinances and publication of code,
  see NRS § 268.014.
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official Municipal Code of the City of Ely. This
Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the ELY MUNICIPAL CODE ("EMC"),
or in the alternative, "City Code" or "Code", and is hereby published by
authority of the council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most
recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3  of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (2001 Code; amd. Ord. 756, 5-23-
2024, eff. 6-20-2024)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The Ely Municipal Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1  of this title. (2001 Code; amd. Ord. 756, 5-23-2024, eff. 6-20-2024)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the copy of this Code maintained by the City Clerk shall be
updated accordingly. (2001 Code; amd. Ord. 756, 5-23-2024, eff. 6-20-2024)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. The city clerk shall
see that the official copies are maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of this Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Said Code
books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested persons,
shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the
office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council.
(2001 Code; amd. Ord. 756, 5-23-2024, eff. 6-20-2024)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Effective Date Of Ordinances
1-2-4: Court Proceedings
1-2-5: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this city
code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this city code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (2001 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this city code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the city code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this city code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2001 Code)
1-2-3: EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES:
Each and every ordinance passed by the city council shall, unless otherwise
expressly provided therein, become effective twenty (20) days after its
passage, approval and publication according to law. (Ord. 474, 6-8-1992, eff.
7-1-1992)
1-2-4: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this city code. (2001 Code)
1-2-5: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city council that the
sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code
are severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of
this code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of
any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect
any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of
this code, since the same would have been enacted by the city council without
the incorporation in this code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph or section. (Prior Code § 1-5)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
In the construction of this code, and of all ordinances, the following rules
shall be observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the
manifest intent of the city council:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this city code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this city code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
city code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city has been
changed in the content of this city code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the city's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (Prior Code § 1-2;
amd. 2001 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The words "the city" or "this city" shall be construed as if the words
"of Ely, White Pine County, Nevada" followed it.
CODE: The city code of the city of Ely.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day, and if the last day
be Sunday or a legal holiday that shall be excluded.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Ely.
COUNTY: The county of White Pine, state of Nevada.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Ely".
FISCAL YEAR: Pursuant to the constitution of the state of Nevada, article 9,
section 1, the "fiscal year" of the city shall be from July 1 to June 30.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
JOINT AUTHORITY: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
KEEPER AND PROPRIETOR: Includes persons, firms, associations, corporations,
clubs and copartnerships, whether acting by themselves or a servant, agent or
employee.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAY: Is permissive.
MONTH: A calendar month, unless otherwise expressed.
MUNICIPALITY OR MUNICIPAL: The city of Ely.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH: Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear" and "sworn"
shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Ely".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OR: "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or", if the sense requires
it.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, association, joint venture, joint stock
company, partnership, organization, club, fraternal organization, company,
corporation, business, trust, or their manager, lessee, agent, servant,
officer, or employee or any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every species of property except "real property" as
herein defined.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: The next before and the next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any park, cemetery, school yard or open space adjacent thereto
and any lake or stream.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
SIDEWALK: Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION: A person's signature or a mark when the person
cannot write.
STATE: The state of Nevada.
STATE LAW REFERENCES: Whenever reference is made, for example, to NRS 19.010,
it shall be construed to refer to the Nevada Revised Statutes, or as amended
therein, or to such section as it is subsequently amended, or whatever section
is to be cited.
STREET: Includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, alley, land viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto within the
city.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year. (Prior Code § 1-2; amd. Ord. 476, 6-8-1992; 2001 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the city code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (Prior Code § 1-3)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Labor For Convicted Offenders
1-4-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Misdemeanor: Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city or
in any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto any act is prohibited or
is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever
in such code, ordinance, rule or regulation the doing of any act is required or
the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, when no specific penalty
is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this code or any
ordinance or of any such rule or regulation shall be punished by a fine of any
sum of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment in the
city or county jail for a term not exceeding six (6) months or by both such
fine and imprisonment, unless the ordinance in force at the time of commission
of such misdemeanor prescribes a different penalty. (Prior Code § 1-6; amd.
Ord. 475, 6-8-1992, eff. 7-1-1992)
   B.   Continuing Violation: Each day any violation of any provision of this
code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code § 1-6)
   C.   Alternative Penalty: In lieu of all or a part of the punishment which
may be imposed pursuant to subsection A of this section, the convicted person
may be sentenced to perform a fixed period of work for the benefit of the
community pursuant to conditions prescribed in Nevada Revised Statutes section
176.087. (Ord. 475, 6-8-1992, eff. 7-1-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS §§ 193.150 and 266.105.
1-4-2: LABOR FOR CONVICTED OFFENDERS:
   A.   Confinement: Every person who may hereafter be committed to or confined
in the city or county jail for the conviction of any violation of this code or
any other ordinance of the city, or of any violation of the misdemeanors
contained in the Nevada revised statutes, may be required to work for the city
or upon the public streets of the city, or on or about public grounds or public
works elsewhere within the city, or perform such other community service as the
court deems appropriate in the premises, at such labor as his/her strength will
permit, not exceeding eight (8) hours each working day, for and during the
period for which such person may have been committed.
   B.   Fine Or Costs: If any such person shall have been committed for
nonpayment of fine or costs, then and in such cases for such work the person so
committed and employed shall be allowed twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each
day worked, on account of such fine and costs; provided, however, that no
person shall be required to labor as provided by this section unless the
judgment under which he/she is committed shall so direct, or shall provide that
he/she be confined "at labor". (Ord. 477, 6-8-1992, eff. 7-1-1992)
   C.   Designation Of Locations: The labor provided for in subsection B of
this section shall be performed at such place within the city as the mayor or
city council shall determine. (Prior Code § 1-10)
   D.   Obedience; Attempted Escape: Persons put to labor upon the streets or
elsewhere as provided in subsection B of this section, shall be in the charge
of the chief of police, or some other peace officer of the city under the
direction of the chief of police. Any person while at such labor or in going to
or from such labor, who shall attempt or threaten to escape, or who shall offer
resistance to the officer in charge of him, or shall refuse to obey any
reasonable command of such officer with reference to such labor, may be
shackled or ironed by such officer. No unnecessary violence shall be used
towards any prisoner. (Prior Code § 1-11; amd. Ord. 477, 6-8-1992, eff. 7-1-
1992)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this city code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this city code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this city code and there shall be no
fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply. (2001 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this city code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Elected Officials
1-5-2: Mayor
1-5-3: Mayor Pro Tem
1-5-4: City Council
1-5-5: Council Meetings
1-5-6: Departments Of The City And Liaison Designations
1-5-7: Conduct Of The City Council
1-5-8: Salaries Of Elected Officials
1-5-1: ELECTED OFFICIALS 1 :
The elected officers of the city shall be the mayor and five (5) councilmen.
(Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS § 266.220.
1-5-2: MAYOR 1 :
   A.   Chief Executive Officer: The mayor shall be the chief executive officer
of the city and shall preside over the council when in session and shall have
all the powers and duties of an officer presiding over a deliberative body 2 .
   B.   Duties: The mayor shall be recognized as the head of the city
government and shall perform all the duties outlined in chapter 266 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes. In addition thereto, the mayor shall:
      1.   Agenda: Prepare and publish an agenda of the items to be discussed
and/or acted upon in regularly scheduled and special city council meetings
consistent with the Nevada open meeting law. The mayor shall place upon the
agenda any item requested by the city council or may place items for discussion
and/or action on the agenda himself.
      2.   Nevada League Of Cities: In conjunction with at least one member of
the city council and/or the city clerk, represent the city on the Nevada league
of cities, and either personally or through a duly appointed designee, attend
all regularly scheduled functions and meetings of the Nevada league of cities
and report to the city council on the current activities, plans, needs, etc.,
of the Nevada league of cities.
      3.   Additional Executive Duties: Perform such other executive duties as
shall be required by the city council from time to time as the council shall
prescribe by ordinance. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
 
Notes
1 2. For state law as to qualifications, powers and duties of mayor, see NRS §§
  266.165 to 266.210.
2 3. NRS §§ 266.165 and 266.200.
1-5-3: MAYOR PRO TEM:
The city council shall elect one of its number to act as mayor pro tem, who
shall so act during the temporary absence or disability of the mayor. The mayor
pro tem shall possess the powers and duties of mayor when so acting. (Ord. 539,
12-21-1999)
1-5-4: CITY COUNCIL 1 :
   A.   Legislative Body: The city council shall constitute the legislative
body of the city.
   B.   Powers: The council shall have the power to make and pass all
ordinances, resolutions and orders, not repugnant to the constitutions of the
United States or of the state of Nevada or to the provisions of chapter 266
Nevada Revised Statutes, necessary for good municipal government and the
management of the city affairs, for the execution of all powers vested in the
city.
   C.   Additional Powers: The city council shall further possess all powers
expressly set forth in chapters 266 and 268 of the Nevada Revised Statutes
pertaining to city council authority. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
 
Notes
  1. See sections 1-8-1 and 1-8-2 of this code for election of councilmen. For
1 state law generally as to city council, see NRS §§ 266.215 to 266.255 and for
  powers of the city council, see NRS §§ 266.260 to 266.385.
1-5-5: COUNCIL MEETINGS 1 :
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold its meetings on the
second and fourth Thursdays of each month at four o'clock (4:00) P.M., at the
city hall or other designated meeting place accessible to the general public;
provided, that whenever such meeting dates fall upon a nonjudicial day, such
meeting shall be held on the next succeeding business day; and such regular
meetings may be adjourned to a subsequent date if, due to absence of members
from the city, a quorum is not present, or so adjourned at the end of any
meeting if the business before it cannot be concluded at that time. The date
and/or time of the regular meeting of the Ely city council may be changed by
resolution. (Prior code § 2-1; amd. Ord. 488, 9-8-1993; Ord. 517, 11-6-1997;
2001 Code; Ord. 661, 8-8-2013)
   B.   Special Meetings: The mayor or mayor pro tem or any four (4) members of
the council may call special meetings at any time by giving the required notice
as specified by state law of the time and purpose of such meeting to the
members of the council, members of the council not participating in such call
and to the mayor or mayor pro tem if such call is given by members of the
council as herein provided. (Prior code § 2-1; amd. Ord. 488, 9-8-1993; Ord.
517, 11-6-1997; 2001 Code)
   C.   Authority To Compel Attendance: When there is not a sufficient number
of the members of the council present at any of their meetings to form a
quorum, the members present are hereby empowered to compel the attendance of
absent members and may direct the chief of police or any city police officer to
enforce such attendance of members. (Prior code § 2-2)
   D.   Penalty For Refusal Or Neglect To Attend Upon Notice: Should any member
of the council refuse or neglect to attend any meeting of the council when
notified by the chief of police that his attendance is required to form a
quorum, or should any member leave the council when such leaving would break
the quorum, he may be fined in any sum not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) by
the mayor or mayor pro tem. (Prior code § 2.3)
   E.   Rules Of Procedure:
      1.   General Rules:
         a.   Ordinances: No ordinance shall relate to more than one subject,
which shall be clearly stated in its title.
         b.   Right Of Floor: Any member desiring to speak shall be recognized
by the chair, and shall confine his/her remarks to one subject under
consideration or to be considered.
         c.   City Administrator: The city administrator shall attend all
meetings of the council. The city administrator may make recommendations to the
council and shall have the right to take part in all discussions of the
council, but shall have no vote.
         d.   City Attorney: The city attorney shall attend all meetings of the
council and shall, upon request, give an opinion, either written or verbal, on
questions of law.
         e.   City Clerk: The city clerk or a deputy city clerk shall attend
all meetings of the council and shall keep the official minutes and perform
such other duties as may be requested by the council.
         f.   Officers And Employees: Department heads of the city, when there
is pertinent business from their departments on the council agenda, shall
attend such council meetings upon request of the city administrator.
         g.   Rules Of Order: "Robert's Rules Of Order Newly Revised" shall
govern the proceedings of the council in all cases, provided they are not in
conflict with these rules.
      2.   Types Of Meetings:
         a.   Regular Meetings: The council shall meet in the council chambers,
unless otherwise stated on the agenda, for regular, adjourned, and special
meetings, except special meetings for study sessions, the location of which
shall be specified in the call of the meeting. The regular council meetings
will be held consistent with subsection A of this section.
         b.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the mayor or
by a majority of the members of the council. The call for a special meeting
shall be filed with the city clerk in written form, except that an announcement
of a special meeting during any regular meeting at which all members are
present shall be sufficient notice of such special meeting. The call for a
special meeting shall specify the day, the hour, and the location of the
special meeting and shall list the subject or subjects to be considered. Only
such business may be transacted at a special meeting as may be listed in the
call for said meeting. An agenda shall be published consistent with policy
regarding regular meetings.
         c.   Adjourned Meetings: Any meeting of the council may be adjourned
to a later date and time provided that no adjournment shall be for a longer
period than until the next regular meeting.
         d.   Executive Sessions: Closed meetings may be held in accordance
with the provisions of the state open meeting law, Nevada Revised Statutes
chapters 241 and 288.
         e.   Attendance Of Media: Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter
241, all official meetings of the city council and its committees shall be open
to the media, freely subject to recording by radio, television and photographic
services at any time; provided, that such arrangements do not interfere with
the orderly conduct of the meetings.
      3.   Chairman And Duties:
         a.   Chairman: The mayor, if present, shall preside at all meetings of
the council. In the absence of the mayor, the mayor pro tem shall preside. In
the absence of both the mayor and the mayor pro tem, the council members
present shall elect a chairman.
         b.   Call To Order: The meetings of the council shall be called to
order by the mayor or, in his absence, by the mayor pro tem. In the absence of
both the mayor or the mayor pro tem, the meeting shall be called to order by
the city clerk for the election of a temporary chairman.
         c.   Preservation Of Order: The chairman shall preserve order and
decorum, prevent attacks on personalities or the impugning of members, motives,
and confine members in debate to the question under discussion.
         d.   Points Of Order: The chairman shall determine all points of
order, subject to the right of any member to appeal to the council. If any
appeal is taken, the question shall be, "Shall the decision of the chairman be
sustained"?
         e.   Questions To Be Stated: The chairman shall state all questions
submitted for vote and announce the result. A roll call vote shall be taken
upon the request of any member.
         f.   Mayor's Veto And Vote Provisions: The mayor shall preside over
the meetings of the city council and may vote only in case of a tie. The mayor
may not vote on any proposed ordinance. The mayor may exercise the right of
veto upon all matters passed by the city council provided he gives notice, in
writing, to the city clerk within ten (10) days of the action taken by the city
council. Such vetoes may be overturned only by a vote of at least four-fifths
(4/5) of the city council. (Ord. 459, 4-23-1991)
      4.   Order Of Business; Agenda:
         a.   Agenda: The order of business of each meeting shall be as
contained the agenda prepared by the city clerk as determined by the city
administrator at the direction of the mayor. The agenda shall be a listing of
topics or subjects to be considered by the council accompanied by an agenda
item, etc., and shall be delivered to members of the council at least two (2)
days preceding the meeting to which it pertains. (Ord. 459, 4-23-1991; amd.
2001 Code)
         b.   Presentation By Council Members: The agenda shall provide a time
when the mayor or any council member may bring before the council any business
that should be brought to the attention of the city council but deliberation
and formal action on such matters shall be deferred until a subsequent council
meeting.
         c.   Reading Of Minutes: Unless a reading of the minutes of a council
meeting is requested by a member of the council, such minutes may be approved
without reading if the city clerk previously furnished each member with a copy
thereof.
      5.   Ordinances, Resolutions And Motions:
         a.   Form: Ordinances and resolutions shall be presented to the
council only in printed or typewritten form.
         b.   Funding: All ordinances authorizing an expenditure of money shall
include the exact source and amount of the funds to be expended.
         c.   City Attorney To Approve: All ordinances and resolutions shall be
approved as to form and legality by the city attorney. Such approval shall be
so indicated by signature on the last page of the ordinance or resolution
before presentation to the council.
         d.   Distribution Of Ordinances: The city clerk shall prepare copies
of all proposed ordinances for distribution to all members of the council at
least two (2) days before the council meeting at which the ordinance is to be
introduced.
         e.   Ordinances Deferred; Emergencies And Appropriations: Ordinances
introduced at a council meeting shall not be finally acted upon until at least
the next official meeting, except emergency ordinances may be acted on
immediately; and provided further, that an affirmative vote of at least four-
fifths (4/5) of the members of the council shall be required for the final
passage of an emergency ordinance.
         f.   Reading By Title Only: Upon being introduced, each proposed
ordinance shall be read by title only, unless any member of the council
requests a full reading of the ordinance.
         g.   Consideration Of Ordinances: Each proposed ordinance shall be
read by title, or in full, two (2) times. Except in the case of a bill for an
emergency ordinance, not more than one such reading shall be on the same day,
and at least ten (10) days shall elapse between introduction and final passage.
         h.   Recording Of Votes: The ayes and nays shall be taken upon the
passage of all ordinances and resolutions and motions and entered upon the
official record of the council.
         i.   Majority Vote Required: An affirmative vote of at least a
majority of the members of the council shall be necessary to pass an ordinance,
(unless it is an emergency ordinance which requires 4/5) but a resolution,
motion, or any other proposition may be adopted by a majority voting on the
issue. When any vote is called each council member shall respond "yes (aye)",
"no (nay)", "abstain", or "pass". Any council member who responds "pass" shall
be given an opportunity at the end of roll call to change his or her vote to
"yes (aye)", "no (nay)", or "abstain". Any "pass" response not so changed shall
be recorded as an abstention.
         j.   Proxy Votes: City council members may only vote by assignment of
proxy on motions requiring by law a four-fifths (4/5) or unanimous vote of the
council.
         k.   Tie Vote: In the event of a tie in vote on any motion, the motion
shall be considered lost, unless the mayor breaks the tie.
         l.   Ordinance Passage Procedure: When passed by the council, an
ordinance shall be signed by the presiding officer and be attested by the city
clerk; and it shall be filed and/or recorded as soon as possible and thereafter
preserved in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 459, 4-23-1991)
         m.   Request For Ordinances Or Legal Opinions:
            (1)   Ordinance: Any member of the city council may request the
city administrator to have prepared proposed ordinances with such ordinances to
be placed on the agenda of the next scheduled council meeting, provided the
ordinance can be drafted by the city attorney's office and distributed to
members of the council in accordance with time schedules set forth in
subsection E5d of this section. (Ord. 459, 4-23-1991; amd. 2001 Code)
            (2)   Legal Opinion: Any member of the city council may, in
writing, request written legal opinions relating to city business from the city
administrator or city attorney with an information copy to the other. Any
member of the council may, for purpose of inquiry, request a verbal opinion or
advice on city legal matters directly from the attorney.
      6.   Creation Of Committees, Boards And Commissions:
         a.   Citizen Committees, Boards And Commissions: The council may, by
resolution, create committees, boards, and commissions to assist in the conduct
of the operation of the city government with such duties as the council may
specify not inconsistent with this code.
         b.   Membership; Selections: Membership and selection of members shall
be as provided by the council upon recommendation by the mayor. Any committee,
board, or commission so created shall cease to exist upon the accomplishment of
the special purpose for which it was created, or when abolished by a majority
vote of the council. No committee so appointed shall have powers other than
advisory to the council or to the city administrator.
         c.   Removal Of Members Of Boards And Commissions: The council may
remove any member which it has appointed to any board, committee or commission,
by a vote of at least a majority of the council. (Ord. 459, 4-23-1991)
      7.   Citizens' Rights:
         a.   Addressing The Council: Any person desiring to address the
council by oral communication shall first secure the permission of the
presiding officer; provided, however, that preference will be given to those
persons who have notified the city clerk by twelve o'clock (12:00) noon of the
Friday immediately preceding the Thursday council meeting of their desire to
speak and they will be recognized by the presiding officer. (Ord. 459, 4-23-
1991; amd. 2001 Code)
         b.   Manner Of Addressing Council; Time Limit: Each person addressing
the council shall step to the microphone, or in the event that no public
address system is in use, shall, in an audible voice, give his/her name and
address for the record and, unless further time is granted by the council,
shall limit his/her address to five (5) minutes. All remarks shall be addressed
to the council as a body and not to any member thereof. No person, other than
members of the council and the person having the floor shall be permitted to
enter into any discussion, either directly or through the members of the
council. No questions shall be asked the council members, except through the
presiding officer.
         c.   Personal And Slanderous Remarks: Any person making personal,
impertinent or slanderous remarks, or who shall become boisterous, while
addressing the council may be requested to leave the meeting and may be
forthwith, by the presiding officer, barred from further audience before the
council at that meeting.
         d.   Presentation Of Protests: Interested persons, or their authorized
representatives, may address the council for the presentation of protests,
petitions, or communications relating to any matter over which the council has
control when the item is under consideration by the council, if a majority of
the council present agrees to let them be heard. (Ord. 459, 4-23-1991)
         e.   Written Communications: Interested parties, or their authorized
representatives, may address the council by written communication in regard to
any matter concerning the city's business or over which the council has control
at any time by direct mail to council members or by addressing it to the city
clerk. The city clerk will cause copies to be distributed to the council
members. (Ord. 459, 4-23-1991; amd. 2001 Code)
      8.   Suspension And/Or Amendment Of Rules:
         a.   Suspension: Any provision of these rules not governed by the city
code may be temporarily suspended by a vote of a majority of the council. The
vote on any such suspension shall be taken by ayes and nays and entered upon
the record.
         b.   Amendment: These rules may be amended, or new rules adopted, by a
majority vote of all members of the council; provided, that the proposed
amendments or new rules have been introduced into the record at a prior council
meeting. (Ord. 459, 4-23-1991)
 
Notes
1 2. For state law as to council meetings, see NRS §§ 266.245 to 266.250.
1-5-6: DEPARTMENTS OF THE CITY AND LIAISON DESIGNATIONS:
   A.   City Departments: The City is divided into six (6) departments to be
known as the public safety department, animal control, parks and recreation
department, street department, utilities department and administration
department. (Prior Code § 2-27)
   B.   Liaisons: The mayor shall serve as the liaison for the administration
department. The mayor shall further designate from the council membership
liaisons for the remaining five (5) departments. (Prior Code § 2-27A)
   C.   Scope And Jurisdiction: The scope and jurisdiction of such departments
shall be the following:
      1.   Administration Department: The administration department shall
include the city clerk's office, city attorney's office, city treasurer's
office, building department, and Municipal Court.
      2.   Public Safety Department: The public safety department shall include
the police and fire departments.
      3.   Animal Control Department: The animal control department shall
include animal control.
      4.   Street Department: The street department shall include all city
streets and storm drains.
      5.   Parks And Recreation Department: The parks and recreation department
shall include the city parks and the city cemetery. (Prior Code § 2-27B)
      6.   Utilities Department: The utilities department shall include city
water, wastewater treatment, sewer, and landfill.
   D.   Role of Designated Liaisons: (Prior Code § 2-27C)
      1.   The primary function of a liaison is to be a two-way communication
vehicle between the Council and the department to which he or she is appointed.
      2.   Liaison designations are not supervisory roles.
      3.   Liaisons shall communicate with their designated department to
provide guidance and support to the department.
      4.   Liaisons shall bring items before the Council pertaining to their
appointed department when necessary.
      5.   Liaisons shall ensure monthly reports are distributed to the Council
regarding their respectful department.
      6.   Questions, comments, or concerns regarding a City department shall
be directed to the department's liaison.
   E.   Restrictions: Liaisons shall not make decisions for their department
but shall bring concerns before the Council through the agenda process for
possible action.
   F.   Conflicts of Interest: No city official, whether council member or the
mayor, may serve as liaison to any department which employs the city official
or employs any person or entity to which the city official owes a commitment in
a private capacity. Likewise, no city official may serve as liaison to any
department whose operations confer a pecuniary benefit upon the city official
or any person or entity to which the city official owes a commitment in a
private capacity. (Ord. 734, 7-23-2020)
1-5-7: CONDUCT OF THE CITY COUNCIL:
The city council shall adopt a code of conduct for its members to apply during
city council meetings and interactions with city personnel, to include
following the chain of command.
   A.   By a majority vote of the council, any council member may be punished
or reprimanded for disorderly conduct during a meeting, and, with the
concurrence of four (4) of the council members, may expel a member from a
meeting for violations of any provision of this section. (Ord. 730, 2-13-2020)
1-5-8: SALARIES OF ELECTED OFFICIALS:
    A.   Mayor: The salary of the mayor shall be set at one thousand two
hundred dollars ($1200.00) per month.
   B.   Councilmen: The salaries of each respective city council member shall
be set at one thousand dollars ($1000.00) per month. (Ord. 518, 6-12-1997; amd.
Ord. 730, 2-13-2020; Ord. 753, 10-12-2023)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Appointed Officials
1-6-2: Deputies
1-6-3: Job Duties Of Appointed Officials
1-6-4: Personnel Policy
1-6-5: Disclosure Of Improper Governmental Action
1-6-5-1: Definitions
1-6-5-2: Disclosure - Appeal Of Certain Actions
1-6-5-3: Appeal To Be Filed In Writing
1-6-5-4: Hearing
1-6-5-5: Decision Of The Hearing Officer
1-6-5-6: Hearing Officer
1-6-5-7: Interference
1-6-5-8: Compensation
1-6-6: Requirement To Be A Resident Of White Pine County
1-6-6-1: Purpose
1-6-6-2: Requirement
1-6-6-3: Actual Residency And Domicile Requirements
1-6-6-4: Verification Required
1-6-6-5: Failure To Provide Proof Of Actual Residency And Legal Domicile Within
White Pine County After Six Months Of Employment And Failure To Maintain Such
Residency And Legal Domicile
1-6-1: APPOINTED OFFICIALS:
   A.   Designated: The appointed officers of the City shall be City Clerk,
City Treasurer, City Treasurer/Human Resources (HR) Director, Human Resources
Director, Municipal Judge, City Attorney, City Administrator, Fire Chief, and
Public Works Director. Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 266.405, the
offices of City Clerk and City Treasurer may, at the discretion of the City
Council, be combined into the Office of City Clerk/Treasurer.
   B.   Manner Of Appointment: All appointed officers of the City shall be
appointed to their respective offices by the Mayor with the advice and consent
of the City Council, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 266.395.
   C.   Term Of Office; Removal: The term of office and/or removal of all
appointed officials of the City shall be accomplished in the manner set forth
in Nevada Revised Statutes section 266.415.
   D.   Exempt Status: All appointed officials, including deputies, if there be
any, shall be considered to be "exempt" employees as that term is defined by
the City personnel manual.
   E.   Establishment Of Appointed Official Salaries: The range of compensation
for appointed officials of the City shall be as follows: (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
   ESTABLISHMENT OF APPOINTED OFFICIAL SALARIES
Job Title Minimum - Maximum Per Year
Job Title                  Minimum - Maximum Per Year
City Clerk                 $60,000.00 - $90,000.00
City Treasurer             $60,000.00 - $90,000.00
City Treasurer/HR Director $60,000.00 - $100,000.00
City Attorney              $80,000.00 - $160,000.00
City Administrator/Manager $60,000.00 - $90,000.00
Director of Public Works   $60,000.00 - $90,000.00
City Engineer              $65,000.00 - $110,000.00
City Clerk/Treasurer       $60,000.00 - $100,000.00
Municipal Judge            $20,000.00 - $35,000.00
Fire Chief                 $80,000.00 - $160,000.00
Human Resources Director   $60,000.00 - $90,000.00
Building Official          $60,000.00 - $110,000.00
 
   These salary ranges may be evaluated and changed from time to time by
resolution. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999; amd. Res. 2007-14, 7-12-2007; Ord. 729, 2-
13-2020; Ord. 732, 2020; Ord. 750, 7-13-2023; Ord. 759, 10-24-2024)
1-6-2: DEPUTIES:
The City Council may authorize the appointment of a deputy or deputies who
shall have the same powers as their principals. The respective officers, except
the Mayor, City Councilmen, and Municipal Judge, shall appoint their deputies.
(Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6-3: JOB DUTIES OF APPOINTED OFFICIALS:
The job duties of appointed officials as set forth in this chapter may be
evaluated and changed from time to time by resolution of the City Council. No
change in job duties may be contrary to those duties provided by statute. (Ord.
539, 12-21-1999)
1-6-4: PERSONNEL POLICY:
   A.   Adopted: The Personnel Policy Manual of the City, entitled "City of Ely
Personnel Policy Manual", and dated October 1999, is hereby adopted as the
Personnel Policy Manual of the City. Said City Personnel Policy Manual is
annexed to the ordinance codified herein and on file in the Office of the City
Clerk as Exhibit A, and made a part hereof by this reference.
   B.   Modification Of Manual: The Personnel Policy Manual may be amended or
rescinded by resolution of the City Council.
   C.   Applicability: The Personnel Policy Manual shall apply to all officers
and employees except elected officials.
   D.   Effect: The Personnel Policy Manual, along with all ordinances relating
to employees of the City, shall govern procedure for hiring, considering
raises, promotions, and discipline such as suspension, discharge and related
matters to the extent it does not conflict with contrary provisions of any
collective bargaining agreement. (Ord. 538, 1-13-2000)
1-6-5: DISCLOSURE OF IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION:
   A.   Policy: It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the City of
Ely that City officers and/or City employees are encouraged to disclose, to the
extent not expressly prohibited by law, improper governmental action, and it is
the intent of the City Council to protect the rights of a City officer or City
employee who makes such a disclosure. (Ord. 705, 7-13-2017)
1-6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
CITY EMPLOYEE: Any person who performs public duties under the direction and
control of a City officer for compensation paid by or through the City.
CITY OFFICER: A person elected or appointed to a position with the City, either
created by the Nevada Constitution, a statute of this State, or ordinance of
the City, that involves the continuous exercise of a local governmental power,
trust or duty, including:
   A.   Actions taken in an official capacity which involve a substantial and
material exercise of administrative discretion in the formulation of City
policy;
   B.   The expenditure of City money; or
   C.   The enforcement of City ordinances and regulations.
IMPROPER GOVERNMENTAL ACTION: Any action taken by a City officer or City
employee in the performance of his or her official duties, whether or not the
action is within the scope of his or her employment, which is:
   A.   In violation of any State law or regulation;
   B.   In violation of a City ordinance;
   C.   An abuse of authority;
   D.   Of substantial and specific danger to the public health or safety; or
   E.   A gross waste of public money.
REPRISAL OR RETALIATORY ACTION:
   A.   The denial of adequate personnel to perform duties;
   B.   Frequent replacement of members of the staff;
   C.   Frequent and undesirable changes in the location of an office;
   D.   The refusal to assign meaningful work;
   E.   The issuance of letters of reprimand or evaluations of poor
performance;
   F.   A demotion;
   G.   A reduction in pay;
   H.   The denial of a promotion;
   I.   A suspension;
   J.   A dismissal;
   K.   A transfer;
   L.   Frequent changes in working hours or workdays; or
   M.   If the employee is licensed or certified by an occupational licensing
board, the filing with that board, by or on behalf of the employer, of a
complaint concerning the employee; and
if such action is taken, in whole or in part, because the City officer or
employee disclosed information concerning improper governmental action. (Ord.
705, 7-13-2017)
1-6-5-2: DISCLOSURE - APPEAL OF CERTAIN ACTIONS:
A City officer or City employee who has disclosed information concerning
improper governmental action and who believes that, as a result of that
disclosure, in whole or in part, a reprisal or retaliatory action has been
taken against the City officer or City employee, may file an appeal to
determine whether reprisal or retaliatory action has been taken. The appeal
must be filed not later than two (2) years after the information is disclosed
and not later than sixty (60) calendar days after the alleged reprisal or
retaliatory action was taken against the City officer or City employee. (Ord.
705, 7-13-2017)
1-6-5-3: APPEAL TO BE FILED IN WRITING:
   A.   An appeal filed pursuant to section
1-6-5-2 of this chapter must be filed in writing with the City Administrator,
City Clerk, or City Clerk/Treasurer, as appropriate. The appeal must include or
contain a statement that sets forth with particularity:
      1.   The facts and circumstances under which the disclosure of improper
governmental action was made; and
      2.   The reprisal or retaliatory action that is alleged to have been
taken against the City officer or City employee.
   B.   Upon receipt of a timely appeal, the matter shall be assigned to a
Hearing Officer appointed pursuant to section
1-6-5-6 of this chapter. The Hearing Officer shall set a hearing date that is
not later than twenty (20) working days after the appeal was filed, unless the
time limitation is waived, in writing, by the City officer or City employee or
the Hearing Officer is unable to schedule a hearing within that period, in
which case the hearing must be scheduled for the earliest possible date
thereafter. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing must be given
at least ten (10) calendar days in advance. (Ord. 705, 7-13-2017)
1-6-5-4: HEARING:
   A.   A hearing held pursuant to subsection
1-6-5-3B of this chapter, shall be recorded and:
      1.   The person filing the appeal (petitioner) may represent himself at
the hearing or be represented by an attorney or other representative;
      2.   The person alleged to have taken reprisal or retaliatory action
(respondent), shall have the right to represent himself, to be represented by
an attorney or other representative. The City Attorney may represent the
respondent when the respondent is a City official or City employee who is
accused of taking reprisal or retaliatory action in their official capacity;
      3.   Technical rules of evidence do not apply. Any relevant evidence may
be admitted;
      4.   The Hearing Officer may determine the order and conduct of the
hearing, administer oaths and affirmations, and examine witnesses;
      5.   The hearing may be continued or recessed for good cause shown; and
      6.   Upon application by the person filing the appeal (petitioner) or the
person alleged to have taken reprisal or retaliatory action (respondent), the
Hearing Officer may:
         a.   Issue subpoenas requiring the attendance and testimony of
witnesses at the proceeding; and
         b.   Direct that the person filing the appeal (petitioner) or the
person alleged to have taken reprisal or retaliatory action (respondent) to
participate in a discovery conference at which both persons and their counsel
may put questions, receive answers, or request and receive copies of relevant
documents or examine relevant documents and records and any other physical
evidence which is intended to be used at the hearing. Compliance with the
Nevada Rules of Civil Procedure shall not be required, but may be used as a
guide for the production of documents necessary to conduct the hearing
contemplated by this section.
      7.   The person filing the appeal (petitioner) has the burden to prove,
by a preponderance of evidence:
         a.   That they made a disclosure of improper governmental action; and
         b.   That the respondent took a prohibited action against the
petitioner as a result, in part or in whole, of the disclosure of improper
governmental action.
      8.   The respondent shall have the right to call and examine witnesses on
his own behalf, cross-examine opposing witnesses, introduce exhibits and
evidence relevant to the issues of the case, and offer rebuttal evidence.
      9.   The respondent may be called and examined by the City. (Ord. 705, 7-
13-2017)
1-6-5-5: DECISION OF THE HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   After the hearing and consideration of the evidence, the Hearing
Officer shall render a written decision within ten (10) working days of
completion of the hearing, setting forth the reasons for the decision.
   B.   If the Hearing Officer determines the action taken was a reprisal or
retaliatory action, he or she may issue an order directing the person alleged
to have taken reprisal or retaliatory action (respondent) to desist and refrain
from engaging in such action.
   C.   The decision of the Hearing Officer is final and a copy of it shall be
filed with the City Administrator, City Clerk, or City Clerk/Treasurer, as
appropriate, within ten (10) working days of completion of the hearing, and a
copy provided to the City Council.
   D.   In addition, a copy of the Hearing Officer's decision shall be
transmitted by personal service or by registered mail to all of the parties of
record in the proceeding. (Ord. 705, 7-13-2017)
1-6-5-6: HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   A Hearing Officer appointed pursuant to subsection
1-6-5-3B of this chapter, by the City Council, if the White Pine County
District Attorney's Office rejects the appointment, shall meet the following
requirements:
      1.   Qualifications:
         a.   The Hearing Officer shall be appointed with regard to
qualifications to conduct administrative or quasi-judicial hearings and shall
be an attorney duly licensed to practice law in the State or any other state;
and
         b.   The Hearing Officer shall not hold another appointed or elected
office or position with the City.
      2.   Conflict Of Interest:
         a.   The Hearing Officer shall not conduct or participate in any
hearing or decision in which he or any of the following persons has a direct or
substantial financial interest or personal association with: the Hearing
Officer's spouse, brother, sister, child, parent, in-laws, partner or business
associate.
         b.   The Hearing Officer shall not participate in any hearing
concerning any employee in which such Hearing Officer has represented the
employee in any capacity within the past five (5) years.
         c.   Any actual or potential conflict of interest shall be disclosed
by the Hearing Officer at the time of appointment. Either party may request the
removal of the Hearing Officer based upon the actual or potential conflict of
interest by submitting a written request to the Hearing Officer within five (5)
business days of notice of the actual or potential conflict of interest being
forwarded by the Hearing Officer. Should a request be filed pursuant to this
section, the Hearing Officer shall automatically be removed from the matter.
(Ord. 705, 7-13-2017)
1-6-5-7: INTERFERENCE:
No member of the Council, City official, or any other person shall interfere
with or attempt to interfere with the Hearing Officer in the performance of
his/her duties. (Ord. 705, 7-13-2017)
1-6-6: REQUIREMENT TO BE A RESIDENT OF WHITE PINE COUNTY:
1-6-6-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that employees, including
appointed employees, hired after February 13, 2019, obtain residency in White
Pine County, Nevada within six (6) months of being hired by the City.
   B.   This requirement is not only to support the tax base which pays
employees' wages and salaries, but also, due to the remoteness of the City of
Ely, that employees be able to respond in emergency situations in a timely
manner and that they be able to work their assigned shifts. (Ord. 719, 3-14-
2019)
1-6-6-2: REQUIREMENT:
Effective February 13, 2019 and thereafter, unless repealed, amended or
modified by the City, all new hire employees, including employees covered by
collective bargaining agreements, shall be required to prove they have
established and will maintain a bona fide residence within White Pine County
for the term of their employment. The failure to obtain and maintain such
residency shall be grounds for involuntary termination. (Ord. 719, 3-14-2019)
1-6-6-3: ACTUAL RESIDENCY AND DOMICILE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   For purposes of this chapter and the requirement for affected employees
to be bona fide residents, the City shall use the following terms in
determining if the employee meets this requirement:
      1.   Actual Residency: "The place where a person is legally domiciled and
maintains permanent habitation" as interpreted by Nevada courts under NRS
281.050(7) (even though employees are not "candidates" this provides the
clearest definition for purposes of the intent of this chapter), meaning a
physical presence in White Pine County.
      2.   Domicile: This requires an intent to permanently remain in White
Pine County during the duration of employment and is not interrupted by
temporary trips, vacations or interruptions in residency during the term of
employment. (Ord. 719, 3-14-2019)
1-6-6-4: VERIFICATION REQUIRED:
Employees hired or appointed after February 13, 2019 are required to file with
the City Clerk or designee, verification of actual residency no later than six
(6) months after they begin working for the City. Actual residency may be
established by showing any of the following documents, including but not
limited to, a copy of a rental/lease agreement, mortgage, utility bills
(electric, water, sewer or landfill) in their name, registration to vote in
White Pine County, a copy of their Nevada driver's license exhibiting an
address within White Pine County, or any other manner of documentation showing
the employee has a permanent residence within White Pine County and intends to
remain here indefinitely. (Ord. 719, 3-14-2019)
1-6-6-5: FAILURE TO PROVIDE PROOF OF ACTUAL RESIDENCY AND LEGAL DOMICILE WITHIN
WHITE PINE COUNTY AFTER SIX MONTHS OF EMPLOYMENT AND FAILURE TO MAINTAIN SUCH
RESIDENCY AND LEGAL DOMICILE:
   A.   An affected employee required to provide bona fide proof of actual
residency and legal domicile must do so prior to the expiration of his/her
probationary period. The failure or refusal of an employee to provide such
proof shall be grounds for involuntary termination during the probationary
period. The probationary employee shall not be entitled to file a grievance for
his/her involuntary termination while on probation.   
   B.   The City retains the sole and exclusive right to require any employee
hired after February 13, 2019, following completion of probation, to provide
proof of actual residency and legal domicile within White Pine County. The
City, in its sole discretion, may involuntarily terminate such an employee
after completion of his/her probationary period, for failure to provide
necessary proof of actual residency and legal domicile within White Pine
County, or if the employee does not maintain an actual residence with an intent
to remain indefinitely.
      1.   If such an employee who is terminated is covered by a collective
bargaining agreement, the terms of the collective bargaining agreement shall
apply to processing of grievances for the involuntary termination.
      2.   If such an employee is not covered by a collective bargaining
agreement, the employee shall be entitled to grieve the termination as outlined
in the City of Ely Personnel Manual, then in effect, under section 10, titled
Disciplinary Actions and Appeals. (Ord. 719, 3-14-2019)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-6A-1: Office Created
1-6A-2: Purpose
1-6A-3: Appointment
1-6A-4: Term; Removal
1-6A-5: Duties
1-6A-6: Desired Minimum Qualifications
1-6A-7: Special Requirements
1-6A-8: Selection Guidelines
1-6A-9: Work Environment
1-6A-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of city clerk, who shall serve at the
pleasure of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6A-2: PURPOSE:
The city clerk performs high level administrative, technical and professional
work in directing and supervising the administration of city government. (Ord.
539, 12-21-1999)
1-6A-3: APPOINTMENT:
The city clerk is appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the
city council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6A-4: TERM; REMOVAL:
The term of office continues until the next city election following the
appointment and until a successor is appointed and qualified, unless sooner
removed by the mayor with the concurrence of a majority of members of the city
council, unless the term is ended by removal from office as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.415 and in event of a mayoral veto, as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.200. (Ord. 662, 11-14-2013)
1-6A-5: DUTIES 1 :
The city clerk works under the broad policy guidance of the mayor and city
council and performs all duties required by Nevada law and as prescribed by
city ordinance and resolution.
   A.   Essential Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   Provides leadership and direction, with input from the city
treasurer, city attorney, and city engineer, in the development of short and
long range plans; gathers, interprets, and prepares data for studies, reports
and recommendations; coordinates activities with other government agencies as
needed.
      2.   Provides professional advice to the mayor and city council, makes
presentations to councils, boards, commissions, civic groups and the general
public.
      3.   Communicates official plans, policies and procedures to staff and
the general public.
      4.   Assures that assigned areas of responsibility are performed within
budget through ongoing review with the city treasurer.
      5.   Maintains harmony among workers and resolves grievances; adjusts
errors and complaints.
      6.   Prepares a variety of studies, reports and related information for
decision making purposes.
      7.   In the absence of a city administrator, coordinates with city
appointed personnel and department head(s) in the hiring and/or termination of
city employees with the concurrence of the mayor and/or the city council
liaison.
      8.   Upon consultation with the city attorney, the clerk ensures that all
laws and ordinances are faithfully performed.
      9.   Performs all duties required by Nevada law and as prescribed by city
ordinance and resolution.
      10.   Attends and takes minutes at city council and utility board
meetings; prepares agendas, resolutions, and proclamations and other needed
documents including public and legal notices; coordinates elections according
to statute; maintains city records; performs the legal processing of all city
contracts and other legal documents in a timely manner.
      11.   Shall aid the city treasurer in preparation and submittal of a
preliminary and final annual city budget.
      12.   Performs a final review of preliminary and final annual city budget
prior to distribution. Administers the adopted budget of the city through the
city treasurer's office.
      13.   Advises the mayor and city council of current and future city
financial needs.
      14.   Attends all city council and municipal utility board meetings and
other meetings as required by the mayor and/or the city council.
      15.   Is the personnel clerk as described in city personnel policy manual
maintaining all original personnel and health files. Only copies of those
original files dealing with payroll are retained with originals transmitted to
city treasurer.
   B.   Peripheral Duties:
      1.   Recommends for adoption by the city council such measures as the
administration may deem necessary or expedient.
      2.   Prepares and submits to the city council and municipal utility board
such reports as may be required by those bodies or, as administrator, may deem
it advisable to submit. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. For state law as to duties, see NRS § 266.480.
1-6A-6: DESIRED MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Education; Experience: Graduate from college with a degree in business
or related field and five (5) years of experience in management or governmental
accounting or any combination of training and/or experience that could likely
provide the desired knowledge and abilities.
   B.   Necessary Knowledge, Skills And Abilities:
      1.   Considerable knowledge of modern policies and practices of public
administration; working knowledge of municipal finance, human resources, public
works, public safety, and community development.
      2.   Skill in preparing and administering budgets; skill in planning,
directing and administering programs, skill in operating the listed tools and
equipment.
      3.   Ability to prepare and analyze comprehensive reports; ability to
carry out assigned projects to their completion; ability to communicate
effectively verbally and in writing; ability to establish and maintain
effective working relationships with employees, city officials and the public;
ability to efficiently and effectively administer a municipal government.
   C.   Physical Requirements: Strength, dexterity, coordination and vision to
use keyboard and video display terminal for prolonged periods. Dexterity and
coordination to handle files and single pieces of paper; occasional lifting of
items weighing up to twenty five (25) pounds, files, stacks of paper, reference
and other materials. Moving from place to place within the office and some
reaching for items above and below desk level. Some independent travel by car.
(Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6A-7: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Must be bondable.
   B.   A valid Nevada driver's license for equipment to be operated. (Ord.
539, 12-21-1999)
1-6A-8: SELECTION GUIDELINES:
   A.   Formal applications, rating of education and experience, oral interview
and reference checks are required. A job-related test might be required.
   B.   The duties listed above are intended only as illustrations of the
various types of work that may be performed. The omission of specific
statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is
similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.
   C.   The job description does not constitute an employment agreement between
the employer and employee and is subject to change by the employer as the needs
of the employer and requirements of the job change. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6A-9: WORK ENVIRONMENT:
   A.   The work environment characteristics described here are representative
of those an employee encounters while performing the essential functions of
this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with
disabilities to perform the essential functions.
   B.   The noise level in the work environment is usually moderately quiet.
   C.   Basically an indoor desk job. Environment is generally clean with
limited exposure to conditions such a dust, fumes, odors, or excessive noise.
Requires mobility to attend required meetings on behalf of the city. (Ord. 539,
12-21-1999)
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6B-1: Office Created
1-6B-2: Purpose
1-6B-3: Appointment
1-6B-4: Term; Removal
1-6B-5: Duties
1-6B-6: Employment Requirements
1-6B-7: Selection Guidelines
1-6B-8: Working Conditions
1-6B-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of city treasurer, who shall serve at the
pleasure of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999; amd. Ord. 732,
2020)
1-6B-2: PURPOSE:
The city treasurer acts as chief financial officer preparing financial
statements and records, developing procedures for financial control, and
performing other duties as assigned. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999; amd. Ord. 732,
2020)
1-6B-3: APPOINTMENT:
This position is appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city
council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999; amd. Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6B-4: TERM; REMOVAL:
The term of office continues until the next city election following the
appointment and until a successor is appointed and qualified, unless sooner
removed by the mayor with the concurrence of a majority of members of the city
council, unless the term is ended by removal from office as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.415 and in event of a mayoral veto, as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.200. (Ord. 662, 11-14-2013; amd. Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6B-5: DUTIES 1 :
The following is used as a partial description and is not restrictive to duties
required:
   A.   Performs all duties required by Nevada statutes and as prescribed by
city ordinance and resolution.
   B.   Manages and coordinates the operations of the finance department
including accounts payable, tax and revenue collection; issuing of business,
liquor, gaming and brothel licenses, and work cards, (all upon approval by
proper authorities), utility billing and investments. Responds to customer
complaints and inquiries; establishes department policies, goals and
objectives.
   C.   Prepares and interprets financial records; reconciles asset and
liability accounts to source documents; performs fund analysis of expense and
revenue accounts; prepares financial statements on a monthly basis; compiles
annual financial statement; prepares special financial reports as necessary.
   D.   Performs cost control activities, monitors revenues and expenditures in
consultation with other appointed officials and department heads to assure
sound fiscal control. Assures effective and efficient use of budgeted funds.
   E.   Prepares preliminary and final city annual budget for review by clerk
or administrator prior to presentation to mayor and city council. Prepares
annual budget for revenues and other funds. After review by administrator or
city clerk, compiles the final annual city budget for submission to the
department of taxation, mayor, and city council for approval and use for next
fiscal year.
   F.   Provides expenditure data on a monthly basis to department heads to
assist them in compiling their annual budgets.
   G.   Ensures collateralization of investments; prepares monthly, quarterly
and annual reports to the IRS, department of taxation, workers' compensation,
employment security, etc.; develops, coordinates, and maintains policies and
procedures for financial control after consultation with other appointed
officials and department heads.
   H.   Maintains city's original payroll personnel files; oversees payroll
administration and dissemination of employee benefit information; provides
payroll and benefits orientation for new employees.
   I.   Operates standard office equipment including word processors, personal
or on-line computers, calculators, fax machines, copy machines, and multi-line
telephones.
   J.   Coordinates with city administrator or clerk and mayor and/or city
council liaison in the selection of staff for vacant positions within
department or otherwise as requested; on-the-job training for department staff;
evaluates the work performance and implements disciplinary actions of
subordinates.
   K.   Advises the mayor, city council, and city clerk of current and future
city financial status. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999; amd. Ord. 732, 2020)
 
Notes
1 1. For state law as to duties, see NRS §§ 266.500 - 266.520.
1-6B-6: EMPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Knowledge: Governmental accounting standards; state law applicable to
financial activities of municipalities; financial information systems and
procedures; state law pertaining to payroll administration, licensing and
elections; principles and practices of management and supervision; financial
planning; budgetary practices.
   B.   Ability: Analyze and interpret fiscal and accounting records and data;
establish and maintain working relationships with city officials, staff,
government agencies, and the public; devise and implement accounting and record
keeping procedures; make verbal and written recommendations and presentations
to city council and municipal utility board regarding technical and financial
matters.
   C.   Education And Experience: A degree from an accredited college or
university with major coursework in accounting or three (3) years of experience
in management and governmental accounting.
D.   Special Requirements: A valid Nevada driver's license for equipment to be
operated.
E.   Physical Requirements: Strength, dexterity, coordination and vision to use
keyboard and video display terminal for prolonged periods. Dexterity and
coordination to handle files and single pieces of paper; occasional lifting of
items weighing up to twenty five (25) pounds, files, stacks of paper, reference
and other materials. Moving from place to place within the office and some
reaching for items above and below desk level. Some independent travel by car.
(Ord. 539, 12-21-1999; amd. Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6B-7: SELECTION GUIDELINES:
   A.   Formal application, rating of education and experience, oral interview
and reference checks are required. A job-related test might be required.
   B.   The duties listed above are intended only as illustrations of the
various types of work that may be performed. The omission of specific
statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is
similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.
   C.   The job description does not constitute an employment agreement between
the employer and employee and is subject to change by the employer as the needs
of the employer and requirements of the job change. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999; amd.
Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6B-8: WORKING CONDITIONS:
Typical office setting and use of typical office equipment. Environment is
generally clean with limited exposure to conditions such as dust, fumes, odors,
or excessive noise. Requires mobility to attend required meetings in behalf of
the city. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999; amd. Ord. 732, 2020)
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-6C-1: Office Created
1-6C-2: Purpose; Qualifications
1-6C-3: Appointment
1-6C-4: Term; Removal
1-6C-5: Legal Department
1-6C-6: Duties
1-6C-7: Special Requirements
1-6C-8: Work Experience
1-6C-9: Physical Requirements
1-6C-10: Work Environment
1-6C-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of city attorney, who shall serve at the
pleasure of the mayor and city council; alternatively, the city may create an
office of city prosecutor and city attorney, both of which office holders shall
be subject to all the terms and conditions of appointment, removal,
qualification, special requirements, work experience, physical requirements,
and work environment. (Ord. 664, 12-12-2013)
1-6C-2: PURPOSE; QUALIFICATIONS:
The city attorney shall perform the following duties with integrity, openness
and clarity of thinking. A qualified candidate for city attorney must be a
member in good standing with the state bar of Nevada and licensed to practice
law before all courts within the state. A city attorney candidate will
demonstrate qualifications in connection with dealing with municipal legal
problems and concerns. Qualifications, with emphasis on municipal and
government legal practice, will include education, experience, continuing legal
education programs attended, meetings or conferences attended, research work
done, and willingness to continue to learn about municipal legal issues and
problems. In view of the fact that municipal law issues are rapidly changing
and require constant study, that attorney's willingness to do research and the
ability to continue to educate himself or herself on problems of municipal law
will be considered. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6C-3: APPOINTMENT:
This position is appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city
council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6C-4: TERM; REMOVAL:
The term of office continues until the next city election following the
appointment and until a successor is appointed and qualified, unless sooner
removed by the mayor with the concurrence of a majority of members of the city
council, unless the term is ended by removal from office as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.415 and in event of a mayoral veto, as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.200. (Ord. 662, 11-14-2013)
1-6C-5: LEGAL DEPARTMENT:
The city attorney shall be the head of the legal department of the city and
shall answer directly to the mayor and city council. The city legal department
shall be an administrative department of the city, and shall consist of the
city attorney and a legal assistant, who shall be hired and supervised by the
city attorney. The number of employees of the legal department shall be fixed
from time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
   A.   The city may split the duties of city attorney between civil work and
prosecution at its sole option. In the event the city determines to divide the
duties, the following subsection applies:
      1.   The civil function shall be performed by legal counsel called the
Ely city attorney. The Ely city attorney will perform all civil functions at
the pleasure of the mayor and city council.
         a.   The Ely city attorney will attend all city council meetings and
such other meetings as assigned by the mayor. In addition, the Ely city
attorney will perform all functions of general counsel as described in
subsections 1-6C-6A, B, C and D of this article.
      2.   The prosecution function shall be performed by legal counsel called
the Ely city prosecutor. The Ely city prosecutor will perform all criminal
prosecution functions at the pleasure of the mayor and city council.
         a.   The Ely city prosecutor will perform all functions of the city
prosecutor as described in subsection
1-6C-6E of this article. (Ord. 664, 12-12-2013)
1-6C-6: DUTIES 1 :
The city attorney works under the broad policy guidance of the mayor and city
council and performs all duties required by Nevada law and as prescribed by
city ordinance and resolution.
   A.   General Counsel:
      1.   The city attorney shall be the legal advisor of the city, and shall
render advice on all legal questions affecting the city, whenever requested to
do so by any city official. Upon request by the mayor or by the council, he
shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
      2.   In addition to acting as legal adviser to the mayor, city council
and city administrative personnel, the city attorney shall provide like service
to the Ely municipal utilities board and the White Pine Historical Railroad
Foundation, Inc., and any other political subdivision or advisory board of the
city. The city attorney shall be a member of any negotiating team organized by
the mayor, city council or other political subdivision or advisory board of the
city.
   B.   Familiarity With State And Local Law: The city attorney shall
familiarize himself or herself with state laws, federal laws and constitutional
provisions applicable to municipal government and services. The city attorney
shall be familiar with state and federal regulations that pertain to personnel
and employment law. The city attorney shall also be familiar with the city
ordinances and make recommendations to the city council from time to time for
changes and amendments consistent with current statutory and case law.
   C.   Resolution Of Civil Disputes:
      1.   The city attorney shall prosecute or defend, or aid in the
prosecution or defense, of any and all civil suits or actions at law or equity
to which the city may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or which
may be brought against, or by, any officer of the city on behalf of the city,
or in any capacity of such person or officer of the city.
      2.   It is the policy of the city to explore the possibility, in the
absence of unusual circumstances, of settling a matter without court action, or
settling out of court a matter involved in court action. Matters that cannot be
settled out of court will be vigorously prosecuted or defended by the city
attorney.
      3.   It shall be the duty of the city attorney to see to the full
enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the
city, and of all similar interlocutory orders.
   D.   Review And Approval Of Contracts, Leases, Documents Or Other
Instruments: It shall be the duty of the city attorney to draft, supervise or
approve the phraseology of any contract, lease or other documents or
instruments, to which the city may be a party; and upon request of the council,
to draft ordinances covering any subject within the legislative power of the
city.
   E.   City Prosecutor:
      1.   The city attorney shall act as prosecutor in the Ely municipal court
for charges involving alleged violations of city ordinances and/or state
misdemeanors committed within the city. As prosecutor, the city attorney shall
have authority to prosecute, plea bargain, dismiss or refuse to prosecute,
using his or her best judgment.
      2.   It is the policy of the city to correct law violations by whatever
lawful means may be the most effective way to ensure that an individual will
not repeat an offense. The city attorney is authorized and directed to
cooperate with programs that provide an alternative to fines and imprisonment.
Alternative programs shall include community service, assisting and arranging
for treatment of physical problems which appear to be related to law
violations, arranging educational programs including formal and informal
educational programs, and using programs providing alternative treatment for
alcohol and drug related offenses. Nothing in this subsection shall be
interpreted to prohibit the city attorney from proceeding with any prosecution
even in cases where such alternative actions or treatments are either available
or actually in use. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. For state law as to duties, see NRS §§ 266.465 - 266.475.
1-6C-7: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Must be bondable.
   B.   A valid Nevada driver's license for equipment to be operated. (Ord.
539, 12-21-1999)
1-6C-8: WORK EXPERIENCE:
A minimum of two (2) years of public law practice is required. (Ord. 539, 12-
21-1999)
1-6C-9: PHYSICAL REQUIREMENTS:
Strength, dexterity, coordination and vision to use keyboard and video display
terminal for prolonged periods. Dexterity and coordination to handle files and
single pieces of paper; occasional lifting of items weighing up to twenty five
(25) pounds, files, stacks of paper, reference and other materials. Moving from
place to place within the office; some reaching for items above and below desk
level. Some independent travel by car. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6C-10: WORK ENVIRONMENT:
   A.   The work environment characteristics described herein are
representative of those an employee encounters while performing the essential
functions of this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable
individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.
   B.   The noise level in the work environment is usually moderately quiet.
   C.   Basically an indoor desk job. Environment is generally clean with
limited exposure to conditions such as dust, fumes, odors, or excessive noise.
Requires mobility to attend required meetings in behalf of the city. (Ord. 539,
12-21-1999)
ARTICLE D. CITY ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-6D-1: Office Created
1-6D-2: Purpose
1-6D-3: Appointment
1-6D-4: Term; Removal
1-6D-5: Duties
1-6D-6: Desired Minimum Qualifications
1-6D-7: Selection Guidelines
1-6D-8: Work Environment:
1-6D-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of city administrator, who shall serve at
the pleasure of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6D-2: PURPOSE:
This person performs high level administrative, technical and professional work
in directing and supervising the administration of city government. (Ord. 539,
12-21-1999)
1-6D-3: APPOINTMENT:
This position is appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city
council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6D-4: TERM; REMOVAL:
The term of office continues until the next city election following the
appointment and until a successor is appointed and qualified, unless sooner
removed by the mayor with the concurrence of a majority of members of the city
council, unless the term is ended by removal from office as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.415 and in event of a mayoral veto, as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.200. (Ord. 662, 11-14-2013)
1-6D-5: DUTIES:
The city administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the city
government; shall be directly responsible to the mayor and city council
generally for proper administration of all affairs of the city, subject to the
provisions of chapter 266 of the Nevada Revised Statutes. The city
administrator shall perform the following duties:
   A.   Essential Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.   Provides leadership and direction in the development of short and
long range plans; gathers, interprets, and prepares data for studies, reports
and recommendations; coordinates department activities with other departments
and agencies as needed.
      2.   Provides professional advice to the mayor, city council, and
department heads; makes presentations to councils, boards, commissions, civic
groups and the general public.
      3.   Communicates official plans, policies and procedures to staff and
the general public.
      4.   Assures that assigned areas of responsibility are performed within
budget.
      5.   Maintains harmony among workers and resolve grievances; performs or
assists subordinates in performing duties; adjusts errors and complaints.
      6.   Prepares a variety of studies, reports and related information for
decision making purposes.
      7.   Coordinates with city appointed personnel in the hiring and/or
termination of city employees with the concurrence of the mayor and/or the city
council liaison.
      8.   Upon consultation with the city attorney, the administrator ensures
that all laws and ordinances are faithfully performed.
      9.   Directs and may aid the city clerk/treasurer in the preparation and
submittal of a preliminary annual city budget.
      10.   Performs final review of preliminary and final annual city budget
prior to distribution.
      11.   Advises the mayor and city council of current and future city
financial needs. Administrates the adopted budget of the city through the city
clerk/treasurer's office.
      12.   Attends all city council and municipal utility board meetings and
other meetings as may be required by the mayor and/or the city council.
   B.   Peripheral Duties:
      1.   Recommends for adoption by the city council such measures as the
administration may deem necessary or expedient.
      2.   Prepares and submits to the city council and municipal utility board
such reports as may be required by those bodies or as administrator may deem it
advisable to submit. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6D-6: DESIRED MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Education And Experience: Graduation from college with a degree in
business or related field and five (5) years of experience in management or
governmental accounting or any combination of training and/or experience that
could likely provide the desired knowledge and abilities.
   B.   Necessary Knowledge, Skills And Abilities:
      1.   Considerable knowledge of modern policies and practices of public
administration; working knowledge of municipal finance, human resources, public
works, public safety, and community development.
      2.   Skill in preparing and administering budgets; skill in planning,
directing and administering programs, skill in operating the office computers
and other equipment.
      3.   Ability to: prepare and analyze comprehensive reports; carry out
assigned projects to their completion in a timely manner; communicate
effectively, verbally and in writing; establish and maintain effective working
relationships with employees, city officials and the public; efficiently and
effectively administer a municipal government.
   C.   Special Requirements:
      1.   Must be bondable.
      2.   A valid Nevada driver's license for equipment to be operated.
   D.   Physical Requirements: Strength, dexterity, coordination and vision to
use keyboard and video display terminal for prolonged periods. Dexterity and
coordination to handle files and single pieces of paper; occasional lifting of
items weighing up to twenty five (25) pounds, files, stacks of paper, reference
and other materials. Moving from place to place within the office; some
reaching for items above and below desk level. Some independent travel by car.
(Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6D-7: SELECTION GUIDELINES:
   A.   Formal application, rating of education and experience, oral interview
and reference checks are required. A job-related test might be required.
   B.   The duties listed above are intended only as illustrations of the
various types of work that may be performed. The omission of specific
statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is
similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.
   C.   This job description does not constitute an employment agreement
between the employer and employee and is subject to change by the employer as
the needs of the employer and requirements of the job change. This position
serves at the pleasure of the mayor and the city council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-
1999)
1-6D-8: WORK ENVIRONMENT:
   A.   The work environment characteristics described here are representative
of those an employee encounters while performing the essential functions of
this job. Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with
disabilities to perform the essential functions.
   B.   The noise level in the work environment is usually moderately quiet.
   C.   Basically an indoor desk job. Environment is generally clean with
limited exposure to conditions such as dust, fumes, odors, or excessive noise.
Requires mobility to attend required meetings in behalf of the city. (Ord. 539,
12-21-1999)
ARTICLE E. DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
1-6E-1: Office Created
1-6E-2: Purpose
1-6E-3: Appointment
1-6E-4: Term; Removal
1-6E-5: Duties
1-6E-6: Minimum Qualifications
1-6E-7: Working Environment
1-6E-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of director of public works, who shall serve
at the pleasure of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6E-2: PURPOSE:
The director of public works plans, organizes, coordinates and directs the
activities, operations and programs of the public works department. The
director of public works is under the policy direction of the mayor, city
council, and city administrator or clerk. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6E-3: APPOINTMENT:
This position is appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city
council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6E-4: TERM; REMOVAL:
The term of office continues until the next city election following the
appointment and until a successor is appointed and qualified, unless sooner
removed by the mayor with the concurrence of a majority of members of the city
council, unless the term is ended by removal from office as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.415 and in event of a mayoral veto, as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.200. (Ord. 662, 11-14-2013)
1-6E-5: DUTIES:
The director of public works shall perform the following duties:
   A.   Essential Duties And Responsibilities: Functions as a department head
responsible for the overall management of the public works department and
assigned personnel and programs. The director may function, at the discretion
of the mayor and city council, as parks and maintenance director and cemetery
sexton, and supervisor over the street department, water/sewer department, the
wastewater treatment plant, landfill department, and the animal control
department, if appointed as otherwise required by this code, as the case may
be.
   B.   Description Of Duties: The following are used as a partial description
and are not restrictive to duties required:
      1.   Plans, organizes, evaluates and directs the activities, programs and
operations of the public works department in the maintenance, construction and
repair of streets, cemetery, parks, equipment, public buildings and utilities.
      2.   Coordinates the planning, engineering and management of the city's
capital improvement programs in accordance with city policies, regulations and
requirements.
      3.   Coordinates city engineering activities and projects with
appropriate federal, state, county and related agencies.
      4.   Confers with the city administrator or clerk on plans, programs and
activities of the public works department.
      5.   Develops plans for future operation and projected needs of the
public works department.
      6.   Organizes and directs the selection, assignment, utilization,
training, evaluation and discipline of personnel of the public works
department.
      7.   Prepares the preliminary department's annual budget for submittal to
the city treasurer and maintains actual expenditures within the allocated
limits.
      8.   Generates a performance report for all city council and utilities
board regular meetings regarding the work activities and the workload of the
public works department.
      9.   Responds to public concerns, problems and complaints regarding the
public works department projects and operations.
      10.   Attends professional conferences and meetings and keeps informed on
legal, technical and administrative trends in the field of public works.
      11.   Confers with officials of federal, state, and local agencies and
industry regarding public works matters of mutual interest for establishment of
cooperative agreements and contracts.
      12.   Prepares written reports and correspondence as necessary.
      13.   Performs related duties as may be assigned. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999;
amd. Ord. 665, 2-13-2014; Ord. 749, 7-13-2023)
1-6E-6: MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Qualifications:
      1.   Minimum Qualifications Of Education, State Licensing, And
Experience: Possession of baccalaureate degree from an accredited college with
a major in public administration, civil engineering or a closely-related field
or five (5) years' experience in public works administration.
      2.   Desired Qualifications: Those persons who hold and possess a Nevada
license to operate all of the utilities within the city's portfolio of utility
operations that are provided to the citizens of the city of Ely. (Ord. 670, 1-
8-2015)
   B.   Knowledge And Abilities:
      1.   Knowledge of: philosophies, techniques, and principles of public
works services and organizations; methods, materials and techniques used in the
maintenance, construction and repair of streets, parks, equipment, public
buildings and city utilities; safety procedures utilized in public works
maintenance, construction, and repair; public administration, budgeting,
training, personnel management and organizational techniques; utility practices
and management; techniques and principles of city engineering.
      2.   Ability to: analyze, evaluate, develop, coordinate and direct public
works programs, projects and operation; plan, coordinate, train, evaluate and
direct the work of others; maintain effective working relationships with other
officials, subordinates and the public; communicate effectively both verbally
and in writing.
   C.   Driver's License: Possession of a valid Nevada driver's license for
equipment to be operated.
   D.   Physical Requirements:
      1.   Strength, dexterity, coordination and vision to use keyboard and
video display terminal for prolonged periods. Dexterity and coordination to
handle files and single pieces of paper; occasional lifting of items weighing
up to twenty five (25) pounds, files, stacks of paper, reference and other
materials. Moving from place to place within the office and some reaching for
items above and below desk level. Some independent travel by car.
      2.   Vision to read reports, financial data, and maps; strength and
stamina to drive a vehicle, including travel over rough roads, and to perform
occasional lifting of light and heavy objects, to walk over uneven surfaces;
bending, stooping, climbing, crawling, squatting, and periods of standing.
(Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6E-7: WORKING ENVIRONMENT:
The public works administrator works both inside and outside. Outside work
occurs on a frequent basis and requires exposure to dust, fumes, or high noise
levels and extreme weather conditions. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
ARTICLE F. CITY ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-6F-1: Appointment; Term; Removal
1-6F-2: Purpose
1-6F-3: Supervision
1-6F-4: Duties
1-6F-5: Minimum Qualifications
1-6F-6: Working Environment
1-6F-7: Interference With City Engineer
1-6F-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM; REMOVAL:
The city engineer is appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the
council. The term of office continues until the next city election following
the appointment and until a successor is appointed and qualified, unless sooner
removed by the mayor with the concurrence of a majority of members of the city
council, unless the term is ended by removal from office as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.415 and in event of a mayoral veto, as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.200. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999; amd. Ord. 662, 11-14-2013)
1-6F-2: PURPOSE:
The city engineer plans, organizes, coordinates and directs the activities,
operations and programs of the engineering department of the public works
department. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6F-3: SUPERVISION:
The city engineer works under the direction of the director of public works. In
the absence of such a position as director of public works, the city engineer
works under the policy direction of the mayor, city council, and city
administrator. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6F-4: DUTIES:
   A.   Essential Duties And Responsibilities: The city engineer directs the
activities and operations of the engineering division of the public works
department and is distinguished from public works director in that the latter
is responsible for planning, organizing, coordinating and directing all city
public works programs.
   B.   Description Of Duties: The following is used as a partial description
and is not restrictive to duties required:
      1.   Plans, directs, supervises and coordinates the work of the
engineering division in the planning, design, construction, inspection and
contract administration of the capital improvement program.
      2.   Assists the director of public works in the selection of
consultants, when required, for capital improvement projects including the
preparation and negotiation of contracts.
      3.   Directs the review of proposed private development to ensure that
subdivision plans, maps, surveys, parcel maps, and construction plans comply
with all applicable statutes and meet established engineering standards.
      4.   Reviews and approves subdivision public improvement agreements and
bonds.
      5.   Appears before commissions, committees, boards, the city council,
and governmental regulatory agencies when required to provide input on
engineering matters affecting the city.
      6.   Represents the city on regional and state technical and engineering
committees.
      7.   Plans, schedules and assigns projects and activities to professional
and technical staff.
      8.   Trains, develops and evaluates subordinate personnel assigned to the
engineering division.
      9.   Prepares technical engineering reports and conducts research related
to public works projects.
      10.   Confers with officials, contractors, consulting engineers,
developers and members of the public regarding engineering programs, proposed
private development and city policy.
      11.   Assists the director in the development and administration of the
budget for the public works department.
      12.   Analyzes and develops engineering criteria for design of public
works projects.
      13.   Coordinates and supervises public works construction projects to
ensure such projects meet the city's quality, cost and time standards.
      14.   Directs the preparation of a long-range capital improvement program
for public works facilities, including the review of construction costs and the
preparation of financial plans for needed projects.
      15.   Prepares reports of engineering activities and projects as
required.
      16.   Performs related duties as may be assigned. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6F-5: MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Education And Experience: Possession of a baccalaureate degree from an
accredited university with a major in civil engineering.
   B.   Knowledge And Abilities:
      1.   Knowledge of:
         a.   Construction and maintenance of complex capital improvement
program projects.
         b.   Materials and engineering methods required for the planning
design, and contract administration of capital improvement program projects and
public works facility maintenance and service programs.
         c.   Principles and practices of civil, structural and hydraulic
engineering related to municipal surveys, plans and public works design.
         d.   Public administration, budgeting, training, personnel management
and organizational techniques. Principles and practice of traffic engineering
and transportation planning as related to municipal transportation systems.
         e.   Computer methods used in engineering, i.e., CAD and spreadsheets.
      2.   Ability to:
         a.   Plan, coordinate, evaluate and direct the work of others.
         b.   Analyze technical and administrative problems, and interpret and
apply appropriate rules, regulations, ordinances, policies and procedures.
         c.   Design, estimate and draw plans for capital improvement program
projects.
         d.   Prepare and present budget estimates and technical engineering
reports.
         e.   Prepare contract documents.
         f.   Establish and maintain effective working relationships with staff
and others.
         g.   Speak effectively in public.
   C.   Required Licenses:
      1.   Possession of a valid Nevada motor vehicle operator's license.
      2.   Possession of a registration certificate as a professional civil
engineer in the state.
   D.   Physical Requirements:
      1.   Strength, dexterity, coordination and vision to use keyboard and
video display terminal for prolonged periods. Dexterity and coordination to
handle files and single pieces of paper; occasional lifting of items weighing
up to twenty five (25) pounds, files, stacks of paper, reference and other
materials. Moving from place to place within the office and some reaching for
items above and below desk level. Some independent travel by car.
      2.   Vision to read reports, financial data, and maps; strength and
stamina to drive a vehicle, including travel over rough roads, and to perform
occasional lifting of light and heavy objects, to walk over uneven surfaces;
bending, stooping, climbing, crawling, squatting, and periods of standing.
(Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6F-6: WORKING ENVIRONMENT:
The city engineer works both inside and outside. Outside work occurs on a
frequent basis and requires possible exposure to dust, fumes, or high noise
levels and extreme weather conditions. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6F-7: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY ENGINEER 1 :
If any person shall interrupt or molest the city engineer while engaged in his
official duty or shall molest or interfere with any of the assistants of the
city engineer or with any of his surveying instruments or other professional
apparatus while they are engaged in the discharge of their duty, or shall move
or displace any stake or other monument or landmark fixed or determined by him
or his assistants, or shall wilfully cause him or either of them any kind of
corporal injury or hindrance, such person so offending shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Prior Code § 2-15)
 
Notes
1 1. For interference of city officers generally, see section 5-1-10 of this
  code.
ARTICLE G. MUNICIPAL JUDGE
SECTION:
1-6G-1: Office Created
1-6G-2: Duties
1-6G-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of municipal judge, who shall serve at the
pleasure of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6G-2: DUTIES:
The municipal judge shall preside over and administer all the affairs of the
municipal court consistent with Nevada law, and specifically, with Nevada
Revised Statutes sections 266.550 through 266.590, inclusive. (Ord. 539, 12-21-
1999)
ARTICLE H. PARKS AND MAINTENANCE DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-6H-1: Office Created
1-6H-2: Duties
1-6H-3: Additional Duties
1-6H-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of city parks and maintenance director, who
shall serve at the pleasure of the mayor and city council. (Ord. 504, 5-11-
1995; amd. 2001 Code)
1-6H-2: DUTIES:
The city parks and maintenance director shall be responsible for maintenance
and upkeep of:
   A.   All public parks of the city;
   B.   City hall; and
   C.   City animal impoundment facility.
The city parks and maintenance director shall operate and act in his own
capacity, and further, shall act in a supervisory capacity over seasonal parks
employees and animal control personnel. (Ord. 504, 5-11-1995; amd. 2001 Code)
1-6H-3: ADDITIONAL DUTIES:
In addition to the above specified duties, the city parks and maintenance
director shall perform such duties as may be required of him by other
ordinances of the city or by the orders of the city council. (Ord. 504, 5-11-
1995; amd. 2001 Code)
ARTICLE I. CITY CLERK/TREASURER
SECTION:
1-6I-1: Purpose
1-6I-2: Appointment
1-6I-3: Term; Removal
1-6I-4: Duties
1-6I-5: Minimum Qualifications
1-6I-6: Selection Guidelines
1-6I-7: Working Conditions
1-6I-1: PURPOSE:
Under the policy direction of the mayor, city council, and city administrator,
the city clerk/treasurer acts as chief financial officer; prepares financial
statements and records; develops procedures for financial control; directs and
manages the city clerk department; performs the statutory duties of city clerk
including attendance and recordation of council and utility board meetings;
performs the legal processing of documents; and performs other duties as may be
assigned. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6I-2: APPOINTMENT:
This is a position appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the
city council. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6I-3: TERM; REMOVAL:
The term of office continues until the next city election following the
appointment and until a successor is appointed and qualified, unless sooner
removed by the mayor with the concurrence of a majority of members of the city
council, unless the term is ended by removal from office as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.415 and in event of a mayoral veto, as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.200. (Ord. 662, 11-14-2013)
1-6I-4: DUTIES:
The following is used as a partial description and is not restrictive to duties
required:
   A.   Performs all duties required by Nevada law and as prescribed by city
ordinance and resolution.
   B.   Manages and coordinates the operations of the finance department
including accounts payable, tax and revenue collection, issuing of business,
liquor, gaming and brothel licenses, utility billing and investments; responds
to customer complaints and inquiries; establishes department policies, goals
and objectives.
   C.   Prepares and interprets financial records; reconciles asset and
liability accounts to source documents; performs fund analysis of expense and
revenue accounts; prepares financial statements on a monthly basis; compiles
annual financial statement; prepares special financial reports as necessary.
   D.   Prepares city preliminary budget for review and approval of mayor and
city council; provides expenditure data for department heads; prepares budget
for revenues and other funds not related to particular departments. Compiles
the final annual city budget for submission to the department of taxation,
mayor, and city council for approval and use for next fiscal year.
   E.   Attends and takes minutes at city council and utility board meetings;
prepares agendas, resolutions, and proclamations and other needed documents
including public and legal notices; coordinates elections according to statute;
maintains city records.
   F.   Previews and researches claims against the city; ensures
collateralization of investments; prepares monthly, quarterly and annual
reports to the IRS, department of taxation, SIIS, employment security, etc.;
develops, coordinates, and maintains policies and procedures for financial
control.
   G.   Maintains city's personnel files; oversee payroll administration and
dissemination of employee benefit information; provides orientation for new
employees.
   H.   Coordinates with city administrator and/or mayor and city council
liaison in the selection of staff for positions within department or otherwise
as requested; on the job training for department staff, evaluates the work
performance of staff, implement disciplinary actions.
   I.   Operates standard office equipment including word processors, personal
or on-line computers, calculators, fax machines, copy machines, and multi-line
telephones. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6I-5: MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Education And Experience:
      1.   A degree in accounting or three (3) years' experience in
governmental accounting.
      2.   Experience in management.
   B.   Knowledge And Abilities:
      1.   Knowledge of governmental accounting standards; state law applicable
to financial activities of municipalities; financial information systems and
procedures; state law pertaining to payroll administration, licensing and
elections; federal laws pertaining to employment administration; principles and
practices of management and supervision; financial planning; budgetary
practices.
      2.   Ability to analyze and interpret fiscal and accounting records and
data; establish and maintain working relationships with city officials, staff,
government agencies, and the public; devise and implement accounting and record
keeping procedures; make verbal and written recommendations and presentations
to city council and municipal utility board regarding technical and financial
matters.
   C.   Special Requirements:
      1.   A valid Nevada driver's license for equipment to be operated.
      2.   Must be bondable.
   D.   Physical Requirements: Strength, dexterity, coordination and vision to
use keyboard and video display terminal for prolonged periods. Dexterity and
coordination to handle files and single pieces of paper; occasional lifting of
items weighing up to twenty five (25) pounds, files, stacks of paper, reference
and other materials. Moving from place to place within the office and some
reaching for items above and below desk level. Some independent travel by car.
(Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6I-6: SELECTION GUIDELINES:
   A.   Formal application, rating of education and experience; oral interviews
and reference checks will be required. A job-related test might be required.
   B.   The duties listed above are intended only as illustrations of the
various types of work that may be performed. The omission of specific
statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is
similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.
   C.   The job description does not constitute an employment agreement between
the employer and employee and is subject to change by the employer as the needs
of the employer and requirements of the job change. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
1-6I-7: WORKING CONDITIONS:
The position of city clerk/treasurer is basically an indoor desk job.
Environment is generally clean with limited exposure to conditions such as
dust, fumes, odors, or excessive noise. Requires mobility to attend required
meetings in behalf of the city. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999)
ARTICLE J. FIRE CHIEF
SECTION:
1-6J-1:    Office Created
1-6J-2:    Position Description
1-6J-3:    Appointment
1-6J-4:    Essential Functions
1-6J-5:    Desired Minimum Qualifications
1-6J-6:    Special Requirements
1-6J-7:    Selection Guidelines
1-6J-8:    Work Environment
1-6J-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the Office of Fire Chief, who shall serve at the
pleasure of the Mayor and City Council. (Ord. 729, 2-13-2020)
1-6J-2: POSITION DESCRIPTION:
The Fire Chief directs and oversees all aspects of the operation of the Fire
Department for the City of Ely. The Fire Chief informs and advises the City
Council, Mayor, and City Clerk on all fire related/first responder issues
affecting the City through the appropriate chain of command. The Fire Chief
serves as a representative of the City of Ely, demonstrating a positive
attitude and progressive actions through the display of professionalism,
courtesy, and appropriate tact and discretion in all interactions with other
employees and with the public. The Fire Chief continuously monitors and
evaluates the efficiency and effectiveness of Fire Department procedures,
service levels and administrative systems; evaluates and implements
improvement. The Fire Chief represents the Fire Department to outside agencies;
explains and interprets Fire Department programs, policies, and activities;
negotiates and resolves sensitive, significant, and controversial issues. (Ord.
729, 2-13-2020)
1-6J-3: APPOINTMENT:
The City of Ely Fire Chief is appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council. The Fire Chief will be considered to be
"appointed" and an "exempt" employee as that term is defined by the City
personnel manual. (Ord. 729, 2-13-2020)
1-6J-4: ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:
Performance of these functions is the reason the job exists. Assigned job
tasks/duties are not limited to the essential functions.
   A.   Assume full management responsibility for all Fire Department services
and activities including fire prevention, suppression, investigation,
inspection, emergency medical services, and public education.
   B.   Manage the development and implementation of Fire Department goals,
objectives, policies, procedures, and priorities for each assigned service
area; establish, within City policy, appropriate service and staffing levels;
allocate resources accordingly.
   C.   Select, train, motivate, and evaluate Fire Department personnel;
provide or coordinate staff training; work with employees to correct
deficiencies.
   D.   Continually analyzing and evaluating operations and trends for assuring
efficient and adequate Fire Department operations as pertaining to the current
standards.
   E.   Plan, direct, and coordinate the Fire Department's work plan; meet with
management staff to identify and resolve problems; assign projects and
programmatic areas of responsibility; review and evaluate work methods and
procedures.
   F.   Manage and participate in the development and administration of the
Fire Department budget; direct the forecast of additional funds needed for
staffing, equipment, materials, and supplies; direct the monitoring of and
approve expenditures; direct the preparation of and implement budgetary
adjustments as necessary.
   G.   Coordinate Fire Department activities with those of other departments
and outside agencies and organizations.
   H.   Ensure proper maintenance and availability of equipment, apparatus,
buildings, and other facilities.
   I.   Respond to major fire alarms and emergency and non-emergency calls when
necessary; personally direct activities as necessary.
   J.   Shall oversee the operation of the Ely Volunteer Fire Department for
the purposes of scheduling training and to ensure they receive the required
training to effectively and safely perform the duties of Volunteer Fire and EMS
providers. (Ord. 729, 2-13-2020)
1-6J-5: DESIRED MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Education; Experience: High school graduate with five (5) years of
professional firefighting experience. Prior supervisory experience beneficial.
   B.   Necessary Knowledge, Skills And Abilities:
      1.   Extensive knowledge of the operation of all apparatus, equipment and
methods used in combating, extinguishing and preventing fires and in rescue
work.
      2.   Extensive knowledge of emergency medical care, safety practices,
ambulance operations, and necessary actions for response to leaks and spills of
hazardous materials.
      3.   Knowledge of the rules and regulations of fire and emergency medical
service and applicable federal, state and local legislation.
      4.   Knowledge of maintenance of service equipment, apparatus, and
facilities.
      5.   Knowledge of building construction and the geography of the local
area.
      6.   Skill in the operation of all firefighting, rescue, and medical
equipment.
      7.   The physical requirements described here are representative of those
that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions
of the job: Ability to work in high stress, demanding situations with numerous
deadlines. Ability to lift and move objects up to fifty (50) pounds.
      8.   Ability to prepare and analyze reports; ability to carry out
assigned projects to their completion; ability to communicate effectively
verbally and in writing; ability to establish and maintain effective working
relationships with employees, city officials and the public. (Ord. 729, 2-13-
2020)
1-6J-6: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Nevada approved Firefighter I Certification; and
   B.   Nevada approved Basic EMT Certification.
   C.   Nevada Ambulance Attendant license; and
   D.   Minimum Nevada Class B license with tanker endorsement and must
maintain this license during entire term of employment.
   E.   Basic life support/CPR certified. (Ord. 729, 2-13-2020)
1-6J-7: SELECTION GUIDELINES:
   A.   Formal applications, rating of education and experience, oral
interview, reference checks, and a background check including drug testing are
required. A job-related test might be required.
   B.   The duties listed above are intended only as illustrations of the
various types of work that may be performed. The omission of specific
statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is
similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.
   C.   The job description does not constitute an employment agreement between
the employer and employee and is subject to change by the employer as the needs
of the employer and requirements of the job change. (Ord. 729, 2-13-2020)
1-6J-8: WORK ENVIRONMENT:
   A.   The work environment characteristics described here are representative
of those the Fire Chief encounters while performing the essential functions of
this job.
   B.   The role of the Fire Chief is managerial in nature and requires
mobility to attend required meetings on behalf of the city. (Ord. 729, 2-13-
2020)
ARTICLE K. HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-6K-1: Office Created
1-6K-2: Purpose
1-6K-3: Appointment
1-6K-4: Term; Removal
1-6K-5: Duties
1-6K-6: Qualifications
1-6K-7: Selection Guidelines
1-6K-8: Working Conditions
1-6K-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of City Human Resources Director, who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and City Council. (Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6K-2: PURPOSE:
The Human Resource Director shall plan, manage and review the activities and
operations of the City's Human Resource Office, including recruitment and
selection, classification, compensation, labor relations and training; to
coordinate assigned activities with other City departments and outside
agencies. (Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6K-3: APPOINTMENT:
This position is appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council. (Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6K-4: TERM; REMOVAL:
The term of office continues until the next city election following the
appointment and until a successor is appointed and qualified, unless sooner
removed by the Mayor with the concurrence of a majority of members of the City
Council, unless the term is ended by removal from office as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.415 and in event of a mayoral veto, as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.200. (Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6K-5: DUTIES:
The following is used as a partial description and is not restrictive to duties
required:
   A.   Performs all duties required by Nevada statutes and as prescribed by
city ordinance and resolution.
   B.   Administer all provisions of a comprehensive personnel system,
including contract negotiations and arbitration, collective bargaining
agreement administration, recruitment, selection and placement services, EEO,
training and orientation programs, ADA administration, benefits administration,
personnel records maintenance, safety management programs, and the
administration of the classification, job evaluation and performant appraisal
systems.
   C.   Direct and participate in the administration of the classification and
compensation plan, group benefits, recruitment and selection, training,
affirmative action, employee performance rating; administer a system of
employee service records and other personnel records.
   D.   Advise and assist employees and department management in a variety of
personnel matters including the interpretation and application of personnel
policies and the processing of employee grievances.
   E.   Provide support to all City departments regarding personnel practices,
policies and issues. Promote equal access to employment opportunities. Ensure
decisions are made objectively related to the selection process.
   F.   Make presentations before the City Council and other boards and
commissions and community organizations.
   G.   Coordinate and process personnel action and evaluations including
performance and step increases, promotions, transfers and separation procedures
of current employees.
   H.   Administer central personnel functions including maintenance of
confidential and personnel records.
   I.   Respond to background investigations and verification of employment
requests.
   J.   Conduct formal job analysis processes, job audits, salary and benefit
surveys, and research on a broad range of personnel assignments as directed;
reviews, updates and revises job descriptions and classifications, and prepare
written reports.
   K.   Coordinate the City's Liability, Casualty and Workers Compensation
insurance programs.
   L.   Interpret personnel policies and procedures; respond to requests for
information and assistance from employees, elected officials, management,
outside agencies, bargaining unit and the public; counsel and inform employees
and supervisors of procedures and regulations pertaining to personnel actions
and policies.
   M.   Work with the third-party administrators to ensure that all claims are
handled promptly and efficiently, consult with City Attorney as needed.
   N.   Provide staff assistance in employee relations, grievances and
disciplinary activities.
   O.   Preparing Equal Employment Opportunity reports, OSHA reports, state and
federal reports/surveys.
   P.   Investigate technical matters as requested by employees.
   Q.   Perform other related duties and responsibilities as required. (Ord.
732, 2020)
1-6K-6: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Knowledge: Principles and practices of public personnel management and
administration, including principles, methods and techniques used in
recruitment and selection, classification, salary and benefits, administration,
training and affirmative action.
   B.   Ability: Perform records management, employee screening, testing and
recruitment, insurance and benefits. Interpret the City personnel programs and
policies to employees. Prepare and write a variety of reports, memoranda,
correspondence and analyses. Maintain confidentiality of work. Develop and
implement new human resource programs, personnel policies and procedures.
Provide information to employees and assist in the resolution of employee
complaints.
   C.   Education And Experience: Associate's degree from an accredited College
or University with major coursework in personnel administration, public
business administration or closely related field preferred or four (4) years of
increasingly responsible professional personnel administration and supervisory
experience.
   D.   Special Requirements: A valid Nevada driver's license for equipment to
be operated.
   E.   Physical Requirements: Strength, dexterity, coordination and vision to
use keyboard and video display terminal for prolonged periods. Dexterity and
coordination to handle files and single pieces of paper; occasional lifting of
items weighing up to twenty five (25) pounds, files, stacks of paper, reference
and other materials. Moving from place to place within the office and some
reaching for items above and below desk level. Some independent travel by car.
(Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6K-7: SELECTION GUIDELINES:
   A.   Formal application, rating of education and experience, oral interview
and reference checks are required. A job-related test might be required.
   B.   The duties listed above are intended only as illustrations of the
various types of work that may be performed. The omission of specific
statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is
similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.
   C.   The job description does not constitute an employment agreement between
the employer and employee and is subject to change by the employer as the needs
of the employer and requirements of the job change. (Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6K-8: WORKING CONDITIONS:
Typical office setting and use of typical office equipment. Environment is
generally clean with limited exposure to conditions such as dust, fumes, odors,
or excessive noise. Requires mobility to attend required meetings in behalf of
the city. (Ord. 732, 2020)
ARTICLE L. CITY TREASURER/HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-6L-1: Office Created
1-6L-2: Purpose
1-6L-3: Appointment
1-6L-4: Term; Removal
1-6L-5: Duties
1-6L-6: Employment Requirements
1-6L-7: Selection Guidelines
1-6L-8: Working Conditions
1-6L-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of City Treasurer/Human Resources Director,
who shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor and City Council. (Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6L-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The City Treasurer/Human Resource Director acts as chief financial
officer preparing financial statements and records, developing procedures for
financial control, and performing other duties as assigned.
   B.   The City Treasurer/Human Resource Director shall plan, manage and
review the activities and operations of the City's Human Resource Office,
including recruitment and selection, classification, compensation, labor
relations and training; to coordinate assigned activities with other City
departments and outside agencies. (Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6L-3: APPOINTMENT:
This position is appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council. (Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6L-4: TERM; REMOVAL:
The term of office continues until the next city election following the
appointment and until a successor is appointed and qualified, unless sooner
removed by the Mayor with the concurrence of a majority of members of the City
Council, unless the term is ended by removal from office as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.415 and in event of a mayoral veto, as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.200. (Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6L-5: DUTIES:
The following is used as a partial description and is not restrictive to duties
required:
   A.   Performs all duties required by Nevada statutes and as prescribed by
city ordinance and resolution.
   B.   Manages and coordinates the operations of the finance department
including accounts payable, tax and revenue collection; issuing of business,
liquor, gaming and brothel licenses, and work cards, (all upon approval by
proper authorities), utility billing and investments. Responds to customer
complaints and inquiries; establishes department policies, goals and
objectives.
   C.   Prepares and interprets financial records; reconciles asset and
liability accounts to source documents; performs fund analysis of expense and
revenue accounts; prepares financial statements on a monthly basis; compiles
annual financial statement; prepares special financial reports as necessary.
   D.   Performs cost control activities, monitors revenues and expenditures in
consultation with other appointed officials and department heads to assure
sound fiscal control. Assures effective and efficient use of budgeted funds.
   E.   Prepares preliminary and final city annual budget for review by Clerk
or Administrator prior to presentation to Mayor and City Council. Prepares
annual budget for revenues and other funds. After review by Administrator or
City Clerk, compiles the final annual city budget for submission to the
Department of Taxation, Mayor, and City Council for approval and use for next
fiscal year.
   F.   Provides expenditure data on a monthly basis to department heads to
assist them in compiling their annual budgets.
   G.   Ensures collateralization of investments; prepares monthly, quarterly
and annual reports to the IRS, department of taxation, workers' compensation,
employment security, etc.; develops, coordinates, and maintains policies and
procedures for financial control after consultation with other appointed
officials and department heads.
   H.   Maintains city's original payroll personnel files; oversees payroll
administration and dissemination of employee benefit information; provides
payroll and benefits orientation for new employees.
   I.   Operates standard office equipment including word processors, personal
or on-line computers, calculators, fax machines, copy machines, and multi-line
telephones.
   J.   Coordinates with City Administrator or Clerk and Mayor and/or City
Council liaison in the selection of staff for vacant positions within
department or otherwise as requested; on-the-job training for department staff;
evaluates the work performance and implements disciplinary actions of
subordinates.
   K.   Advises the Mayor, City Council, and City Clerk of current and future
city financial status.
   L.   All duties listed under section 1-6K-5. (Ord. 539, 12-21-1999; amd.
Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6L-6: EMPLOYMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Knowledge: Governmental accounting standards; state law applicable to
financial activities of municipalities; financial information systems and
procedures; state law pertaining to payroll administration, licensing and
elections; principles and practices of management and supervision; financial
planning; budgetary practices.
   B.   Ability: Analyze and interpret fiscal and accounting records and data;
establish and maintain working relationships with city officials, staff,
government agencies, and the public; devise and implement accounting and record
keeping procedures; make verbal and written recommendations and presentations
to City Council and municipal utility board regarding technical and financial
matters.
   C.   Education And Experience: A degree from an accredited college or
university with major coursework in accounting or three (3) years of experience
in management and governmental accounting and a degree from an accredited
college or university with major coursework in personnel administration, public
business administration or closely related field or four (4) years of
increasingly responsible professional personnel administration and supervisory
experience.
   D.   Special Requirements: A valid Nevada driver's license for equipment to
be operated.
   E.   Physical Requirements: Strength, dexterity, coordination and vision to
use keyboard and video display terminal for prolonged periods. Dexterity and
coordination to handle files and single pieces of paper; occasional lifting of
items weighing up to twenty five (25) pounds, files, stacks of paper, reference
and other materials. Moving from place to place within the office and some
reaching for items above and below desk level. Some independent travel by car.
(Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6L-7: SELECTION GUIDELINES:
   A.   Formal application, rating of education and experience, oral interview
and reference checks are required. A job-related test might be required.
   B.   The duties listed above are intended only as illustrations of the
various types of work that may be performed. The omission of specific
statements of duties does not exclude them from the position if the work is
similar, related or a logical assignment to the position.
   C.   The job description does not constitute an employment agreement between
the employer and employee and is subject to change by the employer as the needs
of the employer and requirements of the job change. (Ord. 732, 2020)
1-6L-8: WORKING CONDITIONS:
Typical office setting and use of typical office equipment. Environment is
generally clean with limited exposure to conditions such as dust, fumes, odors,
or excessive noise. Requires mobility to attend required meetings in behalf of
the city. (Ord. 732, 2020)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL COURT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Designation
1-7-2: Record Of Proceedings
1-7-1: DESIGNATION:
The municipal court of the city shall henceforth be designated as a court of
record for all purposes. (Ord. 491, 1-13-1994)
1-7-2: RECORD OF PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Sound Recording; Certified Shorthand Reporters: Proceedings in the
municipal court shall be recorded by using sound recording equipment. The
municipal judge may, in certain cases, when deemed by the court to be
necessary, appoint a certified shorthand reporter to take down the proceedings
in the same manner and with the same effect as in a district court. (Ord. 491,
1-13-1994)
   B.   Operation Of Sound Recording Equipment: The municipal judge may appoint
and, with the approval of the city council, fix the compensation of a suitable
person, who need not be a certified shorthand reporter and may have other
responsibilities in the court, to operate the sound recording equipment. The
appointed person shall subscribe to an oath that he will so operate it as to
record all of the proceedings. (Ord. 491, 1-13-1994; amd. 2001 Code)
   C.   Transcription Of Recordings: The municipal judge may designate the same
or another person to transcribe the recording into a written transcript. The
person so designated shall subscribe to an oath that he has correctly
transcribed it. The transcript may be used for all purposes for which
transcripts are used and is subject to correction in the same manner as other
transcripts.
   D.   Compensation For Preparing Transcript: If the person designated to
transcribe the proceedings is:
      1.   Regularly employed as a public employee, he is not entitled to
additional compensation for preparing the transcript.
      2.   Not regularly employed as a public employee and not a certified
shorthand reporter, he is entitled to such compensation for preparing the
transcript as the city council determines.
      3.   A certified shorthand reporter, he is entitled to the same fees as
set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes section 3.370.
   E.   Payment Of Fees: The fees for transcripts and copies must be paid by
the party ordering them. In a civil case, the preparation of the transcript
need not commence until the fees have been deposited with the deputy clerk of
the municipal court.
   F.   Preservation Of Sound Recordings; Destruction: The sound recording of
each proceeding in municipal court must be preserved until at least thirty (30)
days after the time for filing an appeal expires. If no appeal is taken, the
municipal judge may order the destruction of the recording at any time after
that date. If there is an appeal to the district court, the sound recording
must be reserved until at least thirty (30) days after final disposition of the
case on appeal, but the municipal judge may order the destruction of the
recording at any time after that date. (Ord. 491, 1-13-1994)
CHAPTER 8
ELECTIONS 1
SECTION:
1-8-1: City Council Elected At Large
1-8-2: Voting At Large
1-8-3: Designation Of Polling Places
1-8-4: Primary Election
1-8-5: General Election
1-8-6: Popular Election
1-8-7: Affidavit Of Candidacy; Filing Fees
1-8-8: Placement On General Election Ballot
1-8-9: Registry Agent; Registration; Publication Of List
1-8-10: Notice Of Registration Period
1-8-11: Eligibility To Vote
1-8-12: Absentee Voting
1-8-13: Election Boards
 
Notes
1 1. NRS chs. 293, 293C.
1-8-1: CITY COUNCIL ELECTED AT LARGE:
Any person desiring to serve in the capacity of city councilman shall, if
qualified for office pursuant to the provisions of state law, be entitled to
run for office, regardless of where such person may live within the city
limits. (Ord. 509, 3-29-1996)
1-8-2: VOTING AT LARGE:
All councilmen of the city shall be elected by the voters of the city at large.
(Ord. 509, 3-29-1996)
1-8-3: DESIGNATION OF POLLING PLACES:
   A.   City Clerk To Designate: The city clerk may designate any building,
public or otherwise, or any portion of such building as the site for any
polling place for the precincts in the city.
   B.   Two Or More Polling Places In Same Building: If, in the opinion of the
city clerk, the convenience and comfort of the voters and election officials
will be best served by putting two (2) or more polling places in any building,
or if, in the opinion of the city clerk, the expense to the city for polling
places can be diminished by putting two (2) or more polling places in any such
building, he may so provide.
   C.   Renting Of Locations: In precincts where there are no public buildings
or other appropriate locations owned by the state, county, township or city,
privately owned locations shall be rented at a rate not to exceed fifty dollars
($50.00) for each location for each election. (Prior code § 7-7; amd. 2001
Code)
1-8-4: PRIMARY ELECTION:
A primary election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in
April 2007, and every two (2) years thereafter on the same date. On the first
Tuesday after the first Monday, commencing in May 1981, and every four (4)
years thereafter, there shall be nominated three (3) candidates for the office
of councilman for a term of four (4) years. (Prior code § 7-8; amd. 2001 Code;
Ord. 616, 3-8-2007)
On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in May 1979, and every four (4)
years thereafter, there shall be nominated candidates for the offices of mayor
and two (2) councilman for a term of four (4) years. (Prior code § 7-8; amd.
2001 Code)
1-8-5: GENERAL ELECTION:
A general city election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in June 1979, and every two (2) years thereafter on the same date. On
the first Tuesday after the first Monday in June 1981, and every four (4) years
thereafter, there shall be elected three (3) candidates for the office of
councilman for a term of four (4) years.
On the first Tuesday after the first Monday in June 1979, and every four (4)
years thereafter, there shall be elected candidates for the offices of mayor
and two (2) councilmen for a term of four (4) years. (Prior code § 7-9; amd.
2001 Code)
1-8-6: POPULAR ELECTION:
All candidates for mayor and councilmen at the general city election shall be
voted upon by the electors of the city at large. (Prior code § 7-10; amd. 2001
Code)
1-8-7: AFFIDAVIT OF CANDIDACY; FILING FEES:
   A.   Deadline For Filing: Candidates for the offices of mayor and councilmen
to be voted for at the primary election shall file a declaration of candidacy
with the city clerk not less than sixty (60) nor more than seventy (70) days
before the day of primary election.
   B.   Filing Fee: The city clerk shall charge and collect from each
candidate, and each candidate shall pay to the city clerk at the time of filing
the declaration of candidacy, a filing fee.
      1.   Mayor: For the office of mayor the fee shall be fifty dollars
($50.00);
      2.   Councilman: For the office of councilman, the fee shall also be
fifty dollars ($50.00).
      All filing fees so collected by the city clerk shall be deposited to the
credit of the general fund of the city. (Prior Code § 7-11; amd. 2001 Code;
Ord. 754, 1-1-2024, eff. 2-8-2024)
1-8-8: PLACEMENT ON GENERAL ELECTION BALLOT:
   A.   If more than twice the number of candidates to be elected have filed
for nomination for an office, the names of the candidates must appear on the
ballot for a primary city election. Except as otherwise provided in subsection
4 of Nevada Revised Statutes section 293C.175, those candidates who receive the
highest number of votes at that election, not to exceed twice the number to be
elected, must be declared nominees for the office.
   B.   If at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the last day for filing a declaration
of candidacy, there is only one candidate who has filed for nomination for an
office, that candidate must be declared elected and no election may be held for
that office.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection B of this section, if not
more than twice the number of candidates to be elected have filed for
nomination for an office, the names of those candidates must be omitted from
all ballots for a primary city election and placed on all ballots for a general
city election. (2001 Code)
1-8-9: REGISTRY AGENT; REGISTRATION; PUBLICATION OF LIST:
   A.   Registry Agent: The county clerk is hereby made ex officio registry
agent.
   B.   Registration: The registration office shall be open regularly from nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M., and from seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., including Saturdays, during the last three
(3) days before registration closes, to register the names of all persons
applying to the registry agent for registration whose names are not already on
the general registry, provided he is satisfied from personal knowledge or from
testimony of the applicant for registration under oath (which oath he may
administer) that the applicant is entitled to have his or her name registered.
The registry entries to be made by the registry agent at the time of
registering the names of qualified electors shall be the same as are required
under Nevada Revised Statutes sections 293.485 through 293.567, except that
reference to the political affiliation of the applicant shall not be required
upon the registry card nor upon the sworn statement embodied thereon.
   C.   Official Registry: Not later than three (3) days before the day on
which any regular or special city election is held, the registry agent shall
deliver to the city clerk, the official register for the city. (Prior Code § 7-
13; amd. Ord. 455, 2-25-1991; 2001 Code)
1-8-10: NOTICE OF REGISTRATION PERIOD:
Except for a special election held pursuant to chapter 306 or 350 of Nevada
Revised Statutes:
   A.   The city clerk of each city shall cause a notice signed by him to be
published in a newspaper having a general circulation in the city indicating
the day that registration will be closed. If no newspaper is of general
circulation in the city, the publication may be made in a newspaper of general
circulation in the nearest city in this state.
   B.   The notice must be published once each week for four (4) consecutive
weeks next preceding the close of registration for any election. (2001 Code)
1-8-11: ELIGIBILITY TO VOTE:
Each person who resides within the boundaries of the city at the time of the
holding of any city election, and whose name appears upon the official register
of voters for the city, is entitled to vote at each special election, primary
city election and general city election, and for all officers to be voted for
and on all questions submitted to the people at those elections except as
otherwise provided in chapter 266 of Nevada Revised Statutes. (2001 Code)
1-8-12: ABSENTEE VOTING:
Voting by absent electors shall be governed by the provisions of the general
election law of the state, as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes sections
293C.305 through 293C.340, except that application for absent voter's ballots
shall be made to the city clerk instead of the county clerk, at any time before
five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the Tuesday preceding the election in which such
absentee ballot is to be voted. (Prior Code § 7-17; amd. 2001 Code)
1-8-13: ELECTION BOARDS:
The provisions of sections 293C.220 through 293C.250 Nevada Revised Statutes,
governing election boards are hereby adopted by reference as though set forth
in full and at length. (2001 Code)
CHAPTER 9
RECORDS MANAGEMENT 1
SECTION:
1-9-1: Definitions
1-9-2: City Clerk/City Administrator's Responsibility
1-9-3: Public Records Custody And Control
1-9-4: Disposal Of Records
1-9-5: Fee Schedule
 
Notes
1 1. NRS §§ 239.121 through 239.125.
1-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the words that are used in this chapter
shall have the meanings that are ascribed to them in this section:
DISPOSITION: The final action that has been recommended for a record by the
Records Retention Program that has been approved for the office that produces
or generates the record.
OFFICE: Any office, department, board, commission, committee, agency or any
other division of the City.
PUBLIC RECORD: A. Includes any paper, correspondence, form, book, photograph,
file, sound recording, map, drawing or other document regardless of its
physical form or characteristics, that has been made by any office or official
or received by it in connection with the transaction of public business.
   B.   Does not include published books and pamphlets, books and pamphlets
that have been printed by a government printer, worksheets that are used to
collect or compile data after such data has been included in a record, answer
pads for telephones or other informal notes, stenographer's notes after the
information that is contained therein has been transcribed, unused forms,
except unused ballots, brochures, newsletters, magazines, newspapers, except
those portions of newspapers that are retained as evidence of publication,
scrapbooks and property that have been left or deposited with an office which
would otherwise be defined as a record except that the ownership of such
property does not reside with the City.
RECORD SERIES: Documents, volumes or folders that are arranged under a single
filing system or are kept together as a unit because they relate to a
particular subject, result from the same activity or have a particular form.
RECORDS CENTER: An area for housing inactive or semiactive records which do not
receive sufficient use to warrant their retention in the office in which they
were initially kept.
RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE: An itemized list of record series, with the
corresponding time periods for which they must be kept, including the location
and final disposition thereof.
VITAL RECORDS: Those records that would be essential for the reconstruction of
the function and operation of a department in order for it to conduct business
following a disaster. (Ord. 706, 8-10-2017)
1-9-2: CITY CLERK/CITY ADMINISTRATOR'S RESPONSIBILITY:
The City Clerk/City Administrator will be responsible for developing,
implementing and managing a Records Management Program for the City. In that
capacity, the City Clerk/City Administrator shall:
   A.   Inventory: Establish guidelines and procedures for making an inventory
of and retaining public records of the City in accordance with approved records
retention schedules.
   B.   Record Center: Establish a records center for storing inactive public
records of the City pending their disposition in accordance with approved
records retention schedules.
   C.   Protect Historical, Archival And Vital Records: Establish a program for
the protection of historical, archival and vital records that are essential to
the continuation or establishment of governmental operations in the event of a
natural or other disaster.
   D.   Micrographics Service: Provide micrographics services to the various
offices for public records that require permanent retention, records that have
a minimum retention of seven (7) years and are considered vital records,
through the State of Nevada's Division of State Library, Archives and Public
Records of the Department of Administration pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
239.070. (Ord. 706, 8-10-2017)
1-9-3: PUBLIC RECORDS CUSTODY AND CONTROL:
   A.   Records Transferred To Records Center: The right to the custody and
control of public records that have been transferred to the records center
shall remain with the transferring office.
   B.   Records Transferred To City Archives: The right to the custody and
control of public records that have been transferred to the City archives
passes to the City Clerk/City Administrator at the time that such records are
accepted for the City archives.
   C.   City Clerk/City Administrator's Office Responsible: The City Clerk/City
Administrator's Office shall be responsible for receiving and responding to all
requests, whether verbal or written, for a copy of public records.
      1.   Upon receipt of a request for a public record:
         a.   When in writing: The employee receiving the request shall provide
that request to the City Clerk/City Administrator's Office for processing. The
City Clerk/City Administrator shall forward the request to the appropriate
department of the City to respond to the request.
         b.   When verbal: The employee receiving the oral request shall reduce
the oral request into writing on a form provided by the City Clerk/City
Administrator, verify the request with the requesting party, then forward the
request to the City Clerk/City Administrator for processing and forwarding to
the appropriate department of the City to respond to the request.
      2.   The department responsible for obtaining the records and responding
to the request shall provide the requested records within five (5) working days
from the date the written or verbal request was provided to the City, or
provide a written explanation why the requested records cannot be provided in
that time frame. See Nevada Revised Statutes 239.0107.
         a.   No public records request shall be processed or records provided
to any person making such a request, without the request being processed,
documented and billed by the City Clerk/City Administrator's Office.
         b.   In the event an employee has a question regarding whether a
document request is a public records request, the employee is to treat the
request as a public records request, allowing the City Clerk/City
Administrator's Office to determine if the request meets the requirements of a
public records request.
      3.   In any situation in which the cost to produce the records pursuant
to Nevada Revised Statutes 239 et seq., is expected to exceed twenty dollars
($20.00), the City Clerk/City Administrator or designee, shall notify the
requesting party, before the production of documents is compiled and receive
written authorization from the requesting party. See Nevada Revised Statutes
239.055.
   D.   Municipal Court Records: Pursuant to the Policy for Handling Filed,
Lodged, and Presumptively Confidential Documents, as adopted by the Supreme
Court of Nevada, effective August 21, 2013 and including amendments through
March 1, 2016, the Municipal Court shall not provide copies of documents
contained in Rule 2, paragraph 5. A copy of the policy may be found at https://
www.leg.state.nv.us/CourtRules/PCD.html. (Ord. 706, 8-10-2017)
1-9-4: DISPOSAL OF RECORDS:
   A.   Disposal: Records may be disposed of only in accordance with the
records retention schedules approved for records of that type by the City
Council.
   B.   Destruction: Records to be destroyed must be shredded, burned or buried
at the City Landfill with a statement of certification by the person overseeing
the destruction. The statement must include, as a minimum, the name of the
person observing the destruction, the date of destruction, the method of
destruction, and a brief statement pertaining to what documents were destroyed.
   C.   Documents Adopted: The following documents issued and adopted by the
State of Nevada Division of State Library and Archives are hereby adopted by
the City:
      1.   "Nevada Local Government Records Program Manual", 2016 edition as
revised periodically pursuant to law, a copy of which may be found at the
following website: http://nsla.nv.gov/uploadedFiles/nslanvgov/content/Records/
SRC/20 16%20Manual%20Revisions(1).pdf; and
      2.   "Local Government Records Retention Schedules", 2016 edition as
revised periodically pursuant to law, a copy of which may be found at the
following website: http://nsla.nv.gov/Records/Local/Retention_Schedules/.
      3.   The respective retention periods that are established in those
documents shall be the minimum periods for which the records of the City must
be retained, excluding judicial records and other documents of the Municipal
Court.
   D.   Retention Schedules Established By City; Approval: The City may
establish periods of retention longer than those designated by the State for
any particular class of record. Further, the City may establish retention
schedules for any record not addressed by the State's schedules. Any schedule
proposed to be established pursuant to this subsection D shall be submitted to
the City Council by the City Clerk/City Administrator for approval. Such
approval shall be accomplished by ordinance.
   E.   Disposition Of Judicial Records: The disposition of judicial records
and other documents of the Municipal Court 1  shall be governed by the Minimum
Records Retention Schedule as adopted by the Supreme Court of Nevada effective
August 22, 1988 and including amendments through March 1, 2016.
      1.   Such schedule shall be the system of records management for
Municipal Court to be implemented by the court's staff. A copy of the Minimum
Records Retention Schedule may be found at https://www.leg.state.nv.us/
CourtRules/MRRS.html.
      2.   The method of documenting the destruction of court records shall be
as provided in subsection B of this section.
   F.   Authorization Required: No employee or department may dispose of any
public records without first meeting the requirements of the retention period
established herein and having obtained authorization from the City Clerk/City
Administrator for the destruction.
   G.   Permanent Record: The City Clerk/City Administrator's Office shall
maintain a copy of all disposal records, as a permanent record. (Ord. 706, 8-
10-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 239.110(1).
1-9-5: FEE SCHEDULE:
   A.   Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 239.052, the City shall post the
following charges for non-judicial public records requested pursuant to this
chapter in a conspicuous place at City Hall:
Document Type Service Provided Fee
                               (Per Unit)
Document Type       Service Provided                        Fee
                                                            (Per Unit)
Minutes             No fee will be charged for copies of    No fee
                    minutes in any format1
                    No charge for 7 calendar days after the
Agenda with backup  meeting2. Per page fee after 7 calendar $0.50
                    days following the meeting3
   Please note: All items above are available free of
charge on the City of Ely's website found at http://
www.elycity.com/4 from approximately 2013 to present. Per    
NRS 241.020(6) there is no charge for production of agendas
and backup material if a request is made to the City to be
provided those documents
Black and white     Routine search and copy only (photos on
documents/photos    regular copy paper)                     0.50
(non- custom)
Color documents/    Routine search and copy only (photos on 0.50
photos (non-custom) regular copy paper)
                                                            Charge for actual
Compact disk, DVD,                                          cost of media
other audio or                                             provided by the
video media                                                 City (excluding
                                                            meetings)
Research fee                                                Charged at the
(extraordinary use  Fee is assessed in 30-minute increments actual hourly rate
of personnel or     after the first 30 minutes              of the position
technology)5                                                required to conduct
                                                            the research6
Extraordinary copy  Fee is assessed in per page increments  $ 0.50 per page
fee
Medical records
(Fire Department                                           0.60
only)
City Engineer's     Maps, plats, and blue print copies      10.00
Office
 
Notes:
      1.    NRS 241.035(5).
      2.    NRS 241.020(6).
      3.    NRS 241.035 only requires a free copy of minutes and audio
recording of the meeting following the meeting, therefore, requests for
documents from that meeting, requested after the meeting, would be considered a
public records request and billed accordingly.
      4.    NRS 241.010(8) and (9).
      5.    NRS 239.055.
      6.    An estimate will be provided to the requestor if it is determined
extraordinary research is required.
   B.   Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 239.052, the City shall post the
following charges for judicial public records requested pursuant to this
chapter in a conspicuous place at the Municipal Court:
 
Document Type            Service                    Fee
                                                    (Per Unit)
Seal of the Court                                  $3.00
Record (proceeding or                              0.50
paper)
                                                    Charged at the actual
Research court records   Per hour charge, in office hourly rate of the position
                         only                       required to conduct the
                                                    research1
Certified copies of
conviction (non-judicial                           $2.50
requests)
                         Charge for actual cost of
                         media provided by the      Charged at the actual
Compact disk, DVD, other court as well as, 1any     hourly rate of the position
audio or video media     research of court records  required to conduct the
                         identified above, fee is   research1
                         assessed in 30-minute
                         increments
 
   Note:
      1.    An estimate will be provided to the requestor if it is determined
extraordinary research is required.
(Ord. 706, 8-10-2017)
CHAPTER 10
RECORDING DEVICES IN CITY HALL
SECTION:
1-10-1: Recording Devices
1-10-2: Recording Conversations
1-10-3: Exceptions
1-10-4: Penalties
1-10-1: RECORDING DEVICES:
It shall be prohibited for any person to enter city hall with an audio and/or
video recording device without first obtaining the written permission of the
city clerk/treasurer. (Ord. 617, 3-22-2007)
1-10-2: RECORDING CONVERSATIONS:
It shall be prohibited for any person to record any conversations of employees,
officers or citizens of the city of Ely within city hall unless permission from
that person is obtained and said permission is stated and/or recognized on the
recording by the person(s) being recorded. (Ord. 617, 3-22-2007)
1-10-3: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Recording devices brought into city hall for the sole purpose of
recording public meetings as required by Nevada Revised Statutes 266.250 or any
other relevant law that requires various meetings and/or discussions to be
recorded.
   B.   A law enforcement officer conducting a criminal investigation.
   C.   A public news conference or similar event.
   D.   A reporter/employee of an established newspaper, radio station,
television station or other similar entity involved in interviewing employees/
officers/citizens for the purpose of a news article or story may bring in an
audio or video recording device into city hall without obtaining the permission
of the city clerk/treasurer, but must first obtain the required authorization
of the employee/officer/citizen as noted in section
1-10-2 of this chapter prior to recording any conversations. (Ord. 617, 3-22-
2007)
1-10-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   For a first offense of either section
1-10-1 or
1-10-2 of this chapter within a three (3) year period, the person so violating
shall be fined in an amount not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   For a second offense of either section
1-10-1 or
1-10-2 of this chapter within a three (3) year period, the person so violating
shall be fined in an amount not to exceed seventy five dollars ($75.00).
   C.   For a third or subsequent offense of either section
1-10-1 or
1-10-2 of this chapter within a three (3) year period, the person so violating
shall be fined in an amount not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord.
617, 3-22-2007)
Chapter 11
AMBULANCE SERVICE FRANCHISE
1-11-1:    Ambulance Service Defined
1-11-2:    Geographic Area Served
1-11-3:    State Permits And County Franchise Required
1-11-4:    Exemptions From Franchise Requirements
1-11-5:    Exclusive Nature Of Franchise
1-11-6:    Application For Franchise
1-11-7:    Public Hearing Required Prior To Grant Of Exclusive Franchise
1-11-8:    Franchise Duration
1-11-9:    Franchisee Responsibilities
1-11-10: Ambulance Fees
1-11-11: Termination Of Franchise
1-11-12: General Provisions
1-11-13: Legal Compliance
1-11-1: AMBULANCE SERVICE DEFINED:
"Ambulance service" means any person, governmental unit, corporation,
partnership, sole proprietorship or other entity that operates ambulances and
that holds itself out as providing prehospital care or medical transportation
to persons who are ill, injured, have disabilities, or otherwise require or
request prehospital care or medical transportation. (Ord. 720, 4-11-2020)
1-11-2: GEOGRAPHIC AREA SERVED:
The geographic area of the exclusive franchise for the City of Ely shall be the
boundaries of the incorporated city limits of the City of Ely. (Ord. 720, 4-11-
2020)
1-11-3: STATE PERMITS AND COUNTY FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
No person, governmental unit, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship or
other entity shall furnish, operate, conduct, maintain, advertise, or otherwise
be engaged in or profess to be engaged in the provision of ambulance service
within the incorporated City of Ely limits, unless the person, governmental
unit, corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship or other entity holds a
valid permit for each ambulance used in such business or service issued by the
Nevada Department of Health and Human Services, Division of Public and
Behavioral Health, Emergency Medical Systems, and has been granted a franchise
for the operation of such business or service by the City of Ely, pursuant to
this chapter. (Ord. 720, 4-11-2020)
1-11-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Any entity requested by the City of Ely to render assistance in the
case of major catastrophe, mutual aid, or emergency with which the services by
the County are insufficient or unable to cope.
   B.   Any entity operated from a location or headquarters outside of the
County in order to transport patients who are picked up beyond the limits of
the County, to facilities located within the City.
   C.   Ambulances owned and operated by an agency of the United States
government.
   D.   Ambulances owned and operated by the City of Ely.
   E.   Ambulances owned by the City of Ely and operated by another government
unit pursuant to interlocal or mutual aid agreement delegating the City of
Ely's authority to provide ambulance service within the City of Ely. (Ord. 720,
4-11-2020)
1-11-5: EXCLUSIVE NATURE OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Any entity granted a franchise for ambulance service by the City of Ely
shall, for the duration of the franchise, hold an exclusive right to be the
only entity authorized to provide the ambulance service in the City of Ely or
specific geographic area with the exception of ambulance service provided by
the City of Ely or by another government unit operating City-owned ambulances
pursuant to interlocal or mutual aid agreement delegating the City's authority
to provide ambulance service within the City of Ely.
   B.   The franchisee, its successors or assigns, with the agreement of the
City of Ely authorizing the assignment of the franchise shall have the
privilege of providing ambulance service within the provisions of this chapter
for the geographic area defined subject to the limitations now or hereafter
provided by law. (Ord. 720, 4-11-2020)
1-11-6: APPLICATION FOR FRANCHISE:
   A.   Applications for a franchise to provide ambulance service in the City
of Ely shall be made by the applicant and shall contain:
         1.   The name and address of the applicant/proposed ambulance service
provider and the owner of the ambulance(s).
         2.   The trade or other fictitious name, if any, under which the
applicant does business, along with a certified copy of an assumed name
certificate stating such name or articles of incorporation stating such name.
         3.   A resume of the training and experience of the applicant in the
transportation and care of patients.
         4.   A full description of the type and level of service to be
provided including the location of the places from which the applicant intends
to operate, the manner in which the public will be able to obtain assistance,
and how the vehicles will be dispatched. An annual audited financial statement
of the applicant as such statement pertains to the operations in the County,
shall be filed with the City of Ely within sixty (60) calendar days following
its fiscal period; such financial statement shall be in such form and in such
detail as may be required by the County.
         5.   A description of the applicant's ability to provide service; how
many hours a day the service will be available; how many days a week the
service will be available (the City of Ely prefers twenty-four (24) hour, seven
(7) day a week service) for the area covered by the franchise applied for and
an area estimate of the minimum and maximum response time for a call within
such area.
         6.   Any information the City of Ely shall deem reasonably necessary
for a fair determination of the capability of the applicant to provide
ambulance service in the incorporated city, in accordance with the requirements
of State laws and the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   An application for an exclusive franchise for ambulance service shall
be accompanied by an application fee to be established and amended as needed by
the Ely City Council by resolution.
   C.   Any person or entity seeking an exclusive franchise to provide
ambulance service within the City of Ely shall submit the application package
and application fee to the City of Ely. (Ord. 720, 4-11-2020)
1-11-7: PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED PRIOR TO GRANT OF EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE:
   A.   Within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt of an application for a
franchise, the City Clerk shall schedule a time and place for hearing the
applicant. The public hearing shall be noticed in a newspaper of general
circulation within White Pine County, twice, not less than ten (10) business
days prior to the hearing date and the notice shall include the date, time, and
place of the public hearing, the name and address of the applicant, the
services to be provided, and the geographic area to be served.
   B.   The City shall cause such investigation as it may deem necessary to be
made of the applicant and the applicant's proposed operation.
   C.   A franchise may be granted by the City Council if it finds, during the
public meeting, that:
      1.   The applicant meets State standards outlined in this chapter;
      2.   The proposed service will fit within existing services so as not to
adversely affect the level of service or operations of other services within
the City;
      3.   A need exists for the proposed services in order to improve the
level of ambulance services available to residents of the City and that this is
a reasonable cost-effective manner of meeting the need.
   D.   Within thirty (30) calendar days after the public hearing, the City
Council shall issue a decision either granting, conditionally granting, or
denying the franchise to the applicant.
   E.   The franchise granted under this chapter shall not become effective
until a written agreement is entered into between the applicant and City
Council. (Ord. 720, 4-11-2020)
1-11-8: FRANCHISE DURATION:
The franchise shall be granted for a period of five (5) years with an option
for renewal of an additional five (5) years as an exclusive franchised service
to that person or entity offering the best and most advantageous terms to the
City of Ely. (Ord. 720, 4-11-2020)
1-11-9: FRANCHISEE RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Scope Of Work: The franchise agreement shall specify the duties to be
conducted by the franchisee, its successors and assigns, when and if approved
by the Ely City Council, within the incorporated City limits.
   B.   Accountability: The franchisee, its successors and assigns, when and if
approved by the Ely City Council shall be responsible to the City Council or
its designee, as defined in the franchise agreement.
   C.   Records: The franchisee, its successors and assigns, when and if
approved by the Ely City Council, shall be required to keep itemized accounts
of all collections received under the privileges of this franchise, including
the date the fee was charged, the amount of the fee, the date the fee was
collected, and from whom the fee was collected; and allow the City Council or
its designee to inspect, at all reasonable times, the books and records
pertaining to all business done under the franchise at any time.
   D.   City Non-Liability Guarantee, Insurance: The franchisee, its agents,
successors and assigns, if and when approved by the Ely City Council, shall be
required to guarantee that in the exercise of duties under the franchise, every
reasonable and proper precaution to avoid damage or injury to persons or
property shall be used, and that the franchisee shall, at all times and under
all circumstances, hold and save the City harmless from each and all such
damage, injury, loss or expense caused or occasioned by reason of any act or
failure to act of the franchisee, its officers, agents and employees. The
franchisee, its successors and assigns if and when approved by the Ely City
Council, further agrees that if the City is sued by any person or entity of any
kind to recover damages for injury to any person or property on account of
actions during performance of duties under the franchise, the franchisee, its
successors and assigns shall defend all such suits and pay all judgment or
judgments any court or courts may enter in such suits. Further, it shall be
required to provide liability insurance in an amount of at least two million
dollars ($2,000,000.00) per incident and four million dollars ($4,000,000.00)
in the aggregate, unless amended by the City Council in an appropriate
resolution, and shall provide the City with proof of such insurance, including
a complete copy of the insurance policy and not just the declarations page.
   E.   Franchisee Bond: The franchisee, its successors and assigns, when and
if approved by the City Council shall be required to provide a performance bond
or time certificate in the amount specified in the franchise agreement to
assure faithful performance of the requirements of the franchise. Said bond or
time certificate shall be subject to the approval of the City Attorney.
   F.   Administrative Fee: The franchisee, its successors and assigns shall
pay to the City an annual administrative fee to be specified in the franchise
agreement to cover the City's costs to administer and monitor the franchise
agreement. (Ord. 720, 4-11-2020)
1-11-10: AMBULANCE FEES:
   A.   The franchise agreement shall specify the maximum fees that can be
charged for services, which must be approved by the City Council in a public
meeting.
   B.   Amendments to the fees specified in the franchise agreement must be
approved by the City Council by resolution and only following a public hearing.
(Ord. 720, 4-11-2020)
1-11-11: TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE:
The franchisee, its successors and assigns, if applicable, shall be required to
agree that in the event the franchisee fails to perform any condition of the
franchise, or fails to abide by all laws, rules and regulations pertaining to
the franchise, or becomes bankrupt or insolvent, the City shall have the right
to terminate the franchise and the franchise agreement so awarded if the
franchisee fails to correct the deficiency within thirty (30) calendar days
after receipt of written notice from the City of the breach. (Ord. 720, 4-11-
2020)
1-11-12: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   This franchise shall be subject to the provisions of the United States
and Nevada Constitutions, the laws of the State and all ordinances enacted by
the City of Ely, Nevada.
   B.   The franchisee shall be required to agree that no assignment of the
franchise shall be made without the written consent of the City Council being
first had and obtained during a public meeting.
   C.   The City reserves the right to alter and amend this chapter in any
manner necessary for the safety or welfare of the public, or to protect public
interests, and to cancel the franchise for failure to perform in accordance
with this chapter and the franchise agreement. (Ord. 720, 4-11-2020)
1-11-13: LEGAL COMPLIANCE:
Franchisee shall comply at all times with the requirements of this chapter, the
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the franchise agreement, and all
applicable State and local laws relating to health, sanitation, safety,
equipment, ambulance design, and all other laws and ordinances. (Ord. 720, 4-
11-2020)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Established
2-1-2: Authority
2-1-3: Membership
2-1-4: Term
2-1-5: Qualifications
2-1-6: Removal
2-1-7: Vacancies
2-1-8: Compensation; Expenses
2-1-9: Officers
2-1-10: Appropriations And Expenditures
2-1-11: Meetings
2-1-12: Duties
2-1-13: Reports; Recommendations
2-1-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established and created a city planning commission. (Ord. 638,
3-11-2010)
2-1-2: AUTHORITY:
The commission is hereby authorized to act for and on behalf of the city of Ely
as a planning commission which shall fulfill all of the duties and functions of
a planning commission as set forth in chapter 278 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes and all applicable sections of this code. (Ord. 638, 3-11-2010)
2-1-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The membership of the city planning commission shall consist of five (5)
members. The members shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the
city council. The members must not be members of the governing body of the
city. (Ord. 638, 3-11-2010)
2-1-4: TERM:
The term of each member is four (4) years, or until his successor takes office
and shall expire on December 31 of their respective years. The terms of the
members shall be overlapping and the membership of the city planning commission
first appointed shall include two (2) members for two (2) years and three (3)
members for four (4) years. (Ord. 638, 3-11-2010)
2-1-5: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Residency: All of the members of the city planning commission shall
reside within the incorporated limits of the city of Ely.
   B.   Public Office: No more than one member of the city planning commission
shall hold another public office. (Ord. 638, 3-11-2010)
2-1-6: REMOVAL:
Members of the city planning commission may be removed, after public hearing,
by a majority vote of the governing body for just cause, which includes, but is
not limited to, inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance or misfeasance of
office. (Ord. 638, 3-11-2010)
2-1-7: VACANCIES:
Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term of office
shall be filled for the unexpired term. (Ord. 638, 3-11-2010)
2-1-8: COMPENSATION; EXPENSES:
Members of the city planning commission shall serve without compensation,
except for reasonable travel expenses made necessary in the fulfillment of
their official duties. Travel expenses will be paid at the same amounts as is
paid to any other officer or employee of the city. Members of the city planning
commission are not eligible for any other benefits which are provided to
employees and officers of the city. (Ord. 638, 3-11-2010)
2-1-9: OFFICERS:
   A.   Chairman: The commission shall elect its chairman at its first meeting
in January of each year from among the appointed members. The term of the
chairman shall be one year, with eligibility for reelection. The first chairman
shall be elected for the remainder of the year until the commission's first
meeting in January. (Ord. 638, 3-11-2010)
2-1-10: APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Appropriations: The city is authorized to appropriate from the funds
received by the city from general taxation or other sources, money for the
expenses of the city planning commission.
   B.   Expenditures: The city planning commission shall have no authority to
expend any funds of the city in excess of those budgeted and appropriated. The
city planning commission may negotiate and receive gifts, federal, state or
private grants or other funds with the approval of the city council and may
expend the same only within the total amounts as acquired, budgeted and
authorized. (Ord. 638, 3-11-2010)
2-1-11: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular business meetings of the city planning
commission shall be held on the fourth Thursday of every month beginning at two
o'clock (2:00) P.M.; provided, that in the event any such day is a nonjudicial
day, the meeting shall be set at the meeting prior, but will be held as close
as possible in time to that date. Additional meetings may be held as
circumstances may require or render desirable for the performance of its
functions and the proper discharge of its duties and responsibilities.
   B.   Quorum: A majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum for the
purpose of transacting business. Action by the city planning commission shall
be by a majority vote.
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The city planning commission shall adopt rules and
regulations for the conduct of its business not inconsistent with applicable
state laws or this code.
   D.   Records: The city planning commission shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a
public record. (Ord. 638, 3-11-2010)
2-1-12: DUTIES:
The city planning commission shall prepare and adopt a master plan setting
forth a comprehensive, long term general plan for the physical development of
the city pursuant to the master plan provisions set forth in chapter 278 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes, and shall perform such other duties, functions and
powers as provided by state law and this code. (Ord. 638, 3-11-2010)
2-1-13: REPORTS; RECOMMENDATIONS:
   A.   Reports: The city planning commission shall make a report of its
findings, determinations or recommendations to the city council on all
applications or matters considered by such planning commission, for final
action or disposition by the city council of the city, as may be authorized
under applicable law or ordinance.
   B.   Recommendations: No recommendation of the city planning commission
shall be binding on the city council. (Ord. 638, 3-11-2010)
CHAPTER 2
UTILITIES BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Created
2-2-2: Membership; Appointment
2-2-3: Qualifications
2-2-4: Term; Removal
2-2-5: Compensation; Expenses
2-2-6: Vacancies
2-2-7: Management Responsibilities
2-2-8: Employees
2-2-9: Records And Accounting
2-2-10: Powers And Obligations
2-2-11: Reports
2-2-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created the Ely municipal utilities board, to be managed by a
board of utility commissioners, hereinafter called the "board". (Ord. 672, 8-
13-2015)
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
The board shall be five (5) in number, no more than three (3) of which may be
contractors (construction, plumbing, air conditioning/heating or related), to
be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council.
(Ord. 672, 8-13-2015)
2-2-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Council Membership: No member of the present city council shall be
named to serve on the board during his or her term of office, nor within one
year after he or she shall cease to be a member of the city council.
   B.   Residency; Public Office: Members of the board shall be actual, bona
fide residents and domicilaries of the city of Ely for not less than six (6)
months before their appointment, and shall continue to be actual, bona fide
residents and domicilaries of the city of Ely during all of their respective
terms of office. (Ord. 557, 12-5-2002, eff. 12-27-2002)
2-2-4: TERM; REMOVAL:
Members of the board shall be appointed for a term of four (4) years, provided,
however, that as to the first appointments made after the effective date hereof
for the two (2) new members, one member shall be appointed to serve for two (2)
years, one member shall be appointed for a term of three (3) years. Should more
than two (2) members' terms expire during any one calendar year, then the mayor
may appoint a member for an odd numbered year term (i.e., 1 year, 3 year), such
terms to be designated at the time of their appointment. (Ord. 672, 8-13-2015)
Members of the board may be removed by a majority vote of the city council,
with the mayor having power to exercise the right to veto and the city council
having the power to override the mayor's veto as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 266.200. (Ord. 557, 12-5-2002, eff. 12-27-2002)
2-2-5: COMPENSATION; EXPENSES:
   A.   Compensation: The commissioners shall be compensated at a rate to be
determined by the city council. Such compensation shall be reviewed annually
based upon the city fiscal year, and may be adjusted by resolution of the city
council.
   B.   Expenses: In addition to such compensation, the commissioners shall be
allowed reasonable travel expenses made necessary in the fulfillment of the
duties hereinafter outlined. (Ord. 520, 11-6-1997; amd. 2001 Code)
2-2-6: VACANCIES:
Vacancies on the board caused other than through the expiration of a term shall
be filled for the unexpired portion of that term. (Ord. 557, 12-5-2002, eff.
12-27-2002)
2-2-7: MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES:
The primary role of the board shall be to act in an advisory capacity to the
city council and to oversee the operations of the utilities provided by the
city. The board shall initially hear and consider matters within its
jurisdiction and shall refer its recommendations and decisions to the city
council for review and final action.
Except as otherwise set forth in this chapter, and subject to the city
council's direction and control, the board shall have the power to manage and
operate the following utilities provided by the city of Ely:
   A.   The Ely water department;
   B.   The Ely sewer department; and
   C.   The Ely regional landfill.
All actions, decisions and recommendations of the board must be referred to the
city council for further consideration, at which time the city council must
specifically ratify or reject, but may modify, amend and pass, any action,
decision and/or recommendation made by the board. On all issues, the mayor
shall have the power of veto, and the city council shall have the power to
override the mayor's veto, all as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.200.
(Ord. 557, 12-5-2002, eff. 12-27-2002)
2-2-8: EMPLOYEES:
The board may employ its own office, technical and/or engineering assistants,
legal counsel and any other person deemed necessary for the accomplishment of
the goals and objectives of the board. The board may, at its option, share such
personnel with the city of Ely as may be mutually beneficial. All employees of
the board shall be considered employees of the city of Ely. (Ord. 557, 12-5-
2002, eff. 12-27-2002)
2-2-9: RECORDS AND ACCOUNTING:
   A.   Books Of Account: Proper books of account shall be kept by the city
treasurer showing receipts and disbursements, which shall be subject to
periodic audit, and the treasurer shall furnish to the board monthly balance
sheets and such other financial data as they may direct.
   B.   Funds: All funds received by the board shall be deposited, to the
credit of the city treasurer, in such bank or banks as the treasurer shall deem
appropriate, and shall be kept by the treasurer in identified enterprise funds
which shall be kept separate from the general fund of the city. (Ord. 520, 11-
6-1997; amd. 2001 Code)
2-2-10: POWERS AND OBLIGATIONS:
Subject to the right and power of the city council to ratify or reject, or to
modify or amend and pass, any and all actions taken, and/or decisions and
recommendations made, by the board, with the power of veto by the mayor and the
power of override by the city council, the board shall have the following
particular powers and/or obligations:
   A.   To review and consider contracts for engineering advice and services as
and when required.
   B.   To review and consider the purchase, sale or exchange of real or
personal property as and when deemed expedient for the furtherance of the
operations of each respective department within the jurisdiction of the board.
   C.   At the request and/or direction of the city council, review and
consider rates to be charged for the services provided through the board, which
shall cover the actual cost of providing water, sewer and landfill services and
the administrative cost of the board, together with reserves required by any
funding agreements. All rates must be finally approved by the city council,
with the power of veto by the mayor and the power of override by the city
council. The city council shall have the power to change rates recommended by
the board and/or to initiate new rates.
   D.   To review and consider such matters which are within the jurisdiction
of the board as may be referred to the board by the city council.
   E.   To do and perform such other acts and things as may be appropriate and
not in conflict with the ordinances of the city of Ely and the laws of the
state of Nevada in the furtherance of providing water, sewer and landfill
services to the people served by the utilities provided by the city. (Ord. 557,
12-5-2002, eff. 12-27-2002)
2-2-11: REPORTS:
The board shall from time to time, as it shall deem desirable or upon the
request therefor by the council, submit reports, either written or oral, to the
council regarding its activities and operations. (Ord. 520, 11-6-1997; amd.
2001 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TREE BOARD
SECTION:
2-3-1: Board Created; Membership
2-3-2: Term; Vacancy
2-3-3: Compensation
2-3-4: Duties And Responsibilities
2-3-5: Operation
2-3-6: Public Tree Protection
2-3-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
There is hereby created and established a tree board for the city which shall
consist of five (5) members, citizens and residents of the city, who shall be
appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council. (Ord.
524, 9-10-1998; amd. Ord. 603, 2-12-2004; Ord. 742, 6-24-2021)
2-3-2: TERM; VACANCY:
The term of the five (5) persons to be appointed by the mayor shall be three
(3) years except that the term of one of the members appointed to the first
board shall be for only one year and the term of one of the members of the
first board shall be for two (2) years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur
during the term of any member, his successor shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion of that term. All terms shall expire December 31st of the
respective year. (Ord. 524, 9-10-1998; amd. Ord. 603, 2-12-2004; Ord. 742, 6-
24-2021)
2-3-3: COMPENSATION:
Members of the board shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 524, 9-10-1998)
2-3-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Tree Plan: It shall be the responsibility of the board to study,
investigate, counsel and develop and/or update and administer a written plan
for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, removal or disposition of trees
and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public areas. Such plan will
be presented annually to the city council and upon the council's acceptance and
approval shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan for the
city.
   B.   Special Matters: The board, when requested by the city council, shall
consider, investigate, make findings, reports and recommendations upon any
special matters of question coming within the scope of its work. (Ord. 524, 9-
10-1998)
2-3-5: OPERATION:
The board shall be subject to the provisions of the Nevada open meeting law.
The board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and regulations,
subject to approval by the city council, and keep a journal of its proceedings.
A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
(Ord. 524, 9-10-1998)
2-3-6: PUBLIC TREE PROTECTION:
No person shall damage, transplant, top, remove or mutilate any public tree
without the consent of the Ely city council. All planting, care, maintenance
and removal of public trees shall be in accordance with the standards
established by the International Society of Arboriculture (ISA). (Ord. 619, 6-
28-2007)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-4-1: Board Created; Membership
2-4-2: Term
2-4-3: Qualifications
2-4-4: Compensation
2-4-5: Removal
2-4-6: Vacancies
2-4-7: Officers
2-4-8: Appropriations And Expenditures
2-4-9: Meetings
2-4-10: Duties
2-4-11: Reports; Recommendations
2-4-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   There is hereby created and established an Animal Control Advisory
Board for the City which shall consist of five (5) members who shall be
appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
   B.   The Animal Control Liaison from the City Council shall be seated as a
non-voting member of this board and shall attend all meetings of this board.
(Ord. 712, 5-10-2018)
2-4-2: TERM:
The term of each member is four (4) years, or until a successor is appointed
and approved to take office. All terms shall expire on December 31 of the
respective year. The terms of the members shall be overlapping and the
membership of the Animal Control Advisory Board's initial appointment shall
include two (2) members for two (2) years (1 appointee from the City and 1
appointee from the County) and three (3) members for four (4) years. (Ord. 712,
5-10-2018)
2-4-3: QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Residency: Three (3) members shall be from the City of Ely and two (2)
members shall be from the unincorporated White Pine County, unless there are
not enough qualified applicants from each jurisdiction. All members must be a
citizen of and bona fide resident of either the City of Ely or unincorporated
White Pine County for a period of not less than one year prior to their
appointment to the Animal Control Advisory Board.
   B.   Public Office: No member of the Animal Control Advisory Board shall
hold an elected office in either the City of Ely or White Pine County. (Ord.
712, 5-10-2018)
2-4-4: COMPENSATION:
Members of the board shall serve without compensation or benefits. (Ord. 712,
5-10-2018)
2-4-5: REMOVAL:
Members of the Animal Control Advisory Board shall serve at the pleasure of the
Mayor and may be removed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 266.415 and in
event of a mayoral veto, as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 266.200 or may
be removed, after public hearing, by a majority vote of the Governing Body for
just cause, which includes, but is not limited to, inefficiency, neglect of
duty, or malfeasance or misfeasance of office. (Ord. 712, 5-10-2018)
2-4-6: VACANCIES:
Vacancies occurring other than through the expiration of term of office shall
be filled for the unexpired term. (Ord. 712, 5-10-2018)
2-4-7: OFFICERS:
   A.   Chair: The Animal Control Advisory Board shall elect its Chair at its
first meeting in January of each year from the appointed members. The term of
the Chair shall be one year, with eligibility for reelection. The first Chair
shall be elected for the remainder of the year until the Animal Control
Advisory Board's first meeting in January.
   B.   Vice Chair: The Animal Control Advisory Board shall elect its Vice-
Chair at its first meeting in January of each year from the appointed members.
The term of the Vice-Chair shall be one year, with eligibility for reelection.
The first Vice-Chair shall be elected for the remainder of the year until the
Animal Control Advisory Board's first meeting in January. (Ord. 712, 5-10-2018)
2-4-8: APPROPRIATIONS AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Appropriations: The City is authorized to appropriate from the funds
received by the City from general taxation or other sources, money for the
expenses of the Animal Control Advisory Board, if approved by the City Council.
   B.   Expenditures: The Animal Control Advisory Board shall have no authority
to expend any funds of the City in excess of those budgeted and appropriated
for use by the Animal Control Advisory Board. The Animal Control Advisory Board
may negotiate and receive gifts, Federal, State or private grants or other
funds with the approval of the City Council and may expend the same only within
the total amounts as acquired, budgeted and authorized. (Ord. 712, 5-10-2018)
2-4-9: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular business meetings of the Animal Control
Advisory Board shall be held on the fourth Thursday of every month beginning at
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.; provided, that in the event any such day is a
nonjudicial day, the meeting shall be set at the meeting prior, but will be
held as close as possible in time to that date. Additional meetings may be held
as circumstances may require or render desirable for the performance of its
functions and the proper discharge of its duties and responsibilities and as
authorized by the Mayor.
   B.   Quorum: A majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum for the
purpose of transacting business. Action by the Animal Control Advisory Board
shall be by a majority vote.
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The Animal Control Advisory Board shall comply with
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 241, Meetings of State and Local Agencies and
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 281A, Ethics in Government, when conducting its
meetings.
   D.   Records: The Animal Control Advisory Board shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a
public record.
   E.   Secretary: The Secretary to the Animal Control Advisory Board shall be
appointed by the City Clerk/City Administrator and shall be responsible for the
posting of agendas and the taking and transcribing of minutes. Members may
request agenda items pertaining to animal control issues be placed on the next
agenda by communicating with the Secretary.
   F.   Legal Advisor: The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor to the
Animal Control Advisory Board and shall attend all meetings to provide guidance
and legal advice and may provide legal advice either in writing or verbally.
(Ord. 712, 5-10-2018)
2-4-10: DUTIES:
The Animal Control Advisory Board may consider and advise the City Council on
matters arising out of Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 574 and title 5, chapter
3 of this Code. The Animal Control Advisory Board is not a society for purposes
of and as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 574.010 to 574.040 (inclusive).
(Ord. 712, 5-10-2018)
2-4-11: REPORTS; RECOMMENDATIONS:
   A.   Reports: The Animal Control Advisory Board may make a report of its
findings, determinations or recommendations to the City Council on any matters
considered by the Animal Control Advisory Board, for final action or
disposition by the City Council of the City.
   B.   Recommendations: No recommendation of the Animal Control Advisory Board
shall be binding on the City Council. (Ord. 712, 5-10-2018)
CHAPTER 5
REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Planning District
2-5-2: Establishment And Authority
2-5-3: Membership
2-5-4: Term Of Members, Removal, And Vacancies
2-5-5: Compensation And Expenses
2-5-6: Budget, Appropriations, And Expenditures
2-5-7: Chairperson, Officers, And Employees
2-5-8: Meetings, Rules, And Records
2-5-9: Duties
2-5-10: Authority, Appeal To Governing Bodies
2-5-11:    Reformation Or Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances
2-5-12:    Adoption Of Ordinance
2-5-13:    Severability
2-5-1:    PLANNING DISTRICT:
White Pine County, Nevada and the incorporated City of Ely, Nevada are hereby
declared to be part of a Regional Planning District, the boundaries of which
district shall be the boundaries of White Pine County, Nevada, including the
incorporated City of Ely, Nevada. (Ord. 726, 9-12-2019)
2-5-2: ESTABLISHMENT AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Effective January 1, 2020, there is hereby established and created a
Regional Planning Commission. White Pine County and the City of Ely shall be
represented on the Regional Planning Commission.   
   B.   The Regional Planning Commission is hereby authorized to act for and on
behalf of White Pine County and the City of Ely as a Planning Commission which
shall fulfill all of the duties and functions of a Planning Commission as set
forth in Chapter 278 of the Nevada Revised Statutes and all applicable sections
of the White Pine County Code and the City Code of the City of Ely. (Ord. 726,
9-12-2019)
2-5-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The Regional Planning Commission shall consist of six (6) members, three (3) of
whom shall be appointed by the Mayor of the City of Ely, with the approval of
the Ely City Council and three (3) of whom shall be appointed with the approval
of the White Pine County Board of County Commissioners. (Ord. 726, 9-12-2019)
2-5-4: TERM OF MEMBERS, REMOVAL, AND VACANCIES:
   A.   The term of office for members shall be four (4) years and shall expire
on December 31 of their respective years.
   B.   The terms of the members shall be overlapping and the membership of the
Regional Planning Commission first appointed to represent White Pine County and
the City of Ely shall include two (2) members, one (1) from the County and one
(1) from the City, who will serve three (3) years, and one (1) member, selected
by the County, who will serve a term of two (2) years, and one (1) member,
selected by the City, who will serve a term of one (1) year.
   C.   Members appointed by the White Pine County Board of County
Commissioners may be removed, after public hearing if requested, by a majority
vote of the White Pine County Board of County Commissioners, for inefficiency,
neglect of duty, malfeasance of office, or conduct detrimental to the Regional
Planning Commission or any of its governing bodies.
   D.   Members appointed by the Ely City Council may be removed, after public
hearing if requested, by a majority vote of the Ely City Council, for
inefficiency, neglect of duty, malfeasance of office or conduct detrimental to
the Regional Planning Commission or any of its governing bodies.
   E.   Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term of
office shall be filled for the unexpired term.
   F.   No more than one-third (1/3) of the members of the Regional Planning
Commission may hold any other public office. Accordingly, only one (1) member
appointed by the County and only one (1) member appointed by the City may hold
any other public office. (Ord. 726, 9-12-2019)
2-5-5: COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES:
Members of the Regional Planning Commission shall serve without compensation,
except for reasonable travel expenses made necessary in the fulfillment of
their official duties. (Ord. 726, 9-12-2019)
2-5-6: BUDGET, APPROPRIATIONS, AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   The Regional Planning Commission shall prepare an annual budget
containing a detailed estimate of expenditures, and transmit copies thereof to
the budget officers of White Pine County and the City of Ely for their use in
complying with the provisions of the local government budget act.
   B.   White Pine County is hereby authorized independently or in
collaboration with the City of Ely, to appropriate from the funds received by
the County from general taxation or other sources, money for the expenses of
the Regional Planning Commission.
   C.   The City of Ely is hereby authorized independently or in collaboration
with White Pine County, to appropriate from the funds received by the City from
general taxation or other sources, money for the expenses of the Regional
Planning Commission.
   D.   The Regional Planning Commission shall have no authority to expend any
funds of White Pine County or the City of Ely in excess of those budgeted and
appropriated. The Regional Planning Commission may negotiate and receive gifts,
Federal or State grants, or other funds and may expend the same only within the
total amounts as acquired, budgeted and authorized.
   E.   White Pine County and the City of Ely shall not be chargeable with any
expense incurred by the Regional Planning Commission except pursuant to such
authorized appropriations and the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 726, 9-12-
2019)
2-5-7: CHAIRPERSON, OFFICERS, AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   The Regional Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson from its own
members, and the term of such elected Chairperson shall be one (1) year, with
eligibility for re-election to successive terms.
   B.   The Regional Planning Commission shall create and fill such other
offices as it may deem necessary.
   C.   The Regional Planning Commission shall have the power to employ
experts, clerks and a secretary, and to pay for their services and such other
expenses as may be necessary and proper, not exceeding, in all, the annual
appropriation that may be made by White Pine County and the City of Ely for the
Regional Planning Commission, together with such other funds as may be
available through grant, gift or other means.   
   D.   White Pine County and the City of Ely are authorized to provide
professional planning services for the Regional Planning Commission by mutual
agreement.
   E.   Legal counsel for White Pine County and the City of Ely shall not serve
as de facto legal counsel for the Regional Planning Commission. (Ord. 726, 9-
12-2019)
2-5-8: MEETINGS, RULES, AND RECORDS:
   A.   The Regional Planning Commission shall hold at least one (1) regular
meeting in each month.
   B.   The first meeting of the Regional Planning Commission shall take place
during the first week of January, 2020, at a time and place arranged by the
members first appointed by the White Pine County Board of County Commissioners
and the Ely City Council. The frequency, time, and place of the Regional
Planning Commission's regular meetings shall be fixed by resolution at this
first meeting.
   C.   Additional meetings may be held as circumstances may require or render
desirable for the performance of its functions and the proper discharge of its
duties and responsibilities.
   D.   A majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of transacting business.   
   E.   Action by the Regional Planning Commission shall be by majority vote.
   F.   The Regional Planning Commission shall adopt rules and regulations for
the conduct of its business, not inconsistent with applicable State laws, the
White Pine County Code, or the City Code of the City of Ely.
   G.   The Regional Planning Commission shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a
public record. (Ord. 726, 9-12-2019)
2-5-9: DUTIES:
The Regional Planning Commission shall prepare and adopt a Master Plan setting
forth a comprehensive, long-term general plan for the physical development of
the White Pine County, including the City of Ely, pursuant to the Master Plan
provisions set forth in Chapter 278 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, and shall
perform such other duties, functions and powers as provided by State law, the
White Pine County Code, and the City Code of the City of Ely. (Ord. 726, 9-12-
2019)
2-5-10: AUTHORITY, APPEAL TO GOVERNING BODIES:
   A.   Authority Of Regional Planning Commission:
      1.   "Governing body," as used in this chapter, shall mean the Ely City
Council or the White Pine County Board of County Commissioners.
      2.   "Appropriate governing body," as used in this chapter, shall mean
the governing body wherein the property at issue sits within its jurisdiction.
      3.   Except for the limitations provided in this section, the Regional
Planning Commission shall be vested with the authority to make determinations
on all matters governed by Chapter 278 of the Nevada Revised Statutes vested in
the White Pine County Board of County Commissioners absent this provision.
      4.   Except for the limitations provided in this section, the Regional
Planning Commission shall be vested with the authority to make determinations
on all matters governed by Chapter 278 of the Nevada Revised Statutes vested in
the Ely City Council absent this provision.
      5.   The Regional Planning Commission is not vested with the authority to
vacate or abandon a street or easement owned by the City of Ely or White Pine
County pursuant to Chapter 278 of the Nevada Revised Statutes. The Regional
Planning Commission is likewise not vested with the authority to vacate,
abandon, sell, lease, convey, or otherwise dispose of or authorize the
encroachment upon any property owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the
City of Ely or White Pine County.
   B.   Appeal:
      1.   Any person or entity who is aggrieved by a decision of the Regional
Planning Commission may appeal the decision to the appropriate governing body.
      2.   A person or entity shall be deemed to be aggrieved section if the
person or entity appeared, either in person, through an authorized
representative or in writing, before the Regional Planning Commission on the
matter which is the subject of the decision.
      3.   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to divest a governing
body of the appeal authority granted to it, nor alter the appeal procedures
provided in Chapter 278 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
   C.   Appeal Procedure:
      1.   A person or entity seeking to appeal a decision of the Regional
Planning Commission must file their appeal in writing with the clerk of the
appropriate governing body within thirty (30) days of the decision of the
Regional Planning Commission.
      2.   Thereafter, the governing body will place the appeal hearing on the
agenda of its next regular meeting.
      3.   The governing body must render a decision on the appeal within sixty
(60) days of the filing of the appeal.
      4.   If the governing body's regular meeting schedule is such that a
decision of the governing body cannot be rendered within sixty (60) days, the
governing body shall convene a special meeting to hear the appeal.
      5.   In reviewing a decision, the governing body will be guided by the
statement of purpose underlying the regulation of the improvement of land
expressed in NRS 278.020.
      6.   The governing body may affirm, modify or reverse a decision. The
decision of the governing body is a final decision for the purpose of judicial
review.
      7.   The governing body may charge the appellant a fee for the filing of
an appeal. The fee shall be set by resolution of the Regional Planning
Commission. (Ord. 726, 9-12-2019; amd. Ord. 727, 2020)
2-5-11: REFORMATION OR REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
   A.   Any and all ordinances or parts of ordinances heretofore adopted by the
White Pine County Board of County Commissioners or the Ely City Council which
are inconsistent with this chapter are hereby reformed to be read consistently
with this chapter. For example, any ordinance conferring a benefit or burden
that would normally fall upon the Regional Planning Commission pursuant to this
chapter or State law shall so fall upon the Regional Planning Commission
despite the fact that the Regional Planning Commission is not duly named in
said ordinance.
   B.   Any and all ordinances or parts of ordinances heretofore adopted by the
White Pine County Board of County Commissioners or the Ely City Council which
are in conflict with this chapter and cannot be reformed to be read
consistently with this chapter are hereby repealed. (Ord. 726, 9-12-2019)
2-5-12: ADOPTION OF ORDINANCE:
   A.   Both the White Pine County Board of County Commissioners and the Ely
City Council shall adopt identical versions of this chapter in order to
effectuate the creation of the Regional Planning Commission.
   B.   Any modification of the terms of this chapter must be done through each
political subdivision's ordinance process. Any such modifying ordinance must be
identical in language to that of the other governing body.
   C.   Repeal of this chapter by either governing body shall dissolve the
Regional Planning Commission.
   D.   Upon repeal, a third party mutually selected by the White Pine County
Board of County Commissioners and the Ely City Council shall be charged with
the winding down of the Regional Planning Commission's affairs and the
distribution of its property or assets, if necessary. Both White Pine County
and the City of Ely agree that the cost of this shall be paid equally by the
parties that this subsection shall survive any repeal of this chapter.
   E.   This chapter is effective contingent upon the City of Ely's dissolution
of its City Planning Commission prior to the first meeting of the Regional
Planning Commission. (Ord. 726, 9-12-2019)
2-5-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any provisions of this chapter are held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions and each provision is hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 726, 9-12-2019)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSES 1
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required
3-1-2: Application
3-1-3: Bond
3-1-4: Fees
3-1-5: Point Computation
3-1-6: State License Required
3-1-7: Renewal
3-1-8: Transferability; Assignability
3-1-9: Prima Facie Evidence
3-1-10: Required Signatures And City Seal
3-1-11: Posting Of License
3-1-12: Revocation; Suspension
3-1-13: Penalty
 
Notes
  1. For State law as to power of City to impose License Taxes and assign the
1 proceeds thereof, see NRS §§ 266.355 and 268.095. For State law as to City
  licensing industries, occupations and professions, see NRS § 266.355 et seq.
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on any business,
trade, profession or calling within the limits of the City, for the transaction
or carrying on of which a license is required, without first applying for and
procuring a license as hereinafter set forth. (Prior Code § 13-1)
3-1-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   Form: All applications for licenses under this title, unless otherwise
specified herein, shall be made to the City Clerk, in writing, upon blanks
provided therefor.
   B.   Required Information: Each applicant shall make signed statements of
the nature of the business; on what street and at what number it is to be
carried on; when it shall commence, with sufficient information for the
calculation of points under section
3-1-5 of this chapter; the full name of the applicant, and if a partnership,
the full name of each member thereof, and if a corporation, the state of
incorporation. If a license is sought by a person or partnership doing business
under a fictitious name, such name shall also be set forth in the affidavit.
(Prior Code § 13-2)
3-1-3: BOND:
Every person applying for a license as a pawnbroker shall, before receiving
such license, execute a bond to the City, with two (2) or more sufficient
sureties, to be approved by the Mayor, or furnish a surety company bond as
provided by State law, in the penal sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00)
conditioned for the faithful compliance with the laws of the State and the
ordinances of the City. (Prior Code § 13-3)
3-1-4: FEES:
   A.   License Fees: License fees shall be payable annually, in advance, on
July 1 of each year.
      1.   Any business obtaining an initial business license after July 1
shall be entitled to have their business license fee prorated for the number of
months remaining between the opening of the business and the next July 1
renewal date.
      2.   Effective July 1, 2018, any business that does not have a renewal
date of July 1 shall be moved to July 1 and their business license fees shall
be prorated accordingly. No refunds shall be issued. (Ord. 710, 3-8-2018)
   B.   Limitations On Amount: Except as hereinafter specifically provided, no
more than one license fee per year shall be collected from any individual
conducting one or more of the businesses hereinabove set forth, where more than
one business is conducted in the same building and under the same business
name. Such license fee shall be the highest in amount calculated for any one of
such businesses. (Prior Code § 13-5; amd. Ord. 623, 2-14-2008)
   C.   Modification Or Adjustment Of Assessment: In the event any inequality
or unjust assessment of License Tax hereunder is shown to exist and the matter
is presented to the City Council at any regular meeting thereof by the
aggrieved party, then modification or adjustment thereof may be made by the
Council, with or without the necessity of formal amendment of this chapter or
any section thereof, as the Council may deem fit. (Prior Code § 13-19.1; amd.
Ord. 623, 2-14-2008)
   D.   Business Representative License: The business representative category
business license shall be exempt from the point system in this chapter, and
shall be assessed a business license fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per year,
the sum of which may be amended from time to time by resolution of the city
council. The business license fee is due and payable upon application for a
business license, not eligible to be prorated and on July 1 of every succeeding
year. (Ord. 681, 9-10-2015)
3-1-5: POINT COMPUTATION:
   A.   Points Determinative Of Annual License: The unit of point value is
hereby fixed at 8.572 cents, subject to revision or modification by the city
council by resolution, which, multiplied by the total number of points applied,
will give the annual license rate. (Ord. 623, 2-14-2008)
   B.   Application:
      1.   Various Business: Businesses, trades, professions or callings, and
the license points attributable thereto, are hereby classified as follows:
 
Class A, professional               1,000 points
Class B, wholesalers                750 points
Class C, retailers                  500 points
Class D, service and entertainment  250 points
 
(Prior code § 13-7)
      2.   Foot Frontage: Further points shall be applied according to foot
frontage of the business establishment proper, exclusive of storage space, on
the following basis:
14 feet or less                                                 50 points
15 feet to 24 feet                                              125 points
25 feet to 35 feet                                              200 points
36 feet to 49 feet                                              1,000 points
50 feet to 75 feet                                              1,500 points
76 feet to 100 feet                                             2,000 points
101 feet to 500 feet                                            3,000 points
                                                                
Minimum frontage for:
Motels, hotels, trailer courts, rooming houses, rental houses,  50 points
apartments, etc.
 
(Prior code § 13-8)
      3.   Number Of Employees: Further points shall be applied according to
the average number of persons employed, which shall include the proprietor, on
the following basis:
 
1 to 2 employees      200 points
3 to 4 employees      1,000 points
5 to 7 employees      2,000 points
8 to 10 employees     3,000 points
11 to 14 employees    4,000 points
15 employees or more  5,000 points
 
For the purpose of the above computation, each part time employee shall be
counted at one-half (1/2) the points of a full time employee, or one hundred
(100) points. (Prior code § 13-9)
      4.   Hours Of Operation: Further points shall be applied according to the
average number of hours per week of operation of the business, on the following
basis:
 
54 hours or less        200 points
55 hours to 90 hours    300 points
91 hours to 125 hours   400 points
126 hours to 168 hours  500 points
 
(Prior code § 13-10)
      5.   Months During Which Business Is Operated: Further points shall be
applied according to the number of months per year of operation of the
business, in reverse order, on the following basis:
 
1 month to 9 months  3,000 points
 
(Prior code § 13-11)
      6.   Zone Within City: For the purpose of this chapter, the city is
divided into one zone, and for any business operated there shall be applied
five hundred (500) points. (Prior code § 13-12)
      7.   Business Classifications: If the business falls within one of the
following classifications, additional points shall be applied on the following
basis:
 
Contractor, nonresident                           1,000 points
Department store                                  500 points
Fortune teller, astrologer, clairvoyant, medium,  10,000 points
palmist, phrenologist, etc.
Hotels and motels per room or rental unit         25 points
Peddler or traveling merchant                     5,000 points
Trailer units                                     25 points
 
(Prior code § 13-13; amd. Ord. 625, 2-14-2008; Ord. 671, 8-13-2015)
3-1-6: STATE LICENSE REQUIRED:
Prior to the issuance of a business license to any contractor performing work
within the city, such contractor shall first be licensed as required by chapter
624 of the Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 524, 9-10-1998)
3-1-7: RENEWAL:
   A.   Notice: It shall not be necessary for any licensee under this title to
renew his application upon the expiration of the year for which the license was
issued, so long as the point total remains unchanged, but the city clerk shall
notify the licensee by mail of the date upon which such renewal shall be due
and of the amount required therefor. Such notification shall be given prior to
the expiration of the year for which the license has been paid, and no proof of
receipt of such notice shall be necessary. (Prior code § 13-14; amd. Ord. 623,
2-14-2008)
   B.   Failure To Pay: Failure to make such payment promptly shall constitute
a violation of this title, and in addition to criminal liability hereinafter
provided for, shall be grounds for the assessment of percentages upon the
amount of license fee as follows: (Prior code § 13-14)
      1.   If not paid within sixty (60) days after the due date, fifty percent
(50%).
      2.   If not paid within sixty one (61) to ninety (90) days after the due
date, an additional twenty five percent (25%).
      3.   If not paid within ninety one (91) to one hundred twenty (120) days
after the due date, a final increase of an additional fifteen percent (15%).
(Ord. 623, 2-14-2008)
A waiver by the city of the imposition of such percentage or percentages for
belated payments during any quarter shall in no way preclude the imposition
thereof upon a subsequent failure to make payment promptly. (Prior code § 13-
14)
3-1-8: TRANSFERABILITY; ASSIGNABILITY:
No license shall be assignable or transferable, nor authorize any person other
than those named therein to carry on the business specified, nor shall such
license authorize the carrying on of the business therein specified in any
other location or building than that named therein. (Prior code § 13-15)
3-1-9: PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE:
A sign or advertisement kept, exhibited or published indicating that any person
is engaged in a business, trade or profession for which a license is required
hereunder or shall hereafter be required, or for the performance of services
wherein a charge is made or compensation accepted, shall be prima facie
evidence that such person is so engaged therein. (Prior code § 13-16)
3-1-10: REQUIRED SIGNATURES AND CITY SEAL:
All licenses issued hereunder shall bear the facsimile signatures of the city
clerk and the mayor and in addition thereto the seal of the city. (Prior code §
13-18)
3-1-11: POSTING OF LICENSE:
Every license so issued shall be kept posted by the holder thereof in a
conspicuous place in his place of business during the entire term for which
issued. (Prior code § 13-19)
3-1-12: REVOCATION; SUSPENSION:
The city council may suspend, revoke, withdraw or discontinue any license
granted under the provisions of this title whenever the council has reason to
believe that the business conducted thereunder by the licensee, his servants or
employees, is a nuisance, a menace to public health or detrimental to the peace
and morals of the city, or that violations of the laws of the state or of the
ordinances of the city have been committed or are being permitted to be
committed upon the premises where such business is being conducted. Such
suspension, revocation, withdrawal or discontinuance shall be by resolution
duly made and carried and spread upon the minutes of the council. (Prior code §
13-17)
3-1-13: PENALTY:
Any person wilfully failing to comply with or violating any provision of this
title shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished for each offense as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior code § 13-19.2; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required; Exceptions
3-2-3: License Required; Classes
3-2-4: Minimum Licensing Fees
3-2-5: Applications
3-2-5-1: Liquor License
3-2-5-2: Special Event, Special Event Beer And/Or Wine, Or Special Event Only
Liquor License
3-2-6: Transferability
3-2-7: Bartending Prohibited
3-2-8: Minors
3-2-9: Suspension; Revocation
3-2-10: Penalty
3-2-11: Employees; Registration And Fingerprinting
3-2-11-1: Terms Defined
3-2-11-2: Policy
3-2-11-3: Employment Unlawful
3-2-11-4: Investigation Fee
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed in this section, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning. These definitions are in addition to those found in Nevada Revised
Statutes 369.010 to 369.140 and are incorporated by reference.
                                       Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic
                                       fermentation of any infusion or
BEER:                                  decoction of barley, malt, hops, or any
                                       other similar product, or any
                                       combination thereof, in water.
                                       A license issued by the city which
                                       permits only the sale of beer by the
BEER LICENSE:                          licensee at the premises specified on
                                       the license for consumption on or off
                                       the licensee's premises.
CITY:                                  The city of Ely, Nevada.
                                       The city clerk or city administrator of
CITY CLERK:                            the city of Ely, Nevada, and/or his/her
                                       deputy clerk.
                                       The city council of the city of Ely
COUNCIL:                               whether sitting as the liquor licensing
                                       board or as the city council.
                                       A bartender's card and server card
                                       issued only to individuals who serve at
                                       a bar specific to the fraternal, social,
FRATERNAL, SOCIAL, CIVIC CLUB AND      civic club or nonprofit organization for
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION BARTENDER'S AND exclusive use at the physical premises
SERVER'S CARD:                         of the fraternal, social, civic club or
                                       nonprofit organization and cannot be
                                       used in conjunction with any "for
                                       profit" event, special event or
                                       business.
                                       A license issued by the city, which
                                       permits the designated licensee to
                                       serve, sell or give away liquors to the
                                       licensee's bona fide members and guests,
FRATERNAL, SOCIAL, CIVIC CLUB AND      only for consumption on the premises
NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION LIQUOR LICENSE: specified on the license. This license
                                       shall not permit the licensee to conduct
                                       or operate any public bar or place for
                                       the sale, serving or delivery of any
                                       liquor to the general public.
                                       Shall have the meaning ascribed in
                                       Nevada Revised Statutes 369.040 to
                                       include, beer, wine, gin, whiskey,
LIQUOR:                                cordials, ethyl alcohol or rum, and
                                       every liquor or solid, patented or not,
                                       containing one-half of one percent (1/
                                       2%) or more of alcohol by volume and
                                       which is used for beverage purposes.
MINOR:                                 A natural person, male or female, under
                                       twenty one (21) years of age.
                                       Any container or receptacle used for
PACKAGE:                               holding liquor, which container or
                                       receptacle is corked or sealed.
                                       A license issued by the city which
                                       permits the sale of liquors in packages
PACKAGED LIQUOR LICENSE:               by the licensee at the premises
                                       specified in the license, for
                                       consumption off the licensee's premises.
                                       A natural person, partnership,
PERSON:                                association, company, corporation,
                                       fraternal, civic or social clubs and all
                                       other types of organizations.
                                       A license issued by the city, which
                                       permits the sale of beers, wines and
RETAIL LIQUOR LICENSE:                 liquors, in packages or by the drink by
                                       the licensee at the premises specified
                                       in the license, for consumption on or
                                       off the licensee's premises.
                                       Shall include those businesses who
                                       engage in the sale of alcoholic
                                       beverages for onsite consumption,
RETAIL LIQUOR SALES:                   including, but not limited to, bars,
                                       taverns, restaurants, caterers and cafes
                                       or similar eating and/or drinking
                                       establishments.
                                       Shall have all of the meanings ascribed
                                       thereto by the laws of this state as
                                       embodied in Nevada Revised Statutes
RETAIL LIQUOR STORE:                   369.090 or amendments thereto and
                                       includes businesses who engage in the
                                       sale of alcoholic beverages in the
                                       original package for off site
                                       consumption.
                                       Shall have all of the meanings ascribed
SALE OR SALES:                         thereto by the laws of the state as
                                       codified in Nevada Revised Statutes
                                       369.100, or amendments thereto.
                                       A license issued by the city, which
                                       permits the sale of beers, wines and/or
                                       liquors in packages by the licensee to a
WHOLESALE LIQUOR LICENSE:              person holding a current, valid, retail
                                       liquor license or a wholesale liquor
                                       license issued by the city but not the
                                       sale to a consumer or general public
                                       directly.
                                       Any alcoholic beverage obtained by
                                       fermentation of the natural content of
                                       fruits or other agricultural products
WINE:                                  containing sugar and including, without
                                       limitation, port, sherry and champagne.
                                       (Ord. 676, 1-14-2016; amd. Ord. 696, 11-
                                       17-2016; Ord. 736, 8-27-2020)
 
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The public health, safety, morals and welfare of the inhabitants of the
city require the regulation and control of all persons who sell, serve or give
away liquor, to include persons engaged in the business of liquor sales.
Obtaining a liquor license, bartender's card or server's card is a privilege
subject to the regulations and conditions which are or may be imposed pursuant
to this chapter. A liquor license, bartender's card or server's card may,
without limitation, be revoked for violating federal, state or local laws,
regulations or conditions.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, keep for
sale, serve, give away, furnish or distribute, or cause or permit to be sold,
offered or kept for sale, served, given away, furnished or distributed, any
kind of liquor in the city limits, unless such person has first applied for,
paid all license fees for, received and is the holder in good standing of the
proper license or licenses required by this chapter; provided, however, this
section shall not apply to the following:
      1.   Liquor served by a private family in its home as part of its family
or social life.
      2.   The use of liquor for sacramental purposes by any duly ordained
minister.
      3.   Liquor used during church sponsored events and church sponsored
social gatherings held on church premises.
      4.   The use, sale or dispensing of liquor by any duly licensed medical
doctor, apothecary or pharmaceutics who use alcohol or liquor for or in
compounding medicine or for medicinal or scientific purposes.
      5.   The employees of a person who holds a valid, unexpired license
pursuant to this chapter, while acting within the course of employment.
      6.   A private event, not open to the public, such as a company party,
funeral, or a wedding.
   C.   A valid license under this chapter authorizes the licensee to sell soft
drinks in connection with the business for which the license is issued. (Ord.
676, 1-14-2016; amd. Ord. 736, 8-27-2020)
3-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; CLASSES:
   A.   License Classes: Nevada Revised Statutes 369.320 authorizes the city to
require businesses engaged in the sale of alcoholic beverages to obtain a city
liquor license prior to engaging in that particular activity. Under the
provisions of this chapter, the following classes of licenses may be issued to
qualified applicants:
      1.   Retail Beer And Wine License; Class I License: Those businesses
engaged in retail liquor sales by the drink for onsite consumption, limited to
the sale of beer and/or wine only. Beer and wine shall have the meaning
ascribed to them in Nevada Revised Statutes 369.010 and 369.140 respectively.
      2.   Packaged Liquor License; Class II License: Those businesses engaged
in retail liquor store sales in the original package for off site consumption
including, but not limited to, beer and wine as defined by Nevada Revised
Statutes 369.010 and 369.140 respectively for offsite consumption.
      3.   Retail Liquor License:
         a.   Class III License: Those businesses engaged in retail liquor
sales by the drink for onsite consumption who do not provide any food service
in connection with the retail liquor sales or who have eleven (11) seats or
less for food service if food service is provided in combination with the
liquor sales. This includes those businesses who only serve alcohol as part of
a catered event for entertainments, special occasion parties and social
gatherings catered by the licensee on the premises or at locations within the
city where the licensee is catering entertainments, special occasion parties or
social gatherings.
         b.   Class IV License: Those businesses engaged in retail liquor sales
by the drink for onsite consumption and who sell such beverages in combination
with food service with a minimum of twelve (12) seats.
      4.   Wholesale Liquor License; Class V License: Those who engage in the
business as a wholesaler of any alcoholic beverage as defined in Nevada Revised
Statutes 369.
      5.   Fraternal, social, civic club and nonprofit organization license.
   B.   More Than One Class: Each person conducting activities in more than one
(1) class of liquor licenses, as defined in this chapter, must apply for and
receive a license for each class applicable before such person can operate in
such class.
   C.   Liquor License Is In Addition To Business License: The liquor license
and endorsements required by this chapter shall be in addition to any other
licenses required by any person by the city for conducting or carrying on any
other business in connection with, or separate from the activities licensed
under this chapter.
   D.   Business Not Located In City Limits: A business not located in the city
limits that wishes to sell or, serve liquor within the city limits must obtain
a liquor license issued by the city, by the county of White Pine, or by another
governmental entity that subjects the licensee to requirements that are the
same as or substantially equivalent to the corresponding requirements contained
in this chapter.
   E.   Amendment Of License Fees: The city council may, by resolution, amend
the license fees from time to time, provided the requirements of Nevada Revised
Statutes 237.080 and 237.090 or subsequent statutes and/or amendments thereto
are met. (Ord. 696, 11-17-2016; amd. Ord. 736, 8-27-2020)
3-2-4: MINIMUM LICENSING FEES:
   A.   License Fee: As a condition precedent to obtaining a liquor license,
along with the application required in section
3-2-5 of this chapter, the applicant must submit the required fee for the
applicable license as follows:
      1.   Class I license: Three hundred ten dollars ($310.00) per year.
      2.   Class II license: Three hundred thirty dollars ($330.00) per year.
      3.   Class III license: Three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) per year.
      4.   Class IV license: Three hundred seventy dollars ($370.00) per year.
      5.   Class V license: Four hundred twenty dollars ($420.00) per year.
      6.   Fraternal, social, civic club and nonprofit organization license:
Two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year.
      7.   Caterer's liquor license endorsement: An addition of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) per year added to the applicable liquor license fee.
   B.   Multiple Business Locations: Those who engage in more than one of the
businesses under section
3-2-3 of this chapter shall apply and be approved for and pay the appropriate
liquor licensing fee for each physical location along with the city of Ely
business license pursuant to chapter 1 of this title.
   C.   Additional Fee: Whenever a certain license fee is set for a certain
class of liquor sales business, the same is to be considered a minimum license
fee for such class of business and the city council may, in its discretion, by
action regularly taken and entered upon the minutes, order that certain classes
of such businesses or that certain establishments in the same class of such
business shall pay a license fee in excess of such minimum and which the
council may deem just and proper, subject to review as provided below.
   D.   Grievances: Any applicant, business, agent or representative of an
applicant, aggrieved by the license fee fixed and required shall have the right
to present such grievance, in person or through an attorney, in writing, to the
city council at any regular meeting, and if it is established to the
satisfaction of the city council that such license fee is unfair and excessive,
the city council may modify or reduce the same by resolution duly adopted and
entered upon its minutes, without the necessity of an amendment of this
section. (Ord. 696, 11-17-2016)
   E.   Temporary Business/Special Event Licenses: Fees for special liquor
licenses required by chapter 9 of this title shall be set by resolution of the
city council from time to time, but shall be no less than fifteen percent (15%)
of the applicable class of license for each day of the special event, with the
nature of the event (alcohol and food) being considered in determining what
liquor license class is applicable to the event. (Ord. 676, 1-14-2016; amd.
Ord. 736, 8-27-2020)
3-2-5: APPLICATIONS:
3-2-5-1: LIQUOR LICENSE:
   A.   First Time Applicant: In the case of a first time applicant for a
liquor license in the city, he/she shall submit a statement of places where he/
she has resided during the past five (5) years, whether or not he/she has
engaged in the liquor business previously and if so, the physical address of
each past business, on a form prescribed by the city clerk/city administrator
or designee, accompanied by a set of fingerprints recently taken or taken at
the Ely City Hall at the time of submitting the application.
   B.   Written Application: Any person desiring a liquor license shall submit
a completed written application on the form provided by the city clerk/city
administrator or designee, submitting the annual payment of the applicable
liquor license class fee, and the completed business license application and
fee pursuant to chapter 1 of this title.
   C.   Submission To City Council: The city clerk/city administrator or
designee shall, upon receipt of the application and all attachments, present
them to the city council, sitting as the city of Ely liquor board and then as
the city council for its approval or rejection. Should the Ely liquor board or
the city council reject an application for a liquor license, the fees paid by
the applicant shall be returned to the applicant within thirty (30) calendar
days of rejection of the application by the city council.
   D.   Application Due Dates:
      1.   New applications are accepted at any time by the city clerk/city
administrator or designee and presented at the next liquor board and city
council meeting.
      2.   Renewal applications shall be accepted by the city in such time as
to allow the renewal to occur not more than one year after the initial license
was issued and shall be renewed annually thereafter.
   E.   Located In Residential District: If the location of a retail liquor
business is intended to be in a residential district of the city, or in a zone
which may be designated for residential purposes, there shall also accompany
such application the petition, in writing, of not less than seventy five
percent (75%) of the number of residents, householders or property owners
residing or owning property within a radius of five hundred feet (500') of the
premises in which such business is contemplated to be established, stating
whether or not they favor the granting of such license.
   F.   Zoning Requirements: All establishments for the sale of liquor, except
the special event only liquor license, shall be required to meet all zoning and
building requirements pursuant to titles 9 and 12 of this code. In no case will
a new liquor license be granted if the location of the business is within five
hundred (500) linear feet of any school. Those businesses currently holding a
liquor license as of the implementation of this chapter are exempt from these
zoning requirements. (Ord. 696, 11-17-2016)
   G.   In order to obtain a temporary business / special event license
pursuant to Chapter 9, with the sale of alcohol, the sponsor of the event must
complete and submit the required forms to the city and must pay the applicable
fees at least seven (7) calendar days prior to the event. The city council has
authorized the mayor to sign the special event license and notify the city
council at the first regularly scheduled meeting of what licenses were issued.
(Ord. 696, 11-17-2016; amd. Ord. 736, 8-28-2020)
3-2-5-2: SPECIAL EVENT, SPECIAL EVENT BEER AND/OR WINE, OR SPECIAL EVENT ONLY
LIQUOR LICENSE:
   A.   A "special event" shall be defined as any event which has as its
primary function: entertainment, social gathering, or a special occasion event.
A special event license will be required if the person, association, nonprofit,
fraternal or other similar organization will be displaying and/or selling wares
at the entertainment, social gathering, or special occasion event. Examples
include: wedding/reception in a public facility, car races, Rocky Mountain Elk
Foundation annual dinner, and similar activities. A special event license shall
be issued when the nature of the event is not purely commercial. Purely
commercial activities require a "temporary business license" pursuant to
chapter 9 of this title.
   B.   If an organization plans on selling alcohol, as defined in this
chapter, as part of its commercial event, the sponsor of the event must obtain
both a "temporary business license" pursuant to chapter 9 of this title and a
special event beer and/or wine or special event liquor license (as appropriate)
as defined herein, before the event.
   C.   In order to obtain a special event license, with or without the sale of
alcohol, the sponsor of the event must complete and submit the required forms
to the city and must pay the applicable fees at least seven (7) calendar days
prior to the event. The city council has authorized the mayor to sign the
special event license and notify the city council at the first regularly
scheduled meeting of what licenses were issued. (Ord. 696, 11-17-2016)
3-2-6: TRANSFERABILITY:
   A.   License Not Transferable: No license granted under this chapter shall
be assignable, transferable or authorize any person not named therein, other
than an employee of such licensee, to carry on the business therein specified,
nor shall such license authorize the person therein named to carry on the
business therein specified in any other place or building than that described
in the license without first having obtained a special event permit issued by
the city to do so. All licenses so granted shall be in the name of the
individual, or names of the partners composing a partnership, or in the name of
the corporation applying therefor, and shall not be construed to appertain to
the building in which the business is proposed to be carried on. Meaning, if
such business shall cease to be carried on at any time during the year for
which a license shall have been granted and shall not be resumed prior to the
beginning of the ensuing year, then such license shall lapse and be no longer
in effect, nor subject to renewal.
   B.   Lapse: Should a license holder allow a liquor license to lapse, for any
reason, he/she shall be required to apply for a license as if he/she were a new
applicant. During any period where a license has lapsed, the business shall not
be allowed or permitted to sell or give away alcohol. A liquor license shall be
considered lapsed if not applied and paid for within fourteen (14) calendar
days after the renewal date.
   C.   Penalty: Should a business be found to have sold liquor or alcohol
without a license, the business, its owner or owners and any licensed bartender
shall be subject to a civil penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day
for each day which the business operated without a liquor license. The civil
penalty, if any, must be paid before a liquor license can be issued. (Ord. 696,
11-17-2016; amd. Ord. 736, 8-28-2020)
3-2-7: BARTENDING PROHIBITED:
License Revocation Or Suspension: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the
city that no one who has been previously licensed by the city as a retailer by
the drink and whose license has been revoked or suspended shall be employed as
a bartender in any other establishment licensed under this chapter after such
revocation or during such suspension. (Ord. 676, 1-14-2016; amd. Ord. 736, 8-
28-2020)
3-2-8: MINORS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall be allowed to
be present or remain in any place of business where such liquors are sold at
retail to be consumed on the premises unless accompanied by a parent or
guardian, nor shall such person under any circumstances be allowed to purchase
or to drink any liquor upon such premises, nor to purchase such liquor for
consumption elsewhere, nor to be employed in connection with such liquor sales
in any manner.
      2.   No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall be allowed to
purchase any package or packages of liquor in any establishment where liquors
are sold whether to be consumed on site or not.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years who has consumed any alcoholic beverage to be in a public place without
direct supervision of a parent or legal guardian.
   B.   Violation/Penalty:
      1.   Misdemeanor: Any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
violating any of the provisions of this section shall likewise be subject to
prosecution for a misdemeanor as provided by the law of the state.
      2.   Exception: The furnishing to such person of alcoholic beverages by a
physician or by a druggist under a physician's prescription therefor shall not
be regarded as a violation of this section.
      3.   Possession: It shall, however, be considered a violation of this
section for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to have in his/
her possession at any time any alcoholic beverage unless such possession is
shown to have been legally initiated.
      4.   Identification; Defense: In any legal action for the violation of
this section by a licensee, employee or agent, it shall be no defense for the
licensee, employee or agent to prove that he asked such minor to show a
driver's license or other official document purporting to show the bearer's
age, and that such official document was produced. The alteration or
falsification of such official document by a minor or by anyone shall be
punishable as a misdemeanor. (Ord. 676, 1-14-2016)
3-2-9: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION:
   A.   Grounds: All licenses issued hereunder shall be subject to suspension
or revocation at any time by the city council for:
      1.   Failure To Comply: Any failure of any such licensee, or of any
agent, servant or employee of any such licensee, while engaged in the conduct
of the licensed business, to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
or of any other ordinances of the city; or
      2.   Unsafe Conditions: If such licensee shall maintain or carry on such
business in any building or structure which is unsafe, unsanitary, a fire
menace or a danger to life or health; or
      3.   Disorderly Conduct: If such licensee shall permit fighting,
challenging to fight or other disorderly conduct upon the part of patrons of
such business without reasonable efforts to prevent or deter such conduct; or
      4.   Nuisance: If such business shall become a nuisance, a menace to
public health or detrimental to the peace and morals of the city.
   B.   Citation: Upon such grounds or any of them, the city council may, upon
complaint to it by the city clerk, cite any licensee to appear before it at any
time to show cause why the license of such licensee should not be suspended or
revoked.
   C.   Hearing: At or before such hearing the licensee may make a statement in
his/her own behalf and present a reasonable number of witnesses, if he/she has
such, and such other evidence may be produced as the city council may deem
relevant for its consideration. In determining whether to take action against
any license holder the city council, through action of the liquor control
board, will follow Nevada Revised Statutes 233B.121, 233B.122, 233B.123,
233B.125, 233B.127 as amended from time to time by the state legislature. The
licensee may appear personally or by attorney at such presentation.
   D.   Council Action: After such hearing, the license of such licensee may be
suspended or revoked by majority vote of the members of the city council, taken
at any regular or special meeting and entered upon the minutes thereof.
   E.   Suspension: The provision for the suspension of license shall apply
only if there are extenuating circumstances shown and the council is satisfied
that such violation will not occur again and that the suspension of such
license for such period as it may deem fit shall be a sufficient penalty.
   F.   Criminal Proceeding; Right To Refuse Renewal: Nothing in this section
shall affect the right of a court under a criminal proceeding to revoke license
or licenses after conviction of a defendant as set forth in section
3-2-10 of this chapter, nor the right of the city council to refuse to renew
any such license if such hearing be had at a time when an existing license
shall be about to expire.
   G.   Immediate Suspension Or Revocation: As an alternative method of
proceeding, the city council, upon complaint to it by the city clerk, for a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, may summarily, if emergency
circumstances justify the action, and without any notice to licensee to appear
and show cause, suspend or revoke any license issued hereunder. Such suspension
or revocation shall become effective forthwith upon service of written notice
thereof by the chief of police or any policeman upon such licensee or his
employee.
   H.   Alternative Penalty For Violation Regarding Minors: Any licensee, who
is also responsible for his employees and/or agents, violating the provisions
of subsection
3-2-8A of this chapter may, in lieu of revocation or suspension of the
licensee's liquor license issued by the city, consent to the administrative
penalties described as follows:
      1.   First violation:
         a.   Letter of reprimand sent via certified mail; and
         b.   A one hundred dollar ($100.00) administrative fine imposed upon
the license holder.
      2.   Second violation within one year of previous violation:
         a.   Same as subsection H1a of this section; and
         b.   Licensee shall be required to attend a meeting of the city
council as notified in the letter of reprimand and provide an explanation how
the second violation occurred and what plans, if any, the licensee shall
institute to ensure that further violations do not take place; and
         c.   Mandatory two hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) civil fine payable
to the city within the time frame as required and identified within the letter
of reprimand; and
         d.   Mandatory one week suspension of the licensee's liquor license
for the specific period identified in the letter of reprimand.
      3.   Third violation within one year period of the previous violation:
         a.   Same as subsection H1a of this section; and
         b.   Same as subsection H2b of this section; and
         c.   Mandatory five hundred dollar ($500.00) civil fine payable to the
city within the time frame as required and identified within the letter of
reprimand; and
         d.   Mandatory two (2) week suspension of the licensee's liquor
license for the specific period identified in the letter of reprimand.
      4.   Fourth violation within one year of the previous violation:
         a.   Same as subsection H1a of this section; and
         b.   Same as subsection H2b of this section; and
         c.   Mandatory one thousand dollar ($1,000.00) civil fine payable to
the city within the time frame as required and identified within the letter of
reprimand; and
         d.   Mandatory suspension of licensee's liquor license for one year.
(Ord. 676, 1-14-2016)
3-2-10: PENALTY:
The violation of any provision of this chapter where no previous penalty is
provided for shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and, upon conviction thereof, the court may revoke any and
all such licenses which may have been issued hereunder to the person for such
liquor business in the room or premises in which such violation occurred. (Ord.
676, 1-14-2016)
3-2-11: EMPLOYEES; REGISTRATION AND FINGERPRINTING:
3-2-11-1: TERMS DEFINED:
As used in this section
3-2-11, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES: Any and all distilled or rectified spirits, potable
alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, aromatic bitters, beer, wine and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol capable of and designed for the consumption
by human beings.
EMPLOYEES: Employees of establishments where alcoholic beverages are sold at
retail means bartenders, waiters and other persons who serve alcoholic
beverages for consumption on the premises, whether classified by the owner as
an independent contractor or as a regular full or part time employee. (Ord.
676, 1-14-2016)
3-2-11-2: POLICY:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city as expressed by the
city council in this section
3-2-11, that the safety, morals, good order and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the city will be better protected and served by requiring the
registration with the city through its designees at city hall and the
thumbprinting/fingerprinting of all employees of establishments where alcoholic
beverages are sold at retail on the premises.
   B.   It is the intent of this policy to require bartender's cards for
noncommercial events such as weddings, family gatherings or similar events, if
a business is used to provide food and alcoholic beverages at the event. (Ord.
676, 1-14-2016; amd. Ord. 736, 8-28-2020)
3-2-11-3: EMPLOYMENT UNLAWFUL:
   A.   Employee: It is unlawful for any person to accept employment in any
establishment or special event or to volunteer where alcohol is sold or given
away, for an organization with a special event license where alcoholic
beverages are sold at retail or given away on the premises, unless such person
has first registered his/her name and address with city hall and had his/her
thumbprints and fingerprints taken and filed with city hall and has been issued
either a bartender's card or a server's card. By registering with city hall and
having his/her thumbprints and fingerprints taken and filed, the person
herewith authorizes the city to submit said thumbprints and fingerprints to the
federal bureau of investigation, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010
for the purpose of conducting a national background check of the person. (Ord.
696, 11-17-2016)
In addition to registering with city hall as described herein, the employee
shall also attend a viewing of a video on alcohol awareness provided by the
city within fifteen (15) calendar days of applying for a bartender's card. City
staff will schedule convenient times for the viewing of said video.
   B.   Employer: It is unlawful for any person operating an establishment
where alcoholic beverages are sold at retail on the premises or at city
approved special events where alcohol is sold or given away, to employ any
person required to register with city hall by the terms of this section
3-2-11 unless such person has obtained either a bartender's card or a server's
card.
   C.   Nonissuance Of Card: Bartender's card or server's card will not be
issued to those persons listed below:
      1.   Persons convicted of any crime equivalent to a Nevada category A
felony regardless of jurisdiction in which conviction occurred;
      2.   Persons convicted of any felony involving the use of violence
against another person;
      3.   Persons being supervised by the department of parole and probation,
or its equivalent entity from another state, who lack written approval to work
in a licensed establishment from the supervising agency;
      4.   Persons who have been convicted of any felony where firearms were
used in the commission of a crime;
      5.   Persons who have been convicted of any felony or gross misdemeanor
where the predicate crime was theft, false pretenses, unlawful use of a credit
card, or identity theft.
   D.   Council Discretion: A person who has successfully completed felony or
gross misdemeanor probation or parole and whose civil rights have not been
restored or who has not received a pardon may be entitled to a certificate at
the sole discretion of the city council.
   E.   No Negative Law Enforcement Contact For Three Years: Except for those
persons falling under subsection C1 of this section, any other person who would
otherwise be ineligible for a bartender's card or server's card due to
conviction, who can establish the satisfactory completion of probation or
parole and who has had no negative law enforcement contact for three (3)
consecutive years following completion of probation, parole, jail or prison
sentence may apply to the city council for a bartender's card or a server's
card. The city council retains the sole right to authorize the issuance of a
bartender's card or server's card.
   F.   No Negative Law Enforcement Contact For Five Years: Except for those
persons falling under subsection C1 of this section, any other person who would
otherwise be ineligible for a bartender's card or server's card due to a
conviction, who can establish the satisfactory completion of jail, prison,
probation or parole and who has had no negative law enforcement contact for
five (5) consecutive years following completion of probation, parole, jail or
prison sentence shall be eligible for a liquor license without city council
approval.
   G.   Failure To Disclose: Failure to fully disclose a felony or gross
misdemeanor criminal conviction will be sufficient grounds for denial or
immediate revocation of a certificate.
   H.   Grievance: Any person aggrieved by the denial or revocation of a
bartender's card or a server's card may seek a review hearing before the city
council by filing a request for review with the city clerk or designee within
thirty (30) calendar days of the announcement of the denial or revocation.
      1.   Failure to appear before the city council and/or to provide clear
and convincing evidence demonstrating an error was made in the denial
determination or failure to provide clear and convincing evidence meeting the
requirements of subsection E or F of this section will result in an affirmance
of the denial.
      2.   A majority vote of the city council is required to overturn a denial
or revocation subject to the mayor's right to veto. (Ord. 676, 1-14-2016)
3-2-11-4: INVESTIGATION FEE:
   A.   Fee: Upon an employee complying with the provisions of subsection
3-2-11-3A of this chapter, city staff shall collect an investigation fee in
such amount as is established by resolution by the city council to reimburse
the city for the costs of processing the application and issue a certificate to
such employee showing compliance therewith. Any information received from the
background check shall be confidential and made accessible only to the mayor,
the city council, the city attorney, the employer of such person and law
enforcement officers. A bartender's card issued pursuant to section
3-2-11-3 of this chapter shall be valid for three (3) years.
   B.   Nevada Gaming Card: The city shall accept proof of a current valid
state of Nevada gaming card as evidence of the background check required by
this chapter. The bearer of such current valid state of Nevada gaming card must
produce that card upon making application for a bartender's card. The
expiration of the bartender's card shall be the same date as that of the state
of Nevada gaming card. The bearer of any properly issued, currently valid state
of Nevada gaming card shall still be required to watch the video required in
section
3-2-11-3 of this chapter and pay a twenty five dollar ($25.00) administrative
processing fee for the issuance of the bartender's card.
   C.   Server's Card: The city shall issue a server's card, which allows the
holder of the card to serve alcohol as part of his/her normal duties as a food
server or cocktail waiter or waitress, but does not allow the server to act in
any capacity as a bartender. A server's card shall be required of any person
who serves alcohol, without "making", "creating" or "mixing" drinks. The
requirements to obtain a server's card are the same as a bartender's card,
except that the server's card shall be issued for one year only and the person
seeking a server's card shall be required to renew their card annually by
paying a twenty five dollar ($25.00) administrative processing fee for renewal.
The cost of the initial background check shall be set by resolution of the city
council and adjusted from time to time by resolution.
   D.   Employer's Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the
employer of bartenders and servers to provide, on their letterhead, the type of
license required for their employee. Ultimately, it is the employer who shall
be held liable should an employee work outside of his/her city issued card. An
employer shall be fined one hundred dollars ($100.00) per incident where an
employee works without the required card, or works in a capacity other than
that authorized for the employee.
   E.   Card Transferability: A bartender's card or server's card is
transferable and valid for any company or business within the city of Ely
during the term of the card.
   F.   Proof Of Card: Each cardholder is required to provide to any person,
including, but not limited to, law enforcement, proof that they have a validly
issued card at any time they are working either as a bartender or a server of
alcohol. Failure to produce the card upon demand, or working without the
required card could result in the bartender or server being charged under
section
1-4-1  of this code for a misdemeanor. (Ord. 676, 1-14-2016; amd. Ord. 755, 5-
23-2024, eff. 6-20-2024)
CHAPTER 3
RENTAL BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Purpose
3-3-3: Licenses Required
3-3-4: Rules And Regulations
3-3-5: Imposition Of Tax
3-3-6: Collection By Licensee
3-3-7: Display Notice Of Tax
3-3-8: Examination And Audit Of Books And Records
3-3-9: New Rental Business
3-3-10: Retention Or Sale Of Security To Recover Tax
3-3-11: Penalty
3-3-12:    Restrictions On Short-Term Residential Rentals
3-3-13:    Severability
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section shall govern the construction of this chapter:
CITY TAX ACT: Nevada Revised Statutes section 268.095, as the same may be
hereafter amended from time to time.
COUNTY BOARD: The board of county commissioners of the county.
COUNTY TAX ACT: Nevada Revised Statutes section 244.335, as the same may be
hereafter amended from time to time.
DWELLING UNIT: A structure or the part of a structure that is designed,
intended, or used for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes; or a motorhome
or travel trailer as defined by Chapter 482 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
LESSEE: Any person renting accommodations from a licensee.
LICENSE TAXES: All license taxes levied pursuant to the county tax act or city
tax act and heretofore, hereby or hereafter appropriated or assigned by the
county or city levying, fixing or imposing the same for administration by the
recreation board.
LICENSEE: The person, partnership, firm, corporation or other body corporate
operating a rental business.
LOCAL CONTACT PERSON: A licensed property manager, owner, or any agent of the
owner authorized to take remedial action and respond to any violation of this
chapter, who resides or has a primary place of business located within White
Pine County, who is available to respond to city, tenant and neighborhood
questions or concerns.
RECREATION ACT: Nevada Revised Statutes sections 244A.597 to 244A.655 and as
the same may be hereafter amended from time to time.
RECREATION BOARD: The county fair and recreation board.
RENTAL BUSINESS:
   1.   The operation of any hotel, motel, auto court, motor court, lodge,
lodging house, apartment, apartment house, apartment house hotel, rooming
house, guesthouse, trailer court, trailer park, tourist camp, ranch resort,
guest ranch, cabin or other accommodations having three (3) or more rooms for
rental.
   2.   The operation of any short-term residential rental.
TAX ADMINISTRATION RESOLUTION: The resolution of the recreation board as the
same may be amended from time to time.
TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The chief executive officer of the recreation board. (Prior
code § 13-20; amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 728, 11-21-2019)
3-3-2: PURPOSE:
The license taxes herein fixed and imposed are appropriated or assigned to the
recreation board for administration in accordance with the tax administration
resolution and the recreation act, as they may be from time to time amended,
save and except for one percent (1%) of the amount of gross income derived from
the room rentals received by each licensee from the renting of rooms within the
corporate limits of the city, which one percent (1%) shall be specifically
appropriated to capital improvement projects of the recreation board per Nevada
Revised Statutes 268.096(1)(b). (Ord. 698, 5-12-2016)
3-3-3: LICENSES REQUIRED; EXEMPTION FROM LICENSE:
   A.   City License: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to commence or to
carry on any rental business, as in this chapter specified, in the city without
first having procured a City of Ely business license. The business license fee
shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per dwelling unit. (Prior code § 13-21)
   B.   Exemption From License: A natural person whose sole business is the
rental of four (4) or fewer dwelling units to others for a period of twenty-
eight (28) consecutive days or more is not a rental business within the meaning
of this chapter and is not required to procure a City of Ely business license.
(amd. Ord. 728, 11-21-2019)
3-3-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The recreation board is hereby authorized and empowered to prescribe, adopt and
enforce rules and regulations relating to the administration and enforcement of
this chapter. (Prior code § 13-29)
3-3-5: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
   A.   Rate:
      1.   There shall be and there hereby is fixed and imposed a license tax
for revenues, commencing August 1, 2016, on every licensee operating a rental
business within the city, in addition to license taxes heretofore fixed and
imposed and now existing, in the total amount of twelve and one-half percent
(12.5%) of the amount of gross income derived from room or dwelling unit
rentals received by each licensee from the renting of rooms or other temporary
lodging within the corporate limits of the city.
      2.   There shall be and there hereby is fixed and imposed a license tax
for revenues, commencing July 1, 2017, on every licensee operating a rental
business within the city, in addition to license taxes heretofore fixed and
imposed and now existing, in the total amount of thirteen and one-half percent
(13.5%) of the amount of gross income derived from room or dwelling unit
rentals received by each licensee from the renting of rooms or other temporary
lodging within the corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Exemption From Tax: There shall be and there hereby is excepted from
the license tax herein fixed and imposed each rental by any licensee of a room
or dwelling unit for a period of twenty eight (28) consecutive days or more,
provided that the room or dwelling unit includes a kitchenette with a stove and
oven, refrigerator, and a separate sink (excluding a bathroom sink).
Furthermore, in order for this exemption to apply, the same natural person must
reside in the room or dwelling unit as described herein for a period of at
least twenty eight (28) consecutive days. If the room or dwelling unit does not
have the aforementioned criteria the natural person will qualify for the
exemption from the tax after having resided in the same room or dwelling unit
for nine (9) consecutive months paying all applicable taxes during that time
period. (Ord. 609, 12-8-2005; amd. Ord. 701, 7-14-2016; Ord. 728, 11-21-2019)
3-3-6: COLLECTION BY LICENSEE:
Each licensee is required to add the amount of the license tax herein fixed and
imposed to the amount of the room rentals due thereto and to collect the tax
and rentals from each lessee. The amount of the tax shall be displayed
separately from the price of the accommodation or room on the guest
registration card or other proof of guest registration. (Prior code § 13-25)
3-3-7: DISPLAY NOTICE OF TAX:
   A.   Effective August 1, 2016, each licensee shall prominently display in
each room or suite of rooms leased as a unit or, at the licensee's option, in a
lobby at or in the immediate vicinity of the registration desk for the
business, a sign reading substantially as follows:
   NOTICE
For each rental of less than 28 days, this business is required to collect a
12.5% room tax.
         The Management             
   B.   Effective July 1, 2017, each licensee shall prominently display in each
room or suite of rooms leased as a unit or, at the licensee's option, in a
lobby at or in the immediate vicinity of the registration desk for the
business, a sign reading substantially as follows:
   NOTICE
For each rental of less than 28 days, this business is required to collect a
13.5% room tax.
         The Management             
   (Ord. 701, 7-14-2016)
3-3-8: EXAMINATION AND AUDIT OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
The tax administrator or his duly authorized agents are empowered to examine
and audit the books, papers and records of any licensee or person operating a
rental business and to make investigations in connection therewith. (Prior code
§ 13-30)
3-3-9: NEW RENTAL BUSINESS:
Any person, either for himself or for any other person, who desires to become
licensed to commence or carry on any new rental business, as in this chapter
specified, shall place with the tax administrator such security in a sum not
less than twice the estimated average tax due monthly as computed by the tax
administrator. A "new rental business" is defined as a rental business having a
change of licensee after August 1987. In the event the operator of any "rental
business" as defined herein does not have any delinquency in his obligation
under this chapter, for a period of two (2) years from the placing of such
security with the tax administrator, said security so placed with the tax
administrator shall be fully refunded to the person who placed the security
with the tax administrator. (Prior code § 13-32)
3-3-10: RETENTION OR SALE OF SECURITY TO RECOVER TAX:
The tax administrator may sell or retain the security if it becomes necessary
to recover any tax or any amount required to be collected, interest or penalty
due. Notice of such sale or retention of security may be served upon the person
who placed the security personally or by mail; if by mail, service must be made
in the manner prescribed for service of a notice of a deficiency determination
and must be addressed to the person at his address as it appears in the records
of the tax administrator. Security in the form of bearer bond issued by the
United States or the state which has a prevailing market price not lower than
the prevailing market price may be sold by the tax administrator at a private
sale at a price not lower than the prevailing market price. Upon any sale or
retention of security, any surplus above the amounts due must be returned to
the person who placed the security. (Prior code § 13-33)
3-3-11: PENALTY:
Any person wilfully failing to comply with or violating any provision of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished for each offense as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior code § 13-31; amd. 2001 Code)
3-3-12: RESTRICTIONS ON SHORT-TERM RESIDENTIAL RENTALS:
No licensee may operate a short-term residential rental business and any
business license issued to a licensee of short-term residential rental business
is void if:
   A.   The licensee is not the owner of the short-term residential rental.
   B.   The short-term residential rental is located within six hundred sixty
(660) feet of any other short-term residential rental (measured from property
line to property line). This provision will not apply to short-term rentals
located on the same parcel.
   C.   The short-term residential rental is operated without the oversight of
a local contact person whose contact information has been provided in writing
to both the lessee and the city.
   D.   The licensee fails to notify the city in writing of all short-term
residential rentals operated by licensee within the city. (Ord. 728, 11-21-
2019)
3-3-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any provisions of this chapter are held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions and each provision is hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 728, 11-21-2019)
CHAPTER 4
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Application
3-4-4: License Fee
3-4-5: Investigation
3-4-6: Approval/Denial Of Application
3-4-7: Term
3-4-8: Posting Of License
3-4-9: Assignability; Transferability
3-4-10: Increase In Number Of Devices
3-4-11: Evidence Of Ownership
3-4-12: Revocation
3-4-13: Penalty
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT MACHINES, DEVICES, VIDEO MACHINES, OR DEVICES: Any
amusement machine, device, video machine or device operated by means of the
insertion of a coin, token or similar object, for the purpose of amusement or
skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged. The term does not include
vending machines in which are not incorporated gaming or amusement features.
OPERATOR: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who sets up
for operation by another, or leases or distributes for the purpose of operation
by another, any "device" as herein defined, whether such setting up for
operation, leasing or distributing be for a fixed charge or rental, or on the
basis of a division of the income derived from such device, or otherwise.
PROPRIETOR: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or club
who, as the owner, lessee or proprietor, has under his or its control any
establishment, place or premises in or at which such device is placed or kept
for use or play, or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play. (Prior Code §
6A-1)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of an operator or proprietor of "coin-
operated amusement machines, devices, video machines or devices", as the terms
are herein defined, without first having obtained the proper license therefor.
(Prior Code § 6A-2)
3-4-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Form; Required Information: Application for license hereunder shall be
filed, in writing, with the city clerk on a form to be provided by the city,
and shall specify:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant, and if a firm, corporation,
partnership or association, the principal officers thereof and their addresses;
      2.   The address of the premises where the licensed device or devices are
to be operated, together with the character of the business as carried on at
such place;
      3.   The trade name and general description of the device or devices to
be licensed, the name of the manufacturer and the serial number and, if the
applicant is a proprietor, the number of devices to be licensed.
      4.   The name and address of the operator of the device or devices, if
other than the proprietor.
   B.   Fee: The proper license fee shall accompany such application. (Prior
Code § 6A-4)
3-4-4: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   The license for each "proprietor" as herein defined shall be as
identified below quarterly for each machine or device used or played, or
exhibited for use or play. All proprietor's license fees shall be payable
quarterly in advance; provided, that where application is made after the
expiration of any portion of any license quarter a license may be issued for
the remainder thereof upon payment of the quarterly fee. In no case shall any
portion of said license fee be repaid to the licensee.
      1.   Effective July 1, 2019 the fee for each non-gaming coin operated
amusement machine shall be $10.30.
      2.   Effective July 1, 2020 the fee for each non-gaming coin operated
amusement machine shall be $10.61.
      3.   Effective July 1, 2021 the fee for each non-gaming coin operated
amusement machine shall be $10.93.
   B.   Effective July 1, 2021 the fee for each non-gaming coin operated
amusement machine may be amended from time to time by resolution of the city
council provided the requirements of NRS 237.080 and NRS 237.090, as amended or
restated, are completed. (Prior Code § 6A-3) (amd. Ord. 722, 6-13-2019)
3-4-5: INVESTIGATION:
Application for license hereunder shall be first referred by the city clerk to
the mayor and council who shall make or cause to be made such investigation as
they deem necessary. (Prior Code § 6A-4)
3-4-6: APPROVAL/DENIAL OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Approved: If the application is approved by the mayor and council, the
license shall be issued by the clerk, and the clerk shall remit the fee to the
city treasurer.
   B.   Denied: If the license is denied, the fee shall be returned to the
applicant. (Prior Code § 6A-4)
3-4-7: TERM:
All licenses under this chapter shall expire on April 30 following their
issuance. (Prior Code § 6A-4)
3-4-8: POSTING OF NOTICE:
The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the establishment of the
licensee. (Prior Code § 6A-4)
3-4-9: ASSIGNABILITY; TRANSFERABILITY:
Such license shall be nonassignable and nontransferable, and in the case of a
proprietor shall apply only to the premises for which such license is issued.
(Prior Code § 6A-4)
3-4-10: INCREASE IN NUMBER OF DEVICES:
In case a proprietor licensed under the provisions of this chapter desires,
after the expiration of any portion of any license year, to increase the number
of devices to be used or played, or exhibited for use or play in his
establishment, he shall surrender his license to the city clerk who shall issue
a new license showing the number of devices licensed thereunder, upon payment
of the proper license fee therefor. (Prior Code § 6A-5)
3-4-11: EVIDENCE OF OWNERSHIP:
Any proprietor who owns such device or devices on the effective date hereof
shall file with the city clerk evidence of such ownership prior to the issuance
of a license; and any proprietor purchasing a device or devices after said
effective date of this chapter shall file with the city clerk evidence of
ownership thereof before exhibiting or placing said device or devices for use
or play. (Prior Code § 6A-6)
3-4-12: REVOCATION:
The mayor shall have the right to revoke any license issued hereunder for the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. (Prior Code § 6A-7)
3-4-13: PENALTY:
Any person wilfully failing to comply with or violating any provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior Code § 6A-8; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 5
GAMBLING
SECTION:
3-5-1: Adoption And Authority
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: License Required
3-5-4: License Fee
3-5-5: Cheating Or Thieving
3-5-6: Employees
3-5-6-1: Definitions
3-5-6-2: Policy
3-5-6-3: Employment Unlawful
3-5-7: Board Designated
3-5-8: Powers And Duties Of The Board
3-5-9: Transaction Of Business By The Board
3-5-10: Application Generally
3-5-11: Waiver Of Privilege
3-5-12: License Application
3-5-13: Action On Application
3-5-14: Display Of License
3-5-15: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-5-16: Appeals
3-5-17: Penalty
3-5-1: ADOPTION AND AUTHORITY:
The adoption of this chapter provides for the licensing and regulation of
entertainment by gambling game, for revenue and regulation, pursuant to the
authority vested in cities by Nevada Revised Statutes 266.355 and Nevada
Revised Statutes 463.190. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases have the
meanings ascribed to them by this section:
APPLICANT: Any natural person, firm, association of persons, corporation,
partnership, limited partnership or limited liability company requesting
licensing under the provisions of this chapter.
APPLICATION: A request for issuance of a city gaming license.
BAR: A "bar" is a physical structure with a flat horizontal counter, which
fully encompasses the main work area of the bartender(s) or attendant(s),
including the point of sale system or cash register, on one side of which
alcoholic liquors are kept, maintained, and prepared and where seats are placed
for at least twenty (20) patrons to sit on the side opposite from where the
alcoholic liquor is kept, and where the sale and service of alcoholic beverages
are by the drink across such structure for consumption on the premises.
BOARD: The City of Ely Gaming Licensing Board.
CLERK OF THE BOARD: The City Clerk or City Administrator.
EMERGENCY: A sudden or unexpected or unforeseen health or safety hazard calling
for immediate action or remedy to safeguard the public health, safety, morals
or welfare of the inhabitants of the City.
GAME OR GAMBLING GAME: Any game played with cards, dice, equipment or any
mechanical, electromechanical or electronic device or machine for money,
property, checks, credit or any representative of value, including, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, faro, monte, roulette, keno, bingo,
fan-tan, twenty-one, blackjack, seven-and-a-half, big injun, klondike, craps,
poker, chuck-a-luck, Chinese chuck-a-luck (dai shu), wheel of fortune, chemin
de fer, baccarat, pai gow, beat the banker, panguingui, slot machine, any
banking or percentage game or any other game or device approved by the Nevada
Gaming Commission, but does not include games played with cards in private
homes or residences in which no person makes money for operating the game,
except as a player, or games operated by charitable or educational organization
which are approved by the Nevada Gaming Control Board pursuant to the provision
of Nevada Revised Statutes 463.409.
GAMING DEVICE: Any equipment or mechanical, electromechanical or electronic
contrivance, component or machine used remotely or directly in connection with
gaming or any game which affects the result of a wager by determining win or
loss.
GAMING ESTABLISHMENT: Any premises wherein or whereon any gaming is done.
GAMING LICENSE: Any license issued by the State, the County or the City which
authorizes the person named therein to engage in gaming or pari-mutuel
wagering.
GAMING OR GAMBLING: To deal, operate, carry on, conduct, maintain or expose for
play any "game" as defined herein.
LICENSEE: Any person to whom a valid gaming license has been issued by the
State of Nevada, the County or the City.
NONRESTRICTED GAMING LICENSE: A gaming license for, or an operation consisting
of, sixteen (16) or more slot machines or any number of slot machines together
with any other game, gaming device, race book or sports pool.
QUARTER: A period of three (3) consecutive months commencing on January 1,
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in any year.
REGULATION: A rule, standard, directive or statement of general applicability
which effectuates law or policy, or describes the procedure or requirements for
practicing before the Ely City Liquor/Licensing Board.
RESTAURANT: "Restaurant" means a space in a suitable building kept, used,
maintained, advertised and held out to be a public place where hot, full-sized,
complete meals are prepared and cooked on the premises, ordered from and served
by waiters or waitresses to tables or booths providing a seating capacity for
at least forty (40) persons in a room separate from the kitchen and open to the
public at least eight (8) hours each day and at least six (6) day each week.
All meals shall be selected and ordered by the customer from tables or booths
and from a prepared menu at a stipulated price. The restaurant must allow
admittance of minors and the dining room shall be divided and separated from
the gambling, bar and/or lounge area by a full structural barrier from floor to
ceiling sufficient to exclude noise and smoke from the dining area and minors
from the gambling, bar, and/or lounge area. The stools at the bar, or seats in
a lounge or outside dining area, are not included as restaurant seating.
RESTRICTED GAMING LICENSE: A gaming license for, or an operation consisting of
fifteen (15) or less slot machines and no other game, gaming device, race book
or sports pool, as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes 463.0189. (Ord. 702, 4-
13-2017; amd. Ord. 751, 12-14-2023, eff. 1-11-2024)
3-5-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Any natural person, firm, association of persons, corporation,
partnership, limited partnership or limited liability company who or which
conducts or offers entertainment by gambling game or gaming within the
incorporated City limits must first obtain a City business license as required
in chapter 1 of this title, a liquor license, if appropriate, pursuant to
chapter 2 of this title, and a gaming license pursuant to this chapter for each
particular device or game or slot machine, and pay the license fees as provided
in this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person, either as owner, lessee or
employee, whether for hire or not, to deal, operate, carry on, conduct,
maintain or expose for play within the City, any game or gaming device or
gambling game for money, property, checks, credit or any representative of
value or any gambling game in which any person keeping, conducting, managing or
permitting the same to be carried on, receives, directly or indirectly, any
compensation or reward or any percentage or share of the money or property
played, for keeping, running, carrying on or permitting such game to be carried
on; or to play, maintain or keep any slot machine played for money, for checks
or tokens redeemable in money or property, without having first procured a
license. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
3-5-4: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Any person desiring to obtain a license to conduct, maintain or carry
on any gambling game, slot machine or any game of chance enumerated or provided
for in section
3-5-2  of this chapter and who is eligible for license under the provisions of
Chapter 463 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, may obtain such license by paying
to the City Clerk the sum required by this section.
      1.   Each slot machine, game or device which will be conducted or offered
by the applicant must be specifically described in and entered upon the
license.
      2.   Card games, including but not limited to, stud and draw poker,
bridge, whist, solo, and panguingui for money, must be licensed independently
of other games, at the rate identified below, per table per quarter, payable
annually, in advance. The licensee will be charged the annual fee upon renewal
and shall pay the annual fee as part of the business license fee for each card
game licensed to licensee.
         a.   Effective July 1, 2019 the annual fee for each card game shall be
eighty-two dollars and 42/100 ($82.42).
         b.   Effective July 1, 2020 the annual fee for each card game shall be
eighty-four dollars and 87/100 ($84.87).
         c.   Effective July 1, 2021 the annual fee for each card game shall be
eighty-seven dollars and 42/100 ($87.42).
      3.   For each money slot machine, the license fee shall be as identified
below. The licensee will be charged the annual fee for each slot machine
licensed to them upon renewal and shall pay the annual fee as part of the
business license fee.
         a.   Effective July 1, 2019 the annual fee for each slot machine shall
be sixty-one dollars and 80/100 ($61.80).
         b.   Effective July 1, 2020 the annual fee for each slot machine shall
be sixty-three dollars and 64/100 ($63.64).
         c.   Effective July 1, 2021 the annual fee for each slot machine shall
be sixty-five dollars and 56/100 ($65.56).
      4.   For each amusement game, the license fee shall be as identified
below. The licensee will be charged the annual fee for each amusement machine
licensed to them upon renewal and shall pay the annual fee as part of the
business license fee.
         a.   Effective July 1, 2019 the annual fee for each amusement game
shall be forty-one dollars and 20/100 ($41.20).
         b.   Effective July 1, 2020 the annual fee for each amusement game
shall be forty-two dollars and 44/100 ($42.44).
         c.   Effective July 1, 2021 the annual fee for each slot machine shall
be forty-three dollars and 72/100 ($43.72).
      5.   For each jukebox, the license fee shall be as identified below. The
licensee will be charged the annual fee for each jukebox licensed to them upon
renewal and shall pay the annual fee as part of the business license fee.
         a.   Effective July 1, 2019 the annual fee for each juke box shall be
forty-one dollars and 20/100 ($41.20).
         b.   Effective July 1, 2020 the annual fee for each juke box shall be
forty-two dollars and 44/100 ($42.44).
         c.   Effective July 1, 2021 the annual fee for each juke box shall be
forty-three dollars and 72/100 ($43.72).
   B.   Any license issued by the board pursuant to this chapter is not
transferable by the licensee to any other person, firm, association or
corporation.
   C.   Effective July 1, 2021 the fee for each fee contained in Title 3,
Chapter 5 may be amended from time to time by resolution of the city council
provided the requirements of NRS 237.080 and NRS 237.090, as amended or
restated, are completed. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017; amd. Ord. 723, 9-13-2019)
3-5-5: CHEATING OR THIEVING:
It shall be unlawful to conduct, carry on, operate, deal or allow to be
conducted, carried on, operated or dealt any cheating or thieving game or
device, or to deal, conduct, carry on, operate or expose for play any game
played with cards, dice or any mechanical device, or any combination of the
same, which may have in any manner been marked or tampered with, or equipped
with electrical or other device whatsoever which might render the game more
liable to win or lose. The use of marked cards, loaded dice, plugged or
tampered with machines or devices is expressly made unlawful. (Ord. 702, 4-13-
2017)
3-5-6: EMPLOYEES:
3-5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section
3-5-6, the following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them
in this section:
EMPLOYEES OF GAMBLING HOUSES: All dealers and operators of gambling games as
such games are defined by the Nevada Revised Statutes, except slot machines,
pinball machines and other mechanically operated games where no attendant is
required. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
3-5-6-2: POLICY:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City as expressed by the City
Council in this section
3-5-6, that the safety, morals, good order and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the City will be better protected and served by requiring the
gaming establishment to provide the Sheriff's Office with a list of all
employees who have been issued a gaming card by the State of Nevada. To that
end, the licensee shall provide to the Sheriff's Office an updated list monthly
identifying each employee, by name, employed by the gaming establishment who
has been issued a gaming card by the State of Nevada. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
3-5-6-3: EMPLOYMENT UNLAWFUL:
   A.   Employee: It is unlawful for any person to accept employment in any
gambling house unless such person has obtained a gaming card, if required by
the State of Nevada.
   B.   Employer: It is unlawful for any person operating a gambling game to
employ any person required to obtain a gaming card from the State of Nevada
without obtaining such card. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
3-5-7: BOARD DESIGNATED:
The Ely City Council sitting as the Ely Gaming Licensing Board is designated as
the board responsible for carrying out the terms and provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
3-5-8: POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD:
The board is empowered and commissioned to act without additional compensation
to the board or the Clerk, to:
   A.   Fix, impose and collect fees as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Grant or deny applications for licenses and impose conditions,
limitations and restrictions upon the licensee.
   C.   Adopt, amend and repeal regulations relating to licenses and licensees.
      1.   The board shall hold a hearing before adopting proposed regulations,
before adopting amendments to regulations, and before repealing regulations
relating to the control or the licensing as herein provided.
      2.   Notice of such hearing must be published in a newspaper, published
and having general circulation in the County at least once a week for a period
of two (2) weeks before the hearing.
      3.   Upon adoption of a new regulation, the board shall designate its
effective date, which may not be earlier than twenty (20) days after its
adoption.
      4.   Immediately after adoption, a copy of any new regulation must be
available for public inspection during regular business hours at the Office of
the City Clerk or City Administrator.
   D.   Restrict, revoke or suspend licenses for cause, after hearing, as
provided in this chapter. In an emergency, the board may issue an order for
immediate suspension, revocation or limitation of a license, but the order must
state the reason for suspension, revocation or limitations and afford the
licensee a post-suspension hearing as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 702, 4-
13-2017)
3-5-9: TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS BY THE BOARD:
A majority vote of the members of the board present governs in the transaction
of all business. A majority of the members constitutes a quorum for the
transaction of business. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
3-5-10: APPLICATION GENERALLY:
   A.   It is the declared policy of the board that all natural persons, firms,
associations of persons, corporations, partnerships, limited partnerships or
limited liability companies offering or conducting entertainment by gambling
game or gaming within the City are licensed and controlled so as to better
protect the public health, safety, morals, good order and general welfare of
the inhabitants of the City.
   B.   Any license which is issued, or finding of suitability, or approval by
the board shall be deemed to be a revocable privilege; and no person or entity
holding such a license, finding of suitability, or approval of the board is
deemed to have acquired any vested rights therein.
   C.   An applicant for a gaming license is seeking to be granted a privileged
license, and the burden of proving his, her or its qualifications to receive a
license is at all times on the applicant. An applicant must accept any risk of
adverse public notice, embarrassment, criticism or other action of financial
loss which may result from action with respect to an application and expressly
waive any claim for damages as a result thereof.
   D.   An application for a gaming license, determination of suitability or
registration shall constitute a request to the board for a decision upon the
applicant's general suitability, character, integrity and ability to
participate or engage in, or be associated with, the conduct of entertainment
by gambling game or gaming, in the manner or position sought by the
application.
   E.   By filing an application with the board, the applicant specifically
consents to the making of such a decision by the board. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
3-5-11: WAIVER OF PRIVILEGE:
An applicant may claim any privilege afforded by the Constitution of the United
States, or the State of Nevada, in refusing to answer questions by the board.
However, a claim of privilege with respect to any evidence or testimony
pertaining to an application may constitute sufficient grounds for denial.
(Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
3-5-12: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   Every person, firm, association of persons or corporation desiring to
engage in the offer or conduct of entertainment by gambling game or gaming in
the City shall make an application to the City Clerk/City Administrator for a
license in such form as prescribed by the board. A separate license must be
obtained for each location at which a gaming establishment is operated.
   B.   The applicant must furnish a complete description of the premises in
which the applicant desires to carry on or conduct the slot machine, device or
game, together with the location of the building, its street number, if any,
and any other information by which it may be definitely and readily located and
recognized.
   C.   The applicant must state definitely the particular type of slot machine
or the particular game or device and the number of games or devices which the
applicant desires to carry on or conduct in the room and/or premises.
   D.   If the applicant intends to operate more than sixteen (16) slot
machines, the applicant must provide the name and type of the restaurant and
bar with their respective patron capacities, if applicable, and/or the name of
the hotel/motel and the number of hotel/motel rooms, if applicable.
   E.   The application must be fully completed, and all required supplemental
documents and information must be submitted with the application. No
application shall be deemed to have been filed until such time as it is
complete in all respects, and the board may reject for filing any application
not completed on its face.
   F.   The applicant or, if the applicant is a nonnatural person, its
authorized signatory, must sign and verify under penalty of perjury the
application and any waivers or releases requested. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017; amd.
Ord. 751, 12-14-2023, eff. 1-11-2024)
3-5-13: ACTION ON APPLICATION:
   A.   The Sheriff may be requested, from time to time, to conduct such
investigation of an applicant as deemed necessary, or as required by the board.
      1.   Should the board direct an investigation, the applicant shall be
solely liable for the payment of the costs of the investigation and shall place
on deposit with the City, the sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00) against
which the Sheriff's Office will bill, for completion of the investigation.
Should the costs of the investigation exceed the three hundred dollar ($300.00)
deposit, the applicant will be billed and must pay the balance of the
investigation as a condition precedent to the application being forwarded to
the board for consideration.
      2.   Should the board direct an investigation, the Sheriff shall present
the completed application, a report of his or her investigation and his or her
recommendation for approval or denial to the board within forty five (45) days
after the completed application and all supporting documents are filed with the
Sheriff.
   B.   After receiving the application and the Sheriff's report, the board
shall at that meeting grant or refuse to grant the license prayed for or enter
any other order consistent with this chapter, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Refer the application back to the Sheriff for additional
information.
      2.   Require a personal interview with the applicant.
      3.   Require the applicant to submit additional information relative to
the application.
      4.   Limit, or condition the license under the provisions of this
chapter.
      5.   The applicant shall have until the next regular meeting of the board
to furnish such additional information, or to appear for a requested personal
interview.
   C.   No City gaming license may be granted to any applicant unless that
applicant first provides proof that he, she or it has been issued a State
gaming license.
   D.   The board may accept proof of the issuance of a State gaming license to
an applicant as prima facie evidence of the suitability of an applicant for a
City gaming license. If accepted by the board, the County Sheriff's Office
shall not be required to conduct a background check on the applicant.
   E.   The board may refuse to grant a license to an applicant it finds
unsuitable; but the board shall not deny a gaming license to an applicant
solely because he or she is not a citizen of the United States.
   F.   The board may refuse to grant a license to any applicant, even if the
State of Nevada has issued a gaming license to the applicant:
      1.   Who, within the last ten (10) years, has been convicted of any
felony, any crime of moral turpitude, or any crime of sexual assault or
violence; or whoever has been convicted of any crime connected to gaming or
gambling games;
      2.   Who is financially insolvent or who has undergone a prior bankruptcy
proceeding filed by or against him, her or it that resulted in creditors
receiving less than the total amount of money owed them;
      3.   Who has a history of financial instability;
      4.   Whose stated financial condition is inadequate or insufficient to
offer or conduct entertainment by gambling game or gaming;
      5.   Who makes any untrue statement of a material fact in any
application, notice, statement or report filed with the board in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter, or willfully omits to state in any such
application, notice, statement or report any material fact which is required to
be stated therein, or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the
facts stated in view of the circumstances under which they were stated, not
misleading;
      6.   Who has any financial interest in, or connection with any business
which is illegal where such business is located;
      7.   Whose license location under the provisions of this chapter would be
contrary to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the residents of
the City;
      8.   Who is under twenty-one (21) years of age at the time of
application;
      9.   Whose gaming license issued under this chapter, or in any other
jurisdiction, was revoked for cause;
      10.   Who, at the time of application for renewal of any license issued
under this chapter, would not be eligible for such license upon first
application;
      11.   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in Nevada, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under Nevada law to transact business
in the State; or
      12.   Who is found to be unsuitable for any other material reason,
provided that reason is declared by the board on the record during the
consideration of the application.
   G.   The board shall refuse to grant a license to any applicant, even if the
State of Nevada has issued a gaming license to the applicant:
      1.   Who intends to operate sixteen (16) or more slot machines but not
more than forty (40) slot machines, unless that establishment also offers the
following services that are maintained and held out to the public:
         a.   At least one (1) bar and at least one (1) restaurant as defined
herein; or
         b.   At least thirty (30) hotel or motel rooms available for sleeping
accommodations.
      2.   Who intends to operate more than forty (40) slot machines or any
number of slot machines together with any other game, gaming device, race book
or sports pool at one gaming establishment, unless that establishment also
offers the following services that are maintained and held out to the public:
         a.   At least thirty (30) hotel or motel rooms available for sleeping
accommodations.
   H.   Subsections G1 amd G2 of this section do not apply to any business or
its successors and assigns holding a nonrestricted gaming license in the city
if the nonrestricted gaming establishment existed and operated in the city
before January 1, 2024, unless the nonrestricted gaming operation ceases at the
establishment for a period exceeding two (2) years.
   I.   A block of hotel or motel rooms in an establishment can only support
one (1) application for a gaming license. If the owner/operator of the hotel or
motel is different from the applicant for the gaming license then the
association must be formalized through a written agreement and provided with
the license application. "Establishment" for the purposes of this subsection
means one (1) or more businesses providing related services pursuant to a
written agreement on the same or adjoining parcels of land.
   J.   Gaming license applicants shall not operate more than one gaming
establishment in a single or contiguous location in order to bypass compliance
with the provisions herein. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017; amd. Ord. 751, 12-14-2023,
eff. 1-11-2024)
3-5-14: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every licensee to whom or for whom a license shall have been granted pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter shall display such license in a conspicuous
place within the premises of the licensed operation, so that the same may be
readily seen by persons entering the premises. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
3-5-15: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The board may suspend or revoke a license issued pursuant to this
chapter for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any cause that would constitute grounds for denial of a license.
      2.   Violation of this chapter or conviction of any other City ordinance,
County ordinance, State or Federal law or regulation involving moral turpitude
by a licensee.
      3.   Refusal of the licensee to comply with any lawful order of the
board.
      4.   Any cause which the board may determine, after hearing, as provided
in this chapter, to be deleterious to the health, safety, morals and general
welfare of the general public.
   B.   Except when the board finds there to be an "emergency", as defined in
this chapter, before taking any action to revoke or suspend a license, the
board shall provide the licensee against whom the proceedings are brought,
written specifications charging the licensee with the acts or failures upon
which the disciplinary proceedings are brought, and setting a date and time for
a hearing in the matter. The charging instrument shall be verified and shall be
served upon the licensee in the same manner as a summons.
   C.   The licensee must answer within ten (10) days after service of the
charging document. The licensee's answer must:
      1.   State in short and plain terms the defenses to each claim asserted.
      2.   Admit or deny the facts alleged in the charging instrument.
      3.   State which allegations he/she/it is without knowledge or
information for a belief as to their truth. Such allegations shall be deemed
denied.
      4.   Affirmatively set forth any matter which constitutes an avoidance or
affirmative defense.
   D.   Failure of the licensee to answer or to appear at the hearing,
constitutes an admission by the licensee of all facts alleged in the charging
instrument. The board may revoke a license upon such an admission and on other
evidence without further notice to the licensee.
   E.   At any hearing to revoke or suspend a license, the following procedure
shall apply:
      1.   Oral testimony may be taken only upon oath administered by the Clerk
of the board.
      2.   The parties to the hearing have the right to call and examine
witnesses; introduce exhibits relevant to the issues of the case; cross examine
witnesses on any matters relevant to the issues of the case; impeach any
witness; and offer rebuttal evidence.
      3.   If the licensee does not testify in his or her own behalf, he or she
may be called and examined as if under cross examination.
      4.   The hearing need not be conducted according to technical rules
relating to evidence and witnesses. Any relevant evidence may be admitted and
is sufficient in itself to support a finding if it is the sort of evidence on
which reasonable and responsible persons are accustomed to relying upon, in the
conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or
statutory rule which might make improper the admission of such evidence over
objection in a civil action.
      5.   The parties or their counsel may by written stipulation agree that
certain specified evidence may be admitted even though such evidence might
otherwise be subject to objection.
      6.   The board may take official notice of any generally accepted
information and of any other fact which may be judicially noticed by the courts
of this State. The parties must be informed of any information, matters or
facts so noticed, and must be given a reasonable opportunity, upon written
request, to refute such information, matters or facts by evidence or by written
or oral presentation of authorities.
   F.   The board shall consider all evidence and testimony in support of and
in opposition to the charges.
   G.   All findings, conclusions, decisions and actions taken by the board
shall be entered into the minutes of the board. Due to the administrative
nature of the proceedings in this area, the standard of proof required to be
proven by the City is a preponderance of evidence.
   H.   Notice of the board's findings, decision and order shall be served upon
the licensee personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested, or
posted upon the premises of the licensed operation.
   I.   Any suspension or revocation of a license shall be effective upon
service of the notice of suspension or revocation.
   J.   Upon issuance and service of the order of suspension or revocation, the
licensee shall immediately cease the proscribed activity.
   K.   In the event that the board takes immediate action to suspend or revoke
a license, pursuant to a declaration of an emergency, the board thereafter
shall follow all the procedures listed above, for purposes of advising the
licensee of the charges and providing a post-suspension or post-revocation
hearing. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
3-5-16: APPEALS:
   A.   Any decision of the board may be appealed to the Seventh Judicial
District Court, in and for the County of White Pine.
   B.   Written notice of such appeal shall be given to the County Clerk within
thirty (30) calendar days of the oral pronouncement of the decision by the
board. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
3-5-17: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, association of persons, corporation, partnership, limited
partnership or limited liability company violating any of the provisions of
this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall, upon conviction, be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 702, 4-13-2017)
CHAPTER 6
PROSTITUTION
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Licensing And Control Board
3-6-3: License Revocable Privilege
3-6-4: Prostitution Not An Offense Or Nuisance
3-6-5: Unlawful Under Certain Conditions
3-6-6: License Application
3-6-7: License Restrictions
3-6-8: Imposition Of Other Restrictions
3-6-9: License Issuance
3-6-10: License Fee
3-6-11: Prostitute Registration; Work Card
3-6-12: Prostitute's And Patron's Health
3-6-13: General Prohibitions
3-6-14: Revocation
3-6-15: Exception To Hearing Procedure
3-6-16: Transferability
3-6-17: Death Or Resignation Of Licensee
3-6-18: Penalty
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
APPLICANT: Any person, firm or corporation applying to the council for a
license under the provisions of this chapter, together with all persons listed
in subsection
3-6-6A of this chapter.
COUNCIL: The city council of Ely.
LICENSED OPERATION: A house of prostitution duly licensed and operated in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Prior Code § 10A-4)
3-6-2: LICENSING AND CONTROL BOARD:
   A.   Board Created: The city council shall act as a prostitution licensing
and control board.
   B.   Duty: It shall be the duty of the council to carry out terms and
provisions of this chapter, and to see that this chapter is faithfully
enforced.
   C.   Powers: The powers of the council shall include, but shall not be
limited to:
      1.   Receive all license applications submitted under the provisions of
this chapter;
      2.   Investigate all applicants for a license under the provisions of
this chapter;
      3.   Grant or refuse to grant the license provided for in this chapter;
      4.   Receive complaints concerning alleged violations of this chapter;
      5.   Revoke licenses issued under the terms of this chapter;
      6.   Exercise any proper power and authority necessary to perform the
duties assigned it, and is not limited by any enumeration of powers or
considerations in this chapter. (Prior Code § 10A-5)
3-6-3: LICENSE REVOCABLE PRIVILEGE:
No applicant for a license or other affirmative council approval has any right
to license or the granting of the approval sought. Any license issued or other
council approval granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter is a
revocable privilege and no holder acquires any vested right therein or
thereunder. (Prior Code § 10A-1)
3-6-4: PROSTITUTION NOT AN OFFENSE OR NUISANCE:
The operation of a house of prostitution in the city in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter does not constitute a public nuisance or an offense
to public decency. (Prior Code § 10A-2)
3-6-5: UNLAWFUL UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS:
   A.   House Of Prostitution: It is unlawful for any person to keep, own or
operate any house of prostitution, house of ill fame or bawdy house of any
description within the city except as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Prostitute: It is unlawful for any person to practice prostitution or
to solicit business for a prostitute or to procure any person for the purpose
of prostitution within the city except as provided in this chapter.
   C.   Evidence Of General Reputation: In the trial of any case arising under
the provisions of subsection A or B of this section, evidence of general
reputation shall be competent evidence as to the question of the ill fame of
any house of prostitution and to the question of the ill fame of any woman
alleged to be practicing prostitution. (Prior Code § 10A-3)
3-6-6: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   A.   Contents: Any person desiring to own or operate a house of prostitution
within the city shall apply to the council for a license to operate such house
of prostitution. Such license application shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Names, ages, and addresses of all persons who have or will have any
financial interest in the operation, including the owner of the real property,
if the real property is leased to the operator.
      2.   Names, ages, and addresses of persons who are or will be personally
responsible for the conduct and management of the operation;
      3.   A recent photograph and complete set of fingerprints of all persons
listed in subsection A1 and A2 of this section;
      4.   Names and addresses of every other business in which the applicant
has any financial interest, including the type of such business and the nature
of the applicant's interest;
      5.   Names and addresses of all employers of the applicant in the
preceding five (5) years.
      6.   All the applicant's addresses for the preceding five (5) years.
      7.   A list of all prior convictions of the applicant for any crime,
excluding minor traffic violations, which list shall include a statement of the
offense, the place of its occurrence, the date of its occurrence and the
disposition of the case;
      8.   A complete and accurate financial statement of the applicant;
      9.   The street address of the property upon which the proposed operation
is to be conducted, together with copies of all deeds, mortgages, deeds of
trusts, liens or other encumbrances, leasehold interests, or other interests
relating to the property;
      10.   Any other information reasonably deemed necessary or useful by the
council;
      11.   Names, ages, and addresses of all persons who have or will have
leasehold interests in the property. (Prior Code § 10A-6)
   B.   Filing; Investigation:
      1.   Filing; Fee: All license applications under the provisions of this
chapter shall be filed with the city clerk, along with a nonrefundable
investigation fee. The city clerk shall place the application on the agenda of
the council's regularly scheduled meeting at the earliest possible date.
      2.   Investigation: Upon presentation of any license application to the
city clerk, the city clerk shall make an examination of the financial statement
and financial background of the applicant. The city clerk shall refer the
balance of such application to the county sheriff for investigation. The
sheriff shall conduct a full investigation of all information contained in the
license application, which investigation shall include, but shall not be
limited to the following:
         a.   Criminal Record: A complete check of all records of the federal
bureau of investigation and any other similar organization concerning the
criminal record of any applicant.
         b.   Personal Interview: A personal interview with each applicant.
         c.   Interview Of Employers/Business Associates: An interview, either
personal or by mail, with all employers of the applicant and business
associates of the applicant, as shown in the license application.
         d.   Other Investigation: Any other investigation reasonably deemed
necessary or useful by the sheriff.
      3.   Sheriff's Report To Council: Within thirty (30) days after any
application is referred by the city clerk to the sheriff, the sheriff shall
report the results of his investigation in writing to the council, which report
shall include, but shall not be limited to the following:
         a.   Results Of Investigation: A complete statement of the results of
the investigations undertaken.
         b.   Errors And Omissions: A list of any errors or omissions found to
exist in the application.
         c.   Evaluation: An evaluation of the personal background of the
applicant.
      4.   Council Action: Within thirty (30) days after receiving the
sheriff's report, the council may:
         a.   Require Additional Investigation: Refer the application back to
the sheriff for additional investigation.
         b.   Require Interview: Require a personal interview with the
applicant.
         c.   Require Additional Information: Require the applicant to submit
additional information relative to his application.
         d.   Grant/Refuse Application: Grant or refuse to grant a license
under the provisions of this chapter.
      5.   Grounds For Refusal: The city council may refuse to grant a license
to any applicant:
         a.   Who has been convicted of any felony.
         b.   Who is financially insolvent or is inadequately financed.
         c.   Who has a history of financial instability.
         d.   Who has wilfully omitted or incorrectly stated any material fact
in his application.
         e.   Who has any financial interest in, or connection with, any
business which is illegal where such business is located.
         f.   Whose license under the provisions of this chapter would be
contrary to the health, welfare, or safety of the city or its residents.
         g.   When the proposed establishment is not in the correct zoning.
      6.   Time Allowed To Cure Defects: Upon denying any application for a
license under the provisions of this chapter, the applicant shall have thirty
(30) days within which to cure any defect in the application, and such
application may be again submitted to the council for consideration, as herein
provided, within thirty (30) days after denial.
      7.   Time Restriction For Council Action: The council shall grant or
refuse to grant a license within ninety (90) days after the presentation of any
application of the council. (Prior Code § 10A-7)
3-6-7: LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
Every license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall have the
following restriction: no operation may be conducted in violation of any
applicable city, county, state or federal ordinance, statute or regulation.
(Prior Code § 10A-8)
3-6-8: IMPOSITION OF OTHER RESTRICTIONS:
The council may, in its discretion and to promote the health, safety and
welfare of the people of the city and to promote the orderly conduct of the
operation, impose additional restrictions, including, but not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Limit Number Of Prostitutes: Limitation of the number of prostitutes
that may be working in an operation;
   B.   Limit Type, Signing And Size Of Building: Limitation on the type,
signing and size of building in which an operation may be conducted;
   C.   Time Of Imposition: The council may impose restrictions pursuant to
this section prior, or after issuance of license.
   D.   Promulgation Of Rules And Regulations: The council may, by resolution,
authorize the sheriff to promulgate written rules and regulations not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter regulating the activities and
conduct of prostitutes working pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior code § 10A-9)
3-6-9: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
   A.   Issuance: Upon approval of all applications connected with an
operation, the council shall issue a license for the operation, which license
shall state:
      1.   The name and address or location of the operation;
      2.   Any optional restrictions or limitations imposed by the council
under section
3-6-8 of this chapter;
      3.   The date of issuance of the license;
      4.   The date or expiration of the license.
   B.   Term: All licenses shall be issued for a quarterly period with the
fiscal year of the license being from July 1 to June 30 of the next year.
   C.   Renewal: No later than thirty (30) days before the expiration date of
any license, the licensee shall apply to the city clerk, on forms provided, for
a renewal. The city clerk shall forthwith notify the sheriff, and if any
written complaint regarding the operation shall have been received during the
immediately preceding license period, the sheriff may cause the renewal
application to be placed on the agenda of the next city council meeting, at
which meeting the council shall either renew or deny the license. If placed on
the agenda, the council shall conduct a hearing, and may summon witnesses,
interview the licensee, interview any complainant, require additional
investigation by the sheriff, or do any and all other acts which may be
necessary or appropriate to the council's determination. If no such complaint
has been received, the city clerk shall issue the renewed license upon
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Failure To Apply For Renewal: Failure of any licensee to apply for a
renewal, as required in subsection C of this section, shall be grounds for the
council to revoke the license at its first regular meeting after the expiration
of the business license of the licensee.
   E.   Reinstatement: Any license thus revoked may be reinstated only upon
compliance by the licensee with all requirements of this chapter relating to
the original license applications. (Prior code § 10A-10)
3-6-10: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Annual Fee: Every licensee shall pay such amounts as determined from
time to time by resolution of the city council per year for the privilege of
operating a house of prostitution in the city effective October 1, 1986. Said
fees shall be paid in the first day of each year and shall accompany the annual
renewal application pursuant to
3-1-7 .
   B.   Effective July 1, 2019 the annual fee for licensing shall be as
established in city code,
Title 3, Chapter 1 .
   C.   Effective upon passing, the prostitution work card must be re-issued on
a quarterly basis and by paying the applicable prostitution work card fee at
the rate set by the city council by resolution. (Prior code § 10A-11; amd. 2001
Code; Ord. 724, 6-13-2019)
3-6-11: PROSTITUTE REGISTRATION; WORK CARD:
   A.   Registration Required: Every prostitute shall be registered with the
sheriff on forms provided by the sheriff which shall be referred to as a "work
card" and which shall include:
      1.   The name, age, address and physical description of the prostitute.
      2.   A recent photo and full set of fingerprints of the prostitute.
      3.   Complete employment record of the prostitute for the preceding five
(5) years.
      4.   All addresses of the prostitute for the preceding five (5) years.
      5.   Complete criminal record of the prostitute, including all
convictions, except minor traffic violations, which list shall include a
statement of each offense, the place of its occurrence and the date of its
occurrence. (Prior code § 10A-12; amd. 2001 Code)
      6.   By registering as required herein and by submitting to a full set of
fingerprints as required herein, said prostitute herewith authorizes the city
of Ely to submit said fingerprints to the federal bureau of investigation,
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010, for the purpose of conducting a
national background check of the person. (Ord. 621, 1-10-2008)
   B.   Application Fee: Be accompanied with a one-time application fee, or an
annual renewal or revision fee.
   C.   Term: Each work card shall be renewed annually.
   D.   Investigation: The sheriff shall investigate, through all available
means, the accuracy of all information supplied by the prostitute on the
registration form.
   E.   Ineligible Persons: No person may work as a prostitute who:
      1.   Is on probation resulting from a conviction of the possession, use,
sale, or furnishing of any narcotic, hallucinogenic or dangerous drug;
      2.   Is on probation resulting from a conviction of a felony;
      3.   Is on probation resulting from a conviction of any crime involving
theft, embezzlement or misappropriation of funds;
      4.   Has been convicted of any crime involving violence or the use of any
deadly or dangerous weapon within five (5) years;
      5.   Has been convicted of any crime involving the illegal use of
firearms within five (5) years;
      6.   Has wilfully made any false statement or omission in the application
form required by subsection A of this section.
      7.   Is a female, under twenty one (21) years of age.
      8.   Has tested positive for HIV infection, commonly called AIDS.
   F.   Work Card Filed With Proprietor: All prostitutes shall file and
maintain a current work card with the operator of a licensed establishment
before commencing work as a prostitute therein; no work card shall be
transferable; all work cards shall state the name of the licensed operation
where the prostitute will work; no prostitute shall change her place of working
from one operation to another without first notifying the sheriff of the
proposed change and obtaining a revised work card. (Prior Code § 10A-12; amd.
2001 Code)
3-6-12: PROSTITUTE'S AND PATRON'S HEALTH:
   A.   Medical Examination: Every license shall require medical examinations
for all prostitutes working at the licensee's operation which examination
shall:
      1.   Be performed at least once a week.
      2.   Be performed by a medical doctor or doctor of osteopathy duly
licensed to practice medicine in the state.
      3.   Include tests approved by the division of health of the department
of health, welfare and rehabilitation of the state for the detection and
diagnosis of venereal diseases, including, but not limited to weekly tests for
gonorrhea using an endocervical culture technique, the culture made to be
processed at a licensed and approved clinical laboratory;
      4.   Include other medically approved tests, deemed advisable by the
examiner, for determining whether the prostitute is afflicted with any
infectious or contagious disease;
      5.   Be performed at the location of the licensed operation, at the
examiner's office, at a hospital or clinic, as determined by the examiner.
   B.   Acts Required Of Physician: After performing the examination required
in subsection A of this section, the examining doctor shall:
      1.   Issue to every person examined and found not to be afflicted with
venereal disease or other contagious or infectious disease a certificate so
stating;
      2.   Refuse to issue such certificate to any person found to be, or
suspected of being, afflicted with venereal disease or other contagious or
infectious disease;
      3.   Report the results of such examinations weekly to the sheriff;
      4.   If any prostitute examined is found to be afflicted with venereal
disease or any contagious or infectious disease, the doctor shall immediately
notify the sheriff and the licensed operator where the prostitute is working of
such condition.
   C.   Current Certificate Required: No person may work as a prostitute in any
operation without a current certificate, as described in subsection B1 of this
section.
   D.   Working After Denied Certificate: No person who has ever been denied a
certificate by an examining medical doctor or doctor of osteopathy, as provided
in subsection B2 of this section, may again work as a prostitute in any
licensed operation until such person has received and presented to the sheriff
a certificate from an examining medical doctor or doctor of osteopathy stating
that the cause or causes which resulted in the denial of the certificate have
been cured and that the person is now free of any venereal disease or other
contagious or infectious disease.
   E.   Health Hazard: Nothing contained in subsections A through D inclusive
of this section shall prevent the council, on its own motion or upon complaints
or reports from any persons, from inquiring into the existence of any condition
on the premises of any licensed operation which might constitute or cause a
health hazard. (Prior Code § 10A-13)
3-6-13: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Minors: It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years, except as otherwise specified in this chapter, to enter or be a patron
of any operation licensed under the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Compel, Entice, Encourage Minor: It is unlawful for the licensee of any
operation licensed under the provisions of this chapter, or for any prostitute
or employee of such licensee, to compel, entice, encourage, permit or suffer
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, to enter to be a patron of
any operation licensed under the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Advertising: It is unlawful for anyone, including any licensee under
this chapter, to advertise prostitution within the city.
   D.   Males Residing On Premises: It is unlawful for any male person other
than the owner of the premises or the manager to reside on the premises where
the operation is conducted. (Prior Code § 10A-14)
3-6-14: REVOCATION:
   A.   Grounds: The council may revoke or temporarily suspend any license
issued under the provisions of this chapter or place a licensee on probation
with or without conditions for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any cause that would constitute grounds for denial of a license
under subsection
3-6-6B5 of this chapter;
      2.   Violation by the licensee of any provision of this chapter;
      3.   Violation by any prostitute of any provision of this chapter where
the licensee knew or should have known of the violation;
      4.   The licensee knowingly permitting the existence of any health hazard
on the premises occupied by the licensed operation or employing any person as a
prostitute when such person does not have a valid health certificate, as
required by section
3-6-12 of this chapter;
      5.   Wilful refusal of the licensee to comply with any order of the
council issued under the provisions of section
3-6-13 of this chapter;
      6.   Any other cause which the council may determine, in its sound
discretion, to be harmful or injurious to the health, welfare and safety of the
general public.
   B.   Procedure: Before action is taken pursuant to subsection A above,
unless an alternative procedure is clearly specified elsewhere in this chapter,
the council shall:
      1.   Conduct a hearing to determine the existence of the cause or causes
of action, notice of which hearing shall have been served upon the licensee or
posted upon the premises where the licensed operation is conducted at least
forty eight (48) hours prior to the time of such hearing;
      2.   Permit the licensee to submit evidence and testimony;
      3.   Consider all evidence and testimony in support of and in opposition
to the action pending;
      4.   Enter in the minutes of the council the findings of the council and
reasons for any action taken by the council;
      5.   Enter in the minutes of the council an order specifying the action
taken.
   C.   Notice: Notice of the proceeding shall be served upon the licensee or
posted upon the premises occupied by the licensed operation.
   D.   Action Becomes Effective: Any action taken shall be effective upon
service or posting of the notice, as specified in subsection C of this section.
(Prior Code § 10A-15)
3-6-15: EXCEPTION TO HEARING PROCEDURE:
If, upon investigating grounds for revocation of a license, the mayor, or the
city council, upon complying with the provisions of the open meeting law, and
having unanimously agreed that public health, safety or morals will be
endangered by the continued existence of the license, the mayor or the council
may, without notice, suspend the license at once and direct the sheriff to
close the licensee's business. However, a notice of revocation hearing, as set
out in section
3-6-14 of this chapter, shall also be served on the licensee at once, and the
procedure thereafter shall be in accordance with the provisions of section
3-6-14 of this chapter. (Prior Code § 10A-16)
3-6-16: TRANSFERABILITY:
All licenses granted under this chapter shall be for operations conducted on
the property described in the application only, and no operation shall be added
to or moved without a new license application and approval. (Prior Code § 10A-
17)
3-6-17: DEATH OR RESIGNATION OF LICENSEE:
In the event of the death or resignation of a licensed person without whom a
licensed premises would be forced to cease operations, the city clerk may issue
a temporary license, upon review by the sheriff, to a replacement applicant,
which shall be good for not more than sixty (60) days while the applicant's
licensed operation is being processed. (Prior Code § 10A-18)
3-6-18: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior Code § 10A-19; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 7
JUNK AND SECONDHAND DEALERS 1
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Acquiring Property From Minors
3-7-3: Records
 
Notes
1 1. For power of city to license and regulate junk dealers, see NRS § 647.080.
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
JUNK DEALER 1 : Any person who engages in the business of, or keeps a place of
business for, the purchase or sale of old metals, bottle, glass, rags, rubber,
paper and other kinds of junk.
SECONDHAND DEALER: Any person who engages in the business of, or keeps a place
of business for, the purchase or sale of secondhand clothing or garments,
secondhand goods, wares and merchandise or other chattels. (Prior Code § 12-1)
 
Notes
1 2. For state law definition of "junk dealer" see NRS § 647.016.
3-7-2: ACQUIRING PROPERTY FROM MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any secondhand or junk dealer or any agent, servant or
employee of such secondhand or junk dealer, to purchase or otherwise acquire
any personal property of or from any minor under the age of eighteen (18)
years, except upon the written and signed statement of the parent or guardian
of such minor or of the person from whom such minor obtained such property. The
statement shall indicate that such minor is entitled to dispose of such
property and it shall be kept on file by such dealer. (Prior Code § 12-2)
3-7-3: RECORDS:
Every secondhand and junk dealer shall keep a substantial and well-bound book,
in which he shall enter, in writing, at the time of purchase, in the English
language:
   A.   A true and accurate description of every article purchased by him,
except for furniture, household goods and utensils, pianos and automobiles.
   B.   The name, age and residence of the seller.
   C.   The date and hour of purchase and amount paid.
All entries shall be made with ink in a legible manner, and such record shall
be kept open to inspection by any peace officer at any time upon request. All
such property remaining on hand and undisposed of shall also be subject to
inspection by any peace officer at any time, as well as the statements required
by section
3-7-2 of this chapter. (Prior Code § 12-3)
CHAPTER 8
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definitions
3-8-2: License Or Permit Required
3-8-3: Application
3-8-4: Investigation And Issuance
3-8-5: Bond
3-8-6: Service Of Process
3-8-7: Term; Fees
3-8-8: Exhibition Of License Or Permit
3-8-9: Transferability
3-8-10: Yard Sales Excluded
3-8-11: Restroom Facilities
3-8-12: Appeal And Denial
3-8-13: Revocation
3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
PEDDLER: Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by foot,
wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance, from place to
place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden
truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who, without traveling
from place to place, sells or offers the same for sale from a wagon, automotive
vehicle, railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance, or who unloads goods
from any vehicle or any means of conveyance and thereafter auctions the same in
any manner; and further provided, that one who solicits orders and as a
separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or
design to evade the provisions of this chapter is deemed a peddler subject to
the provisions of this chapter. The word peddler includes the words hawker and
huckster.
SOLICITOR: Any individual, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by
foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck, or any other type of conveyance, from
place to place, from house to house, or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal
property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be
furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such sale or whether he
is collecting advance payments on such sales or not; provided, that such
definition shall include any person, who, for himself, or for another person,
firm or corporation, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure,
tent, railroad boxcar, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other
place within the city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking
orders for future delivery. (Prior Code § 12-4)
3-8-2: LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Peddlers: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business
of a peddler within the limits of the city without first obtaining a license
therefor as provided in this chapter. (Prior Code § 12-5)
   B.   Solicitors: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of a solicitor within the limits of the city without first obtaining a
permit from the chief of police as provided in this chapter. (Prior Code § 12-
5; amd. 2001 Code)
3-8-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Information Required: Applicants for a license or permit under this
chapter must file an application, in writing, which shall set forth the
following information:
      1.   Name and description of the applicant;
      2.   Address (legal and local);
      3.   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold and in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or
grown by the applicant;
      4.   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
      5.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      6.   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
the license number or other means of identification;
      7.   A photograph of the applicant, taken within sixty (60) days
immediately prior to the date of the filing of the application, which
photograph shall be two inches by two inches (2" x 2") showing the head and
shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishable manner;
      8.   The fingerprints of the applicant and any other available evidence
as to the good character and business responsibility of the applicant as will
enable an investigator properly to evaluate such character and business
responsibility;
      9.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of the offense
and punishment or penalty assessed therefor;
   B.   Peddlers: Application for a peddler's license will be furnished by,
and, upon completion by the applicant, filing with the city clerk's office.
   C.   Solicitors: Applications for a solicitor's permit will be furnished by,
and, upon completion by the applicant, filed with the city clerk's office.
(Prior code § 12-6)
3-8-4: INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE:
   A.   Scope: Upon receipt of an application under this chapter, it shall be
referred to the chief of police, who shall cause such investigation of the
applicant's business and moral character to be made as he deems necessary for
the protection of the public good and provide the same to the city clerk.
   B.   Issuance Of Approval Or Disapproval:
      1.   Peddlers: If as a result of such investigation the applicant's
character or business responsibility is found to be satisfactory or
unsatisfactory, the city clerk shall endorse on such application his approval
or disapproval and his reasons for the same. The city clerk shall notify the
applicant that his application is approved and that the license will be issued
upon payment of the prescribed fee, or that his application is disapproved and
that no license will be issued.
      2.   Solicitors: If as a result of such investigation, the character and
business responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the city
clerk shall endorse on the application his approval, execute a permit addressed
to the applicant for carrying on of the business applied for. If the city clerk
finds the applicant to be unsatisfactory, he shall so endorse the application,
and said application is denied. (Prior code § 12-7; amd. 2001 Code)
3-8-5: BOND:
   A.   Required: Before any license, as provided by this chapter, shall be
issued for engaging in a "promotion" or "promotional events" business, as
defined in section
3-9-1 of this title, in the city, such applicant shall file with the city clerk
a bond running to the city in the sum pursuant to the schedule on file in the
city clerk's office executed by the applicant, as principal, and two (2)
sureties upon which service of process may be made in the state. (Prior code §
12-9; amd. Ord. 696, 11-17-2016)
   B.   Approval By City Attorney: Such bond must be approved by the city
attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of the sureties thereon.
(Prior code § 12-9)
   C.   Conditions Of Bond: Such bond to be approved by the city attorney shall
be conditioned that the said applicant shall comply fully with all of the
provisions of the ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state
regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and will
pay all judgments rendered against said applicant for any violation of said
ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all judgments and costs
that may be recovered against him by any person for damage growing out of any
misrepresentations or deception practiced on any person transacting such
business with such applicant, whether said misrepresentations or deceptions
were made or practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents, or
employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement
of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods,
wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof. (Prior Code § 12-9; amd. 2001
Code)
   D.   Actions On Bond: Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the
city to the use of the aggrieved person.
   E.   Term Of Bond: Such bond must remain in effect for a period of six (6)
months from the date of the issuance of the bond unless for good cause shown
the same is directed to be extended for an additional period by the city
attorney.
   F.   Exception: This section shall not apply to specialty sales or markets
or other events sponsored by fraternal, religious, civic, or charitable
organizations. (Prior Code § 12-9)
3-8-6: SERVICE OF PROCESS:
Before any license as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in business
as a "peddler" or "solicitor" as herein defined, in the city, such applicant
shall file with the city clerk an instrument nominating and appointing the city
clerk, or other person performing the duties of such position, his true and
lawful agent with full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice of
process for and on behalf of said applicant in respect to any matters connected
with or arising out of the business transacted under said license and the bond
given as required by section
3-8-5 of this chapter, or for the performance of the conditions of said bond or
for any breach thereof, which said instrument shall also contain recitals to
the effect that said applicant for said license consents and agrees that
service of any notice or process may be made upon said agent, and when so made
shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the person
applying for the said license, according to the law of this or any other state,
and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such acknowledgment of
service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of process upon the city
clerk, as herein provided, the city clerk shall send to the licensee at his
last known address, by registered mail, a copy of said process. (Prior Code §
12-10; amd. 2001 Code)
3-8-7: TERM; FEES:
   A.   Term: All peddlers' licenses and solicitors' permits issued under the
provisions of this chapter shall expire upon the expiration of the business
license.
   B.   Fees: All fees for peddlers' licenses and solicitors' licenses issued
under this chapter shall be as determined from time to time by resolution of
the city council. (Prior Code § 12-11; amd. 2001 Code)
3-8-8: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Peddlers: Peddlers are required to exhibit their licenses at the
request of any citizen.
   B.   Solicitors: The city clerk shall issue to each permittee at the time of
delivery of his permit a badge with shall contain the words "solicitor's
permit" and the number of the permit. Such badge shall, during the time such
permittee is engaged in soliciting, be worn constantly by the permittee on the
front of his outer garment in such a way as to be conspicuous. (Prior Code §
12-12)
3-8-9: TRANSFERABILITY:
No license or permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be used
at any time by any person other than the one to whom it was issued. (Prior Code
§ 12-13)
3-8-10: YARD SALES EXCLUDED:
Yard sales are specifically excluded. (Prior Code § 12-14)
3-8-11: RESTROOM FACILITIES:
All peddlers or solicitors who, without traveling from place to place, sell or
offer goods or other merchandise as described in section
3-8-1 of this chapter for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, railroad car,
or other vehicle or conveyance shall provide a restroom facility within fifteen
feet (15') of the location of the peddler or solicitor. The restroom facility
so provided may be either a permanent facility built to the uniform building,
electrical and plumbing codes and such other ordinances, rules or regulations
adopted and then in effect in the city or the state, or, such facilities may be
of a portable nature provided said portable restroom facilities are constructed
pursuant to all applicable rules and regulations of the state and the city then
in effect. (Prior Code § 12-15.1)
3-8-12: APPEAL AND DENIAL:
Any person aggrieved by the action of the city clerk in the denial of an
application for a license as provided in section
3-8-3 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the city council. Such
appeal shall be filed with the city clerk within fourteen (14) days after
denial of an application for a license, a written statement setting forth fully
the grounds for the appeal. At the next regular meeting of the council, which
shall then set a time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such
hearing shall be given to the appellant in the same manner as provided for
notice of hearing on revocation. The decision and order of the council on such
appeal shall be final and conclusive. (Prior Code § 12-8)
3-8-13: REVOCATION:
The city council shall have the right to revoke any license issued hereunder
for the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter after hearing at a
regularly scheduled meeting of the city council which time and place for
hearing shall be provided to the peddler or solicitor by written notice at
least ten (10) days prior to said hearing. The standard for review for said
license shall be the same as is contained in section
3-1-12 of this title. (Prior Code § 12-15)
CHAPTER 9
TEMPORARY BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: License Required
3-9-3: Application
3-9-4: Fees
3-9-5: Bond
3-9-6: Service Of Process
3-9-7: Restroom Facilities
3-9-8: Revocation
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
 
                        Any person who engages any public or private facility
                        or person, whether his agent, owner, consignee or
PROMOTION AND PROMOTER: employee, whether a resident or not, to participate in
                        the transfer of goods for consideration. Promoter
                        includes all entities who solicit others for the
                        formation of a promotional event.
                        Any promotional activities which involve the temporary
                        displaying or selling of wares and merchandise which
                        are staged or occupy any building, structure, shop,
                        public facility or any other place for the exhibition
                        or sale of goods, wares and merchandise either
                        privately or at public activities not at the licensee's
                        physical business location. Promotional events include
                        all activities commonly referred to as flea markets,
                        auto swaps, carnival markets, sundry markets, odds and
PROMOTIONAL EVENTS:     ends sales, parking lot sales, trade shows, and
                        specialty sales or markets of any nature which involve
                        sale, swap or display of new or used merchandise or
                        rummage for commercial gain; excluding events sponsored
                        by fraternal, religious, civic, nonprofit or charitable
                        organizations where the proceeds therefrom are used for
                        a nonprofit corporation, business, or association or
                        purpose; excluding yard sales and auctions from the
                        operation of this chapter. (Ord. 696, 11-17-2016; amd.
                        Ord. 737, 8-27-2020)
 
3-9-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Temporary Business License to sell merchandise in the city under the
terms and conditions as provided in this chapter. Such license shall be at the
discretion of the mayor for any temporary business events for not more than
seven (7) calendar days during any twelve (12) consecutive month period. (Ord.
696, 11-17-2016)
   B.   Intoxicating Liquor: A license to sell intoxicating liquor shall be
issued, at the discretion of the mayor, to any fraternal, civic, religious,
charitable or social organization upon application and payment of a license fee
as provided in section
3-9-4 of this chapter. The application for the temporary business/special event
liquor license must include proof that the organization making such application
is in fact a fraternal, civic, religious, charitable or social organization and
not a for profit organization. Organizations that are giving away liquor, beer,
or wine shall be exempt from obtaining a temporary business license. (Ord. 679,
1-14-2016)
   C.   Exemptions: Organizations that have a business license pursuant to
chapter one and/or a liquor license pursuant to chapter 2 are exempt from
obtaining a temporary business license. (Ord. 737, 8-28-2020)
3-9-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Form; Time Limitation: Any person desiring to obtain a temporary
business license under this chapter shall submit a verified application on
application blanks furnished by the city license division which shall be filed
with the city clerk/city administrator or designee at least seven (7) calendar
days prior to the time of the event, accompanied by the required fees, and
which application must state definitely the particular place at which such
promotion is to be carried on.
   B.   Required Information:
      1.   Firm, Co Partnership Or Association: If the application is for the
issuance of a temporary business license to a firm, co partnership or
association, the application must state the names and addresses in full of each
member of the firm, co partnership or association; and in the case of a
corporation, the application for the temporary business license shall state the
names and addresses in full for each of the officers of the group together with
the name and address of the resident agent of the group in the state and the
name of the state under which the group exists.
      2.   Nature Of Event: The application shall also describe in detail the
exact nature of the events and activities contemplated, the duration, the
number of booths, exhibits, tables or other persons engaging with the applicant
in the activities.
      3.   Additional Information: Any further information requested by the
city clerk/city administrator or designee will be provided upon request.
   C.   Fee Deposit: At the time of the filing of the application, the
applicant shall deposit with the city clerk/city administrator or designee an
amount of money equal to the fee set by the city council for temporary business
licenses.
   D.   Compliance Required; Damages, Fines And Forfeitures: The applicant will
comply with this chapter and will pay all damages, fines and forfeitures
charged which may be adjudged against the licensee under the ordinances of the
city. The charges assessed by the promoter or person holding the promotional
event will be included as a portion of the application and contemplated number
of participants estimated by the applicant.
   E.   Renewal: Renewals of temporary business licenses under this chapter
will be treated in the same manner as an original application.
   F.   Authority: The mayor has been granted the authority by the city council
to approve all temporary business licenses for purpose of expediency. However,
the applicant must meet all requirements set forth in this chapter before the
mayor may issue the temporary business license. Failure of the applicant to
meet all of the requirements of this chapter shall result in the mayor denying
the application.
      1.   In the event a road closure is required for the event licensed under
this section, the promoter of the event must appear before the city council at
its regularly scheduled meeting, and obtain their approval. A majority vote of
the council members present shall be required for approval of the road closure.
      2.   In the event a special event liquor license or special event beer
and/or wine license is requested, pursuant to chapter 2 of this title, the
promoter of the event must provide proof that they have obtained security,
either by contracting with the White Pine County sheriff's office or through a
private security firm, to protect those individuals attending the promotional
event and the general public. If a copy of that security contract is not
included in the application for the temporary business license, the mayor must
deny that application until all requirements have been met. In addition, the
promoter of the event must also identify the person or company which will be
providing alcoholic beverages for sale (as defined in chapter 2 of this title)
at the event. In no case will alcohol be provided for sale (as defined in
chapter 2 of this title) unless the promotor or sponsor holds a liquor license.
   G.   Approval: The mayor shall, at the next regularly scheduled city council
meeting, inform the council members of each temporary business license he/she
has approved or denied. In the event of a denial, the mayor must indicate the
reason for the denial. If there exists enough time prior to the event, the city
council may hear an appeal from the promoter of the mayor's denial. A majority
vote of the city council shall be required to approve a temporary business
license, subject to the mayor's veto. (Ord. 696, 11-17-2016; amd. Ord. 737, 8-
27-2020)
3-9-4: FEES:
   A.   Time: A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day or portion of a day
for the applicant applying for a temporary business license under the
provisions of this chapter. Fraternal, social, civic and nonprofit
organizations shall be exempt from being required to pay for a special event
license, but must obtain the special event license, upon proof that the
proceeds of the event support the fraternal, civic, or nonprofit organization.
   B.   Space: A fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per day or portion of a day for
each individual booth, activity or separate facility or space where goods,
wares or other merchandise are exhibited for immediate or future sale. The
applicant shall be responsible for the cumulative fees required by this
subsection. (Ord. 696, 11-17-2016)
      1.   A fee of two dollars ($2.00) per day or portion of a day for each
individual booth, activity or separate facility or space where goods, wares or
other merchandise are exhibited for immediate or future sale when the applicant
is a nonprofit organization, with proof provided at time of application of
status as a fraternal, social, civic or nonprofit organization. (Ord. 711, 4-
12-2018)
   C.   Liquor: As a condition precedent to obtaining a special event liquor
license along with a temporary business license, the applicant must already
possess a current liquor license issued by the City pursuant to section
3-2-2 of this title or must complete the required forms and pay the appropriate
licensing fees established by section
3-2-4 of this title, before the event. (Ord. 696, 11-17-2016; amd. Ord. 737, 8-
28-2020)
3-9-5: BOND:
   A.   Required: Before any temporary business license as provided by this
chapter, shall be issued for engaging in a "promotion" or "promotional event"
business, as defined in section
3-9-1 of this chapter in the City, such applicant shall file with the City
Clerk/City Administrator or designee a bond running to the City in the sum
pursuant to the schedule on file in the City Clerk/City Administrator's Office
executed by the applicant, as principal, and two (2) sureties upon which
service of process may be made in the State.
   B.   Approval By City Attorney: Such bond must be approved by the City
Attorney, both as to form, and as to the responsibility of the sureties
thereon.
   C.   Conditions Of Bond: Such bond to be approved by the City Attorney shall
be conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all of the provisions
of the ordinances of the City and the Statutes of the State regulating and
concerning the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and will pay all judgments
rendered against said applicant for any violation of said ordinances or
statutes, or any of them, together with all judgments and costs that may be
recovered against him by any person for damage growing out of any
misrepresentations or deception practiced on any person transacting such
business with such applicant, whether said misrepresentations or deceptions
were made or practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents, or
employees, either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement
of any character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods,
wares and merchandise sold or any part thereof.
   D.   Action On Bond: Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the
City to the use of the aggrieved person.
   E.   Term Of Bond: Such bond must remain in effect for a period of six (6)
months from the date of the issuance of the bond unless for good cause shown
the same is directed to be extended for an additional period by the City
Attorney.
   F.   Exception: This section shall not apply to events sponsored by
fraternal, religious, civic, nonprofit or charitable organizations. (Ord. 696,
11-17-2016)
3-9-6: SERVICE OF PROCESS:
Before any temporary business license as herein provided shall be issued in the
City, such applicant shall file with the City Clerk/City Administrator an
instrument nominating and appointing the City Clerk/City Administrator, or the
person performing the duties of such position, his true and lawful agent with
full power and authority to acknowledge service of notice or process for and on
behalf of said applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising
out of the business transacted under said license and the bond given as
required by section
3-9-5 of this chapter, or for the performances of the conditions of said bond
or for any breach thereof, which said instrument shall also contain recitals to
the effect that said applicant for said license consents and agrees that
service of any notice or process may be made upon said agent, and when so made
shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the person
applying for the said license under this chapter, according to the law of this
or any other state, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such
acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of
process upon the City Clerk/City Administrator, as herein provided, the City
Clerk/City Administrator shall send to the licensee at his last known address,
by registered mail, a copy of said process. This section shall not apply to
specialty sales or markets sponsored by fraternal, civic, religious, nonprofit
or charitable organizations. (Ord. 696, 11-17-2016)
3-9-7: RESTROOM FACILITIES:
All promotions, promoters, and promotional events shall provide a restroom
facility within fifteen feet (15') of the location of the promotion, promoter
or promotional event. The restroom facility may be either a permanent facility
built to the Building, Electrical and Plumbing Codes and such other ordinances,
rules or regulations adopted and then in effect in the City or the State, or,
such facilities may be of a portable nature provided the portable restroom
facilities are constructed pursuant to all applicable rules and regulations of
the State and the City then in effect. (Ord. 696, 11-17-2016)
3-9-8: REVOCATION:
The City Council shall have the right to revoke any temporary business license
issued hereunder for the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
after hearing at a regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council which time
and place for hearing shall be provided to the promoter by written notice at
least ten (10) days prior to said hearing. The standard for review for said
license shall be the same as is contained in section
3-1-12 of this title. (Ord. 696, 11-17-2016)
CHAPTER 10
TAXICABS 1
SECTION:
3-10-1: Taxicab Defined
3-10-2: License Required
3-10-3: Certificate Of Public Convenience And Necessity
3-10-4: Authority To Limit Number Of Licenses
3-10-5: Display Of License
 
Notes
  1. For state law as to licensing and regulation of taxicabs by cities, see NRS
1 §§ 266.355, 268.097. For state law regulating taxicabs, see NRS § 706.011 et
  seq.
3-10-1: TAXICAB DEFINED:
The term "taxicab" shall mean a vehicle which is not operated over a fixed
route, is designed or constructed to accommodate and transport not more than
six (6) passengers, including the driver, and is:
   A.   Fitted with a taximeter or has some other device, method or system to
indicate and determine the passenger fare charged for the distance traveled;
   B.   Used in the transportation of passengers or light express, or both, for
which a charge or fee is received; or
   C.   Operated in any service which is held out to the public as being
available for the transportation of passengers from place to place in the state
of Nevada. (2001 Code)
3-10-2: LICENSE REQUIRED 1 :
Every person who shall operate or use any automobile, motor vehicle or other
similar vehicle for the purpose of transporting passengers for hire, whether
the transportation of such passengers shall be between points wholly within the
city or from a point within the city to a point outside the city or vice versa,
shall first pay for and receive a license from the city. (Prior Code § 19-2)
 
Notes
1 2. As to licenses generally, see chapter 1 of this title.
3-10-3: CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY 1 :
Unless transportation is to be wholly within the city, no license shall be
issued unless the applicant therefor be the holder of a certificate of public
convenience and necessity, issued and in good standing pursuant to state law.
(Prior Code § 19-3)
 
Notes
1 3. For state law as to certificates of public convenience and necessity for
  motor carriers, see NRS §§ 706.386 through 706.411.
3-10-4: AUTHORITY TO LIMIT NUMBER OF LICENSES 1 :
The city council shall have the power to limit the number of vehicles so
licensed to an amount sufficient to care for existing needs. (Prior Code § 19-
4)
 
Notes
1 1. See NRS § 268.081.
3-10-5: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person operating or using any automobile, taxicab
or other similar kind of vehicle for the purpose of carrying passengers for
hire, as specified in section
3-10-1 of this chapter to allow any such vehicle so used or operated to stand
upon any street in the city for any period of time whatever while awaiting
employment, unless such vehicle shall bear and have displayed in a conspicuous
place upon its outside front or side the license tag or card provided by
section
3-10-2 of this chapter. (Prior Code § 19-5)
CHAPTER 11
TRAILERS AND TRAILER PARKS
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definitions
3-11-2: Compliance, Permit And License Required
3-11-3: Parking Units
3-11-4: Sewage Requirements
3-11-5: Toilet And Bathing Facilities; Water Service
3-11-6: Electrical Service
3-11-7: Person In Charge
3-11-8: Parking Trailers
3-11-9: Noncompliance Declared Nuisance
3-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
AUTOMOBILE TRAILER: Any vehicle or structure so designed and constructed that
it will permit occupancy thereof as sleeping quarters for one or more persons
and so designed that it is or may be mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance
on highways or city streets, propelled or drawn by its own or other motive
power and having no foundation other than wheels, jacks, shores or skirting,
except for a device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
TRAILER PARK: Any park, trailer park, trailer court, court, parksite, lot,
parcel or tract of land designed, maintained or intended for the purpose of
supplying a location or accommodations for any automobile trailer and upon
which any automobile trailer is parked, and shall include all buildings used or
intended for use as part of the equipment thereof, whether a charge is made for
the use of the trailer park and its facilities or not. Trailer park shall not
include automobile or trailer sales lots on which unoccupied trailers are
parked for the purpose of inspection and sale.
UNIT: A section of ground in a trailer park of not less than six hundred twenty
five (625) square feet of unoccupied space in an area designated as the
location for only one automobile and one trailer. (Prior Code § 20-1; amd. 2001
Code)
3-11-2: COMPLIANCE, PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED:
Trailer parks may be maintained in the city only upon compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and with all other applicable ordinances of the city
and particularly only upon application to the city council for a permit
therefor and the payment of license fees as required under section
3-1-4 of this title. (Prior Code § 20-2; amd. 2001 Code)
3-11-3: PARKING UNITS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, proprietor or person in charge of a trailer
park to permit any trailer to be occupied for living or sleeping quarters or
business purposes at such park, except when parked in a unit. Every trailer
park shall be graded and drained to prevent standing water or muddy conditions.
Units shall be laid out in an orderly fashion so that entrance and egress may
be had to any unit at any time. (Prior Code § 20-3; amd. 2001 Code)
3-11-4: SEWAGE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Main Sewer: Every trailer park shall have a cast-iron main sewer which
shall comply with the rules and ordinances governing sewers connected with the
public sewer system of the city and which shall be not less than four inches
(4") in diameter. The diameter of such main sewer shall be increased one inch
(1") for each additional eight (8) units or fraction thereof, in excess of
sixteen (16).
   B.   Drain Intakes; Grease Trap: Each unit shall have an adequate drain
intake and a two inch (2") grease trap shall be installed between the intake of
the drain and the main sewer of the park; provided, that where there are units
on both sides of an intake, two (2) connections therewith will be submitted
with only one grease trap required for both.
   C.   Standpipes: Standpipes shall be not less than two inch (2") galvanized
pipe, which shall be threaded and shall be capped when not in use. Each trap
shall be vented with not less than one and one-half inch (11/2") galvanized
pipe, not less than ten feet (10') high.
   D.   Branch Sewer Lines: Two and one-half inch (21/2") branch sewer lines
shall not have more than four (4) trailer connections each and must be either
cast or galvanized pipe.
   E.   Vent: There shall be not less than one four inch (4") vent at the end
of sewer line. (Prior Code § 20-4; amd. 2001 Code)
3-11-5: TOILET AND BATHING FACILITIES; WATER SERVICE:
There shall not be less than one toilet, one shower bath and one lavatory for
men and one toilet, one shower bath and one lavatory for women provided for
each eight (8) units or fraction thereof in trailer parks. Toilet rooms, shower
baths toilets and lavatories must be of sanitary construction and must be kept
clean and sanitary. All cleanouts, vents, toilets and other plumbing shall
conform strictly to the requirements of subsection
9-2-1D of this code. Where water taps are at each unit, the faucet shall be not
less than eighteen inches (18") above the drain connection. Water service shall
be conveniently provided from outdoor taps and shall be of safe quality and
properly protected from contamination. (Prior Code § 20-5; amd. 2001 Code)
3-11-6: ELECTRICAL SERVICE:
Trailer parks that furnish electric service must comply with the following
requirements: (Prior Code § 20-6; amd. 2001 Code)
   A.   Electrical connections shall be governed by the national electrical
code;
   B.   Each individual service to any trailer, truck or automobile shall be
considered as a service entrance, but need not necessarily be equipped with
meter trim;
   C.   Each service entrance shall be protected by a circuit breaker only, set
at not over thirty five (35) amperes and may have a branch circuit of not over
fifteen (15) amperes protected by a circuit breaker of fifteen (15) amperes
rating;
   D.   Circuit breakers, convenience outlets, or plug-in receptacles shall be
of rain tight construction; and
   E.   Each service shall be grounded to a water pipe with approved ground
fitting. (Prior Code § 20-6)
3-11-7: PERSON IN CHARGE:
   A.   Reside On Premises: The person in charge of any trailer park shall
reside upon the premises occupied thereby or adjacent thereto and a responsible
adult person in authority shall be at every trailer park at all times when any
trailer is parked in such park. (Prior Code § 20-7; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Register: It shall be the duty of the attendant or person in charge,
together with the licensee, to keep and maintain a register showing the
following:
      1.   Names and addresses.
      2.   Dates of entrance and departure.
      3.   License number of all trailers and towing or other automobile.
      4.   State issuing such license.
      5.   Place of last location. (Prior Code § 20-7)
3-11-8: PARKING TRAILERS:
   A.   Limited To Trailer Park; Exception: No house trailer shall be parked on
any lot outside of a duly licensed trailer park unless it be occupied by owners
or tenants of a permanent dwelling located on such lot or by an individual or a
family constructing a permanent dwelling on such lot. (Prior Code § 20-8; amd.
2001 Code)
   B.   Permit Required:
      1.   Permit Required; Fee: A permit must be obtained from the city clerk
and a fee of two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) paid therefor by the owner of such
lot before any house trailer can be parked on any lot other than in a duly
licensed trailer park, even though it be occupied by owners or tenants of a
permanent dwelling located on such lot or by an individual or family
constructing a permanent dwelling thereon. (Prior Code § 20-9; amd. 2001 Code)
      2.   Term Of Permit; Extension: The duration of the permit shall be for a
period of six (6) months from the date of issuing such permit. In case of a
permanent dwelling being so under construction on such lot and not being
completed for occupancy purposes prior to expiration of such permit, then the
city council, upon application therefor and proper showing made, may extend
such period for an additional six (6) months.
      3.   Improvement To Locality; Consent Of Adjacent Landowners: Where a
trailer is parked on residential property, there must be a showing before the
city council that the installation of a house trailer on any lot or contiguous
group of lots would be an improvement in the appearance of such locality and
there must be a presentation of the written consent of the owners of real
property within an area adjacent thereto. In such case, the city council may
authorize the issuance by the city clerk of a permit, with payment as provided
by this section, for the installation and maintenance of a house trailer
thereon for a period not exceeding six (6) months, with right to apply for a
six (6) month extension upon the expiration of such period and a showing to the
satisfaction of the city council that the maintenance of such house trailer
thereon continues to be an improvement in the appearance of such locality.
(Prior Code § 20-9)
   C.   Location Within Lots: Any house trailer parked under a permit issued
under section
3-11-2 of this chapter shall be located in the rear yard of the lot, not closer
than ten feet (10') to any property line and not closer than thirty feet (30')
to any street line. (Prior Code § 20-10)
3-11-9: NONCOMPLIANCE DECLARED NUISANCE:
Every trailer or trailer park used, occupied or maintained in the city contrary
to the provisions of this chapter is declared to be and constitute a nuisance
and shall be subject to be abated in the manner provided for by law. (Prior
Code § 20-11; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 12
INVASIVE BODY DECORATION ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definitions
3-12-2: Permit Requirements And Issuance
3-12-3: Operator Requirements And Professional Standards
3-12-4: Establishment Requirements
3-12-5: Operational Requirements
3-12-6: Access To And Inspection Of Establishments
3-12-7: Suspension/Revocation; Criminal Sanctions; Hearing Procedures
3-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BODY PIERCING: Any method of piercing the skin in order to place any object
including, but not limited to, rings, studs, bars or other forms of invasive
jewelry resulting in the piercing or breaking of the skin or mucosa by the aid
of needles or any other instruments used to puncture the skin or mucosa.
Earlobe piercing will be exempt from these regulations. All ear piercings
through the ear cartilage shall be permitted under these regulations.
BRANDING: Scarring the skin or mucosa through the use of extreme heat or
extreme cold.
CLEAN: The absence of soil, dirt and debris.
CONTAMINATED WASTE: Any waste products contaminated by any body fluids
including, but not limited to, blood and saliva, that do not meet "infectious
waste" or "sharps" definitions.
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION: The United States food and drug administration.
GROSS INCOMPETENCE: A lack of knowledge of or failure to comply with these
regulations. It shall also mean any conduct which endangers the public's health
or safety.
HANDSINK: A lavatory used solely for washing hands, arms or other portions of
the body.
HEALTH AUTHORITY: The public health officer for the county.
HEALTH INSPECTOR: An independent contractor trained in the inspection of
invasive body decoration establishments.
INFECTIOUS WASTE: Any waste material derived in whole or in part from:
   A.   All sharps.
   B.   Human tissue, blood and blood products.
   C.   Byproduct waste including, but not limited to, dressings, bedding,
swabs, pads and gloves, and single use equipment which may release liquid blood
when compressed, or dried blood when handled, and may have been in contact with
other potentially infectious materials.
INSTRUMENTS USED FOR INVASIVE BODY DECORATION: Hand pieces, needle bars, and
other instruments that may come in contact with a client's body fluid during
the invasive body decoration procedure.
INVASIVE: Entry into the body either by incision or insertion of an instrument
into or through the skin or mucosa, or by any other means intended to
compromise the skin or mucosa.
INVASIVE BODY DECORATION: Any invasive technique used to permanently or semi-
permanently adorn or decorate the body including, but not limited to,
tattooing, body piercing, scarification, branding and other forms of epidermal
alternation.
INVASIVE BODY DECORATION ESTABLISHMENT: Any fixed location where invasive body
decorations are performed.
INVASIVE BODY DECORATION OPERATOR: Any person performing invasive body
decoration.
PERMIT: Written permission from the health authority to own and/or operate an
establishment where tattooing is performed, which approval is given in
accordance with this chapter and is separate from any other licensing
requirements that may exist within the county.
PERSON: Any individual, group, or corporation that owns or operates an
establishment where tattooing is performed.
PROCEDURE SURFACE: Any surface that contacts the client's unclothed body during
an invasive body decoration procedure or any associated work area which may
require sanitizing.
SANITIZE: A bacterial treatment of cleaned surfaces by a process which has been
approved by the health authority as being effective in reducing the number of
microorganisms to a safe level.
SCARIFICATION: Any invasive procedure designed to permanently scar the body.
SHARPS: Any object that is used for the purpose of penetrating the skin or
mucosa including, but not limited to, needles, scalpel blades, razor blades,
and broken glass.
SINGLE USE: Products or items that are disposed of after use on each client,
including, but not limited to, cotton swabs or balls, tissues or paper
products, paper or plastic cups, gauze and sanitary coverings, razors, needles,
scalpel blades, stencils, and ink cup.
STERILIZATION: Destruction of all forms of microbiotic life, including spores.
TATTOOING: Any method of placing designs, letters, scrolls, figures, symbols or
any other marks upon or under the skin with ink or any other substance
resulting in the coloration of the skin by the aid of needles, stylets, or any
other instruments designed to puncture the skin.
UNDER THE DIRECT SUPERVISION OF A PHYSICIAN: Employed by and working in the
office or clinic of a physician, or a site approved by the health authority,
with treatment ordered by the physician. (Ord. 515, 2-27-1997)
3-12-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND ISSUANCE:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an
invasive body decoration establishment in the city without having first
obtained a permit to operate that establishment from the health authority in
accordance with the procedures hereinafter set forth.
   B.   Exemption: A physician, or a person working under the direct
supervision of a physician, performing invasive body decoration procedures in
the physician's office or clinic, is exempt from these regulations.
   C.   Application:
      1.   Written Application: Any person desiring to operate an invasive body
decoration establishment shall make written application for a permit, on forms
approved by the health authority, to the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 515,
2-27-1997; amd. 2001 Code)
      2.   Required Information: Such forms shall contain, at a minimum, the
following information:
         a.   Full name of applicant;
         b.   Home address of applicant;
         c.   If a partnership, the name and home address of each of the
partners, whether general or limited, designating which;
         d.   If a corporation, the name and home address of all officers and
directors, and the name of its resident agent for the purpose of service;
         e.   The address of the proposed establishment accompanied by a floor
plan and specifications of the establishment as it is proposed to be operated;
         f.   The proposed hours of operation; and
         g.   A complete description of all invasive body decoration procedures
to be provided.
   D.   Required Laboratory Tests: Before any permit may be issued, the
applicant must furnish the health authority with the results of laboratory
tests for HIV, syphilis, tuberculosis (TB) and hepatitis A and B of all
invasive body decoration operators. These results must be provided to the
health authority annually. In the event that such information is not provided
to the health authority by an operator, the health authority may suspend or
revoke the permit by following the procedures set forth in section
3-12-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 515, 2-27-1997)
   E.   Preoperational Inspections: All preoperational inspections shall be
conducted by the health authority after permit fees have been paid at the city
clerk's office.
   F.   Compliance Required: New permits shall be issued and existing permits
shall be renewed annually conditioned upon full compliance with these
regulations. Maintenance of an invasive body decoration establishment permit is
conditional upon full compliance with these regulations. Permits may be revoked
or suspended for violation of these regulations or gross incompetence in
accordance with the procedures set forth in section
3-12-7 of this chapter.
   G.   Issuance: If all requirements of these regulations have been met, the
city clerk shall issue a permit to the applicant after inspection and approval
of the premises.
   H.   Permit Fee: Applicant shall pay an annual permit fee set by the city
clerk.
   I.   Transferability: Permits shall be nontransferable from person to person
or place to place. (Ord. 515, 2-27-1997; amd. 2001 Code)
3-12-3: OPERATOR REQUIREMENTS AND PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Records Required: The following information shall be kept on file on
the premises of an invasive body decoration establishment and shall be
available for inspection by the health authority:
      1.   The names of all invasive body decoration operators in the
establishment and their exact duties, including the following information:
         a.   Full name;
         b.   Date of birth;
         c.   Sex; and
         d.   Home address.
      2.   A complete description of all invasive body decoration procedures
provided;
      3.   An inventory of all instruments and body jewelry used for invasive
body decoration, all sharps, and all inks used for tattooing, including names
of manufacturers and serial or lot numbers if available;
      4.   A copy of these regulations.
      5.   A record of all persons who have had invasive body decoration within
the establishment which includes the following information:
         a.   Full name;
         b.   Date of birth;
         c.   Address;
         d.   Date of the procedure; and
         e.   Type of invasive body decoration.
      6.   Such records shall be retained for a minimum of two (2) years and
must be available to the health authority upon request. The health authority
shall keep such records confidential.
   B.   Display: Permits shall be prominently displayed in the invasive body
decoration establishment and shall not be defaced or altered in any manner.
   C.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to perform
invasive body decoration procedures unless such procedures are provided in an
invasive body decoration establishment with a permit.
   D.   Age Requirement: The invasive body decoration operator must be a
minimum of eighteen (18) years of age.
   E.   Communicable Diseases: The operator must be free from all communicable
diseases while administering invasive body decorations.
   F.   Smoking, Eating Or Drinking: Smoking, eating or drinking is prohibited
in the area where invasive body decoration is performed. Invasive body
decoration operators shall refuse service to any person who, in the opinion of
the invasive body decoration operator, is inebriated or under the influence of
drugs.
   G.   Clothing: The invasive body decoration operator shall wear clean
clothes when performing invasive body decoration procedures.
   H.   Washing Hands: Before performing invasive body decoration procedures,
the invasive body decoration operator must thoroughly wash his hands in hot
running water in a handsink with liquid, antimicrobial soap, then rinse his
hands and dry them with disposable paper towels.
   I.   Latex Gloves: When performing invasive body decoration procedures, the
invasive body decoration operator shall wear latex gloves. The gloves shall be
discarded, at a minimum, after the completion of each procedure on an
individual client.
   J.   Contamination:
      1.   Gloves: If, while performing an invasive body decoration procedure,
the operator's latex glove is pierced, torn or otherwise contaminated, the
procedure in subsections H and I of this section shall be repeated immediately
and the gloves replaced.
      2.   Single Use Items: Any needles, ink, ink cups, or other single use
items contaminated during the procedure shall be discarded immediately and
replaced with new ones before the procedure may resume.
   K.   Required Consent And Approval: No person shall perform tattooing upon a
person under the age of eighteen (18) years unless approved by a physician or
the health authority. No person shall perform any invasive body decoration
service upon a person between the ages of twelve (12) years and eighteen (18)
years without also obtaining the consent and proper identification of a
custodial parent or guardian.
   L.   Skin Or Mucosa Surface: Any skin or mucosa surface to receive an
invasive body decoration procedure shall be free of infection or any other
visible pathological condition.
   M.   Operator's Skin: The skin of the invasive body decoration operator
shall be free of rash, infection or any other visible pathological condition.
   N.   History Of Blood Borne Infectious Diseases: The invasive body
decoration operator may ask the client, before any invasive body decoration
procedure is begun, if the client has a history of any blood borne infectious
disease. Anyone giving a history of any recent blood borne infectious disease,
or refusing to give any history, shall not receive invasive body decoration of
any kind.
   O.   Advise Of Permanency: Before administering an invasive body decoration,
the operator must advise the client that the invasive body decoration should be
considered permanent; that it can only be removed through surgical procedure;
and that any effective removal will leave permanent scarring and disfigurement.
(Ord. 515, 2-27-1997)
3-12-4: ESTABLISHMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Surfaces: All walls, floors, ceilings and procedure surfaces of
invasive body decorating establishment areas of operation shall be smooth,
light colored, and washable. Walls, floors and ceilings shall be maintained in
a clean condition. All procedure surfaces shall be cleaned and sanitized after
each client.
   B.   Minimum Floor Space: There shall be a minimum of forty five (45) square
feet of floor space for each invasive body decoration operator in the
establishment. Each establishment shall have an area which may be screened from
public view for clients requesting privacy.
   C.   Ventilation; Lighting: The establishment shall be well ventilated and
provided with an artificial light source equivalent to at least twenty (20)
foot-candles three feet (3') off the floor, except that at least fifty (50)
foot-candles shall be provided at the level where the invasive body decoration
procedure is being performed, and where instruments and sharps are assembled.
   D.   Animals Prohibited: No animals of any kind shall be allowed in an
invasive body decoration establishment except service animals used by persons
with limitations.
   E.   Handsink: A handsink with hot and cold running water, liquid
antimicrobial soap, and disposable paper towels shall be readily accessible
within the invasive body decoration establishment. One handsink shall serve no
more than three (3) invasive body decoration operators. There shall be a
minimum of one handsink, excluding any service sinks, in an invasive body
decoration establishment.
   F.   Waste Receptacle: At least one covered waste receptacle shall be
provided in each invasive body decoration operator area for disposal of all
contaminated waste products.
   G.   Storage Of Instruments And Supplies: All instruments and supplies shall
be stored in clean, dry and covered containers.
   H.   Reusable Cloth Items: If reusable cloth items are used they shall be
changed after each client. Reusable cloth items shall be mechanically washed
and dried. The cloth items shall be stored in a dry clean environment until
used. (Ord. 515, 2-27-1997)
3-12-5: OPERATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Preparation And Care Of Invasive Body Decoration Area:
      1.   Preparation Of Skin: Before performing an invasive body decoration
procedure, the skin of and surrounding the area where the invasive body
decoration is to be placed shall be washed with antimicrobial soap. If shaving
is necessary, the skin shall be gently scrubbed with an antimicrobial soap,
using a sterile gauze pad, before and after the shaving. The pad shall be
disposed of after one use.
      2.   Blood Flow: In the event of blood flow, all products used to check
the flow of blood or to absorb blood shall be single use and disposed of
immediately after use.
      3.   Proper Care Instructions: Written and verbal instructions regarding
the proper care of the invasive body decoration shall be provided to each
client following each invasive body decoration procedure.
   B.   Sanitization And Sterilization:
      1.   Cleaning: All nondisposable instruments used for invasive body
decoration shall be cleaned thoroughly after each use by scrubbing with an
antimicrobial soap solution and hot water.
      2.   Sterilizations: After cleaning, all nondisposable instruments used
for invasive body decoration shall be packed individually in paper peel-packs
and sterilized. All paper peel-packs or other approved packaging by the health
authority shall contain either a sterilizer indicator or internal temperature
indicator. Alternate sterilizing procedures may only be used when specifically
approved by the health authority.
      3.   Autoclave: All nondisposable instruments used for invasive body
decoration shall be sterilized by steam sterilizer (autoclave), which is used,
cleaned, and maintained according to manufacturer's instructions.
      4.   Spore Destruction Test: Each applicant or holder of a permit to
operate an invasive body decoration establishment shall demonstrate that his
autoclave is capable of attaining proper heat and pressure through an annual
spore destruction test. This test shall be verified through an independent
laboratory. A permit will not be issued or renewed until documentation of the
autoclave's ability to destroy spores is received.
      5.   Storage: After sterilization, the instruments used for invasive body
decoration shall be stored in a dry, clean cabinet reserved for the storage of
such instruments.
      6.   Assembling Instruments For Use: All instruments used for invasive
body decoration shall remain stored in sterile packages until just prior to
performing an invasive body decoration procedure. When assembling instruments
used for invasive body decoration, the operator shall wear sterile, latex
gloves and use techniques to ensure that the instruments and gloves are not
contaminated.
      7.   Inks, Dyes And Pigments: All inks, dyes and pigments shall be
specifically manufactured for invasive body decoration and shall not be
adulterated with other additives.
   C.   Requirements For Single Use Items:
      1.   Needles, Razors Or Other Sharps: Single use items shall not be used
on more than one client for any reason. After use, all needles, razors and
other sharps shall be immediately disposed of in approved sharps containers.
      2.   Stencils: All invasive body decoration stencils shall be single use
and disposable. (Ord. 515, 2-27-1997)
3-12-6: ACCESS TO AND INSPECTION OF ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Inspection: The health authority shall inspect all invasive body
decoration establishments at least once a year, and more often as necessary, to
determine compliance with these regulations.
   B.   Access: It is unlawful for any person to refuse entry or access to any
representative of the health authority who, upon presentation of appropriate
credentials during hours of operation, requests an inspection of an invasive
body decoration establishment for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with
these regulations. (Ord. 515, 2-27-1997)
3-12-7: SUSPENSION/REVOCATION; CRIMINAL SANCTIONS; HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Permit Suspension:
      1.   Substantial Hazard: Whenever the health authority finds an
unsanitary or other condition in the operation of an invasive body decoration
establishment which, in his judgment, constitutes a substantial hazard to the
public health, he may, upon written notice, suspend the permit and all invasive
body decoration operations must be immediately discontinued. Any person to whom
such an order is issued shall comply with it immediately. Upon written petition
to the city clerk, the person must be afforded a hearing as soon as possible.
      2.   Unsanitary Conditions: Whenever the health authority finds an
unsanitary or other condition, or any violation of these regulations, which, in
his judgment, does not constitute a substantial hazard to the public health, he
may advise the permit holder, in writing, of his findings and instruct the
permit holder to take specific steps to correct such violation within a
reasonable period of time not to exceed thirty (30) days. If the permit holder
fails to correct the violation within the given time period, the city may, upon
written notice, suspend the permit, and all invasive body decoration operations
must be immediately discontinued. Any person to whom such an order is issued
shall comply with it, immediately. Upon written petition to the city clerk, the
person must be afforded a hearing as soon as possible.
      3.   Application For Reinspection For Reinstatement: Any person whose
permit has been suspended may, at any time, make application for a reinspection
for reinstatement of the permit within five (5) calendar days following receipt
of a written request. The written request shall include a statement signed by
the applicant that in his opinion the conditions causing suspension of the
permit have been corrected. The health authority shall make a reinspection. If
the applicant is in compliance with the requirements of these regulations, the
permit shall be reinstated.
   B.   Permit Revocation:
      1.   Serious Or Repeated Violation: For serious or repeated violation of
any of the requirements of these regulations or for interference with the
health authority in the performance of his duties, the permit may be
permanently revoked after an opportunity for a hearing has been provided by the
city. Before taking such action, the city clerk shall notify the permit holder,
in writing, stating the reasons for which the permit is subject to revocation
and advising the permit holder of the requirements for filing a request for a
hearing.
      2.   Permanent Revocation: The city may permanently revoke a permit after
ten (10) calendar days following service of the notice unless a request for a
hearing is filed with the city clerk by the permit holder within said ten (10)
calendar day period.
      3.   Combined Hearing: The city clerk may combine a permit holder's
suspension and revocation hearing.
   C.   Criminal Sanctions: Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section
439.580, any person violating any of the provisions of these regulations, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   D.   Hearing Procedures:
      1.   Hearings: The hearings provided for in this section must be
conducted by the city at a time and place designated by it. Based upon the
record of the hearing, the city council shall make a finding and may sustain,
modify or rescind any official notice or order considered in the hearing. A
written report of the hearing decision must be furnished to the permit holder
by the city clerk. The decision of the city council is final.
      2.   Service Of Notice And Orders: Service of notices and orders shall be
made by either one of the following:
         a.   Personal Service: By personal service on the permit holder;
         b.   Mail: By registered or certified mail addressed to permit holder
at their invasive body decoration establishment. Service shall be completed at
the time of deposit into the United States mail.
      3.   Evidence; Objections; Witnesses: At the time and place stated in the
suspension and/or revocation of permit hearing notice, the health authority
shall hear and consider all relevant evidence, objections, or protests, shall
receive sworn testimony of owners, witnesses, district health department
personnel, and interested persons. The hearing may be continued from time to
time.
      4.   Record Of Hearing; Rules Of Evidence: All hearings held shall be
recorded by a video or audio recording device unless the city council chooses
to use a court reporter. The hearings need not be conducted according to
technical rules of evidence. Hearsay evidence may be used for the purpose of
supplementing or explaining any direct evidence, but shall not be sufficient in
itself to support a finding unless it would be admissible over objection in a
civil action in a Nevada court of competent jurisdiction. Any relevant evidence
shall be admitted if it is the type of evidence on which reasonable persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the
existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
admission of such evidence over objections in a civil action. Oral evidence
shall be taken only on oath or affirmation. Irrelevant or unduly repetitious
evidence shall be excluded. (Ord. 515, 2-27-1997; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 13
BUSINESS FRANCHISE FEES ON ELECTRICAL UTILITY PROVIDERS
SECTION:
3-13-1: Electric Service Franchise Fee
3-13-2: Application For A License
3-13-1: ELECTRIC SERVICE FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   Every business entity providing electrical service within the city of
Ely must obtain and pay for an annual business franchise. The fee for such
franchise is payable not later than thirty (30) calendar days after the end of
each calendar quarter and shall be three percent (3%) of the total gross
receipts. (Ord. 615, 1-11-2007; amd. Ord. 650, 2-23-2012)
   B.   "Total gross receipts" means revenue received from customers located
within the city of Ely, county of White Pine, state of Nevada.
   C.   A franchise fee not received or postmarked within thirty (30) calendar
days after the end of each calendar quarter shall be delinquent and the
licensee shall pay, in addition to the franchise fee, a penalty of one percent
(1%) of the delinquent fee amount per month and interest of one percent (1%) of
the delinquent fee amount per month.
   D.   Each electric energy provider which derives or intends to derive
revenue from customers located within the city of Ely shall, not later than
sixty (60) calendar days after the effective date hereof or thirty (30)
calendar days before the company begins to provide electrical energy service to
those customers, whichever occurs later, provide to the city of Ely:
      1.   An acknowledgment that the company is operating or intends to
operate within the city of Ely; and
      2.   The date the company began or intends to begin to derive revenues
from customers located within the city of Ely.
   E.   Each company that is subject to this section shall, not later than
thirty (30) calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter, provide to
the city of Ely a statement of the amount of revenue the electrical energy
company derived during that calendar quarter from the sale of electrical energy
services to all customers located within the city of Ely.
   F.   This section does not alter the terms of any existing franchise
agreement between the city of Ely and any company providing electric energy
services within the boundaries of the city of Ely.
   G.   Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 354.59887, the fees imposed upon
the business entity may be collected from a governmental entity of the state if
that entity is a customer of the business entity. (Ord. 615, 1-11-2007)
3-13-2: APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE:
   A.   An application for a franchise under this chapter shall be made by
affidavit on forms supplied by the city of Ely, office of clerk/treasurer. The
application shall contain at a minimum the following information:
      1.   The full name of the applicant;
      2.   The name of the business;
      3.   The phone number, street address and mailing address of the
business;
      4.   If the business is a partnership, the full name of each partner;
      5.   If the business is a corporation, the state in which it is
incorporated and the name and address of its resident agent in Nevada;
      6.   Sufficient information to determine the nature of the business;
      7.   The date on which the business will commence; and
      8.   Sufficient information for the calculation of fees as provided in
this chapter.
   B.   The city clerk/treasurer shall distribute copies of each application to
the appropriate city departments for approval prior to issuance of a license.
   C.   False and misleading statements on any application provided pursuant to
this section shall be grounds for revocation of any license granted. Any
changes in the address, ownership, entity type, nature, or dates of business
activity shall be updated by the business providing an updated application to
the city clerk/treasurer within thirty (30) days of such business change. (Ord.
615, 1-11-2007)
CHAPTER 14
MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-14-1: Findings
3-14-2: Definitions
3-14-3: Unlawful Acts
3-14-4: Medical Marijuana Compliance Permit Required
3-14-5: Permit Application
3-14-6: Permit Application Contents
3-14-7: City Administrator Review
3-14-8: Council Action On Permit
3-14-9: Medical Marijuana Establishment - Licenses
3-14-10: Facilities Not Located Within The City Of Ely
3-14-11: Medical Marijuana Establishments - General Requirements And
Restrictions
3-14-12: Security Requirements
3-14-13: Cultivation Facility
3-14-14: Independent Testing Laboratories
3-14-15: Medical Marijuana Production Facility
3-14-16: Medical Marijuana Dispensary - Requirements And Limitations
3-14-17: Annual Review Of License
3-14-18: Closure Or Bankruptcy Of A Medical Marijuana Establishment
3-14-19: Disposal Of Medical Marijuana
3-14-20: Work Card And Agent Registration Card Requirements
3-14-21: Employment Unlawful
3-14-22: Investigation Fee
3-14-23: Confidential Information
3-14-24: Disciplinary Actions, Suspension And Revocation Of Licenses
3-14-25: Fees
3-14-26: Cultivation Limit
3-14-27: Construction
3-14-1: FINDINGS:
   A.   The Ely City Council finds:
      1.   In 2013 the Nevada legislature passed, and the Governor signed into
law, Senate Bill 374, now codified in Nevada Revised Statutes 453A, which
allows medical marijuana establishments within the State of Nevada; and
requires such establishments to comply with all local business licensing
requirements and local land use and Code requirements;
      2.   Federal law and related regulations classify marijuana as a schedule
I controlled substance and prohibit its cultivation, possession, dispensing and
use, among other things, for medical reasons or otherwise. This chapter is
intended to implement Nevada Revised Statutes 453A and to establish criteria
for the issuance of licenses that are a prerequisite for the exemption from
State prosecution provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 453A;
      3.   Nevada law also allows the City to enact regulations to protect and
promote the public health, safety and general welfare and regulate the use of
buildings, structures, land use and business and other purposes;
      4.   Law enforcement and residents of states that authorize the medical
use of marijuana report, among other things, that dispensaries and the medical
use of marijuana are correlated to myriad negative secondary effects such as an
increase in violent armed robberies, burglaries, traffic, noise, drug and gang
activity, organized crime and other issues related to the presence of large
amounts of cash, such as money laundering and firearms violations and the
underreporting of crimes committed at medical marijuana establishments, the
creation of opportunities for the diversion of marijuana for medical use into
illegal use, increased poisonings, structural fires and mold growth, and
decreased quality of life; and a disregard of environmental standards;
      5.   The strong odor of marijuana plants, which increases as the plants
mature, is offensive to many individuals and creates an attractive nuisance,
alerting people to the location of valuable marijuana plants and creating an
increased risk of crime;
      6.   Marijuana and cannabis edible and infused products pose risks to
children, elderly and non-user populations; and
      7.   The public health, safety and welfare require that medical marijuana
facilities and their employees be regulated and licensed in order to protect
the public.
   B.   The City Council declares that this chapter is an exercise of the
regulatory powers delegated to the City Council pursuant Nevada Revised
Statutes 268. The regulations contained in this chapter involve, to the highest
degree, the economic, social, physical and moral well-being of the residents
and taxpayers of the City. The cultivation, distribution, production and sale
of medical marijuana is not a matter of right but of privilege, which would
otherwise be unlawful if it were not conducted pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 453A, local land use regulations and a license under this chapter.
This privilege may be denied, revoked, conditioned, suspended or subjected to
any other disciplinary action by the City in the exercise of its police powers
for the protection of the safety, welfare, health, peace and morals of the
residents and taxpayers thereof. Businesses engaged in the sale or other
disposition of medical marijuana must therefore comply with all requirements of
this chapter, Nevada Revised Statutes, including, but not limited to chapter
453A, and Nevada Administrative Code, including, but not limited to chapter
453A. Every person licensed pursuant to this chapter shall cooperate with the
State of Nevada, City of Ely and White Pine County Sheriff's Office personnel
in the exercise of their duties under this chapter.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to confer any legitimate
claim of entitlement to any benefit which might otherwise devolve upon any
licensee or any person approved for suitability.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter is intended to authorize or make legal any act
that Federal or State law does not permit or sanction or assist in any
violation of any Federal or State law. This chapter is intended to implement
Nevada Revised Statutes 453A and to establish criteria for the issuance of
licenses that are a prerequisite for the exemption from State prosecution
provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 453A. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the scope of all words in this chapter
shall be liberally construed in order to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter, and, in particular, the following words shall have the meaning
ascribed to them as follows:
ADEQUATE SUPPLY: Means the immediate availability, as determined by the
Director, of a sufficient quantity and quality of medical marijuana, any
specific strain of medical marijuana or any particular infused product to meet
the immediate demand of registry identification card holders qualified under
Nevada Revised Statutes 453A.362 within the City.
CANNABIS OR MARIJUANA: Have the same meaning, and as may be amended, as defined
by Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 453A.
CITY: Means the City of Ely, County of White Pine, State of Nevada.
COMPLIANCE PERMIT: Means a permit issued under section
3-14-4 of this chapter.
COUNCIL: Shall mean the Ely City Council.
CULTIVATION FACILITY: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes
453A.056, and means a business that is registered under Nevada Revised Statutes
453A.322 and acquires, possesses, cultivates, delivers, transfers, transports,
supplies or sells marijuana and related supplies to a medical marijuana
dispensary, facility for the production of edible marijuana products or
marijuana-infused products or other cultivation facilities.
DESIGNATED PRIMARY CAREGIVER: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
Statutes 453A.080.
EDIBLE MARIJUANA PRODUCTS: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
Statutes 453A.101 and means products that contain marijuana or an extract
thereof and are intended for human consumption by oral ingestion; and are
presented in the form of foodstuffs, extracts, oils, tinctures and other
similar products.
INDEPENDENT TESTING LABORATORY: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada
Revised Statutes 453A.107 and is a business certified under Nevada Revised
Statutes 453A.368 which provides independent testing of marijuana, edible
marijuana products and marijuana- infused products that are to be sold in the
State.
MARIJUANA INFUSED PRODUCTS: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
Statutes 453A.112 and means products that are infused with marijuana or an
extract thereof; and are intended for use or consumption by humans through
means other than inhalation or oral ingestion. The term includes, without
limitation, topical products, ointments, oils and tinctures.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes
453A.096 and as used in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 453A.120.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
Statutes 453A.115, and means a business that is registered under Nevada Revised
Statutes 453A.322 and which acquires, possesses, supplies, sells or dispenses
marijuana or related supplies and educational materials to the holder of a
valid registry identification card.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada
Revised Statutes 453A.116 and means any establishment licensed under this
chapter and in possession of a valid registration certificate under Nevada
Revised Statutes 453A and may include a medical marijuana dispensary, medical
marijuana production facility, cultivation facility or independent testing
laboratory.
MEDICAL MARIJUANA PRODUCTION FACILITY: Has the meaning ascribed to a "facility
for the production of edible marijuana products or marijuana-infused products"
in Nevada Revised Statutes 453A.105 and means a business which acquires,
possesses, manufactures, delivers, transfers, transports, supplies or sells at
wholesale edible marijuana products or marijuana-infused products to medical
marijuana dispensaries.
OWNERSHIP INTEREST: Means any principal, person, beneficial owner, and
individual persons holding any ownership or financial interest for each
business entity including all businesses organized under or governed by title 7
of the Nevada Revised Statutes including but not limited to private
corporations, publicly-traded corporations, close corporations, foreign
corporations, limited liability companies, partnerships, limited partnerships,
and professional corporations ("business entities"). Ownership interest in the
context of publicly traded corporations shall include all corporate officers
and members of any board of directors, and also includes individuals with ten
percent (10%) or more ownership or financial interest in the publicly traded
corporation. To the extent that a business entity has an ownership interest in
a medical marijuana establishment, the term "ownership interest" shall also
include all individuals with an ownership interest in such business entity. It
is the intent of this chapter that all individuals with a direct or indirect
ownership interest in a medical marijuana establishment be disclosed and be
subject to the requirements of this chapter.
PARAPHERNALIA: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes
453A.125.
REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE: Means a certificate issued pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 453A.322 by the State regulating authority. In accordance with
subsection 3 of Nevada Revised Statutes 453A.326, any registration certificate
issued by the State regulating authority is provisional until such time as the
establishment is in compliance with all applicable City ordinances and rules,
and the City has issued a business license for the operation of the
establishment.
REGISTRY IDENTIFICATION CARD: Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
Statutes 453A.140.
STATE REGULATING AUTHORITY: Means the Division of Public and Behavioral Health
of the Department of Health and Human Services of the State of Nevada and/or
any other agency assigned to administer Nevada Revised Statutes 453A. (Ord.
707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-3: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any medical marijuana
establishment in the City without a valid registration certificate duly issued
by the State regulating authority, and a license issued pursuant to this
chapter and operating in compliance with any and all applicable State laws and
this Code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide marijuana, edible
marijuana products or marijuana infused products to a medical marijuana
establishment within the City without a registration certification duly issued
by the State regulating authority and a license issued by the City.
   C.   Except for sales pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 453A.352(5), it
shall be unlawful for any licensed medical marijuana establishment located
within the City to accept for sale any marijuana, edible marijuana products or
any marijuana infused products from any person who has not obtained a
registration certificate from the State regulating authority, or who is not
duly licensed under this chapter for the provision of such products.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in any form of business or
commerce involving the cultivation, processing, manufacturing, storage, sale,
distribution, transportation or consumption of marijuana other than those forms
of businesses and commerce that are expressly contemplated by Nevada Revised
Statutes 453A and any administrative rules duly adopted by the State regulating
authority.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell medical marijuana at a
licensed medical marijuana dispensary at any time other than between the hours
of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. daily.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any medical marijuana dispensary to sell
medical marijuana without complying with State requirements concerning use of
the electronic verification system maintained by the State regulating
authority, including authenticating the validity of the medical marijuana
registry identification card with the State electronic verification system.
(Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-4: MEDICAL MARIJUANA COMPLIANCE PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   A medical marijuana compliance permit issued by the City Council is
required prior to the Director accepting a license application for a medical
marijuana establishment.
   B.   The City Council may consider proposals for a medical marijuana
compliance permit from any business or individual applying to the State
regulating authority for a registration certificate for a medical marijuana
establishment located within the City. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-5: PERMIT APPLICATION:
Upon determination to accept medical marijuana compliance permit applications
for medical marijuana establishments, the City Council shall issue a request
for proposals to open a medical marijuana establishment for which medical
marijuana compliance permit applications may be accepted, which request shall
also establish the deadline to submit medical marijuana compliance permit
applications. The City Council shall:
   A.   Post on the website of the City at least ten (10) business days prior
to the acceptance period for such submittals of medical marijuana establishment
permits that will be accepted.
   B.   Provide a permit application period within which all applications must
be submitted, which period shall be not less than ten (10) business days, with
a three o'clock (3:00) P.M. Pacific Time deadline for all submitted
applications on the final day.
   C.   Return to the entity that submitted an application, any application
received at a time other than the time set forth in this section, and
consistent with the notice posted on the website.
   D.   Not allow the modification of any application once the deadline for
complete applications has passed.
   E.   Reject and not process any applications that are incomplete.
   F.   Reject and not process any application for which any person or entity
with an ownership interest in the applicant has been previously issued a
license pursuant to this chapter, or has had an ownership interest in another
previous licensee, and such license has been revoked for non-payment of fees
within the last five (5) years.
   G.   Reject and not process any application for which any person or entity
with an ownership interest in the applicant has been previously issued a
license pursuant to this chapter, or has had an ownership interest in another
previous licensee, and such license has been revoked for disciplinary action
within the last ten (10) years.
   H.   Reject and not process any applications that are submitted by
applicants where one or more individuals or entities with an ownership interest
has been found unsuitable to hold a privilege license within the City or been
subject to disciplinary action in any jurisdiction. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-6: PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS:
A separate application must be submitted for each license for a medical
marijuana establishment. The application for each medical marijuana compliance
permit must include:
   A.   A complete application per chapter 1 of this title for the applicant
and each person with an ownership interest in the proposed medical marijuana
establishment.
   B.   A detailed personal and business financial history per chapter 1 of
this title for each person with an ownership interest in the proposed medical
marijuana establishment.
   C.   A one-time, nonrefundable permit application fee of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00).
   D.   A complete special use permit application, all applicable fees pursuant
to title 12 of this Code, and all required accompanying documents.
   E.   A medical marijuana compliance permit application on forms prescribed
by the City.
   F.   A complete description of the products and services to be produced or
sold by the medical marijuana establishment.
   G.   A complete and accurate copy of the application and all accompanying
documents to be filed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 453A.322 including,
but not limited to:
      1.   All proposals for operations, business plans, attestations,
financial documentation, and required tax reports;
      2.   All documents detailing proposed organizational structure, all
narratives, and resumes;
      3.   All documentation required concerning the adequacy of the proposed
building and construction plans with supporting details in the form specified
by the City building official and the payment of all required review and
inspection fees;
      4.   All testing, transportation, policy and operations manuals,
financial plan, and an environmental plan.
   H.   A security plan, including a depiction of the location and
configuration of security cameras, indicating how the applicant intends to
comply with the requirements related to monitoring and securing the licensed
premises as required by this chapter.
   I.   An accounting plan that includes how sales and inventory will be
tracked on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis, and how this information will be
stored and safeguarded.
   J.   A sign and advertising plan, including all proposed interior signage.
   K.   A copy of all contracts, proposed contracts for consulting, management,
renting or leasing the premises for the proposed medical marijuana
establishment, including written documentation stating that the property owner
of the proposed location for the establishment is fully aware of the property's
intended use or a copy of the deed to such property showing ownership vested in
the applicant;
   L.   A written statement acknowledging that the applicant understands
applicable Federal laws, any guidance or directives issued by the U.S.
Department of Justice, the laws of the State of Nevada and the laws and
regulations of the City applicable thereto concerning the operation of a
medical marijuana establishment. The written statement shall also acknowledge
that any violation of any laws or regulations of the State of Nevada or of the
City, or any activity in violation of any guidance or directives issued by the
U.S. Department of Justice, in such place of business, or in connection
therewith, or the commencement of any legal proceeding relating to such medical
marijuana establishment by Federal authorities, may render the permit and such
license subject to immediate suspension or revocation.
   M.   A written statement to the City that the applicant will hold harmless,
indemnify, and defend the City against all claims and litigation arising from
the issuance of a permit and/or license, including any claims and litigation
arising from the establishment, operation, or ownership of the medical
marijuana establishment, and that the applicant will provide proof of insurance
for the purposes of naming the City of Ely as an additional insured on the
policy for the defense of the City of Ely in any such litigation.
   N.   An acknowledgement that the applicant is seeking a privilege license,
similar to that of a liquor license pursuant to chapter 2 of this title and
understands that each person with an ownership interest must be found suitable
to hold such license by the City Council prior to the issuance of any license;
that the applicant understands and acknowledges that the burden of proving
qualifications to receive such a permit or license is at all times on the
applicant; that the granting of a medical marijuana compliance permit and/or
license is at the discretion of the City Council; and that the applicant agrees
to abide by the decision. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-7: CITY ADMINISTRATOR REVIEW:
   A.   The City Administrator shall complete a preliminary review of all
submitted applications for a medical marijuana compliance permit to determine
whether the application is complete. An application shall be deemed complete by
the City Administrator only when an application filed prior to the close of the
noticed application period contains each of the following:
      1.   Each application, narrative, plan, rendering, contract and other
documents required in this chapter;
      2.   Proof of compliance with all submittal requirements of Nevada
Revised Statutes 453A and any other regulation or requirement of the State
regulating authority;
      3.   Proof that the proposed location for the medical marijuana
establishment is consistent with the requirements of title 12 of this Code;
      4.   All fees have been paid;
      5.   All waivers, acknowledgements, and statements are properly signed
and acknowledged by the applicant and every principal and person with an
ownership interest; and
      6.   Each person with an ownership interest has filed complete
applications per this title and each individual has submitted to fingerprinting
and photographing per this title.
   B.   The City Administrator shall reject and return to the applicant any
application that is incomplete or otherwise fails to meet the criteria
established in this chapter, Nevada Revised Statutes 453A, or the regulations
of the State regulating authority. Permit application fees are non-refundable,
and shall not be refunded in the event of rejection of an application.
   C.   The City Administrator shall review all complete medical marijuana
compliance permit applications that satisfy the applicable criteria, and may
refer such applications in part, or in whole, to the White Pine County
Sheriff's Office for investigation, review and comment, as the City
Administrator deems appropriate.
   D.   The City Administrator shall prepare a report on the merits of each
completed medical marijuana compliance permit application, the potential
suitability of any and all principals and the application's compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, and the application demonstrates the required
financial, technical or educational ability or experience to perform the
activity for which approval is sought. In recommending the granting or denying
of such medical marijuana compliance permit, the City Administrator shall give
particular consideration to the identity, character, and background of the
applicant, capacity, capitalization, past business practices of the applicant,
operational plan, organizational structure, environmental sustainability and
mitigation plans, interior floor plans of the buildings, odor control systems
and suitability of the building for the use proposed, site plan as to parking,
traffic movement and aesthetics; impact on the surrounding neighborhood; the
type and degree of security personnel and facilities and any other factors that
in his or her discretion deems necessary to the safety, peace, order and
welfare of the public.
   E.   The City Administrator may inspect or cause to be inspected by the
appropriate City personnel each proposed location for a medical marijuana
establishment and may call for prospective awardees to appear in front of the
City Council for interview prior to the awarding of the permit. Prior to
approval of a medical marijuana compliance permit, the City Administrator shall
require an inspection by the State of Nevada Fire Marshal and the City building
official of the location where medical marijuana sales or production are to be
performed. Applicants shall pay all inspection fees that may be required in
connection therewith.
   F.   Following the City Administrator's review, the City Administrator shall
forward a report on the merits of each complete application with
recommendations to the City Council for consideration and interview. (Ord. 707,
12-14-2017)
3-14-8: COUNCIL ACTION ON PERMIT:
   A.   The Planning Commission will review all special use permit applications
and provide an oral recommendation to the City Council on each prospective
location. The City Council will review all applications for medical marijuana
compliance permits that have been deemed complete by the City Administrator.
Such review shall occur simultaneously with the review of the recommendation of
the Planning Commission on the applicant's special use permit application for
the proposed medical marijuana establishment per title 12, chapter 16 of this
Code.
   B.   The City Council may approve, deny or take such other action with
respect to the City Administrator's and the Planning Commission's
recommendations on applications for medical marijuana compliance permits and
special use permits, as it considers appropriate. The burden of showing the
qualifications, acceptability or fitness for such permit and the location is
upon the applicant.
   C.   The City Council shall deny any permit if the permit will not be in the
best interest of the welfare, health, or safety of the City; or if the
application or location is determined by the City Council to not be suitable
under this chapter or the requirements of title 12 of this Code. In considering
whether to approve or deny a medical marijuana compliance permit, the City
Council shall consider the identity, character, and background of the
applicant, capacity, capitalization, past business practices of the applicant,
operational plan, organizational structure, environmental sustainability and
mitigation plans, interior floor plans of the buildings, odor control systems
and suitability of the building for the use proposed, site plan as to parking,
traffic movement and aesthetics; impact on the surrounding neighborhood; the
type and degree of security personnel and facilities and any other factors that
in his or her discretion deems necessary to the safety, peace, order and
welfare of the public.
   D.   Upon approval of a medical marijuana compliance permit, the City
Administrator shall prepare a notice to the State regulating authority pursuant
to Nevada Revised Statutes 453A.322.3(a)(5), outlining that the proposed
location has been found in conformance with land use and zoning restrictions
and that the applicant is eligible to be considered for a medical marijuana
establishment business license. Issuance of such a notice does not preclude the
City from conducting further review of an applicant's proposed medical
marijuana establishment for compliance with land use, zoning and building
requirements, in the context of evaluation of an application for a medical
marijuana establishment business license pursuant to title 12 of this Code and
this chapter.
   E.   If the City Council denies a medical marijuana compliance permit
application, or the State regulating authority fails to rank the application
presented within limits of the number of medical marijuana establishments
allowed within the City, as established by State law, the applicant may reapply
for a medical marijuana compliance permit no sooner than one year from the date
of the application period in which the application was filed.
   F.   Any medical marijuana compliance permit is considered surrendered by
the applicant if a business license has not been granted within twelve (12)
months of the issuance of a registration certificate issued by the State
regulating authority. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-9: MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT - LICENSES:
   A.   Following action by the State regulating authority issuing a
provisional medical marijuana establishment registration certificate, the City
Council shall evaluate whether to grant any proposed medical marijuana
establishment that received a medical marijuana compliance permit a medical
marijuana business license.
   B.   The City Council may issue a license for the following types of medical
marijuana establishments:
      1.   Medical Marijuana Dispensary: A medical marijuana dispensary license
allows the licensee to acquire, possess, supply and sell or dispense usable
marijuana, edible marijuana products, marijuana infused products, and marijuana
paraphernalia exclusively to State regulating authority-designated medical
marijuana registry card holders.
      2.   Cultivation Facility: A cultivation facility license allows the
licensee to acquire, possess, cultivate, package, label, deliver, transfer,
transport, supply and sell wholesale marijuana and related supplies to a
medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana production facility, or to
other cultivation facilities only.
      3.   Independent Testing Laboratory: An independent testing laboratory
license allows the licensee to independently test marijuana, edible marijuana
products and marijuana-infused products that are to be sold at medical
marijuana establishments operating in accordance with the requirements of
Nevada Revised Statutes 453A.
      4.   Medical Marijuana Production Facility: A medical marijuana
production facility license allows the licensee to acquire, process,
manufacture, deliver, transfer, transport, package, and label usable marijuana
and marijuana-infused products for sale at wholesale to marijuana dispensaries
only.
   C.   A medical marijuana establishment license applicant may not exercise
any of the privileges of a medical marijuana establishment license until the
City Council approves the license and suitability of each person with an
ownership interest in the medical marijuana establishment, and final pre-
operational inspections have been conducted and all applicable inspection and
license fees are paid.
   D.   Prior to issuance of a license, the licensee must designate one
principal, all key employees and all management personnel to demonstrate
competence in local regulations as evidenced by a written demonstration
administered by the City Administrator.
   E.   Licenses shall expire one year from the date of issuance and a licensee
must apply for annual review pursuant to section
3-14-17 of this chapter.
   F.   A medical marijuana establishment licensee shall provide and maintain
at all times and at its own expense a certificate of insurance at amounts and
terms required by this chapter prior to issuance or renewal of a license. Any
failure to maintain insurance or provide proof of insurance is grounds for the
City Administrator to suspend the license pending action taken by the City
Council.
      1.   Minimum Amounts: The minimum amount which may be required by this
chapter shall be one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence, two
million dollars ($2,000,000.00) general aggregate for bodily injury and
property damage arising out of licensed activities and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) products and completed operations aggregate, commercial
automobile coverage in a minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) and
excess liability in a minimum of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00).
      2.   Additional Insured: The City shall be named as an additional insured
on all general liability, umbrella, and excess insurance policies as City, its
elected officials, officers, agents, employees and volunteers are included as
additional insured. All policies shall be primary over any other valid and
collectible insurance.
   G.   Prior to issuance or renewal of a license, medical marijuana
establishment licensees shall provide a surety bond as set forth in this
section. The bond must be at the licensee's own expense and remain in force
throughout the term of the license. The bond must cover licensee's obligation,
for itself and its agents, employees, subcontractors, and the agents and
employees of any subcontractors, to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the
City, and any of its elected or appointed officers, agents, or employees, from
any and all claims, demands, actions, damages, decrees, judgments, attorney
fees, costs, and expenses which the City, or such elected or appointed officers
or employees, may suffer, or which may be recovered from, or obtainable against
the City, or such elected or appointed officers or employees, as a result of,
by reason of, or arising out of the use of the license, or the exercise by the
licensee of any or all of the rights, privileges, permission, and authority
conferred herein, or as a result of any alleged act or omission on the part of
the licensee in performing or failing to perform any of its obligations. Such
surety bond shall be in the amount of two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00).
   H.   Prior to the issuance or renewal of a license, medical marijuana
establishment licensees shall file, and must maintain, a bond from a surety
company qualified and authorized to do surety business in the State of Nevada
in the penal sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00). Such bond must be
conditioned to be paid to the City for all license fees and penalties owing
against such license.
   I.   Upon approval by the City Council of a medical marijuana compliance
permit and the issuance of a provisional medical marijuana registration
certificate by the State regulating authority, the City Administrator shall
process a license application pursuant to chapter 1 of this title. The City
Administrator shall not issue a temporary license for a medical marijuana
establishment. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-10: FACILITIES NOT LOCATED WITHIN THE CITY OF ELY:
A medical marijuana cultivation facility, an independent testing laboratory or
a medical marijuana production facility which has obtained a business license
in a jurisdiction within Nevada other than the City may apply to the City
Administrator for a license to provide testing, medical marijuana, edible
marijuana products and/or marijuana infused products, if an adequate supply
does not exist in the City of Ely, to licensed medical marijuana establishments
within the City. All applications for such licenses will be processed pursuant
to chapter 1 of this title and this chapter and shall be required to pay all
license fees applicable to medical marijuana establishments located within the
City. Medical marijuana establishments located outside of the City shall not be
required to comply with the permit process set forth in this chapter. (Ord.
707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-11: MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS - GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND
RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Each medical marijuana establishment licensee shall operate only in
compliance with all State regulations, all City regulations, and the plans,
procedures and policies submitted with the permit and approved by the City
Administrator, and any restrictions imposed in connection with issuance of the
license.
   B.   At least one qualified person shall be on the premises of a medical
marijuana dispensary at all times during the hours of operation. For purposes
of the preceding sentence, a "qualified person" means a principal who has been
approved for suitability pursuant to this chapter or a key employee who has
been approved for suitability pursuant to this chapter.
   C.   A medical marijuana establishment may not allow the use, smoking,
ingestion or consumption of any marijuana, edible marijuana, or marijuana-
infused product on the licensed premises.
   D.   Any person or premises licensed as a medical marijuana establishment
shall comply with all City ordinances regulating signs and advertising. All
signs and advertisements must comply with all requirements of the State
regulating authority.
   E.   Material that is misleading, deceptive, or false, as evidenced either
by the content of the advertising material or by the medium or the manner, in
which the advertising is disseminated, is designed to appeal to minors or
promote the use of marijuana is prohibited.
   F.   With respect to issues regarding signs and advertising, each medical
marijuana establishment shall conform to the approved sign and advertising plan
as a condition of the license. The City Administrator shall not recommend for
approval any sign and advertising plan that:
      1.   Has not been approved by the State regulating authority and does not
comply with all the requirements of the State regulating authority;
      2.   Promotes the use of marijuana, or is appealing to minors;
      3.   Provides advertising visible to members of the public from any
street, sidewalk, park or other public place, including advertising utilizing
any of the following media:
         a.   A sign mounted on a vehicle;
         b.   Any hand-held, human signage or other portable sign; or
         c.   Any handbill, leaflet or flier directly handed to any person,
deposited, fastened, thrown, scattered, cast, or placed in a public place, left
upon a motor vehicle, or any handbill, leaflet or flier posted upon any public
or private property without the consent of the property owner;
      4.   Provides advertising by means of any video, print, online media,
newspaper, magazine, other periodical of general circulation, radio or
broadcast medium which is generally or specifically marketed to minors.
   G.   The presence of minors on the premises of a medical marijuana
establishment is prohibited unless the minor is a qualified patient on the
premises of a dispensary and is accompanied by his or her parent or legal
guardian. No licensee shall cause, permit or allow, either by act or by failure
to act, the violation of this subsection.
   H.   Medical marijuana, edible marijuana products and/or marijuana infused
products may only be transported in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter, and only by a licensed medical marijuana establishment. No other
person shall transport medical marijuana, edible marijuana products and/or
marijuana infused products on behalf of a licensed medical marijuana
establishment. Transportation must meet all requirements of the State
regulating authority. Product must be placed in unmarked, non-transparent
transportation containers.
      1.   All required transportation logs must be in the vehicle and made
available to law enforcement at any time the log is inspected. Upon being
stopped by a law enforcement officer within the City, each driver must identify
to the officer that the product contained within the vehicle is medical
marijuana, edible marijuana products or marijuana-infused products, as the case
may be, from a licensed medical marijuana establishment and must present a
State agent registration card, the route the vehicle was authorized to travel
and the actual travel log for inspection.
   I.   Each licensee is responsible to obtain and pay for an annual building
inspection from the building official prior to renewal of any license.
   J.   Any closure either temporary or permanent must be noticed in writing to
the City Administrator and the White Pine County Sheriff's Office at least
fifteen (15) business days prior to such closure, unless an emergency requires
the closure of such facility which must be reported to the City Administrator
and the White Pine County Sheriff's Office within twenty four (24) hours of
such closure.
   K.   Each licensee must meet the accounting and auditing procedures
established by the State to track and record all sales for audit purposes. The
City must be provided access to such records upon twenty four (24) hours
advanced written notice by the City Administrator.
      1.   If an annual audit is required by the State regulating authority,
the licensee shall submit the audit report to the City within ninety (90)
calendar days of the completion of the audit. All reports or evaluations
submitted hereunder shall be confidential and shall not be available for public
inspection, except as may be required under State or Federal law. Unless
otherwise required by law, the results of the audit shall not be placed upon
the City Council agenda, but the report shall be made available to appropriate
City personnel, including but not limited to, City Council members, the White
Pine County Sheriff's Office, the City Treasurer, the City Administrator and
the City Attorney.
      2.   In compliance with all State and Federal privacy laws the licensee
shall allow the City Administrator, City Treasurer or a designee unrestricted
access to all financial documents, books, records, facilities, and all audio
and video surveillance pertaining to the facilities. Any information obtained
pursuant to this section or any statement filed by the licensee shall be deemed
confidential in character and shall not be subject to public inspection or as
determined by State and Federal privacy laws. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-12: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
Each medical marijuana establishment must submit, maintain and follow a
security plan approved by the White Pine County Sheriff's Office and the City
Administrator. Any proposed modification to an approved security plan must be
submitted to the City Administrator for approval. Any security plan must meet
all the criteria established by the State regulating authority and the
following minimum requirements:
   A.   Each licensed premises must have a security system which monitors all
perimeter entry points, windows, and controlled areas by a centrally monitored
alarm company properly licensed with the City, and whose agents are properly
licensed and registered under applicable laws.
   B.   A twenty four-hour surveillance system is required to monitor the
interior and exterior of a medical marijuana establishment, a live feed of
which must be accessible to authorized law enforcement at all times, and in
real-time.
      1.   All recorded images must clearly and accurately display the time and
date. Time is to be measured in accordance with U.S. National Institute of
Standards and Technology standards.
      2.   The surveillance system's data storage device must be secured on-
site in a lock box, cabinet, closet, or secured in another manner to protect
from employee or third-party tampering or criminal theft.
      3.   A sign must be posted in any customer areas that the customer is
under video surveillance.
   C.   The establishment shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with all
local and State regulations regarding the facility and must monitor parking
areas and outdoor areas of the licensed premises for loitering, unlawful sale
of medical marijuana by customers, and consumption of medical marijuana.
   D.   Any theft of items containing marijuana or the observance of any
unauthorized transactions of medical marijuana on the licensed premises must be
reported to the White Pine County Sheriff's Office and the City Administrator
upon learning of the theft or unauthorized transaction verbally and within
twenty four (24) hours in writing of the occurrence.
   E.   A sign shall be posted at the entrance to the location containing the
name and functioning telephone number of a twenty four-hour on-call member
engaged in the management of a medical marijuana establishment who shall
receive, log, and respond to complaints and other inquiries.
   F.   In addition to complying with all requirements set by the State
regulating authority, any licensed cultivation facility shall:
      1.   Secure the cultivation facility with full video surveillance capable
of clearly identifying any activities occurring within twenty feet (20') of the
exterior of the building and any parking, fenced, or loading areas. A motion
detection lighting system may be employed to illuminate the gate area in low
light conditions.
      2.   Must provide on-site security at all times when the facility is not
otherwise populated by employees.
   G.   In addition to complying with all requirements set by the State
regulating authority, any licensed medical marijuana production facility shall
ensure all production, transport, delivery, shipping, labeling and packaging
areas have fixed camera coverage capable of identifying activity occurring
within a minimum of twenty feet (20').
   H.   In addition to complying with all requirements set by the State
regulating authority, any licensed medical marijuana dispensary shall contain
the following areas, separated and segregated, and consistent with the
following specific criteria:
      1.   Waiting area containing only one entrance for the public, which is
visible immediately from one fixed staffed security station. The entire waiting
area must also be monitored by surveillance cameras.
      2.   Consultation room where medical marijuana products are viewed for
purchase, which must be:
         a.   Separated and segregated from any waiting area;
         b.   Any windows or viewing areas must be obscured from the public
right-of-way or waiting area;
         c.   Any customer allowed to enter any room where medical marijuana,
edible marijuana products, or marijuana infused products are viewed for
purchase is required to be accompanied by an employee of the establishment;
         d.   Only sample products may be viewed for purchase in such a room;
samples may be shown to customers outside of nontransparent packaging;
         e.   Customers may not remove any medical marijuana, edible marijuana
products, or marijuana infused products from the consultation room.
      3.   All medical marijuana, edible marijuana products, or marijuana
infused products, during non-business hours, must be stored in a separated and
secured area.
         a.   The area must meet the building official's standards for odor
control.
         b.   The area must be under surveillance by the camera system at all
times.
         c.   One area may store both product and legal tender, however
separate storage devices must be maintained and both must be under video
surveillance.
      4.   All medical marijuana, edible marijuana products, or marijuana
infused products must be placed in an opaque bag or cover that does not allow
the product to be visible from outside of the bag or cover and closed by the
attendant of the dispensary prior to transfer to a customer. (Ord. 707, 12-14-
2017)
3-14-13: CULTIVATION FACILITY:
   A.   A cultivation facility must meet all odor control regulations
established by the Building Department. Within twenty four (24) hours of any
complaints concerning odors, a cultivation facility shall respond to the
complaints and file with the City Administrator and the building official all
action taken to address odor complaints. The building official, upon
determination of the existence of detectable odor from any cultivation
facility, may require additional measures by the facility to control such odor
and a timeframe for the implementation of such measures at any cultivation
facility. Failure to complete required improvements within the timeframe
specified by the building official is grounds for temporary suspension of the
license by the City Administrator pending City Council action.
   B.   Any medical marijuana that is transported to a medical marijuana
dispensary must be packaged for retail sale in tamper evident containers of not
more than two and one-half (2.5) ounces and placed in unmarked, non-transparent
transportation containers.
   C.   Any medical marijuana that is transported to a medical marijuana
production facility must meet all State regulating authority standards.
   D.   Applicants must designate on their permit application the size of the
area proposed to be under cultivation on the premises. The cultivation area
will be limited to the square footage granted on the license. Other floor space
of the facility may be used for walkways, ventilation, storage or any other
purposes required by the State regulating authority or the licensee for
operations of the business. Allocated square footage of cultivation area may be
requested to be increased upon petition to the City Council prior to the
renewal of the license.
   E.   The Council may reduce the square footage of any applicant or licensee
if the Council determines the size of the proposed facility is not in the
interest of the surrounding community.
   F.   Prior to accepting any plant materials into the cultivation facility
for the first time, the cultivation facility shall notify the City
Administrator to conduct a pre-operational inspection and shall pay all related
inspection fees. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-14: INDEPENDENT TESTING LABORATORIES:
In addition to any other requirement set forth herein, independent testing
laboratories must submit a registration certificate from the State regulating
authority, must maintain all State laboratory licenses required to test
substances such as medical marijuana, and provide a copy of such licenses and
approvals at the time of licensing. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-15: MEDICAL MARIJUANA PRODUCTION FACILITY:
   A.   Inspections: The City Administrator will conduct a pre- operational
inspection at all medical marijuana production facilities to determine whether
the facilities, methods, practices and controls used in the manufacture,
processing, or holding of edible marijuana products or marijuana-infused
products conform to or are operated or administered within the requirements of
this chapter. The licensee is responsible for the costs of all inspections.
   B.   Products And Labeling: Products sold at a City-licensed medical
marijuana dispensary must meet the following:
      1.   No infused products may contain alcoholic beverages;
      2.   No product shall have the appearance or packaging of candies,
characters, shapes or other like products which are commonly marketed to
children;
      3.   No infused water or beverages may be produced or bottled for
drinking as a beverage;
      4.   Packaging must be opaque. Products must not be visible from or
depicted on the packaging;
      5.   Labels must be simple in appearance without pictures or depictions
of objects, such as toys, characters, pictures of children, or cartoon
characters or any other depiction which are commonly marketed to children;
      6.   Labels must not have the appearance of similar labels found in a
grocery store;
      7.   The City may create a logo that must be placed on the packaging for
all edible marijuana products and marijuana-infused products. If such a logo is
created, it shall be applied to all such products;
      8.   Any edible marijuana products or marijuana infused products that are
transported to a licensed medical marijuana dispensary must be packaged for
retail sale in tamper evident containers and placed in unmarked, non-
transparent transportation containers; and
      9.   The maximum number of servings in any one single unit of marijuana-
infused product meant to be eaten or swallowed is ten (10) servings of no more
than ten milligrams (10 mg) of active THC per serving. THC is defined in Nevada
Revised Statutes 453A.155. A single unit of marijuana-infused extract for
inhalation cannot exceed one gram (1 g). (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-16: MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY - REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITATIONS:
Each licensed medical marijuana dispensary shall comply with the following
requirements:
   A.   Prices for all products shall be prominently posted in the waiting area
in a location and manner readily visible to prospective and actual clients.
Prices shall not be posted on the exterior of the licensed premises.
   B.   All edible marijuana products and marijuana infused products offered
for sale at a licensed dispensary shall meet the requirements, restrictions and
labeling of edible marijuana products and marijuana infused products in
accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Any dispensary that sells edible marijuana products or marijuana
infused products must display a placard that states the following:
      1.   Edible Marijuana and Marijuana Infused Products. There may be health
risks associated with consumption of edible marijuana products or marijuana
infused products.
      2.   Edible products and marijuana infused products contain marijuana or
active compounds of marijuana.
      3.   Should not be used by women who are pregnant or breast feeding.
      4.   When eaten or swallowed, the intoxicating effects of this product
can be delayed two or more hours.
      5.   Follow all recommended dosage and serving guidelines and
recommendations.
      6.   "KEEP OUT OF REACH OF CHILDREN".
The placard shall be no smaller than eight inches (8") tall by twelve inches
(12") wide, with font size letters no smaller than 48-point. The placard shall
be clearly visible and readable by customers and shall be written in English.
   D.   A medical marijuana dispensary is not allowed to sell gifts, novelties
or participate in ancillary business sales activity within a medical marijuana
dispensary with the exception of the following:
      1.   Paraphernalia as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes 453A.125, the
sale of which is limited to the consultation room and only to a display area of
ten (10) square feet of gross retail space in the room.
      2.   Ancillary services which are services approved in the educational
plan by the State regulating authority, and which also must be approved for an
ancillary license by the City.
   E.   A dispensary may not locate an automatic teller machine on the
premises. Money and legal tender may not be stored onsite except as detailed in
the approved security plan.
   F.   The following activities to promote the use of marijuana are
prohibited:
      1.   The giving of free samples or free product to any person, employee
or customer;
      2.   No employee shall be paid for services in the form of marijuana
product;
      3.   Reward programs, customer loyalty programs, promotional activities;
      4.   No novelty merchandise may be produced or allowed to have any
approved logo or business name to be used on such merchandise; and
      5.   The display of any product in any manner visible to the general
public from the right-of-way or outside of the facility.
   G.   The following activities are prohibited for any licensed medical
marijuana dispensaries:
      1.   Off-site transportation or sale of medical marijuana, edible
marijuana products or marijuana infused products, except to another licensed
medical marijuana establishment or the location of the residence of a registry
card holder and only to a residential address specified on the registration
card. All sales and distribution of medical marijuana, edible marijuana
products or marijuana infused products by a licensed medical marijuana
dispensary shall occur only upon the licensed premises, and the licensee shall
be strictly prohibited from transporting or selling medical marijuana to any
person at any other location.
      2.   A drive-thru or walk-up window for transactions or product transfer.
      3.   Except as otherwise permitted by subsection G1 of this section:
         a.   A dispensary shall not dispense or distribute, sell, transfer or
in any other way provide marijuana, edible marijuana products or marijuana
infused products other than by direct, face-to-face, in-person transaction with
the holder of a registry identification card or designated primary caregiver at
the licensed facility; and
         b.   Marijuana shall not be provided by any other means of delivery
including, without limitation:
            (1)   Internet sales.
            (2)   The transport, mail or private delivery of product.
   H.   A dispensary must inform each customer either by signage, written
receipt or on product labeling that it is illegal to re- sell medical
marijuana, edible marijuana products or marijuana infused products to any
person.
   I.   The dispensary shall provide the City Administrator, White Pine County
Sheriff's Office and all neighbors located within three hundred feet (300') of
the premises with the name, phone number, and facsimile number of an on-site
community relations staff person to whom one can provide notice if there are
operating problems associated with the dispensary.
   J.   No advertising, materials or postings within the waiting areas may
advertise locations, devices or activities promoting the consumption of
marijuana or other facilities selling or purporting to provide locations for
the private or public consumption of marijuana.
   K.   Medical marijuana, edible marijuana products and/or marijuana infused
products shall be obtained from licensed medical marijuana establishments
within White Pine County, if an adequate supply is available, from licensed
medical marijuana establishments located within White Pine County.
   L.   A medical marijuana dispensary must maintain an electronic verification
system in accordance with the requirements of the State regulating authority,
which must be used to record data required by the State regulating authority
and to validate each registry identification card presented and the allowed
amount of medical marijuana to be dispensed.
   M.   A medical marijuana dispensary's hours of operation shall be limited to
between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. (Ord. 707, 12-
14-2017)
3-14-17: ANNUAL REVIEW OF LICENSE:
   A.   Every year in the month in which the license was issued, the licensee
must submit to a review of the issued license.
   B.   Documentation required for the annual review must be submitted at least
thirty (30) calendar days prior to the expiration of the license.
   C.   Documentation for the annual review must be provided on a form approved
by the City Administrator and accompanied by:
      1.   A license renewal application;
      2.   A nonrefundable application renewal fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00);
      3.   Current list of all ownership or affidavit testifying that no
changes have occurred;
      4.   Signed affidavits from each principal attesting to the fact that
there have not been any arrests or convictions of a crime in any jurisdiction
and they have not had disciplinary action taken against them or an associated
business where a business license is held;
      5.   If changes are requested, a detailed proposal for changes to any of
the plans or documents approved with the initial license or previous renewal,
including the sign plan, security plan, environmental plan, operational plan,
or building plans;
      6.   A copy of all current and proposed contracts for consulting,
management, renting or leasing;
      7.   A copy of all contracts with any other medical marijuana
establishments; and
      8.   A statement certifying and attesting that no changes have occurred
in the ownership, operations or original application with the exception of
those specifically noted in the renewal application.
   D.   The City Administrator may approve the review and approve a renewal of
the license based on a determination that no material changes have been made to
the original application or refer the review with noted requested changes to
the Council for consideration. The City Council may approve, approve with
conditions, deny or take such other action as it deems appropriate. All changes
in ownership or location must be referred to the City Council as a new permit
application.
   E.   The City Administrator may deny renewal of a license based on the
failure or refusal of a licensee to carry out the policies and procedures or
comply with the plans and statements provided to the City with the application
for the license.
   F.   The City Administrator may deny renewal of a license if the
establishment is not in compliance with this chapter or has any unpaid fees.
(Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-18: CLOSURE OR BANKRUPTCY OF A MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.   Prior to the issuance of a license or the renewal of a license, each
applicant must file with the City Administrator a plan for the disposal,
maintenance or transfer of all plant material, products and usable medical
marijuana for implementation due to any of the following conditions:
      1.   Closure of the medical marijuana establishment, revocation or
nonrenewal of the registration certificate issued by the State regulating
authority, or revocation or nonrenewal of a license granted pursuant to this
chapter.
      2.   The appointment of an administrator, receiver, trustee, or assignee
in the event of the receivership, bankruptcy, or assignment for benefit of
creditors of any licensee.
   B.   The plan must include:
      1.   The City Administrator must be notified within ten (10) business
days of such appointment to act pursuant to subsection A2 of this section.
      2.   That business must cease all sales of medical marijuana products
including wholesale, edible or infused products and dispensary sales until such
time as a new certificate has been issued by the State regulating authority and
a license has been granted by the City.
      3.   An inspection prior to the transfer of any materials to be disposed
of or transferred to another licensed medical marijuana establishment.
      4.   The plan must be executable within ten (10) business days and
approved by the City Administrator.
   C.   When the matter is resolved, the true party or parties of interest may
apply for a license once certified by the State regulating authority. (Ord.
707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-19: DISPOSAL OF MEDICAL MARIJUANA:
Medical marijuana and any waste including wastewater must be stored, secured
and managed in accordance with applicable State Statutes and regulations and
the State approved disposal plan. A medical marijuana establishment must
dispose of medical marijuana that is not usable marijuana within ten (10)
calendar days of expiration of use. Medical marijuana waste must be made
unusable prior to leaving a licensed medical marijuana facility.
   A.   Wastes that must be rendered unusable prior to disposal include, but
are not limited to:
      1.   Marijuana plant waste, including roots, stalks, leaves, and stems
that have not been processed with solvent.
      2.   Solid marijuana sample plant waste possessed by third-party
laboratories certified by the State regulating authority for quality assurance
that must be disposed of.
   B.   The allowable method to render marijuana plant waste unusable is by
grinding and incorporating the marijuana plant waste with non-consumable solid
waste or other ground materials so the resulting mixture is at least fifty
percent (50%) non-marijuana waste by volume. Other methods to render marijuana
waste unusable must be approved by the State regulating authority and the City
Administrator, in conjunction with recommendation from the City of Ely Regional
Landfill, before implementing.
   C.   Marijuana waste rendered unusable following an approved method in the
facility disposal plan must be delivered to the City of Ely Regional Landfill
for immediate disposition and covering.
   D.   Disposal cannot include medical marijuana product including plant
material entering the City wastewater collection system, storm drain system or
any unsecure rubbish disposal system.
   E.   A medical marijuana establishment shall not transfer, share, give, sell
or deliver any unused medical marijuana in the establishment's possession to
any other person, regardless of whether they are licensed as a medical
marijuana establishment.
   F.   A medical marijuana establishment shall not dispose of medical
marijuana in any manner other than permitted under this chapter. (Ord. 707, 12-
14-2017)
3-14-20: WORK CARD AND AGENT REGISTRATION CARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City as expressed
by the City Council in this section, that the safety, morals, good order and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the City will be better protected and
served by requiring the registration with the City through its designees at
City Hall and the thumbprinting/fingerprinting of all employees, of medical
marijuana establishment as defined in this chapter.
      1.   Each employee, whether a full-time or part-time employee,
independent contractor, or volunteer who works in a medical marijuana
establishment business or facility shall obtain, prior to the commencement of
work and keep in force during the term of employment, a work card issued
pursuant to this section. A complete and accurate list of all employees and
volunteers, each of whom must have a valid medical marijuana establishment
agent registration card and work card issued pursuant to this section, must be
kept onsite and available for inspection at all times. The list must contain
the current employment status, position and title of each employee and
volunteer, and work shift.
      2.   It shall be a condition of the license to inform the City of any
change in the employment status of a registered employee or volunteer or who
serves in a management position or as a key employee within ten (10) calendar
days of the effective date of the change in employment status. A change of
employment status includes termination, leave of absence, and promotion to a
management position or key employee.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
    EMPLOYEES: Employees of medical marijuana establishments means any person
working (including principals) whether classified by the owner as an
independent contractor, full time, part-time, or volunteer in any capacity,
including on- site security, contracted employee for services including, but
not limited to accounting services, security services, cleaning services or any
other manner of contracted work. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-21: EMPLOYMENT UNLAWFUL:
   A.   Employee: It is unlawful for any person to accept employment in any
medical marijuana establishment or facility unless such person has first
registered his/her name and address with City Hall and had his/her thumbprints
and fingerprints taken and filed with City Hall and has been issued a medical
marijuana establishment work card. By registering with City Hall and having
his/her thumbprints and fingerprints taken and filed, the person herewith
authorizes the City to submit said thumbprints and fingerprints to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010 for the
purpose of conducting a national background check of the person.
   B.   Employer: It is unlawful for any person operating a medical marijuana
establishment or facility to employ any person required to register with City
Hall by the terms of this section unless such person has first obtained a
medical marijuana establishment work card.
   C.   Medical Marijuana Establishment Work Card: Medical marijuana
establishment work card shall not be issued to those persons listed below:
      1.   Persons convicted of any crime equivalent to a Nevada category A
felony regardless of jurisdiction in which conviction occurred;
      2.   Persons convicted of any felony involving the use of violence
against another person;
      3.   Persons being supervised by the Department of Parole and Probation,
or its equivalent entity from another state, who lack written approval to work
in a licensed establishment from the supervising agency;
      4.   Persons who have been convicted of any felony where firearms were
used in the commission of a crime;
      5.   Persons who have been convicted of any felony or gross misdemeanor
where the predicate crime was theft, false pretenses, unlawful use of a credit
card, or identity theft.
      6.   A person who has successfully completed felony or gross misdemeanor
probation or parole and whose civil rights have not been restored or who has
not received a pardon may be entitled to a work card at the sole discretion of
the City Council.
      7.   Except for those persons falling under subsection C1 of this
section, any other person who would otherwise be ineligible for a work card due
to conviction, who can establish the satisfactory completion of probation or
parole and who has had no negative law enforcement contact for five (5) or more
consecutive years following completion of probation or parole may apply to the
City Council for a worker card under this section. The City Council retains the
sole right to authorize the issuance of a medical marijuana establishment work
card.
   D.   Full Disclosure: Failure to fully disclose a felony or gross
misdemeanor criminal conviction will be sufficient grounds for denial or
immediate revocation of a work card.
   E.   Denial Or Revocation: Any person aggrieved by the denial or revocation
of a work card pursuant to this section may seek a review hearing before the
City Council by filing a request for review with the City Administrator or
designee within thirty (30) calendar days of the announcement of the denial or
revocation of the work card.
      1.   Failure to appear before the City Council and/or to provide clear
and convincing evidence demonstrating an error was made in the denial
determination or failure to provide clear and convincing evidence meeting the
requirements of subsection C6 or C7 of this section will result in an
affirmance of the denial.
      2.   A majority vote of the City Council is required to overturn a denial
or revocation subject to the Mayor's right to veto. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-22: INVESTIGATION FEE:
   A.   Fee: Upon an employee complying with the provisions of subsection 3-14-
21A of this chapter, City staff shall collect an investigation fee of one
hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) to reimburse the City for the costs of
processing the application and issuing a work card to such employee. Any
information received from the background check shall be confidential and made
accessible only to the Mayor, the City Council, the City Attorney, the employer
of such person and law enforcement officers. A work card issued pursuant to
section
3-14-21 of this chapter shall be valid for one year and must be renewed
annually.
   B.   Employer's Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the
employer to provide the City of Ely with a letter, on their letterhead,
indicating the employer's intent to hire the employee and authorize the
issuance of a work card. An employer shall be fined one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per incident where an employee works without the required medical
marijuana establishment work card.
   C.   Transferable: A medical marijuana establishment work card issued
pursuant to this section shall not be transferable.
   D.   Proof: Each card holder is required to provide to any person, including
but not limited to law enforcement, proof that they have a validly issued
medical marijuana establishment work card at any time they are working in a
medical marijuana establishment or facility. Failure to produce the card upon
demand, or working without the required card could result in the worker being
charged under section
1-4-1 of this Code for a misdemeanor violation of this section. (Ord. 707, 12-
14-2017)
3-14-23: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
The confidentiality of records regarding medical marijuana establishments shall
be in accordance with Federal and State law. The duty to disclose any
particular record as a public record shall be in accordance with State law.
(Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-24: DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   All licenses authorized and issued under the provisions of this chapter
may be subject to immediate suspension by the City Administrator, if the City
Administrator finds that:
      1.   A licensee has violated, or permitted, allowed or caused a violation
of any provision of this chapter, any regulation issued pursuant to this
chapter, any condition of approval imposed upon the issuance of the permit or
license, or any State law or regulation relating to the operation;
      2.   The State registration certificate has been surrendered, suspended
or revoked;
      3.   Based on ascertainable facts, the operation substantially aggravates
the crime problems in the City, makes law enforcement unduly difficult, or is
detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare of the City;
      4.   A licensee has made any fraudulent statements as to a material fact
on an application form, as to any other information presented as part of the
application process, or in connection with any other information required to be
submitted to the City pursuant to this chapter;
      5.   A licensee knowingly commits any act which would have constituted
grounds for denial of an application for a license;
      6.   A licensee has failed either to file required reports, annual review
documentation or to furnish such information as may be reasonably required by
the City Administrator under the authority vested in the City Administrator by
the terms of the provisions relating to licensing;
      7.   Any fact or condition exists which, if it had existed or been known
to exist at the time of the application for such compliance permit or license,
would have warranted the City Administrator to recommend denial of the permit
or license;
      8.   The licensee has failed to maintain the premises in compliance with
the requirements of the building official or the State Fire Marshal or if
applicable City Fire Chief or any Environmental or Health Department.
   B.   Any act or omission committed by any employee, agent, or independent
contractor that occurs in the course of his or her employment, agency, or
contract with the licensee shall be imputed to the licensee for the purposing
of imposing any civil penalty, suspension, or revocation on the licensee.
   C.   In the event any condition is found to exist which justifies suspension
of a license, the City Administrator shall have the discretion to recommend to
the City Council that the license be revoked, or other penalty imposed.
      1.   In the event of the suspension of any license, the City
Administrator shall provide written notice by certified mail addressed to the
licensee and the building owner at the addresses of record. Notice shall also
be sent to the State regulating authority.
      2.   Failure to immediately suspend all business operations to the public
or other medical marijuana establishments shall require the City Administrator
to post or have the property posted on the property "CLOSED BY ORDER OF THE
CITY", signed and dated by the City Administrator, and shall be grounds for
revocation of a license. Staff of a licensed cultivation facility shall be
permitted to be onsite during the appeal process to maintain the needs of the
plants for a cultivation facility.
   D.   A licensee may appeal any suspension, nonrenewal or other penalty to
the City Council. Any suspension or other penalty shall be effective pending
completion of any appeal. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-25: FEES:
   A.   Annual License Fee: Annual licensing fees shall be set and amended from
time to time by the City Council by written resolution.
      1.   Each annual fee is due in advance on the first day of the month in
which their license was issued by the City of each year. License fees paid
pursuant to this chapter are not refundable.
      2.   Any annual fee which is not received by the City on or before the
due date shall be assessed a late-payment penalty amount equal to ten percent
(10%) of the amount of such annual fee.
      3.   If the annual fee and penalty is not received by the City within
fifteen (15) calendar days after the due date, an additional penalty in an
amount equal to twenty five percent (25%) of such annual fee shall be assessed.
      4.   If the annual fee and all penalties are not received by the City
within thirty (30) calendar days after the due date, the license shall be
automatically suspended and if the annual fee and all penalties are not
received by the City within sixty (60) calendar days after the due date, the
license shall be automatically revoked.
      5.   Each licensee shall pay to the City in advance, the annual licensing
fees set forth in the adopted resolution.
   B.   Amount: The City Council reserves unto itself the right to set the
amount of fees it can charge for the sale of medical marijuana based upon a
gross sales. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-26: CULTIVATION LIMIT:
The Council may enter into agreements with other local governments to restrict
cultivation to a regional location or a regional limit based on square feet of
building space that may be licensed for the cultivation of medical marijuana to
supply licensed dispensaries within the City. (Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
3-14-27: CONSTRUCTION:
Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, this chapter incorporates the
requirements and procedures set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes 453A and NAC
453A. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and
the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 453A and NAC 453A, or any other
applicable State or local law, the more restrictive provision shall control.
(Ord. 707, 12-14-2017)
CHAPTER 15
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
3-15-1:    Purpose And Intent
3-15-2:    Definitions
3-15-3:    Unlawful Acts
3-15-4:    License Required; Privilege; Issuance Prohibited To Designated
Persons
3-15-5:    Finding Of Suitability
3-15-6:    Conditions Applying To Specific Location/Business Types
3-15-7:    License Application Contents
3-15-8:    City Administrator Review
3-15-9:   Planning Commission And City Council Action On Application
3-15-10: Marijuana Establishment; Licenses
3-15-11: Security Requirements
3-15-12: Marijuana Establishments
3-15-13: Change Of Location; Restrictions; Marijuana Establishment Origination
Fee
3-15-14 : License; Permit; Transfer Of Ownership And Changes In Business
Structure; Council Approval Required
3-15-15: Closure Or Non-Operational Status; Responsibility To Maintain Use
3-15-16: Issuance Of Moratorium
3-15-17: Land Use And Location Requirements; Compliance With Title 12
3-15-18: Marijuana Establishments; Interconnectivity Allowed
3-15-19: Delivering Off Premises
3-15-20: Intoxication On Premises
3-15-21: Distributing To Minors; Establishment Of Policy; Copy On Premises;
Requirement To Show
3-15-22: Minor; Employment
3-15-23: Suspension; Revocation; Limitation; Penalty
3-15-24: Marijuana Establishment Responsible For The Acts Of Employees
3-15-25: Marijuana Establishments Subject To Local Government Audit
3-15-26: Public Consumption Of Marijuana; Prohibition
3-15-27: Annual Review Of License
3-15-28: Work Card And Agent Registration Card Requirements
3-15-29: Employment Unlawful
3-15-30: Investigation Fee
3-15-31: Confidential Information
3-15-32: Fees
3-15-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   In November 2016, the voters of the state passed an initiative amending
Article 4 of the Nevada Constitution to allow for the regulation of retail
sales of marijuana in a manner similar to alcohol. In 2017, the Nevada State
Legislature passed, and the governor signed into law, Senate Bills 487, 344 and
Assembly Bill 422, which further defined and clarified local government's role
in the regulation of retail sales of marijuana, cultivation of marijuana,
manufacturing of marijuana products and marijuana distributors in the state.
   B.   While the council recognizes that the retail sale of marijuana has been
approved by the voters of this state, there are many negative secondary effects
that have been reported in communities that authorize the retail sale of
marijuana, such as an increase in violent crimes, theft, traffic, noise, drug
and gang activity, and firearms violations. Therefore, the public health,
safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the city require the regulation of
all businesses engaged in the business of marijuana sales, cultivation,
infusion or testing.
   C.   Federal law makes it unlawful to cultivate, possess, distribute, or
dispense marijuana. However, on August 29, 2013, the United States Department
of Justice ("DOJ") issued a memorandum advising that the DOJ would allow
enforcement of state laws that authorize marijuana production, distribution,
and possession to be handled primarily by state and local law enforcement
regulatory bodies as long as the state and local governments enact laws that
implement "strong and effective regulatory enforcement systems" to address the
federal government's identified enforcement priorities. The following
enforcement priorities were specified by the DOJ as being particularly
important to the federal government:
      1.   Preventing the distribution of marijuana to minors;
      2.   Preventing revenue from the sale of marijuana from going to criminal
enterprises, gangs, and cartels;
      3.   Preventing the diversion of marijuana from states where it is legal
under state law in some form to other states;
      4.   Preventing state-authorized marijuana activity from being used as a
cover or pretext for the trafficking of other illegal drugs or other illegal
activity;
      5.   Preventing violence and the use of firearms in the cultivation and
distribution of marijuana;
      6.   Preventing drugged driving and the exacerbation of other adverse
public health consequences associated with marijuana use;
      7.   Preventing the growing of marijuana on public lands and the
attendant public safety and environmental dangers posed by marijuana production
on public lands; and
      8.   Preventing marijuana possession or use on federal property.
   D.   Accordingly, in addition to protecting the public health, safety,
morals, good order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city and to
safeguard the public, this chapter is intended to adequately address these
enforcement priorities. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the scope of all words in this chapter
shall be liberally construed in order to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter, and, in particular, the following words shall have the meaning
ascribed to them as follows:
 
CITY:                   Means the City of Ely, County of White Pine, State of
                        Nevada.
COUNCIL:                Shall mean the Ely City Council.
                        Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
                        Statutes 453D.030(1), and means a facility licensed to
                        provide day care to children, a public park, a public
                        playground, a public swimming pool, a center or
COMMUNITY FACILITY:     facility the primary purpose of which is to provide
                        recreational opportunities or services to children or
                        adolescents, or a church, synagogue, or other building,
                        structure, or place used for religious worship or other
                        religious purpose.
                        Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
CONCENTRATED MARIJUANA: Statutes 453D.030(2), means the separated resin,
                        whether crude or purified, obtained from marijuana.
                        Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
                        Statutes 453D.030(3) and means a person who is twenty-
CONSUMER:               one (21) years of age or older who purchases marijuana
                        or marijuana products for use by persons twenty-one
                        (21) years of age or older, but not for resale to
                        others.
 
 
          Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes 453D.030(5) and
DUAL      means a person or group of persons who possess a current, valid registration
LICENSEE: certificate to operate a medical marijuana establishment pursuant to Chapter
          453A of NRS and a license to operate a marijuana establishment under this
          chapter.
EDIBLE    Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes 453D.101 and means
MARIJUANA products that contain marijuana or an extract thereof and are intended for
PRODUCTS: human consumption by oral ingestion; and are presented in the form of
          foodstuffs, extracts, oils, tinctures and other similar products.
          Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes 453D.030(6) and
          means a conviction of an offense that would constitute a category A felony if
          committed in Nevada or convictions for two (2) or more offenses that would
          constitute felonies if committed in Nevada. "Excluded felony offense" does not
EXCLUDED  include:
FELONY       1.   A criminal offense for which the sentence, including any term of
OFFENSE:  probation, incarceration, or supervised release, was completed more than ten
          (10) years ago; or
             2.   An offense involving conduct that would be immune from arrest,
          prosecution, or penalty pursuant to Chapter 453A of NRS, except that the
          conduct occurred before the effective date of Chapter 453A of NRS (October 1,
          2001), or was prosecuted by an authority other than the State of Nevada.
 
 
            Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes 453D.030(8), means all
            parts of any plant of the genus Cannabis, whether growing or not, the seeds
            thereof, the resin extracted from any part of the plant, and every compound,
            manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds, or
            resin. "Marijuana" does not include:
MARIJUANA:     1.   The mature stems of the plant, fiber produced from the stems, oil, or cake
            made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
            derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stems (except the resin extracted
            therefrom), fiber, oil, or cake, the sterilized seed of the plant which is
            incapable of germination; or
               2.   The weight of any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare
            topical or oral administrations, food, drink, or other products.
            Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised Statutes 453D.030(9), and means an
            entity licensed under this chapter and in possession of a valid Nevada State
MARIJUANA   Marijuana Establishment License, issued by the Department of Taxation to cultivate,
CULTIVATION process, and package marijuana, to have marijuana tested by a marijuana testing
FACILITY:   facility, and to sell marijuana to retail marijuana stores, to marijuana product
            manufacturing facilities, and to other marijuana cultivation facilities, but not to
            consumers.
 
 
                                Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada
                                Revised Statutes 453D.030(10) and means
                                an entity licensed under this chapter and
                                in possession of a valid Nevada State
MARIJUANA DISTRIBUTOR:          Marijuana Establishment License, issued
                                by the Department of Taxation to
                                transport marijuana from a marijuana
                                establishment to another marijuana
                                establishment.
                                Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada
                                Revised Statutes 453D.030(11) and means a
                                marijuana cultivation facility, a
MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT:        marijuana testing facility, a marijuana
                                product manufacturing facility, a
                                marijuana distributor, or a retail
                                marijuana store.
                                Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada
                                Revised Statutes 453D.030(12) and means
                                an entity licensed under this chapter and
                                in possession of a valid Nevada State
                                Marijuana Establishment License, issued
MARIJUANA PRODUCT MANUFACTURING by the Department of Taxation to purchase
FACILITY:                       marijuana, manufacture, process, and
                                package marijuana and marijuana products,
                                and sell marijuana and marijuana products
                                to other marijuana product manufacturing
                                facilities and to retail marijuana
                                stores, but not to consumers.
                                Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada
                                Revised Statutes 453D.030(13) and means
                                products comprised of marijuana or
MARIJUANA PRODUCTS:             concentrated marijuana and other
                                ingredients that are intended for use or
                                consumption, such as, but not limited to,
                                edible products, ointments, and
                                tinctures.
 
 
                            Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
                            Statutes 453D.030(14) and means any equipment,
                            products, and materials of any kind which are used,
                            intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
MARIJUANA PARAPHERNALIA:    propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
                            manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
                            preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
                            repacking, storing, or containing marijuana, or for
                            ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing
                            marijuana into the human body.
                            Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
                            Statutes 453D.030(15) and means an entity licensed
                            under this chapter and in possession of a valid
MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY: Nevada State Marijuana Establishment License,
                            issued by the Department of Taxation to test
                            marijuana and marijuana products, including for
                            potency and contaminants.
                            Means any principal, person, beneficial owner, and
                            individual persons holding any ownership or
                            financial interest for each business entity
                            including all businesses organized under or
                            governed by Title 7 of the Nevada Revised Statutes
                            including but not limited to private corporations,
                            publicly-traded corporations, close corporations,
                            foreign corporations, limited liability companies,
                            partnerships, limited partnerships, and
                            professional corporations ("business entities").
                            Ownership interest in the context of publicly
                            traded corporations shall include all corporate
OWNERSHIP INTEREST:         officers and members of any board of directors, and
                            also includes individuals with ten percent (10%) or
                            more ownership or financial interest in the
                            publicly traded corporation. To the extent that a
                            business entity has an ownership interest in a
                            medical marijuana establishment, the term
                            "ownership interest" shall also include all
                            individuals with an ownership interest in such
                            business entity. It is the intent of this chapter
                            that all individuals with a direct or indirect
                            ownership interest in a medical marijuana
                            establishment be disclosed and be subject to the
                            requirements of this chapter.
 
 
                            Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
                            Statutes 453D.030(16) and means to harvest, dry,
PROCESS:                    cure, trim, and separate parts of the marijuana
                            plant by manual or mechanical means, such as
                            sieving or ice water separation, but not by
                            chemical extraction or chemical synthesis.
                            Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
                            Statutes 453D.030(17) and means an area to which
PUBLIC PLACE:               the public is invited or in which the public is
                            permitted regardless of age. "Public place" does
                            not include a retail marijuana store.
                            Has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
                            Statutes 453D.030(18) and means an entity licensed
                            under this chapter and in possession of a valid
                            Nevada State Marijuana Establishment License,
RETAIL MARIJUANA STORE:     issued by the Department of Taxation to purchase
                            marijuana from marijuana cultivation facilities, to
                            purchase marijuana and marijuana products from
                            marijuana product manufacturing facilities and
                            retail marijuana stores, and to sell marijuana and
                            marijuana products to consumers.
STATE REGULATING AUTHORITY: Means the State of Nevada Department of Taxation.
                            (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
 
3-15-3: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any marijuana
establishment in the City without a valid Marijuana Establishment License
issued by the State of Nevada and a license issued pursuant to this chapter and
operating in compliance with any and all applicable State laws and this Code.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide marijuana products to a
marijuana establishment within the City without a valid Marijuana Establishment
License issued by the State of Nevada and a license issued by the City.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any licensed marijuana establishment located
within the City to accept for sale any marijuana from any person who has not
obtained a valid Marijuana Establishment License issued by the State of Nevada
and a license issued pursuant to this chapter for the sale of such products.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in any form of business or
commerce involving the cultivation, processing, manufacturing, storage, sale,
distribution, transportation or consumption of marijuana other than those forms
of businesses and commerce that are expressly contemplated by Nevada Revised
Statutes 453D and any administrative rules duly adopted by the Department of
Taxation.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell marijuana at a licensed
retail marijuana store at any time other than between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) a.m. and eight o'clock (8:00) p.m. daily.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any retail marijuana store to sell marijuana
without complying with State requirements concerning use of the electronic
verification system maintained by the State regulating authority.
   G.   It shall be unlawful to have more than one (1) retail marijuana store
located within the incorporated City limits, until the population of the
incorporated city reaches twenty-thousand (20,000) residents, at which time a
second retail store may apply for licensing. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-4: LICENSE REQUIRED; PRIVILEGE; ISSUANCE PROHIBITED TO DESIGNATED PERSONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, conduct or carry on any
marijuana establishment as described in this chapter within the city without
first obtaining and thereafter maintaining a marijuana establishment license as
herein required and paying the fee(s) as set forth by resolution as authorized
in
3-15-32 .
   B.   Notwithstanding this provision, marijuana is currently classified as a
Schedule I drug under the Controlled Substances Act ("CSA") 21 U.S.C. Section
841(a)(1), and federal law makes it unlawful to manufacture, distribute,
dispense or possess any controlled substance.
   C.   All marijuana establishments as defined in this chapter shall be
licensed and controlled so as to protect the public health, safety, morals,
good order and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city and to safeguard
the public.
   D.   The right to obtain and maintain a license under this chapter is a
privilege and the operation of such marijuana sales, cultivation, infusion or
testing facilities is a privileged business subject to regulations. The license
may be revoked for violation of the conditions of this chapter, including those
conditions set forth in section 3-15-23; the laws of the state; other
ordinances of the city; the DOJ enforcement priorities cited above; or for any
other cause deemed sufficient by the council in the exercise of its sole
discretion.
   E.   In conformity with the policy of this chapter, the following persons
are declared unqualified to hold a marijuana establishment license under the
provisions of this chapter:
      1.   A person whose state registration certificate, license issued under
the provisions of this chapter, or those ordinances or statutes of any other
agency lawfully engaged in the licensing or regulation of medical marijuana
dispensing or the retail sale of marijuana, cultivation, infusion or laboratory
services, has been suspended or revoked for cause;
      2.   A person, who at the time of renewal of any license issued under
this chapter, would not be eligible for such license upon a first application;
      3.   A partnership, limited partnership, association or limited liability
company, unless all of the partners, managers and members of such partnership,
limited partnership, association or limited liability company that has been
found suitable under the provisions of
3-15-5 ;
      4.   A corporation, unless all of the owners, officers, and directors, if
any, have been found suitable under the provisions of
3-15-5 ;
      5.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought or does not have a lease which cannot be verified thereon for
the full period for which the license is to be used;
      6.   Any employee of the city;
      7.   Any business entity owned or partially owned by a partnership,
limited partnership, association, limited liability company, or corporation
whose headquarters are not in the United States, or by an individual who is not
a legal United States citizen or whose legal residence is not the United
States;
      8.   Any business entity with an officer or a board member or director
who is not a legal United States citizen and whose legal residence is not the
United States; or
      9.   Any publicly traded company.
   F.   For the purposes of this chapter only marijuana establishments that
will cultivate, dispense, infuse/produce edible marijuana products or provide
laboratory testing at an approved location pursuant to Title 12 may be licensed
as a marijuana establishment.
   G.   A marijuana establishment license will not be issued to an applicant
that has not had the appropriate individuals, set forth in this chapter,
undergo a background investigation and finding of suitability pursuant to
section
3-15-5 . In its discretion, the City Council may accept an equivalent
background investigation conducted by the Nevada Department of Taxation or
another government entity or agency.
   H.   No marijuana establishment license shall be issued to an applicant
unless its ownership, irrespective of corporate or business structure can
ultimately be traced to ownership or control by a natural person or persons, at
least one of whom has been a Nevada resident for at least one (1) year prior to
the date of the application. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-5: FINDING OF SUITABILITY:
In addition to the requirements of
3-15-5 , any individual applicant or individual who is a partner, owner,
officer, board member, or director must be found suitable by the director and
meet the following requirements:
   A.   Such individuals must be twenty-one (21) years or older;
   B.   Such individuals shall not have been convicted of a felony or any crime
of moral turpitude as may be further defined in
3-15-29  and must provide an identity history summary check provided by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation or similar background check document deemed
sufficient by the City Administrator at the cost of the applicant;
   C.   Such individuals be United States citizens and must have established
legal residence in the United States at least one (1) year prior to the date of
the application;
   D.   Such individuals shall not have had a license, issued or renewed under
the provisions of this chapter or those ordinances or statutes of any other
agency lawfully engaged in the licensing or regulation of marijuana sales,
cultivation, infusion or laboratory services, that has been suspended or
revoked for cause; and
   E.   Such individuals must not be employees of the city. (Ord. 715, 11-22-
2018)
3-15-6: CONDITIONS APPLYING TO SPECIFIC LOCATION/BUSINESS TYPES:
   A.   General requirements for all marijuana establishments except
independent testing laboratories:
      1.   Marijuana establishments must have at least one (1) responsible key
employee on the licensed premises to act as the establishment's agent at all
times when employees or customers are present on the premises.
      2.   Marijuana establishments must make available to the City
Administrator at any time a list of all employees authorized to be on premises,
which list must include the employees designated as key employees.
      3.   All marijuana establishment employees must have on their person a
valid marijuana establishment agent identification card issued by the state at
all times when at the marijuana establishment location.
      4.   All independent contractors, maintenance and business professionals
allowed access to a marijuana establishment where the general public does not
have access must be logged and given visitor identification. This
identification must be worn and visible at all times when the visitor is on the
premises of the marijuana establishment.
      5.   A marijuana establishment may not allow the use, smoking, ingestion
or consumption of any marijuana, edible marijuana product, or marijuana-infused
product on the licensed premises.
      6.   Any theft of two hundred-fifty dollars ($250.00) or more in retail
value of marijuana seedlings, clones, plants, or other plant materials,
extract, marijuana-infused product, or other item containing marijuana must be
reported to the White Pine County Sheriff's Office and the City Administrator
orally immediately and in writing within twenty-four (24) hours of knowledge of
the alleged theft.
      7.   To prevent unauthorized access to marijuana at a marijuana
establishment the establishment must be in compliance with all security
requirements adopted by the department of taxation as set forth in NRS 453D.
      8.   Marijuana establishments must develop and enforce policies and
procedures:
         a.   That restrict access to the areas of the establishment where the
general public does not have access that contain marijuana or marijuana-infused
products, to individuals authorized to be in that area only;
         b.   That provide for the identification of individuals authorized to
be in the areas where the general public does not have access of the
establishment that contain marijuana or marijuana-infused products;
         c.   That prevent loitering;
         d.   For conducting electronic monitoring; and
         e.   That prevents the distribution of marijuana to minors.
      9.   Marijuana establishments must have an approved plan to remove and
destroy all waste generated from the cultivation, infusion or dispensing of
marijuana from the location. Disposal of waste must meet all state and federal
guidelines. Waste must be maintained in a secure location until removal from
the location. Waste must be rendered unusable by grinding and incorporating the
marijuana waste with non-marijuana waste, such that the resulting mixture is at
least fifty percent (50%) non-marijuana waste. This requirement shall be
required of all businesses that are licensed pursuant to Title 3 of this code
that may come into possession of unwanted marijuana products.
      10.   Marijuana establishments are required to use an inventory control
system compliant with NRS Chapters 453A, 453D, and State Department of Taxation
regulations to track all inventories that include marijuana clones, marijuana
plants, harvested marijuana product for dispensing, edible or infused items or
harvested marijuana product sent to independent testing laboratories.
      11.   Marijuana establishments are required to comply with all standards
set forth by the Department of Taxation, national, state and local building
codes and the state fire regulations prior to conducting business.
      12.   All officers, board members, directors, and employees of the
marijuana establishment shall be required to obtain and maintain a valid
marijuana establishment agent registration card in compliance with NRS Chapters
453A, 453D, and State Department of Taxation regulations.
   B.   Retail Marijuana Stores:
      1.   A retail marijuana store shall only be operated in conjunction with
an existing medical marijuana establishment at the same address, and must be
licensed by the same license holder as a medical marijuana dispensary licensed
pursuant to city code
3-14-9 .
      2.   A retail marijuana store shall have a lobby waiting area at the
entrance to the dispensary to receive clients, and a separate and secure
designated area for dispensing marijuana to customers. The primary entrance
shall be maintained clear of barriers, landscaping and similar obstructions so
that it is clearly visible from public streets, sidewalks or site parking
areas.
      3.   If employing private security, the security provider must be
licensed in accordance with this title and NRS Chapter 648.
      4.   Retail marijuana stores must display in the lobby waiting area a
placard no smaller than eighteen inches (18") tall by twenty inches (20") wide
that states the following:
         a.   Federal law makes it unlawful to possess and consume marijuana
products;
         b.   Marijuana products cannot be transferred, shared or gifted to any
other individual;
         c.   Do not operate heavy machinery or automobiles while under the
influence of marijuana;
         d.   Marijuana has intoxicating effects and may be habit forming;
         e.   There may be health risks associated with consumption of
marijuana;
         f.   Marijuana should not be used by women who are pregnant or breast
feeding; and
         g.   Marijuana should be kept in a secure location and out of reach of
minors and pets.
      5.   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, it shall be
unlawful for any person to advertise any marijuana, edible marijuana product or
marijuana-infused product anywhere in the city where the advertisement is
visible to members of the public from any street, sidewalk, park or other
public place, including advertising utilizing any of the following media:
         a.   Any hand-held, human signage or other portable sign;
         b.   Any handbill, leaflet or flier directly handed to any individual,
deposited, fastened, thrown, scattered, cast or placed in a public place, left
upon a motor vehicle, or posted upon any public property, right-of-way or
private property without the consent of the property owner;
         c.   Any sign mounted or displayed on a vehicle;
         d.   Any free promotional materials.
      6.      Retail marijuana stores are prohibited from offering for sale the
following:
         a.   Any alcoholic beverage, liquor or spirits as defined in
Title 3, Chapter 2 ;
         b.   Any products containing nicotine;
         c.   Any non-marijuana food or beverages;
         d.   Any personal care items except those sold in compliance with NRS
453A;
      7.   Any retail marijuana store offering for sale non-marijuana based
products, including but not limited to, clothing, souvenirs, hats or keychains
must comply with state laws and regulations, including but not limited to NRS
453D and any regulations set forth in the Nevada Administrative Code;
      8.   Any paraphernalia offered for sale must be designed for individual
use only;
      9.   A marijuana dispensary is limited to ten percent (10%) of retail
space for paraphernalia, not to include the lobby area.
      10.   Prior to conducting any sales in accordance with subsections 7. and
8. of subsection B. of this section a license must be obtained pursuant to
Title 3, Chapter 1 and thereafter be maintained in order to offer sales of the
specified items.
      11.    All marijuana products sold must be enclosed in childproof
packaging designed and constructed consistent with state law.
   C.   Marijuana Cultivation Facilities:
      1.   Cultivation areas of the establishment must be in compliance with
regulations set forth in NRS Chapter 453A, 453D, and State Department of
Taxation regulations. The city reserves the right to enforce these sections and
may levy sanctions to a marijuana establishment based on non-compliance that
may include citations and fines, civil penalties, and suspension and revocation
of licensure pursuant to
3-15-23 .
      2.   Areas designated for deliveries from suppliers or couriers must be
separated from cultivation areas by floor to ceiling walls and locking doors.
      3.   Marijuana establishments are encouraged to use the most efficient
process for the conservation of water resources.
   D.   Marijuana Product Manufacturing Facility:
      1.   Production of edible and infused marijuana products must be in
compliance with NRS Chapters 453A, 453D, and State Department of Taxation
regulations. The city reserves the right to enforce these sections and may levy
sanctions to a marijuana establishment based on non-compliance that may include
citations and fines, civil penalties, and suspension and revocation of
licensing pursuant to
3-15-23 .
      2.   Areas designated for deliveries from suppliers or couriers must be
separated from production areas by floor to ceiling walls and locking doors.
      3.   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, use of flammable
gases including, but not limited to, butane and propane are prohibited for the
extraction of oils from marijuana plants. Extraction processes utilizing
flammable gasses may be permitted upon approval of the fire chief. These
systems, processes and processing areas must, at a minimum:
         a.   Be located in premises that are verified by an independent,
qualified industrial hygienist and a Nevada licensed engineer as safe and in
compliance with all applicable codes;
         b.   Utilize listed or approved closed-loop extraction systems;
         c.   Ensure all flammable gas/liquid transfers shall take place within
a chemical fume hood having electrical system classified for a hazardous
atmosphere in accordance with the most recent edition of National Fire
Protection Association (NFPA) 45, Standard on Fire Protection for Laboratories
Using Chemicals, spray booth or spay room complying with the Henderson Fire
Code; and
         d.   Utilize flammable gas monitoring that sound local alarms and
close gas valves at levels greater than twenty-five percent (25%) of lower
explosive limit (LEL).
      4.   Other extraction processes involving flammable gasses or hazardous
materials as defined in state law may be permitted upon approval of the fire
chief and approval of the associated use permit by city council.
      5.   Solvents fit for human consumption shall be permitted in the
extraction process.
      6.   Production of edible and infused marijuana products must be in
compliance with all current and future standards set by the Nevada Department
of Taxation and the Nevada Division of Public and Behavioral Health for
preparation and handling of items meant for human consumption.
   E.   Independent Testing Laboratories: Independent testing laboratories for
marijuana products must be in compliance with NRS Chapters 453A, 453D, and
State Department of Taxation regulations. The city reserves the right to
enforce these sections and may levy sanctions to a marijuana establishment
based on non-compliance that may include citations and fines, civil penalties,
and suspension and revocation of licensing pursuant to 3-15-23. (Ord. 715, 11-
22-2018)
3-15-7: LICENSE APPLICATION CONTENTS:
Whenever a person desires to open, keep, carry on or conduct any marijuana
establishment in the city, or engage in the business thereof, such person must
make application in writing to the City Administrator to obtain a marijuana
establishment license. The application must be submitted for purposes of
receiving written approval on distance and zoning requirements pursuant to
Title 12 by the planning commission and the city council. A separate
application must be submitted for each license for a marijuana establishment
even if located in the same facility. The application for each marijuana
establishment license must include:
   A.   A complete business application per Chapter 1 of this title for the
applicant and each person with an ownership interest in the proposed marijuana
establishment.
   B.   A detailed personal and business financial history per Chapter 1 of
this title for each person with an ownership interest in the proposed marijuana
establishment, along with the following:
      1.   Documentation from an in-state or out-of-state financial institution
which demonstrates that the applicant has liquid assets as required by NRS
453A.322, NRS Chapter 453D, and State Department of Taxation regulations, which
are unencumbered and can be converted within thirty (30) days and the source of
such assets.
      2.   Evidence of the amount of taxes paid to, or other beneficial
financial contributions made to, the state and its political subdivisions
within the last five (5) years by the applicant or the persons who are proposed
to be owners, officers, board members or directors of the proposed marijuana
establishment.
      3.   Proposed organizational structure that lists all owners, officers,
board members and directors by name and their percentage of ownership.
   C.   A one-time, nonrefundable initial application processing fee of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   D.   A complete special use permit application, all applicable fees pursuant
to Title 12 of this code, and all required accompanying documents.
   E.   A complete description of the products and services to be produced or
sold by the marijuana establishment.
   F.   A complete and accurate copy of the application and all accompanying
documents to be filed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 453D.210 including,
but not limited to:
      1.   All proposals for operations, business plans, attestations,
financial documentation, and required tax reports;
      2.   All documents detailing proposed organizational structure, all
narratives, and resumes;
      3.   All documentation required concerning the adequacy of the proposed
building and construction plans with supporting details in the form specified
by the City building official and the payment of all required review and
inspection fees;
      4.   All testing, transportation, policy and operations manuals,
financial plan, and an environmental plan.
      5.   Business plan with a description of the electronic verification
system and inventory control system to include seed to sale tracking
capabilities of the proposed marijuana establishment consistent with state law.
      6.   Staffing plan that will insure proper management and education of
employees.
      7.   Detailed budget for the proposed establishment, including pre-
opening, construction and first year operating expenses.
      8.   Operations manual that demonstrates compliance with all state and
local laws and ordinances.
      9.   A plan to minimize the environmental impact of the proposed
establishment.
      10.   Background information/resume highlighting any previous experience
at or operating other businesses or non-profit organizations, including
educational achievements and demonstrated knowledge of the marijuana industry.
      11.   The identity of an owner who has maintained a legal residence in
Nevada for at least one (1) year prior to the date of the application.
      12.   Any additional information deemed necessary by the city
administrator, planning commission or city council.
   G.   A security plan, including a depiction of the location and
configuration of security cameras, indicating how the applicant intends to
comply with the requirements related to monitoring and securing the licensed
premises as required by this chapter to be reviewed and approved by the White
Pine County Sheriff's Office.
   H.   An accounting plan that includes how sales and inventory will be
tracked on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis, and how this information will be
stored and safeguarded.
   I.   A sign and advertising plan, including all proposed interior signage.
   J.   A copy of all contracts, proposed contracts for consulting, management,
renting or leasing the premises for the proposed marijuana establishment,
including written documentation stating that the property owner of the proposed
location for the establishment is fully aware of the property's intended use or
a copy of the deed to such property showing ownership vested in the applicant;
   K.   A written statement acknowledging that the applicant understands
applicable Federal laws, any guidance or directives issued by the U.S.
Department of Justice, the laws of the State of Nevada and the laws and
regulations of the City applicable thereto concerning the operation of a
marijuana establishment. The written statement shall also acknowledge that any
violation of any laws or regulations of the State of Nevada or of the City, or
any activity in violation of any guidance or directives issued by the U.S.
Department of Justice, in such place of business, or in connection therewith,
or the commencement of any legal proceeding relating to such marijuana
establishment by Federal authorities, may render the permit and such license
subject to immediate suspension or revocation.
   L.   A written statement to the City that the applicant receiving such a
license shall execute, and shall have each of its owners, officers, board
members and directors execute, an indemnification and release agreement with
the City on a form approved by the city attorney, holding the City, its
employees', officers and elected officials, harmless, indemnify, and defend the
City against all claims and litigation arising from the issuance of a permit
and/or license, including any claims and litigation arising from the
establishment, operation, or ownership of the marijuana establishment, and that
the applicant will provide proof of insurance for the purposes of naming the
City of Ely as an additional insured on the policy for the defense of the City
of Ely in any such litigation.
   M.   An acknowledgment that the applicant is seeking a privilege license,
similar to that of a liquor license pursuant to chapter 2 of this title and
understands that each person with an ownership interest must be found suitable
to hold such license by the city council prior to the issuance of any license;
that the applicant understands and acknowledges that the burden of proving
qualifications to receive such a license is at all times on the applicant; that
the granting of a marijuana license is at the discretion of the city council;
and that the applicant agrees to abide by the decision. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-8: CITY ADMINISTRATOR REVIEW:
   A.   The city administrator shall complete a preliminary review of all
submitted applications for a marijuana establishment license to determine
whether the application is complete. An application shall be deemed complete by
the city administrator only when an application filed contains each of the
following:
      1.   Each application, narrative, plan, rendering, contract and other
documents required in this chapter;
      2.   Proof of compliance with all submittal requirements of Nevada
Revised Statutes 453D and any other regulation or requirement of the state
regulating authority;
      3.   Proof the proposed location for the marijuana establishment is
consistent with the requirements of Title 12 of this code;
      4.   All fees have been paid;
      5.   All waivers, acknowledgments, and statements are properly signed and
acknowledged by the applicant and every principal and person with an ownership
interest; and
      6.   Each person with an ownership interest has filed complete
applications per this title and each individual has submitted to fingerprinting
and photographing per this title.
   B.   The city administrator shall reject and return to the applicant any
application that is incomplete or otherwise fails to meet the criteria
established in this chapter, Nevada Revised Statutes 453D, or the regulations
of the state regulating authority. Permit application fees are non-refundable,
and shall not be refunded in the event of rejection of an application.
   C.   The city administrator shall review all complete marijuana
establishment applications that satisfy the applicable criteria, and may refer
such applications in part, or in whole, to the White Pine County Sheriff's
Office for investigation, review and comment, as the city administrator deems
appropriate.
   D.   The city administrator shall prepare a report on the merits of each
completed marijuana establishment application, the potential suitability of any
and all principals and the application's compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, and the application demonstrates the required financial, technical or
educational ability or experience to perform the activity for which approval is
sought. In recommending the granting or denying of such marijuana establishment
application, the city administrator shall give particular consideration to the
identity, character, and background of the applicant, capacity, capitalization,
past business practices of the applicant, operational plan, organizational
structure, environmental sustainability and mitigation plans, interior floor
plans of the buildings, odor control systems and suitability of the building
for the use proposed, site plan as to parking, traffic movement and aesthetics;
impact on the surrounding neighborhood; the type and degree of security
personnel and facilities and any other factors that in his or her discretion
deems necessary to the safety, peace, order and welfare of the public.
   E.   The city administrator may inspect or cause to be inspected by the
appropriate City personnel each proposed location for a marijuana establishment
and shall call for prospective awardees to appear in front of the city council
for interview prior to the awarding of the license. Prior to approval of a
marijuana establishment license, the city administrator shall require an
inspection by the State of Nevada Fire Marshal and the City building official
of the location where marijuana sales or production are to be performed.
Applicants shall pay all inspection fees that may be required in connection
therewith.
   F.   Following the city administrator's review, the city administrator shall
forward a report on the merits of each complete application with
recommendations to the city council for consideration and interview. (Ord. 715,
11-22-2018)
3-15-9: PLANNING COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL ACTION ON APPLICATION:
   A.   The planning commission will review all special use permit applications
and provide an oral recommendation to the city council on each prospective
location. The city council will review all applications for marijuana
establishment license that have been deemed complete by the city administrator.
Such review shall occur simultaneously with the review of the recommendation of
the planning commission on the applicant's special use permit application for
the proposed marijuana establishment per
Title 12, Chapter 16  of this code.
   B.   The city council may approve, deny or take such other action with
respect to the city administrator's and the planning commission's
recommendations on applications for a marijuana establishment license and
special use permits, as it considers appropriate. The burden of showing the
qualifications, acceptability or fitness for such permit and the location is
upon the applicant.
   C.   The city council shall deny any permit if the permit will not be in the
best interest of the welfare, health, or safety of the City; or if the
application or location is determined by the city council to not be suitable
under this chapter or the requirements of Title 12 of this code. In considering
whether to approve or deny a marijuana establishment license, the city council
shall consider the identity, character, and background of the applicant,
capacity, capitalization, past business practices of the applicant, operational
plan, organizational structure, environmental sustainability and mitigation
plans, interior floor plans of the buildings, odor control systems and
suitability of the building for the use proposed, site plan as to parking,
traffic movement and aesthetics; impact on the surrounding neighborhood; the
type and degree of security personnel and facilities and any other factors that
in his or her discretion deems necessary to the safety, peace, order and
welfare of the public.
   D.   If the city council denies a marijuana establishment application, or
the state regulating authority fails to rank the application presented within
limits of the number of marijuana establishments allowed within the City, as
established by State law, the applicant may reapply for a marijuana
establishment license no sooner than one (1) year from the date of the
application period in which the application was filed.
   E.   In conformity with the policy of this chapter, the council may deny an
application upon its discretion when:
      1.   In the judgment of the council the granting of such license may tend
to create or constitute a public nuisance;
      2.   By granting a license, a disorderly establishment or place may be
maintained;
      3.   The granting of such license may seriously and adversely affect the
valuation of neighboring, adjoining, and/or contiguous property;
      4.   The council, after investigation, is satisfied the applicant is not
a fit and proper person to operate the business contemplated by its
application;
      5.   In the judgment of the council there are ample and sufficient
establishments in the license area or place to properly serve such area or
place;
      6.   Violations of the DOJ enforcement criteria set forth above have
occurred; or
      7.   Any other good and sufficient reason is presented. (Ord. 715, 11-22-
2018)
3-15-10: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT; LICENSES:
   A.   The City shall not issue a license for a marijuana establishment to an
applicant unless the applicant has an established place of business in a
properly zoned area in accordance with Title 12 and has been recommended by the
Nevada Department of Taxation as an approved applicant.
   B.   License shall expire June 30 each year and a licensee must apply for
annual review pursuant to section
3-15-27  of this chapter.
   C.   A marijuana establishment licensee shall provide and maintain at all
times and at its own expense a certificate of insurance at amounts and terms
required by this chapter prior to issuance or renewal of a license. Any failure
to maintain insurance or provide proof of insurance is grounds for the city
administrator to suspend the license pending action taken by the city council.
      1.   Minimum Amounts: The minimum amount which may be required by this
chapter shall be one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence, two
million dollars ($2,000,000.00) general aggregate for bodily injury and
property damage arising out of licensed activities and one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) products and completed operations aggregate, commercial
automobile coverage in a minimum of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) and
excess liability in a minimum of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00).
      2.   Additional Insured: The City shall be named as an additional insured
on all general liability, umbrella, and excess insurance policies as City, its
elected officials, officers, agents, employees and volunteers are included as
additional insured. All such policies shall be primary over any other valid and
collectible insurance.
   D.   Upon approval by the city council of a marijuana establishment license
the city administrator shall process a license application pursuant to Chapter
1 of this Title. The city administrator shall not issue a temporary license for
a marijuana establishment. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-11: SECURITY REQUIREMENTS:
Each marijuana establishment must submit, maintain and follow a security plan
approved by the White Pine County Sheriff's Office and the city administrator.
Any proposed modification to an approved security plan must be submitted to the
city administrator for approval. Any security plan must meet all the criteria
established by the state regulating authority and the following minimum
requirements:
   A.   Each licensed premises must have a security system which monitors all
perimeter entry points, windows, and controlled areas.
   B.   A twenty four (24) hour surveillance system is required to monitor the
interior and exterior of a marijuana establishment, a live feed of which must
be accessible to authorized law enforcement at all times, and in real-time.
      1.   All recorded images must clearly and accurately display the time and
date. Time is to be measured in accordance with U.S. National Institute of
Standards and Technology standards.
      2.   The surveillance system's data storage device must be secured on-
site in a lock box, cabinet, closet, or secured in another manner to protect
from employee or third-party tampering or criminal theft.
      3.   A sign must be posted in any customer areas that the customer is
under video surveillance.
   C.   The establishment shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with all
local and state regulations regarding the facility and must monitor parking
areas and outdoor areas of the licensed premises for loitering, unlawful sale
of marijuana by customers, and consumption of marijuana.
   D.   Any theft of items containing marijuana or the observance of any
unauthorized transactions of marijuana on the licensed premises must be
reported to the White Pine County Sheriff's Office and the city administrator
upon learning of the theft or unauthorized transaction verbally and within
twenty four (24) hours in writing of the occurrence.
   E.   A sign shall be posted at the entrance to the location containing the
name and functioning telephone number of a twenty four (24)-hour on-call member
engaged in the management of the marijuana establishment who shall receive,
log, and respond to complaints and other inquiries.
   F.   In addition to complying with all requirements set by the state
regulating authority, any licensed cultivation facility shall:
      1.   Secure the cultivation facility with full video surveillance capable
of clearly identifying any activities occurring within twenty feet (20') of the
exterior of the building and any parking, fenced, or loading areas. A motion
detection lighting system may be employed to illuminate the gate area in low
light conditions.
      2.   Must provide on-site security at all times when the facility is not
otherwise populated by employees.
   G.   In addition to complying with all requirements set by the state
regulating authority, any licensed marijuana production facility shall ensure
all production, transport, delivery, shipping, labeling and packaging areas
have fixed camera coverage capable of identifying activity occurring within a
minimum of twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-12: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS:
Pursuant to its general regulatory authority to regulate the sale, cultivation,
infusion or testing of marijuana, the council declares that the health, safety,
morals and welfare of the inhabitants of the City are best promoted and
protected by requiring a separation between certain marijuana uses. The council
retains all discretion to approve or disapprove marijuana establishment license
applications.
   A.   Cultivation facility must meet all requirements established in city
code
3-14-13  when making application for licensing.
   B.   Independent testing laboratories must meet all requirements established
in city code
3-14-14  when making application for licensing.
   C.   Marijuana production facility must meet all requirements established in
city code
3-14-15  when making application for licensing. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-13: CHANGE OF LOCATION; RESTRICTIONS; MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT ORIGINATION
FEE:
No marijuana establishment license is transferable to a new location unless
such proposed change of location complies with and meets all requirements of
this title and Title 12. The council may authorize such change of location,
which authorization may be withheld for any reason deemed sufficient by the
council. Location changes are subject to re-licensing fees as set forth in
Chapter 3-1 . There shall be no marijuana establishment origination fee
required for a change of location. A change of location must also be approved
by the Nevada Department of Taxation pursuant to the regulations adopted by the
Department of Taxation. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-14: LICENSE; PERMIT; TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP AND CHANGES IN BUSINESS
STRUCTURE; COUNCIL APPROVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   No marijuana establishment license issued or renewed under this chapter
can be transferred except with the prior approval of the council and must
follow all Department of Taxation policies and procedures for transferring of
ownership. Further, all changes in business structure, including any new
officers or board members or directors, also require prior approval by the
council.
   B.   Any proposed transfer of ownership or changes in business structure
must be reported to the city administrator at least sixty (60) calendar days
prior to the effective date of the proposed transfer or change.
   C.   Any new owner, officer, or board member or director must comply with
the requirements of
3-15-7  and shall be required to undergo the same background investigation and
finding of suitability pursuant to 3-15-5. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-15: CLOSURE OR NON-OPERATIONAL STATUS; RESPONSIBILITY TO MAINTAIN USE:
   A.   In the event a marijuana establishment licensee desires to close or
discontinue its business operations for any period of time in excess of three
months, it must submit a written notification to the city administrator within
thirty (30) calendar days of the closure or discontinuance requesting approval
for non-operational status beyond the initial three (3)-month period. The
notification must include a closure plan detailing the length of closure or
period of non-operational status and the licensee's plans for reopening,
relocating, selling, or otherwise divesting itself of the business. The
licensee may not discontinue operation of the business for more than a three
(3)-month period and maintain a valid marijuana establishment license without
council approval. The council may approve non-operational status of the
business beyond the initial three (3)-month period in time increments not to
exceed one (1) year.
   B.   A marijuana establishment license shall be automatically revoked at the
expiration of the time periods provided by this section unless council approval
has been granted pursuant to this section. All annual license fees must be
paidnotwithstanding the licensee's non-operational status. Failure to maintain
the fees will result in automatic revocation of the marijuana establishment
license and termination of the special use permit.
   C.   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to maintain, extend, or
renew any necessary land use approvals under Title 12. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-16: ISSUANCE OF MORATORIUM:
The council may declare a moratorium by resolution on any or all marijuana
establishment applications or licenses if, in its discretion, it is found to be
in the best interests of the city. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-17: LAND USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS; COMPLIANCE WITH TITLE 12:
   A.   Locations for certain marijuana establishments are subject to distance
restrictions as set forth in NRS 453D.
   B.   A marijuana establishment license will not be issued unless the
location is zoned commercial or manufacturing under Title 12.
   C.   Approval of a location or of a use permit pursuant to Title 12 does not
guarantee or constitute approval of any marijuana establishment license.
   D.   Establishments shall be operated in compliance with the requirements
set forth in this title. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-18: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS; INTERCONNECTIVITY ALLOWED:
Marijuana establishments may be interconnected in the interior subject to the
following:
   A.   Interconnectivity is limited to dispensary, cultivation and infusion
facilities only;
   B.   The cultivation and infusion facilities shall not be open or available
for public ingress or egress except in an emergency;
   C.   The interconnected establishments shall comply with all applicable
regulations of the Nevada Department of Taxation; and
   D.   Operations of interconnected establishments may be impacted due to
enforcement actions related to any of the interconnected facilities. (Ord. 715,
11-22-2018)
3-15-19: DELIVERING OFF PREMISES:
Delivery off premises of marijuana for recreational use is prohibited. (Ord.
715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-20: INTOXICATION ON PREMISES:
It is unlawful for any person, while engaged in the performance of his or her
duties, to be under the influence of alcohol, marijuana, or any other
controlled substance that is prohibited pursuant to state or federal law, or an
illegally obtained or ingested controlled substance that is available by
prescription, in or about the premises where the business of selling marijuana
products is being conducted and while such person is engaged in the performance
of his or her duties. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-21: DISTRIBUTING TO MINORS; ESTABLISHMENT OF POLICY; COPY ON PREMISES;
REQUIREMENT TO SHOW:
   A.   The owners and managers of every marijuana establishment that sells,
gives, or otherwise furnishes marijuana, edible marijuana products, or
marijuana-infused products shall adopt a policy to prevent any person under
twenty-one (21) years of age from obtaining marijuana, edible marijuana
products, or marijuana-infused products from that establishment.
   B.   The policy shall be in accordance with all provisions of the City of
Ely Municipal Code and state law.
   C.   A copy of the policy shall be kept on the premises at all times and
shall be made known to and available to all employees.
   D.   The policy shall be available upon request by the City, the White Pine
County Sheriff's Office, or the Department of Taxation. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-22: MINOR; EMPLOYMENT:
Except as otherwise provided by state law, it is unlawful for any marijuana
establishment to employ a person under the age of twenty-one (21) years, or to
permit a person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to sell marijuana,
edible marijuana products, or marijuana-infused products. (Ord. 715, 11-22-
2018)
3-15-23: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION; LIMITATION; PENALTY:
Any activity which is contrary to the purpose and intent of this chapter, or
which violates any ordinance, regulation, or statute of the city or the state,
is a violation of this chapter and is grounds for disciplinary action which may
result in a revocation, suspension, or limitation of a marijuana establishment
license and any and all other licenses held within the city and may be
considered a misdemeanor pursuant to city code
1-4-1 . Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each of the following
is declared to be subject to disciplinary action, including but not limited to:
   A.   Any person who violates any provision of Title 3;
   B.   Any person who knowingly does any act to sell, lease or purchase a
marijuana establishment business operation or any portion thereof without
taking immediate and affirmative steps to obtain approval;
   C.   Failure to report the names of all persons having an interest in the
ownership of or having an equitable or beneficial right to the profits of a
marijuana establishment, including failure to report any change in ownership as
required by this chapter;
   D.   Failure to report the officers, board members or directors of the
applicant or marijuana establishment license holder, including failure to
report any change to the officers, board members or directors as required by
this chapter;
   E.   Failure to report any lease, operating or management agreement,
amendment to management agreement, or any other agreement, irrespective of form
affecting the ownership, control, or operation of the marijuana establishment;
   F.   Failure of any person to report any information which is its duty to
supply under any statute, ordinance, and/or regulation of the state or city;
   G.   Allowing any person that becomes ineligible to hold a marijuana
establishment license based on conduct subsequent to the issuance of a license,
as set out in the statutes, ordinances, and/or regulations of the state or city
to continue involvement with the establishment;
   H.   Making any misrepresentation of any material fact;
   I.   Allowing any person whose marijuana establishment license in any other
jurisdiction has been revoked for cause to continue involvement with the
establishment;
   J.   Failure to comply in any way with the following factors established by
the United States Department of Justice in its memorandum titled "Guidance
Regarding Marijuana Enforcement" dated August 29, 2013:
      1.   Preventing the distribution of marijuana to minors;
      2.   Preventing revenue from the sale of marijuana from going to criminal
enterprises, gangs, and cartels;
      3.   Preventing revenue from the sale of marijuana from states where it
is legal under state law in some form to other states;
      4.   Preventing state-authorized marijuana activity from being used as a
cover or pretext for the trafficking of other illegal drugs or other illegal
activity;
      5.   Preventing violence and the use of firearms in the cultivation and
distribution of marijuana;
      6.   Preventing drugged driving and the exacerbation of other adverse
public health consequences associated with marijuana use;
      7.   Preventing the growing of marijuana on public lands and the
attendant public safety and environmental dangers posed by marijuana production
on public lands; and
      8.   Preventing marijuana possession or use on federal property. (Ord.
715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-24: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ACTS OF EMPLOYEES:
Every licensee shall be responsible for the acts of its employees committed
while on the licensed premises and during the course and scope of employment.
Every licensee shall accordingly use adequate care in the selection of its
employees. In any license suspension, limitation or revocation proceedings, the
fact that the licensee did not have actual knowledge of the events complained
of shall be no defense and every licensee accepts its license subject to said
condition. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-25: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS SUBJECT TO LOCAL GOVERNMENT AUDIT:
All marijuana establishments shall maintain records at the location accurately
and truthfully documenting:
   A.   All records and receipts of the establishment, including, but not
limited to, all contributions, reimbursements, and reasonable compensation,
whether in cash or in kind, and all expenditures incurred by the business for
the cultivation, production, sale or dispensing of marijuana or marijuana
products;
   B.   All records and receipts for the retail sale, transfer or wholesale
sale of any marijuana or marijuana product and the corresponding electronic
tracking inventory reference as may be required by state law concerning the
seed to sale tracking of the marijuana establishment's marijuana inventory;
   C.   An inventory record documenting the dates, amounts, and content testing
results of all marijuana cultivated by business, including the amounts of
marijuana stored at the location at any given time;
   D.   A log documenting each transfer of marijuana reflecting the amount
transferred, the date transferred, and the full name of the member to whom it
was transferred;
   E.   A log documenting each transfer of marijuana in any form reflecting the
amount transferred, the date delivered, and the full name of the employee whom
transferred it to another marijuana establishment;
   F.   Any loss, damage or destruction of the records shall be reported to the
city within twenty-four (24) hours of the loss, destruction or damage; and
   G.   Surveillance cameras must be directly positioned over the cash register
in order to provide clear view over the:
      1.   Area where the tender type (cash, credit card or checks) is
exchanged between the buyer and seller; and
      2.   Register or computer keys utilized to enter the sales information.
(Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-26: PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF MARIJUANA; PROHIBITION:
The consumption of marijuana shall be prohibited in any public place including,
but not limited to any business licensed by Title 3. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-27: ANNUAL REVIEW OF LICENSE:
   A.   Every year on or before June 30, the licensee must submit to a review
of the issued license.
   B.   Documentation required for the annual review must be submitted at least
thirty (30) calendar days prior to the expiration of the license.
   C.   Documentation for the annual review must be provided on a form approved
by the city administrator and accompanied by:
      1.   A license renewal application;
      2.   A nonrefundable application renewal fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00);
      3.   Current list of all ownership or affidavit testifying that no
changes have occurred;
      4.   Signed affidavits from each principal attesting to the fact that
there have not been any arrests or convictions of a crime in any jurisdiction
and they have not had disciplinary action taken against them or an associated
business where a business license is held;
      5.   If changes are requested, a detailed proposal for changes to any of
the plans or documents approved with the initial license or previous renewal,
including the sign plan, security plan, environmental plan, operational plan,
or building plans;
      6.   A copy of all current and proposed contracts for consulting,
management, renting or leasing;
      7.   A copy of all contracts with any other marijuana establishments; and
      8.   A statement certifying and attesting that no changes have occurred
in the ownership, operations or original application with the exception of
those specifically noted in the renewal application.
   D.   The city administrator may approve the review and approve a renewal of
the license based on a determination that no material changes have been made to
the original application or refer the review with noted requested changes to
the council for consideration. The city council may approve, approve with
conditions, deny or take such other action as it deems appropriate.
   E.   The city administrator may deny renewal of a license based on the
failure or refusal of a licensee to carry out the policies and procedures or
comply with the plans and statements provided to the City with the application
for the license.
   F.   The city administrator may deny renewal of a license if the
establishment is not in compliance with this chapter or has any unpaid fees.
(Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-28: WORK CARD AND AGENT REGISTRATION CARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City as expressed
by the city council in this section, that the safety, morals, good order and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the City will be better protected and
served by requiring the registration with the City through its designees at
City Hall and the thumbprinting/fingerprinting of all employees, of marijuana
establishments as defined in this chapter.
      1.   Each employee, whether a full-time or part-time employee,
independent contractor, or volunteer who works in a marijuana establishment
business or facility shall obtain, prior to the commencement of work and keep
in force during the term of employment, a work card issued pursuant to this
section. A complete and accurate list of all employees and volunteers, each of
whom must have a valid marijuana establishment agent registration card and work
card issued pursuant to this section, must be kept onsite and available for
inspection at all times. The list must contain the current employment status,
position and title of each employee and volunteer, and work shift.
      2.   It shall be a condition of the license to inform the City of any
change in the employment status of a registered employee or volunteer or who
serves in a management position or as a key employee within ten (10) calendar
days of the effective date of the change in employment status. A change of
employment status includes termination, leave of absence, and promotion to a
management position or key employee.
   B.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   EMPLOYEES: Employees of marijuana establishments means any person working
(including principals) whether classified by the owner as an independent
contractor, full time, part-time, or volunteer in any capacity, including on-
site security, contracted employee for services including, but not limited to
accounting services, security services, cleaning services or any other manner
of contracted work. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-29: EMPLOYMENT UNLAWFUL:
   A.   Employee: It is unlawful for any person to accept employment in any
marijuana establishment or facility unless such person has first registered
his/her name and address with City Hall and had his/her thumbprints and
fingerprints taken and filed with City Hall and has been issued a marijuana
establishment work card. By registering with City Hall and having his/her
thumbprints and fingerprints taken and filed, the person herewith authorizes
the City to submit said thumbprints and fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010 for the purpose of
conducting a national background check of the person.
   B.   Employer: It is unlawful for any person operating a marijuana
establishment or facility to employ any person required to register with City
Hall by the terms of this section unless such person has first obtained a
marijuana establishment work card.
   C.   Marijuana Establishment Work Card: Marijuana establishment work card
shall not be issued to those persons listed below:
      1.   Persons convicted of any crime equivalent to a Nevada Category A
felony regardless of jurisdiction in which conviction occurred;
      2.   Persons convicted of any felony involving the use of violence
against another person;
      3.   Persons being supervised by the Department of Parole and Probation,
or its equivalent entity from another state, who lack written approval to work
in a licensed establishment from the supervising agency;
      4.   Persons who have been convicted of any felony where firearms were
used in the commission of a crime;
      5.   Persons who have been convicted of any felony or gross misdemeanor
where the predicate crime was theft, false pretenses, unlawful use of a credit
card, or identity theft.
      6.   A person who has successfully completed felony or gross misdemeanor
probation or parole and whose civil rights have not been restored or who has
not received a pardon may be entitled to a work card at the sole discretion of
the city council.
      7.   Except for those persons falling under subsection C.1. of this
section, any other person who would otherwise be ineligible for a work card due
to conviction, who can establish the satisfactory completion of probation or
parole and who has had no negative law enforcement contact for five (5) or more
consecutive years following completion of probation or parole may apply to the
city council for a worker card under this section. The city council retains the
sole right to authorize the issuance of a medical marijuana establishment work
card.
   D.   Full Disclosure: Failure to fully disclose a felony or gross
misdemeanor criminal conviction will be sufficient grounds for denial or
immediate revocation of a work card.
   E.   Denial Or Revocation: Any person aggrieved by the denial or revocation
of a work card pursuant to this section may seek a review hearing before the
city council by filing a request for review with the city administrator or
designee within thirty (30) calendar days of the announcement of the denial or
revocation of the work card.
      1.   Failure to appear before the city council and/or to provide clear
and convincing evidence demonstrating an error was made in the denial
determination or failure to provide clear and convincing evidence meeting the
requirements of subsection C.6. or C.7. of this section will result in an
affirmance of the denial.
      2.   A majority vote of the city council is required to overturn a denial
or revocation subject to the mayor's right to veto. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-30: INVESTIGATION FEE:
   A.   Fee: Upon an employee complying with the provisions of subsection
3-15-28  of this chapter, City staff shall collect an investigation fee of one
hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00) to reimburse the City for the costs of
processing the application and issuing a work card to such employee. Any
information received from the background check shall be confidential and made
accessible only to the mayor, the city council, the city attorney, the employer
of such person and law enforcement officers. A work card issued pursuant to
section 3-15-28 of this chapter shall be valid for one (1) year and must be
renewed annually.
   B.   Employer's Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the
employer to provide the City of Ely with a letter, on their letterhead,
indicating the employer's intent to hire the employee and authorize the
issuance of a work card. An employer shall be fined one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per incident where an employee works without the required marijuana
establishment work card.
   C.   Transferable: A marijuana establishment work card issued pursuant to
this section shall not be transferable.
   D.   Proof: Each card holder is required to provide to any person, including
but not limited to law enforcement, proof that they have a validly issued
marijuana establishment work card at any time they are working in a marijuana
establishment or facility. Failure to produce the card upon demand, or working
without the required card could result in the worker being charged under
section 1-4-1 of this code for a misdemeanor violation of this section. (Ord.
715, 11-22-2018)
3-15-31: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
The confidentiality of records regarding marijuana establishments shall be in
accordance with Federal and State law. The duty to disclose any particular
record as a public record shall be in accordance with State law. (Ord. 715, 11-
22-2018)
3-15-32: FEES:
   A.   Annual License Fee: Annual licensing fees shall be set and amended from
time to time by the city council by written resolution.
      1.   Each annual fee is due in advance on the first day of July each
year. License fees paid pursuant to this chapter are not refundable.
      2.   Any annual fee which is not received by the City on or before the
due date shall be assessed a late-payment penalty amount equal to ten percent
(10%) of the amount of such annual fee, not subject to any limitation by the
State of Nevada.
      3.   If the annual fee and penalty is not received by the City within
fifteen (15) calendar days after the due date, an additional penalty in an
amount equal to twenty five percent (25%) of such annual fee shall be assessed,
not subject to any limitation by the State of Nevada.
      4.   If the annual fee and all penalties are not received by the City
within thirty (30) calendar days after the due date, the license shall be
automatically suspended and if the annual fee and all penalties are not
received by the City within sixty (60) calendar days after the due date, the
license shall be automatically revoked.
   B.   Amount: The city council reserves unto itself the right to set the
amount of fees it can charge for the sale of marijuana based upon gross sales
not to exceed three percent (3%) of gross sales, including the costs of the
annual business license fee. (Ord. 715, 11-22-2018)
CHAPTER 16
MOBILE VENDORS
SECTION:
3-16-1: Statement Of Purpose And Intent; Regulation
3-16-2: Definitions
3-16-3: Licensure Required; Fee
3-16-4: Application For License Or Permit
3-16-5: Mobile Vendor Vehicle Requirements
3-16-6: Permitted Locations And Manner Of Vending
3-16-7: Exhibition Of License
3-16-8: Transfer Prohibited
3-16-9: License Suspension, Revocation, Limitation
3-16-10: Licensee Responsible For The Acts Of Employees
3-16-11: Licensee’s Agreement To Conform To Law
3-16-12: Penalty For Violation
3-16-1: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE AND INTENT; REGULATION:
It is found and declared that the public health, safety, morals, good order and
general welfare of the residents of the city require the regulation and control
of all mobile vendors. All mobile vendors shall be licensed and regulated to
protect the public health, safety, morals, good order and general welfare of
the inhabitants of the city and to safeguard the public. It is further found
and declared that the right to obtain such a license is a privilege and that
the license may be suspended, limited or revoked for violation of the
conditions of this chapter. (Ord. 752, 10-12-2023)
3-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, or the words
are otherwise defined herein, the words and terms used in this chapter have the
following meanings:
 
BUSINESS LICENSE OFFICIAL: The Ely city clerk or designee.
DEPARTMENT:                Ely city clerk’s office, business license division.
                           Any person or employee or agent thereof carrying on
                           or conducting the business of selling goods,
                           services, food or drink from a motor vehicle, or
MOBILE VENDOR:             other type of conveyance, approved, or required to
                           be approved, by the statutes, ordinances, and rules
                           of the City of Ely, the State of Nevada and its
                           agencies governing such vehicles, conveyances and
                           sales practices.(Ord. 752, 10-12-2023)
 
3-16-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   It is unlawful for any mobile vender to engage in the business of
mobile vending within the city without first obtaining a license in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter and this title.
   B.   Business License Fee: Mobile vendors shall be subject to the business
license fees set forth in chapter 1 of this title in addition to a mobile
vendor surcharge set by resolution. (Ord. 752, 10-12-2023)
3-16-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Information Required: Applicants for a permit and license under this
chapter must file with the business license official a sworn application in
writing on a form to be furnished to the business license official, which shall
give the following information:
      1.   Name Of Applicant: Name and description of the applicant.
      2.   Address: Permanent home address of the applicant and, if applicable,
the permanent commercial parking address of the applicant.
         a.   Each applicant shall have either (1) a home occupation permit, or
(2) a permanent commercial address where the applicant parks its vehicle that
is owned by the applicant or used by the applicant with written permission from
the property owner.
      3.   Description Of Business: A brief description of the nature of the
business and the goods, food, drink, or services to be sold.
      4.   Name And Address Of Employer: If employed, the name and address of
the employer, together with credentials establishing the exact relationship.
      5.   Statement Regarding Former Convictions: A statement regarding
whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any crime, including
violations of any municipal ordinances, the nature of the offense and the
punishment or penalty assessed.
      6.   Additional Information: The business license official may require
such additional questions to be answered by each applicant as he deems proper
and necessary.
   B.   Proof Of Compliance: Each mobile vendor shall be in compliance with the
regulations enacted by the State of Nevada and its agencies, and shall show
written evidence of the same, prior to issuance of a license by the department.
   C.   Investigation Of Application:
      1.   Investigation: Upon receipt of the application and payment of fees,
the original shall be referred to the business license official, who shall
cause such investigation of the applicant’s business and moral character to be
made as he/she deems necessary for the protection of the public good.
      2.   Statement Of Prior Arrest: The application statement of prior arrest
and/or conviction may be forwarded to the police chief for verification. The
police chief shall immediately report his findings to the business license
official.
   D.   Denial Of License:
      1.   Upon the business license official’s review of the application, the
business license department shall refuse to issue a license to the applicant
for any of the following reasons:
         a.   It is found that the applicant has been convicted of any felony,
gross misdemeanor, or a misdemeanor involving a sex offense, trafficking in
controlled substances, or any violent act against a person or property, such
conviction having been entered within the seven (7) years preceding the date of
application;
         b.   It is found that the applicant is a person against whom a
judgment based upon, or conviction for, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation has
been entered within the seven (7) years immediately preceding the date of
application.
      2.   The license application may also be denied for good cause by the
business license official. Good cause for denial of a license shall include,
but not be limited to:
         a.   The license application is incomplete so as to not contain all
information required by the title;
         b.   All license fees are not paid;
         c.   False or fraudulent statement in the application for the license;
         d.   Failure to obtain a license or permit as required by this title
and compliance with requirements of all other departments or divisions prior to
engaging in business;
         e.   The applicant, or any of its principals, does not qualify for a
license;
         f.   False, fraudulent or misleading statements made to the business
license official;
         g.   Since the submission of the application, a final judgment has
been entered against the applicant indicating that the applicant had either
engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation;
         h.   The applicant or any of its principals has been convicted of an
act that constitutes a crime which involves moral turpitude or involves any
local, State or Federal law or regulation which relates to the same or a
similar business, or has been convicted of having solicited, encouraged, caused
or procured another to commit such a violation. For purposes of this
subsection, a crime involving moral turpitude is one that necessarily involves
any of the following: an intent to defraud; intentional dishonesty for personal
gain; intentional causing of serious injury to another person; the sale of
narcotics or possession of narcotics with intent to sell; or a sexual offense
as described in Nevada Revised Statutes 179D.097;
         (1)   The applicant has been convicted of any misdemeanor involving
theft or fraud or any felony.
      3.   The business license official’s disapproval and the reasons for
disapproval shall be noted on the application, and the applicant shall be
notified that his application is disapproved and that no license will be
issued. Notice shall be delivered personally, emailed, or mailed to the
applicant at the address shown on the application form, or at the applicant’s
last known address.
   E.   Persons Not Qualified: the following persons are declared not to be
qualified to hold a license under the provisions of this chapter:
      1.   A person who is found to have been convicted of a crime within seven
(7) years of the application involving theft, fraud, dishonesty, receiving or
possessing stolen property, violent acts against a person or property, any
controlled substance violation or any sex offense;
      2.   A person whose license, issued under the provisions of this title,
or those ordinances or statutes of any other agency lawfully engaged in the
licensing or regulation of businesses as defined in this chapter, has been
denied, suspended or revoked for cause;
      3.   A person who, at the time of renewal of any license issued under
this title, would not be eligible for such license upon a first application;
      4.   A partnership, limited partnership association, limited liability
company, or other business entity unless all of the members of such
partnership, limited partnership association, limited liability company, or
business entity are qualified to obtain a license;
      5.   A corporation, unless it is incorporated in the state of Nevada, or
unless it is a foreign corporation which is qualified under Nevada law to
transact business in Nevada; or
      6.   A corporation, if an officer of director thereof would not be
eligible to receive a license for any reason which would disqualify an
individual applicant. (Ord. 752, 10-12-2023)
3-16-5: MOBILE VENDOR VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Trash Receptacles: Each mobile vendor’s vehicle that sell goods, food,
drink or services that generate waste must be equipped with a trash receptacle,
and all mobile vendors shall be held responsible for litter in the vicinity of
his vehicle.
   B.   Vehicle Maintenance: The licensee shall maintain a vehicle to be used
for vending in such a condition that:
      1.   All doors, windows, hoods, and trucks open and close securely;
      2.   The exterior of the vehicle is clean and in good repair; and
      3.    Any windows on the vehicle are clear of signs and other
obstructions.
      4.   The vehicle contains safety equipment required by Nevada Revised
Statutes 484D.185 and 484D.190 as may be amended or renumbered from time to
time, if applicable.
   C.   No licensee hereunder may lease, rent, or otherwise hire a vehicle to
another for use as a mobile vendor’s vehicle. Every driver shall be a licensee
hereunder, or the direct employee of such licensee. (Ord. 752, 10-12-2023)
3-16-6: PERMITTED LOCATIONS AND MANNER OF VENDING:
   A.   During the hours that schools are in session and during the period of
one- half (½) hour before or after the times posted on the applicable school
zone signs, no mobile vendor shall sell or solicit, or attempt to sell or
solicit, or park a vehicle on a street directly in front of a school building
or on the opposite side of the street which runs next to the front of a school,
unless given written permission from authorized school personnel to attend a
school activity.
   B.   No mobile vendor shall park on the street frontage of or enter onto
private commercial property to sell items without the property owner’s prior
written permission. Mobile vendors shall show proof of written permission from
the property owner upon request by city officials or law enforcement.
   C.   No mobile vendor shall engage in activity defined as “Peddler” or
“Solicitor” in title 3, chapter 8 of the Ely City Code without complying with
the provisions of that chapter.
      1.   No mobile vendor shall enter onto private property, knock on doors,
ring any bells, or otherwise disturb persons in their residences between the
hours of nine o’clock (9:00) P.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) A.M.
      2.   It is unlawful for any mobile vendor to knock on the door, or ring
the belll of any residence or establishment whereon a sign with visible and
legible letters at least three-fourths (3/4) of an inch in height bearing the
words “No Trespassers”, “No Peddlers”, “No Canvassers”, “No Mobile Vendors”,
“No Solicitors”, or other words of similar import are painted, affixed or
exposed to public view, or to attempt to gain admittance thereto. This
regulation shall apply to all groups of structures or complexes such as, but
not limited to, apartments, condominiums, or private gated communities which
have posted signage at the entrance(s) or other points of ingress to such
property regardless of whether any property is individually posted, provided
that the sign has letters at least one and a half (1 ½) inches in height.
      3.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a mobile vendor
who knocks at any door, or rings any bell, at the specific invitation of the
owner, resident, occupant or person legally in charge of the premises.
   D.   No Mobile Vendor Shall:
      1.   Consume alcoholic beverages or be intoxicated while vending.
      2.   Sell or display any alcoholic beverages within one hundred fifty
(150) feet from any school during school hours or school activities.
      3.   Vend on any street at a location where the speed limit is greater
than thirty-five (35) miles per hour.
      4.   Vend from any vehicle which is parked or stopped on a street that
creates a safety hazard or that interferes with the visibility of other
vehicles approaching an intersection.
      5.   Vend on a street, except from the side of the vehicle away from
moving traffic and as near as possible to the right hand curb or edge of the
street.
      6.   Vend to a person standing in a roadway.
      7.   Vend on a street unless there is a clear view of the vehicle for a
distance of two hundred (200) feet in each direction.
      8.   In such a manner as to create a “breach of peace”, as defined in
Nevada Revised Statutes 203.010. (Ord. 752, 10-12-2023)
3-16-7: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
All mobile vendors are required to exhibit their licenses in or on their
vehicle in a conspicuous place that is visible to any customer, business
license official, or law enforcement standing outside the vehicle. (Ord. 752,
10-12-2023)
3-16-8: TRANSFER PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any mobile vendor to transfer his license to any other
person. (Ord. 752, 10-12-2023)
3-16-9: LICENSE SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, LIMITATION:
Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked, limited, or suspended by
the business license official for any or the reasons set forth in this chapter
and section 3-1-12 of this title. (Ord. 752, 10-12-2023)
3-16-10: LICENSEE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE ACTS OF EMPLOYEES:
Every licensee shall be responsible for the acts of his employees and agents
committed during the course of employment or licensed activity. In any license
suspension. limitation or revocation proceedings, the fact that the licensee
did not have actual knowledge of the events complained of shall be no defense,
and every licensee hereunder accepts his license subject to said condition.
(Ord. 752, 10-12-2023)
3-16-11: LICENSEE’S AGREEMENT TO CONFORM TO LAW:
Acceptance of a license constitutes an agreement on the part of such licensee
to be bound by all of the regulations of the city as the same now are, or may
hereafter be amended or promulgated. It is the sole responsibility of the
licensee to keep themselves informed of the content of all such rules and
regulations, and ignorance thereof will not excuse violations. (Ord. 752, 10-
12-2023)
3-16-12: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor; and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as the law allows
for a misdemeanor crime. Whenever in this chapter any act is prohibited, or is
made or declared to be unlawful, or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in
such chapter the doing of any act is required, or the failure to do any act is
made or declared to be unlawful, or an offense or misdemeanor, the doing of any
such prohibited act, or the failure to do any such required act, shall
constitute a violation of this chapter. Every day of violation of this article
constitutes a separate offense. Any person being adjudged guilty of a violation
of this chapter or any of the provisions or prohibitions thereof may, in the
discretion of the council, be denied a license thereafter. (Ord.752, 10-12-
2023)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC NUISANCE 1
SECTION:
4-1-1: General Provisions
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Public Nuisance Unlawful
4-1-4: Public Nuisances Enumerated
4-1-5: Responsibility For Proper Property Maintenance
4-1-6: Use Of Provisions For Harassment Prohibited
4-1-7: General Notice To The Public
4-1-8: Written Complaint Of Existence Of Public Nuisance
4-1-9: Investigation Of Written Complaint
4-1-10: Informal Notice To Property Owner Or Appropriate Person
4-1-11: Formal Notice To Property Owner Or Appropriate Person
4-1-12: Appeal
4-1-13: Failure To Comply
4-1-14: Abatement
4-1-15: Notice Of Assessment
4-1-16: Nature of Lien
4-1-17: Satisfaction Of Lien
4-1-18: Overhead Charge, Civil Penalties
4-1-19: Remedies Cumulative
4-1-20: Prohibited Deposits; Misdemeanor
4-1-21: Criminal Action
4-1-22: Emergency Declaration And Abatement
4-1-23: Method Of Adoption and Effect Of Chapter
 
Notes
1 1. NRS §§ 202.450 through 202.480.
4-1-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Title: This chapter shall be known as the NUISANCE ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF ELY, may be cited as such, and will be referred to hereafter as the
"nuisance code".
   B.   Purpose And Scope:
      1.   It is determined and declared as follows:
         a.   The city has a substantial and legitimate interest in seeing that
its community, including property, buildings and premises within its limits, is
kept in a safe and aesthetically pleasing condition;
         b.   The keeping or maintaining of property, buildings and premises at
variance with the level of maintenance of surrounding properties will result in
blighting and/or unsafe conditions and substantial diminution in the
employment, use, aesthetic and property values of such surrounding properties;
and
         c.   It is desirous to promote the maintenance of property, buildings
and premises in order to enhance the community appearance, and the safe, social
and economic conditions of the community.
      2.   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city and to promote the maintenance of property,
buildings and premises in order to enhance the livability, community
appearance, and the safe, social and economic conditions of the community.
      3.   The provisions of this code shall apply generally to all property,
buildings, and premises throughout the City of Ely without regard to the use,
date of construction or alteration, wherein any of the conditions, hereinafter
specified, are found to exist; provided, however, that any condition which
would constitute a violation of this code, but which is duly authorized under
state or federal law, shall not be deemed to be a violation of this code.
      4.   Actions to declare and abate a public nuisance may proceed before
the city council or a court of competent jurisdiction.
      5.   Provisions of this code are to be supplementary and complementary to
all of the provisions of the city code, state law, and any law cognizable at
common law or in equity, and nothing herein shall be read, interpreted or
construed in any manner so as to limit any existing right or power of the City
of Ely to abate any and all nuisances. (Ord. 738, 2-25-2021; amd. Ord. 744, 1-
13-2022)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Any term used herein in the singular shall include the plural, and any such
term used in the plural shall include the singular. The word "person" shall
include any natural person, firm, company, partnership or corporation, and the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to any owner, lessor or lessee of the
premises.
                                       Any vehicle:
                                       A. Upon a city street, highway or road
                                       which is so disabled or in which a state
                                       of disrepair that its normal operation
                                       is impossible or impractical;
                                       B. That has been left unattended and
ABANDONED VEHICLE:                     dangerously close to a travel lane on a
                                       city street, highway or road so as to
                                       possibly impede traffic; or
                                       C. Which has not been moved or used for
                                       more than fourteen (14) consecutive days
                                       and reasonably appears to have been
                                       deserted.
                                       The removal, stoppage or destruction of
                                       that which causes or constitutes a
ABATEMENT:                             public nuisance, whether by breaking or
                                       pulling it down, or otherwise destroying
                                       or effacing it.
                                       Conditions that substantially impair the
                                       livability of or community appearance
                                       of, or the safe, social or economic
                                       conditions of, the surrounding
                                       neighborhood or city community as stated
                                       in NRS 279.388, as amended. Such
                                       conditions include, without limitation,
BLIGHT:                                the accumulation of debris-refuse-
                                       rubbish; broken, rotting, crumbling,
                                       cracking or rusting fencing; broken
                                       windows; landscaping that is dead or
                                       dying, or exhibits uncontrolled growth;
                                       and any other similar conditions of
                                       disrepair and deterioration that
                                       substantially harms the surrounding
                                       community.
CITY:                                  The city of Ely.
CITY COUNCIL:                          The city of Ely city council.
                                       Any passenger car or light commercial
                                       vehicle entitled to registration with
                                       the Nevada department of motor vehicles
                                       as a "classic rod" which:
CLASSIC ROD:                           A. Has a manufacturer's rated carrying
                                       capacity of one (1) ton or less; and
                                       B. Was manufactured not later than 1949,
                                       but at least twenty (20) years before
                                       the date of application for
                                       registration.
                                       Any passenger car or light commercial
                                       vehicle entitled to registration with
                                       the department of motor vehicles as a
                                       "classic vehicle" which:
                                       A. Has a manufacturer's rate carrying
                                       capacity of one (1) ton or less;
CLASSIC VEHICLE:                       B. Was manufactured at least twenty five
                                       (25) years before the date of
                                       application for registration; and
                                       C. Contains only the original parts
                                       which were used to manufacture the
                                       vehicle or replacement parts that
                                       duplicate those original parts.
                                       Any material resulting from the
                                       alteration, construction, destruction,
                                       rehabilitation, or repair of any
                                       physical structure or item that is built
                                       by humans, including, without
DEBRIS:                                limitation, houses, buildings,
                                       industrial or commercial facilities,
                                       roadways, scrap motor vehicles or
                                       trailers or parts thereof, wagon beds or
                                       bodies, bed frames, bed springs,
                                       mattresses, or old wire fencing.
                                       A vehicle, including component parts,
                                       which:
                                       A. Has been ruined, wrecked, dismantled
                                       or rendered inoperative;
                                       B. Is unfit for further use in
JUNK VEHICLE:                          accordance with the original purpose for
                                       which it was constructed;
                                       C. Is not registered with the Nevada
                                       department of motor vehicles; and
                                       D. Has value principally as scrap which
                                       does not exceed two hundred dollars
                                       ($200.00).
                                       Any species of plant which is, or likely
                                       to be, detrimental or destructive,
NOXIOUS WEEDS:                         difficult to control or eradicate, and
                                       easily spread to other properties, as
                                       designated under NAC 555.010.
                                       Legal entity that, through rights of
OCCUPANT:                              ownership or rental, has the use and
                                       enjoyment of the subject real property
                                       for residential or commercial purposes.
                                       A legal entity listed as current or
OWNER:                                 rightful owner as recorded in the
                                       official records of the White Pine
                                       County recorder's office.
                                       The property owner or appropriate person
PERSON:                                in charge or in control of the premises
                                       upon which a nuisance exists.
PREMISES:                              Land and the building or structures upon
                                       it.
                                       Any real property, real estate, land,
PROPERTY:                              lot, or part of real property, real
                                       estate, land or lot.
                                       A tenant, occupant, lessor, lessee,
                                       manager, licensee, or other person
                                       having control over a structure or
                                       parcel of land and, in the case where
RESPONSIBLE PARTY:                     the demolition of a structure is
                                       suggested as a means of abatement, any
                                       lienholder whose lien interest is
                                       recorded in the official records of the
                                       White Pine County recorder's office.
                                       Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting
                                       of both combustible and noncombustible
RUBBISH:                               wastes, such as paper, wrappings,
                                       cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard
                                       clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding,
                                       crockery and similar materials.
                                       Any passenger car or light commercial
                                       vehicle entitled to registration with
                                       the Nevada department of motor vehicles
STREET ROD:                            as a "street rod" which:
                                       A. Has a manufacturer's rate carrying
                                       capacity of one (1) ton or less; and
                                       B. Was manufactured not later than 1948.
                                       A walled and roofed building or
STRUCTURE:                             manufactured home that is principally
                                       aboveground.
                                       Any wheeled tow behind a vehicle that
TRAILER:                               can be utilized for any intended
                                       commercial, private, residential or
                                       industrial function.
                                       Any vehicle or component thereof on
                                       which there is not displayed evidence of
UNREGISTERED VEHICLE:                  current registration with the Nevada
                                       department of motor vehicles or current
                                       registration with a similar agency of
                                       another state.
                                       Any matter or substance that emits a
                                       foul odor, attracts flies and/or
                                       animals, or causes the rotting,
UNWHOLESOME OR OFFENSIVE MATTER:       staining, or destruction of property,
                                       including, without limitation, sewage,
                                       slop, waste, garbage, refuse, rubbish,
                                       manure, bones, or putrid or unsound
                                       meats, hides or skins of any kind.
                                       Any natural or person planted products
                                       that have been allowed to grow unkept
                                       and have become hazardous, a fire hazard
VEGETATION WHICH IS A PUBLIC NUISANCE: or have become a rodent, diseased or
                                       insect determined habitat upon any open,
                                       graded or improved parcel, lot or
                                       property within the city limits.
                                       A piece of mechanical equipment intended
                                       for the conveyance or temporary housing
                                       of persons or personal property or parts
VEHICLE:                               thereof, including, but not limited to,
                                       automobiles, trucks, boats, campers,
                                       camper shells, vans, motor homes,
                                       converted buses, motorcycles, ATVs and
                                       similar vehicles.
                                       A useless and troublesome plant of
WEEDS:                                 negligible or no value and usually of
                                       uncontrolled growth. (Ord. 738, 2-25-
                                       2021; amd. Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
 
4-1-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit or maintain a public nuisance, or
wilfully omit or refuse to perform any legal duty relating to the removal of
any such public nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for any person to rent or
lease, or permit to be used, any building or portion thereof, knowing that the
same is intended to be, or is being used for, committing or maintaining any
such nuisance. (Ord. 738, 2-25-2021)
4-1-4: PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
Each and all of the things, properties, acts, commissions, omissions,
performances, failures and operations in this section set forth, within the
limits of the city, are hereby declared to be and are, and each of them is,
declared to be and is a public nuisance:
   A.   Businesses, Premises And Acts: Any business, occupation, premises, act
or thing which is not ordinarily a nuisance per se, is, and each of them is,
hereby declared to be a nuisance when, by reason of its or their location,
nature, time or method of operation, or effect, it or they shall intend to
injure or interfere with the health, peace, comfort, convenience, safety or
enjoyment of the public or one or more persons in the neighborhood.
   B.   Every Place:
      1.   Wherein any gambling, bookmaking or pool selling is conducted
without a license as provided by law, or wherein any swindling game or device
or bucket shop, or any agency therefor is conducted, or any article, apparatus
or device useful therefore is kept; or
      2.   Wherein any fighting between animals and/or birds shall be
conducted; or
      3.   Wherein any dog races are conducted as a gaming activity; or
      4.   Wherein any intoxicating liquors are kept for unlawful use, sale or
distribution; or
      5.   Wherein controlled substances, immediate precursor as defined in
Nevada Revised Statutes 453.086 or controlled substance analog as defined in
Nevada Revised Statutes 453.043 is unlawfully sold, served, stored, kept,
manufactured, used or given away; or
      6.   Where vagrants resort.
   C.   Every act unlawfully done and every omission to perform a duty, which
act or omission:
      1.   Shall annoy, injure or endanger the safety, health, comfort or
repose of any considerable number of persons;
      2.   Shall unlawfully interfere with, befoul, obstruct or tend to
obstruct, or render dangerous for passage or use, a lake, river, stream, canal,
ditch or public park, square, street, alley, bridge or highway; or
      3.   Shall in any way render a considerable number of persons insecure in
life or the use of property.
   D.   Dangerous Blasting: Blasting, when the same is injurious to neighboring
property owners or to neighboring property.
   E.   Explosives: The manufacture, storing or keeping of explosives in large
quantities, without the special permission of the city council.
   F.   Unguarded Cellar Doors: Cellar doors on sidewalks, when not properly
guarded or protected.
   G.   Dangerous Excavations: Excavations so close to any public street or
alley as to render it dangerous for a person using the way lawfully and with
ordinary care, unless such excavation is properly guarded against the
occurrence of accident.
   H.   Obstruction On Streets Or Alleys: The obstruction of any street or
alley, or part thereof, except such part as may be necessary in the erection
and construction of buildings or other improvements upon the adjoining
property.
   I.   Offensive Matter: The discharge of any sewage, garbage, refuse or other
noxious matter in any street, alley, gutter or highway. The accumulation of
refuse and other waste to the point it annoys, injures or endangers the safety,
health, comfort or repose of any person.
   J.   Dense Smoke: Any chimney, stationary engine, boiler, smokestack or
other machine, engine, receptacle, pipe or conduit from which is emitted black
or dense smoke or fumes, or smoke, fumes or gases containing soot, cinders or
other matter, at such times or places or in such quantities as to be injurious
to the public health or as to result in such deposits of soot or other
substances as to injure or interfere with the health, comfort, peace or
enjoyment of neighboring residents.
   K.   Noxious Or Dry Weeds: Weeds which are by their nature noxious or which
when dry constitute a danger or menace of catching or spreading of fire.
   L.   Vegetation Which Is A Public Nuisance: Any natural or person planted
products that have been allowed to grow unkept and have become hazardous, a
fire hazard, or become a rodent, diseased or insect determined habitat upon any
open, graded or improved parcel, lot or property within the city limits.
   M.   Burning Weeds And Rubbish: The burning of weeds or other rubbish,
except with the permission of, and in accordance with, the regulations of the
proper authorities by obtaining a burn permit from the city fire department
when sanctioned.
   N.   Public nuisance shall further mean any fence, wall, shed, deck, house,
garage, building, structure or any part of any of the aforesaid; or any tree,
pole, smokestack, vehicle, or any excavation, hole, pit, basement, cellar,
sidewalk, subspace, dock or any lot, land, yard, premises or location which in
its entirety, or in any part thereof, by reason of the condition in which the
same is found or permitted to be or remain, shall or may endanger the health,
safety, life, limb or property, or cause any hurt, harm, damage or injury to
any one (1) or more individuals in the city, in any one or more of the
following particulars:
      1.   By reason of being a menace, threat and/or hazard to the general
health and safety of the community.
      2.   By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, or use on, in, upon, about
or around the aforesaid property.
      3.   By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the
property, and/or being vacant, and/or failing to complete improvements of any
nature, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use of the property in the
immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful to the community in
which such property is situated or such condition exists.
   O.   Hazardous Materials: Any substance as defined as a hazardous material
by the code of federal regulations 49 or any substance defined as a hazardous
waste by the code of federal regulations 40, which, because of improper
transportation, storage, use or disposal, may cause an unreasonable risk to
safety, health and/or property. The spill or escape of any such substance may,
in the discretion of the fire chief or police chief, be immediately declared a
public nuisance and ordered abated at the expense of the at fault party and/or
owner of such substance.
   P.   Outside storage of vehicles, trailers, equipment, building material and
other property, unless protected in such manner as to prevent the harboring of
insects, flies, rodents, snakes and other animals.
   Q.   Junk, Abandoned And/Or Unregistered Vehicles:
      1.   Except as stated herein, the keeping of, for any reason, any junk,
abandoned and/or unregistered vehicle or vehicles on any highway, street or
other thoroughfare or upon any public or private property within the city.
      2.   The provisions of subsection Q1 of this section do not apply to:
         a.   Persons licensed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section
487.050 or 487.410;
         b.   Junk or unregistered vehicles on private property of a licensed
dealer, manufacturer, distributor or rebuilder of vehicles;
         c.   Junk or unregistered vehicles on private property used as a farm,
ranch, mine or licensed vehicle repair shop;
         d.   Junk or unregistered vehicles on private property used by any
person engaged in the restoration of one or more vehicles entitled to
registration as a street rod, classic rod or classic vehicle;
         e.   No more than two (2) junk vehicles that do not qualify under
subsection Q2a through Q2d of this section;
         f.   No more than two (2) unregistered vehicles which:
            (1)   Are on private property and, if on the ground, have all tires
inflated and affixed thereto or, if raised, have all tires affixed thereto.
            (2)   Have no shattered window glass, and the hood, fender, doors,
truck and all other body components affixed thereto and maintained in a closed
position, and have not sustained collision damage.
      3.   The abandonment of a vehicle upon any highway, street or other
public thoroughfare, or upon any public or private property within the city.
      4.   The police chief or any peace officer who has reasonable grounds to
believe a vehicle has been abandoned shall attach a notice to said vehicle, in
the form of a citation for illegal parking, and if said vehicle has not been
removed within forty eight (48) hours after such notice is attached to said
vehicle, the police chief or peace officer is authorized to remove or cause to
be removed any such vehicle from any street, highway, public thoroughfare,
public or private property, for the purpose of storage or disposition, to any
garage or storage facility within the city.
      5.   If the owner of the junk, abandoned and/or unregistered vehicles
fails to remove the vehicle as designated in the notice of violation served
under subsection Q4 of this section, the city manager, the building inspector,
the fire chief, the chief law enforcement officer or the city engineer, or any
of them or their authorized designee, is authorized to have the junk, abandoned
and/or unregistered vehicle towed from the place of violation to a designated
place. The owner of the abandoned vehicle, including secured parties and the
owner and any secured parties of the junk or unregistered vehicle, as well as
the property owner or responsible party where the junk or unregistered vehicle
is improperly located, shall be held liable for the costs of removal and
storage.
   R.   Accumulation: An accumulation of conditions that together endanger the
health, safety, or general welfare of the community and/or substantially
impairs the value of surrounding properties.
   S.   Attractive Nuisance: Any artificial condition, whether in a building,
on the premises of a building or upon an unoccupied job site, which by its
nature, location or character would tend to attract and substantially endanger
the safety of any minor person. This includes, but is not limited to, unsecured
swimming pools, abandoned wells or shafts; excavations; abandoned
refrigerators/freezers with doors or motor vehicles with unlocked doors; any
structurally unsound fences or structures; lumber, trash/debris, or any other
materials which may provide a hazard.
   T.   Trash, Debris, Unwholesome or Offensive Matter: All weeds, slop, waste,
garbage, offal, bones, manure, or other unwholesome or offensive matter, scrap
motor vehicles or trailers or parts thereof, wagon beds or bodies, running
gear, tree stumps, old bed frames, bed springs, mattresses, old wire fencing,
or other debris or junk permitted to grow or accumulate or be stored upon any
real property within the city are hereby declared to be a nuisance and
detrimental to the health, good order, safety and general welfare of the people
of the city. (Ord. 738, 2-25-2021; amd. Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-5: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROPER PROPERTY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Every owner of real property within the city is required to maintain
such property in a manner so as not to violate the provisions of this code and
such owner remains liable for violations thereof regardless of any contract or
agreement with any third party regarding such property.
   B.   Every occupant, lessee or holder of any interest in property, other
than as owner thereof, is required to maintain such property in the same manner
as is required of the owner thereof, and the duty imposed by this section on
the owner thereof shall in no instance relieve those persons herein referred to
from the similar duty. (Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-6: USE OF PROVISIONS FOR HARASSMENT PROHIBITED:
The provisions in this Chapter shall not be used with the intent to maliciously
harass or annoy members of the community by routinely reporting activity or
conditions that do not fall under an above-enumerated public nuisance and/or
that a reasonable person under similar circumstances would not be compelled to
report. (Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-7: GENERAL NOTICE TO THE PUBLIC:
The city clerk or designee shall cause to be published in a newspaper within
the city during the first week of April of each year, unless changed by city
council by resolution, notice and order to all property owners to remove any
and all public nuisances from the owner's property within thirty (30) calendar
days after the first publication of such notice and order. (Ord. 744, 1-13-
2022)
4-1-8: WRITTEN COMPLAINT OF EXISTENCE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Whenever a written complaint is filed with the office of the city clerk
alleging the existence of a "public nuisance", as defined herein, within the
city, the office of the city clerk shall have the appropriate city official
investigate said complaint. Nothing herein shall prevent the police chief, fire
chief, building inspector or other city personnel from identifying and
reporting a nuisance. (Ord. 738, 2-25-2021; amd. Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-9: INVESTIGATION OF WRITTEN COMPLAINT:
The official to whom such notification is given by the city clerk, shall
investigate the facts claimed to amount to a nuisance and shall report
verification, or lack thereof, to the city clerk within three (3) days. (Ord.
738, 2-25-2021; amd. Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-10: INFORMAL NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER OR APPROPRIATE PERSON:
   A.   Informal Notice by City Clerk: Upon receipt of the verification
required by section
4-1-9, and prior to providing formal written notice to the property owner or
appropriate person in charge or in control of the premises upon which the
nuisance exists (hereinafter, "Person"), as provided for in section
4-1-11, the city clerk may elect to mail or hand deliver informal written
notice of the complaint of existence of a nuisance to the Person, and/or post
said notice in a conspicuous place upon the subject property. The provisions of
such notice are provided for in subsection C of this section.
   B.   Informal Notice by Police Chief, Fire Chief, or Building Official:
Prior to providing formal written notice to the Person as provided for in
section
4-1-11, the police chief or his designee, fire chief or his designee, or
building official or his designee, may mail or hand deliver informal written
notice of the complaint of existence of a nuisance to the Person, and/or post
said notice in a conspicuous place upon the subject property. The provisions of
such notice are provided for in subsection C of this section.
   C.   Provisions of Informal Notice: Informal written notice shall provide a
description of the property and the alleged nuisance thereon; the applicable
ordinance being violated; the potential penalties associated with such
violation; and that the Person must contact the city clerk within a maximum of
ten (10) days of receiving the notice, otherwise, the complaint of existence of
a nuisance shall be formally filed with the city clerk or the city attorney for
further action. (Ord. 738, 2-25-2021; amd. Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-11: FORMAL NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNER OR APPROPRIATE PERSON:
   A.   Formal Notice by City Clerk: Upon receipt of the verification required
by section
4-1-9, or if the nuisance is not removed as prescribed by informal notice
pursuant to
4-1-10, the city clerk shall, unless the matter is referred to the city
attorney as provided hereafter, mail by certified mail, return receipt
requested, notice of the complaint of the existence of a nuisance to the Person
pursuant to the following section. As a separate or additional remedy, the city
clerk may provide the city attorney's office a copy of all investigative
material for the purpose of filing an action in a court of competent
jurisdiction for prosecution of a violation of this code and abatement of the
nuisance. In the event of a conviction in court, the judge, in addition to his
or her other customary sentencing powers, may exercise any of the powers
conferred upon the city council upon a finding that a public nuisance exists.
   B.   Provisions of Formal Notice: Formal written notice of the existence of
a nuisance to the Person shall provide the following:
      1.   Characterization: A description of the property, the alleged
condition of the property that qualifies as a nuisance defined herein, and the
applicable ordinance that the Person is accused of violating;
      2.   Required Action: The requirement to commence work for removal of the
nuisance within ten (10) days after mailing the notice, and to completely
remove the nuisance by a specified date which shall be within a reasonable time
after the commencement of the work; or
         a.   Pursuant to NRS 268.4122, if the condition is not an immediate
danger to the public health, safety or welfare and was caused by the criminal
activity of a person other than the owner, afforded a minimum of 30 days to
abate the condition.
      3.   Opportunity to be Heard: The right to request a hearing within ten
(10) days of receiving formal notice and that such hearing be held before the
city clerk. The Person is entitled to be heard, present evidence, and be
represented by legal counsel. Notice of legal representation must be given to
the city clerk ten (10) days prior to the scheduled hearing date.
         a.   The date specified in the notice by which the Person must abate
the condition is tolled for the period during which a hearing is requested and
decision received.
      4.   Appeal: The right to appeal the decision by the city clerk within
ten (10) days of the hearing. The appeal shall be heard before city council at
the next feasible city council meeting, with proper notice of the meeting
issued pursuant to section
4-1-12(A). The Person is entitled to be heard, present evidence, and be
represented by legal counsel. Notice of legal representation must be given to
the city clerk ten (10) days prior to the scheduled hearing date.
      5.   Failure to Comply: That should the Person fail to request a hearing
or comply with the terms of the notice and order within the time specified, the
city may (1) impose a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each day
thereafter that the Person has not abated the nuisance, (2) initiate the
abatement process of the existing nuisance and issue a lien on the property to
recover the cost of removal, and/or (3) file a complaint for prosecution in a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   Extensions: The city clerk shall have the discretion to grant
extensions of time to begin removing the nuisance under special circumstances
where such work cannot feasibly begin within ten (10) days of receiving the
notice. (Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-12: APPEAL:
   A.   Notice of Appeal Hearing: Should the Person appeal the decision of the
city clerk, the city clerk or designee shall cause an appeal hearing to be held
at the next feasible city council meeting, providing twenty one (21) calendar
days' notice to the Person if served by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or five (5) calendar days' notice if personally served upon the
Person, according to the records in the office of the county assessor, pursuant
to NRS 241.033 and/or NRS 241.034, of the time, date and location of the
hearing in front of city council; and the right to submit evidence at the
hearing and to be represented by legal counsel.
      1.   Proof of Service: Pursuant to NRS 241.033 and NRS 241.034, a public
body must receive proof of service of the written notice to a Person pursuant
to the foregoing section before the public body may consider a matter relating
to that Person at a meeting. Proof of receipt of the notice is not required.
   B.   Order of Abatement by City Council: During a properly noticed appeal
hearing, if a majority of city council finds that a public nuisance exists on
the property, city council shall direct the Person to abate the nuisance within
such reasonable time as determined and apprise the Person of the potential
penalties for non-compliance. A Person's failure to appear to the appeal
hearing shall not limit city council's ability to rule on the existence of the
nuisance and order the imposition of civil penalties and abatement of the
nuisance. (Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-13: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   Methods of Non-Compliance: Pursuant to NRS 268.4122(4), a Person shall
be considered non-compliant if one of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The Person has not requested a hearing within the time prescribed
and has failed to abate the condition on the property within the period
specified in the notice;
      2.   After a hearing in which the Person did not prevail, the Person has
not filed an appeal within the time prescribed and has failed to abate the
condition within the period specified in the order; or
      3.   The governing body or a court of competent jurisdiction has denied
the appeal of the Person and the Person has failed to abate the condition
within the period specified in the order.
   B.   Non-Compliance Report: Should the Person fail to comply with the terms
of the notice and order within the time specified, an officer of the city will
report to the city clerk the location and owner of all real property which has
failed to comply with the notice and order.
   C.   Penalties for Non-Compliance: Should the Person fail to comply with the
terms of the notice and order within the time specified, the city may:
      1.   Impose a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each day
thereafter that the Person has not abated the nuisance;
      2.   Initiate the abatement process of the existing nuisance and issue a
lien on the property to recover the cost of removal; and/or
      3.   File a complaint for prosecution in a court of competent
jurisdiction. (Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-14: ABATEMENT:
   A.   Warrant: Should the Person fail to comply with the terms of the notice
and order within the time specified, the city shall, if required by law under
the circumstance, obtain a warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction to
enter upon the property of the Person and abate the nuisance.
   B.   Assistance Utilized in Abatement: In abating a public nuisance, the
city may call upon any of its departments or divisions for whatever assistance
shall be deemed necessary or may by private contract cause the abatement of the
public nuisance.
   C.   Extent of Abatement: In abating such nuisance, the city shall go to
whatever reasonable and just extent may be necessary to complete the abatement
of the public nuisance and should it be practicable to salvage any material
derived from the aforesaid abatement, the city may sell the salvaged material
at public sale for the best price obtainable and shall keep an accounting of
the proceeds thereof. (Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-15: NOTICE OF ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Proceeds of Sale of Materials: The proceeds, if any, obtained from the
sale of any material salvaged as a result of an abatement of a public nuisance
by the city shall be deposited to the general fund of the city and any deficit
between the amount so received and the cost of the abatement may be levied as a
lien against the property in question by the city council and collected as any
other assessment by the city; however, any other alternative collection method
may be utilized by the city to recoup the deficit. Should the proceeds of the
sale of such salvaged material exceed the cost of abatement, the surplus, if
any, shall be paid to the Person from which the public nuisance was first
abated when a proper claim to the excess is established.
   B.   Statement of Costs: Within fifteen (15) days after completing the
removal and abatement, city staff or any entity hired to abate the nuisance
shall file with the city clerk a statement of costs to include the amount of
work done, all expenses and costs incurred of any nature whatsoever, a
description of the premises upon which the work was done, and the name of the
Person, if known, chargeable with such costs and expenses, all as more
specifically set forth hereafter.
   C.   Assessment of Costs and Penalties: Within fifteen (15) days after
receipt of the statement of costs, the city clerk or designee shall make
written demand by certified mail, return receipt requested, upon the Person
and/or legal owner as of record in the office of the county assessor, at the
last known address of such Person as recorded in said assessor's office, for
the payment of the costs of removing the nuisance and any outstanding
penalties.
      1.   Notice of Assessment: The written demand for payment shall provide
notice of the amounts set forth in the statement of costs plus an additional
amount sufficient to defray the costs of the notice, the amount owed on civil
penalties and their dates of imposition, and provide that the costs of removing
or abating the nuisance shall be a lien upon the property upon which the
nuisance is located. The city clerk shall further state the full amount must be
paid within twenty (20) days of the certified mail or hand delivered notice or
an objection filed within twenty (20) days of the certified mail or hand
delivered notice; and if the payment or objection is not received, the city
clerk shall perfect the lien in accordance with section
4-1-16.
   D.   Objection; Hearing: If an objection by the Person or their
representative is received by the city clerk prior to the expiration of the
twenty (20) day period, the city clerk shall refer the matter to the city
council for review at the next feasible city council meeting. The Person shall
be notified in writing pursuant to the notice requirements outlined in
4-1-12(A) that the city council shall hear evidence concerning the statement of
costs at the specified date and time.
   E.   Uphold of Decision: If, after the hearing, it is determined the
proposed lien or any part of it is proper and authorized, the city council
shall direct the city clerk to perfect the lien in accordance with section
4-1-16.
   F.   Collection: Collection of civil penalties and costs of removal shall be
in accordance with NRS 268.4122, and any other such applicable laws as
required. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the maintenance of a suit by
the city against any of the persons herein mentioned to collect the expense of
such abatement or removal or the prosecution criminally under the ordinances of
the city of any person creating, maintaining, causing or committing a nuisance
or owning or in possession, charge or control of the real property upon which a
nuisance is created, maintained, caused or committed. (Ord. 738, 2-25-2021;
amd. Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-16: NATURE OF LIEN:
Any lien for the expense of abatement and civil penalty as provided herein
shall:
   A.   Be perfected by filing with the county recorder a statement by the city
clerk of the amount of expenses due and unpaid, including costs of preparing
and filing the lien, and describing the property subject to the lien, which sum
shall include any civil penalty assessed by the city. The city clerk shall also
certify to the county treasurer the amount of the same segregated to the parcel
of land of each owner, requesting the county treasurer to collect the same as
and when taxes on real property are collected as a special assessment against
the property.
   B.   Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of
general taxes.
   C.   Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property on the
account of the nonpayment of general taxes.
   D.   Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles,
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes. (Ord. 738, 2-25-2021;
amd. Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-17: SATISFACTION OF LIEN:
When the Person pays the amount of the costs, plus the cost of preparing and
releasing the lien as provided in this chapter, then the city clerk or designee
shall cause to be recorded with the county recorder a satisfaction of the lien
and shall in addition notify the county treasurer of the satisfaction of such
claims. (Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-18: OVERHEAD CHARGE, CIVIL PENALTIES:
The city council may provide any other civil penalties for persons responsible
for such nuisance as the city council deems proper under the circumstances.
(Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-19: REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
   A.   Generally: The remedies herein are cumulative and the city may proceed
under one or more such remedies.
   B.   Violations: In addition to any cost incurred, any person in violation
of any of the provisions of this nuisance code:
      1.   Upon conviction, shall be guilty of a city offense and punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code;
      2.   Shall be subject to the abatement notices, appeal procedures and
lien or civil action provisions of this chapter;
      3.   Each day that a violation of this chapter continues, whether pursued
criminally or civilly, constitutes a separate violation for purposes of
criminal prosecution or civil proceedings; and
      4.   Upon a finding by a court of competent jurisdiction that a nuisance
exists, the court may order the city to secure and close the property. In
addition, the court may order the Person to pay the city for all costs and fees
incurred by the city in abating the condition and order any other appropriate
relief.
   C.   Transfer Not Relief: The transfer of any and all interest in any manner
of any property, building or premises against which a notice of violation has
been issued shall not relieve the parties served with such notice.
   D.   Requirements For Transfer: Any legal entity, real or statutory, who
transfers an interest, including, but not limited to, a sale, trade, lease,
gift or assignment in any property, building or premises against which a notice
of violation has been served shall either:
      1.   Obtain a written assumption of liability from the new owner of
record for the items listed in the notice of violation; or
      2.   Acknowledge, in writing, its responsibility for compliance with the
notice of violation. A copy of the assumption or acknowledgment shall be
presented to the city within ten (10) days of the transfer.
   E.   Responsible Person: The owner of record, as recorded in the county
recorder's office records, of the property upon which a violation of this
nuisance code shall be presumed to be a person having lawful control over the
property, building or premises. If more than one person shall be recorded as
the owner, said person shall be jointly and severally presumed to be persons
having lawful control over the property, building or premises. (Ord. 738, 2-25-
2021; amd. Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-20: PROHIBITED DEPOSITS; MISDEMEANOR:
It is hereby made a misdemeanor to throw or dump, or cause or permit to be
thrown or dumped, into any street, sidewalk, alley, gutter, creek or ditch
within the city any ashes, cans, slop, manure, contents of spittoons, or any
rubbish or filth or other refuse matter or to permit the same to accumulate on
any premises within the city, or to convey and dump, or cause or permit the
same to be conveyed and dumped to or upon any other place than that designated
as the city dumping ground as the same is fixed and defined by the city
council. (Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-21: CRIMINAL ACTION:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit or prohibit the prosecution
of the owner, or others, for a violation of any provision of this code or other
ordinance affecting the health or welfare of the people by criminal complaint.
(Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-22: EMERGENCY DECLARATION AND ABATEMENT:
All contrary provisions in this chapter notwithstanding, whenever the building
inspector or in his or her absence, the city clerk or designee, determines a
public nuisance exists and the public health, safety or welfare may be in
immediate danger, then he or she shall notify the mayor and/or a majority of
the city council who may call an emergency city council meeting, in accordance
with the open meeting law, to seek an abatement order from the city council.
When emergency abatement is authorized, notice to the Person is not required
prior to abatement; however, the provisions regarding notice of the statement
of costs shall apply. (Ord. 738, 2-25-2021; amd. Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
4-1-23: METHOD OF ADOPTION AND EFFECT OF CHAPTER:
That upon adoption, the city clerk is hereby directed to have the ordinance
codified herein published, by title only, together with the council members
voting for or against its passage, in the Ely Times newspaper, a newspaper
printed and published in the city, for at least one publication.
This chapter shall apply to all nuisances concerning any properties, conditions
and uses with the city irrespective of whether the nuisance, use or condition
was commenced or existed prior to the addition of this chapter. (Ord. 738, 2-
25-2021; amd. Ord. 744, 1-13-2022)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Illegal Waste Disposal
4-2-3: Accumulations Prohibited
4-2-4: Removal By Owner
4-2-5: Liability For Payment
4-2-6: Containers
4-2-7: Removal, Generally
4-2-8: City Dump
4-2-9: Contract For Service
4-2-10: Collection By City
4-2-11: Licensed Haulers In Lieu Of Exclusive Contract
4-2-12: Unlicensed Commercial Hauling Unlawful
4-2-13: Failure To Abate Nuisance
4-2-14: Abatement Of Unsafe Buildings, Filth, Rubbish
4-2-15: Owner Responsibility
4-2-16: Additional Rules And Regulations
4-2-17: Compliance With Other Laws
4-2-18: Remedies Cumulative
4-2-19: Penalty
4-2-20: Landfill Fees
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
CITY DUMP: The sanitary landfill dumping area set aside by the city council for
the sanitary disposal of garbage, trash and waste matter, and such other
sanitary landfill dumping area as the city council may in the future designate
for the sanitary disposal of garbage, trash and waste matter.
GARBAGE: Kitchen and table refuse, offal, swill and other accumulation of
animal, vegetable and other matter that attends the preparation and
consumption, decay or dealing in or storage of meats, fish, fowl, birds,
fruits, vegetables, printed matter, paper, boxes, rags, straw, glass,
glassware, ashes, metals, tin containers and grass.
REFUSE: All types of materials defined by this section under the headings of
"garbage", "rubbish", "waste matter" or "trash".
RUBBISH: Charred or partially burned roofing material, boards, timbers or other
building material remaining after fires in any building, scrap building
material, cardboard boxes or cartons, rags, paper, sawdust, packing material,
shavings, boxes, barrels or other wooden containers, lawn trimmings, manure,
tree branches or trunks, dead flowers or flower garden waste material, weeds,
grass, waste hay, and other combustible materials.
TRASH: Woods, leaves, dead trees, the branches of trees and woodenware.
WASTE MATTER: Natural soil, earth, sand, clay, gravel, loam, manure, stones,
bricks, plaster, cement and crockery. (Prior code § 11-1)
4-2-2: ILLEGAL WASTE DISPOSAL:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dump, spill,
throw, place or bury, or cause the same to be done, any "garbage", "refuse",
"rubbish", "trash" or "waste matter", as defined in this chapter, on any public
or private property, parcel of land, lot, street, highway, gutter, alley, body
of water, stream, canal or ditch within the city of Ely, county of White Pine,
state of Nevada, except at the "city dump" as defined by this chapter.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to dump, spill,
throw, place or bury, or cause the same to be done, any regular accumulation of
garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash or waste matter, in any publicly or privately
maintained garbage, trash or waste receptacle, where such person, firm or
corporation disposes of such garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash or waste matter in
public or private waste receptacles not intended for the disposal of regular or
incidental accumulations of garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash or waste matter.
   C.   When any unlawful deposit of garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash or waste
matter includes any evidence which identifies any person, firm or corporation,
such identification will establish a presumption in any civil action and/or
criminal prosecution under this chapter, that such person, firm or corporation
is civilly and/or criminally responsible for such unlawful deposit and such
person, firm or corporation shall be liable for the cost of removal and final
disposition of the unlawful deposit, in addition to any other penalty
authorized by this chapter or by other applicable law.
   D.   This chapter is not intended to prohibit any person, firm or
corporation from depositing in publicly provided and maintained waste
receptacles, incidental accumulations of garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash or
waste matter, associated with periodic motor vehicle traffic; rather, this
chapter is intended to discourage persons, firms or corporations from using
waste receptacles, provided for public use, by public entities, as an
alternative to the deposit of garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash or waste matter
in an approved disposal site. In addition, this chapter is intended to prohibit
all deposits by any person, firm or corporation, of any garbage, refuse,
rubbish, trash or waste matter in any privately owned or maintained waste
receptacle without express authorization by the owner of any such waste
receptacle.
   E.   For purposes of this chapter, "incidental accumulation" of garbage,
refuse, rubbish, trash or waste matter, is defined by a volume of no more than
thirty (30) gallons in any thirty (30) day period of time. A "regular
accumulation" is defined as any accumulation exceeding a volume of thirty (30)
gallons in any thirty (30) day period of time. (Ord. 610, 1-12-2006)
4-2-3: ACCUMULATIONS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited; Exception: No person owning or occupying any building, lot
or premises in the city shall allow or permit to accumulate and remain upon or
in such building, lot or premises, refuse of any kind; provided, that this
section shall not be construed as applying to buildings under construction,
repair or alteration, as to which specific provision is hereinafter made under
subsection 4-2-6E of this chapter.
   B.   Old Or Disused Automobiles: The language "upon or in such premises", as
used in this section, shall be construed to mean and shall include, with
reference to old or disused automobiles or parts thereof, the immediately
adjacent portion of any street or alley, and the owners of such old or disused
automobiles or parts, on notice oral or written from city officials, shall be
required to remove the same at their own expense, or have the same removed by
city employees at the expense of such owners, as provided in section
4-2-7 of this chapter. (Prior code § 11-3)
4-2-4: REMOVAL BY OWNER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting any person
from collecting and removing his own garbage, trash and waste matter; provided,
that in so doing he shall be subject to all requirements of this chapter as to
hauling, place and manner of disposition and all similar requirements. (Prior
code § 11-2)
4-2-5: LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT:
All owners and occupants of commercial, agricultural, and residential premises
shall, jointly and severally, be liable for and pay the landfill user/access
fee on structures in White Pine County in order to maintain the local landfill
for owner and occupant access. This fee includes rates for dumping garbage,
trash and waste matter as hereinafter set forth regardless of whether such
commercial, agricultural, and residential premises be occupied or not. (Prior
code § 11-2)
   A.   A property owner who takes his trash, refuse, waste, etc., accumulated
on their property located in White Pine County to a landfill located in the
adjoining Nevada counties of Eureka, Nye, Lincoln, and Elko, and the adjoining
Utah counties of Juab, Tooele, and Millard, and who pays a fee to that
landfill, may present proof of payment to said other landfill to the city clerk
or his designee and the property owner will receive a complete credit toward
his obligation to pay landfill fees to the city of Ely for the operation of the
regional landfill for the time period within which he paid the fees to another
landfill in a referenced adjoining county. This provision does not apply to any
commercial, agricultural, or residential properties located within the City of
Ely as the city does not border any referenced adjoining counties.
   B.   The property owner who is applying for and/or receiving credit must
provide proof of payment to the other landfill at a minimum of an annual basis
to the city clerk or his designee to receive continuing credit. (Ord. 659, 7-
11-2013; amd. Ord. 731, 2020)
4-2-6: CONTAINERS:
   A.   Required: Every person in occupancy, possession, charge or control of
any dwelling, boarding house, restaurant, hotel, rooming house, apartment,
tourist court or motel, trailer court or eating or drinking establishment
within the city, and every other person in the city having under his control
refuse, shall provide or cause to be provided and at all times keep or cause to
be kept suitable and sufficient tightly covered cans or other metal
receptacles, adequate to contain without leakage or escape of odors, the amount
of garbage and waste matter ordinarily accumulating at such establishment
during the intervals between collections. (Prior code § 11-6)
   B.   Specifications: Each such receptacle shall be constructed of galvanized
iron or other durable metal or durable plastic, with suitable bales or handles
on the outside, and shall have a tightfitting cover, and no container shall be
of a size exceeding fifty two (52) gallons' capacity. (Prior code § 11-6; amd.
2001 Code)
   C.   Maintenance: Such cans or containers shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition and the covers shall not be removed except for the purpose
of placing refuse therein or removing refuse therefrom, and shall at all times
be proofed against access of flies to the contents thereof.
   D.   Placement: No garbage receptacles, rubbish or trash shall be placed or
kept on or in any public street, alley, sidewalk, or any public place
whatsoever, but shall be placed on the premises so as to be readily accessible
for removing and emptying. (Prior code § 11-6)
   E.   Building Refuse: Every contractor, builder or other person engaged in
the erection, alteration or repair of a building within the city shall provide
a suitable receptacle for the deposit of refuse, and shall, so far as
practicable, keep the surrounding area free of debris and trash at all times.
(Prior code § 11-7)
4-2-7: REMOVAL, GENERALLY:
The removal of refuse shall be in the following manner and by the following
methods and at not less than the following frequency:
   A.   Use Of City Dump Required: All garbage, trash and waste matter shall be
hauled and taken to the city dump in such manner so as to prevent the sifting,
spilling, dropping or blowing thereof upon any of the streets, alleys or public
places.
   B.   Collection, Hauling Hours; Frequency: Garbage and refuse must be
collected and hauled between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. on collection days, which, for the business district of the
city, must be not less often than twice weekly, and for the residence district,
not less often than once weekly. Subject to provision contained in section
4-2-9 of this chapter for the letting of exclusive contract therefor, no
garbage or refuse hauling may be done by other than a duly licensed person;
provided, that such hauling by an individual from premises occupied, owned or
controlled by him may be done if the manner of such handling conforms with this
chapter. (Prior Code § 11-8)
4-2-8: CITY DUMP:
   A.   Designated: The city dump is hereby designated as being those city
lands more particularly described as follows: E1/2NW1/4, section 10, township
16 north, range 63 E., MDM, and such other lands as the city may designate by
resolution from time to time.
   B.   Use Required: Every person hauling garbage, trash and waste matter
shall dispose thereof only at the city dump site designated by the city council
and such disposition shall be in accord with all provisions of law, rules and
regulations. (Prior Code § 11-8.1)
   C.   City Dump Operator: One or more employees of the city shall be
designated as the city dump operator with authority to direct any and all
dumping operations at the city dump, including, but not limited to, the
placement of dumping and segregation of dumping materials as to type, etc.
(Prior Code § 11-8.2)
   D.   Operation: All dumping of any material, of any nature or description,
be it garbage, trash or waste matter, shall be in conformity to the following
provisions:
      1.   Hours Of Operation: Dumping shall be performed during, and access to
the city dump limited to, only those hours of operation adopted by the city
council and posted at the main entrance to the city dump.
      2.   Dumping: All dumping of any material, of any nature or description,
be it garbage, trash or waste matter, and all access within the city dump area,
shall be at the direction of the city dump operator.
      3.   Burning: There shall be no burning at the city dump except under the
direction of the city dump operator.
      4.   Scavenging Or Salvaging: There shall be no scavenging or salvaging
about the city dump nor removal of any material of any nature or description
from the city dump without the written authorization of the employee designated
as the city dump operator. (Prior Code § 11-8.4)
      5.   Use By Other Municipalities: The use of the city dump for the
disposal of garbage, trash and waste matter may be made available to the
commercial and residential premises of the towns of Ruth and McGill, Nevada,
and their respective environs, subject to payment of all charges and fees and
the collection and payment thereof, pursuant to an agreement between the city
and the county. (Prior Code § 11-8.4; amd. 2001 Code)
      6.   Participation With County: The city will participate with the county
in regard to the county's collecting the charges and fees herein provided for
from the county areas that use the city dump. Such fees and charges so
collected by the county shall be remitted to the city by the county, less a
needed percentage for the county's administrative costs in regard to such
collection and remittance.
      7.   Billing And Collecting: The city and the county, acting
individually, shall each be liable for and do its own billing and collecting in
regard to the charges and fees in this chapter provided for the use of the city
dump. (Prior Code § 11-8.3)
   E.   Status Of Dumped Material: All material dumped at the city dump, of any
nature or description, be it garbage, trash or waste matter, for any length of
time, no matter how short, is deemed abandoned and becomes property of the
city. (Prior Code § 11-8.4)
4-2-9: CONTRACT FOR SERVICE:
   A.   Power To Call For Bids: Under the authority of this chapter, the city
council, by resolution duly adopted by majority vote thereof and approved by
the mayor, may, at such time as it sees fit and deems expedient, publish a
notice calling for sealed bids for the exclusive collection and hauling of
garbage and refuse within the city, at a time not less than sixty (60) days
after such publication.
   B.   Notice: Such notice shall require bidders to submit specifications of
type of equipment to be used, together with a schedule of fees to be charged
for regular service and for additional or special hauling of refuse.
   C.   Guaranty: Each bid so submitted must be signed by the bidder or his or
its agent and accompanied by a cashier's check for two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) payable to the city as a guaranty that the bidder will execute the
contract in accordance with his bid.
   D.   Council Considerations: The city council, in awarding a contract
pursuant to such notice, shall take into consideration the type of equipment
proposed to be used, the financial responsibility of the bidder, the schedule
of fees or charges so submitted, and all other pertinent matters, as well as
the amount of money offered by the bidder to the city for the awarding of such
contract. (Prior code § 11-9)
   E.   Bond And Insurance Requirements: The published notice shall set forth
the requirement that the successful bidder shall give bond for the faithful
performance of the contract in the sum of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) and submit evidence that he carries full compensation insurance
for his employees as required by the state, and public liability insurance to
the extent of not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for
death or injury of one person and not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for death or injury of more than one person, and property
damage insurance of not less than twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00)
upon each truck or vehicle to be used by him under such contract, such
insurance to cover and protect both the city and the contractor. (Prior code §
11-9; amd. 2001 Code)
   F.   Return Of Bidder Deposits: Such notice shall further specify that upon
the letting of such contract, deposits of unsuccessful bidders shall be
returned, and that such deposit by the successful bidder will be returned to
him upon his posting bond and submitting evidence of insurance coverage as
hereinabove stated. (Prior code § 11-9; amd. 2001 Code)
   G.   Schedule Of Fees And Charges; Payment: Such notice shall further
specify that the schedule of fees and charges submitted by the successful
bidder may not be increased thereafter without application to and permission
granted by the city council, and that the successful bidder, upon the granting
of contract to him, may include in such schedule of fees and charges announced
to the public a statement that service will be suspended to any person in the
event such charges are not paid regularly and promptly, or after such period of
delinquency in payment as the contractor may in such schedule set forth.
   H.   Term; Power To Revoke: No contract let under such notice shall run for
a term longer than five (5) years, and shall be revocable by the city council
after a hearing for noncompliance by the contractor with the terms thereof.
(Prior code § 11-9)
4-2-10: COLLECTION BY CITY:
   A.   Power Of Council: The city council may, by resolution, carry out the
provisions of this chapter and may purchase such equipment as may be required
to carry out the provisions of this chapter. (Prior code § 11-10)
   B.   Collection Fees: For the collection and disposal of solid waste, the
city council shall, by resolution regularly passed and adopted, establish fees
consistent with the fees charged by the county, to be assessed annually
pursuant to the fiscal year for the collection and disposal of solid waste.
(Ord. 485, 6-23-1993)
   C.   Billing: The city clerk shall maintain a list showing all persons
liable for the charges provided in this chapter, and the clerk shall cause
bills to be issued therefor and collect them the same as other city funds.
(Prior code § 11-11.4)
   D.   Delinquent Payments: If any person shall fail or neglect to pay within
one month of billing any proper charge against such person in conformity with
the schedule as established in subsection B of this section, the same shall be
considered delinquent and such person shall be liable to the city, by way of a
penalty for such failure or neglect, to a further and additional charge equal
to ten percent (10%) of the delinquent charge. The penalty charge shall be
added to such person's bill and, unless paid within one month thereafter, shall
continue to accumulate and be added monthly until full payment shall be made.
(Prior code § 11-11.4; amd. 2001 Code)
   E.   Past Due Payment; Lien: If any person shall fail to pay landfill fees
and penalties allowing such fees and penalties to exceed two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00), the city attorney shall notify the defaulter that the city
intends to file the lien for nonpayment pursuant to this chapter, then file any
necessary lien upon the property for the full amount of the fees and penalties.
If a defaulter fails to pay the lien amount and allows the buildup of penalties
and fees to exceed nine hundred ninety nine dollars ($999.00), the city
attorney shall file suit to obtain judgment and pursue the judgment to
collection. Court costs and a reasonable attorney fee based upon counsel's
hourly rate shall be collected and paid to counsel upon receipt of the funds
sued upon. (Ord. 700, 6-23-2016)
   F.   Filing Liens: When the city administrator shall learn of a short sale,
foreclosure sale, tax sale or any other manner of transfer of title to real
property to which a landfill fee is due, the city administrator shall take that
action necessary, other policies, ordinances, or laws notwithstanding, to
secure the lien for the unpaid landfill fees by immediately filing with the
county recorder a lien for the amount of the landfill fee due and payable,
regardless of the amount owed. Upon filing the lien under this provision, the
city administrator or designee shall ensure that the property owner as
identified by the White Pine County assessor is notified of the lien by
sending, via certified mail, a "conforming" copy of the lien and notifying the
account holder, via certified mail, of the existence of the lien as well. (Ord.
695, 12-10-2015)
   G.   Notification Of Intent To File Lien: The city council, may by
resolution, adopt, modify or eliminate a policy and procedure to be utilized by
city staff which outlines the process by which landowners, account holders,
and/or residents will be notified of the intention of the city to file a lien
on the property for unpaid landfill fees, unpaid utility fees, or unpaid fees
associated with abatement of properties.
   H.   Copy Of Lien Policy: Any landowner, account holder and/or resident may
request, during normal city hall business hours, to receive a copy of the
policy and procedure adopted, modified or eliminated by the city council
regarding liens. (Ord. 687, 10-8-2015)
4-2-11: LICENSED HAULERS IN LIEU OF EXCLUSIVE CONTRACT:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent the city from allowing the
collection and hauling of garbage and refuse by licensed haulers; provided,
that they conform to the methods, manner and frequency of collection as set
forth in section
4-2-7 of this chapter, instead of calling for bids for exclusive handling, or
after calling for such bids by notice, as provided in section
4-2-9 of this chapter, and after consideration of responses thereto, if any.
(Prior code § 11-11)
4-2-12: UNLICENSED COMMERCIAL HAULING UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a person to whom a contract
shall have been awarded or to whom a license shall have been granted by the
city, to collect or remove garbage, trash and waste matter in or from the city
other than to haul his own garbage, trash and waste matter as herein provided.
(Prior code § 11-11.1)
4-2-13: FAILURE TO ABATE NUISANCE:
If at any time accumulation of garbage, trash and waste matter is not hauled or
becomes offensive and is not removed by the owner or person responsible for
doing so, then an order for such removal may forthwith be made by the city
council, after the city administrator/city clerk or designee has complied with
the procedures list in section
4-2-14 and the property owner has either appealed and lost the appeal or failed
to appeal, and if not removed within the time required by such order, then the
city shall have such garbage, trash and waste matter moved in whatever manner
may be convenient and shall be authorized and empowered to collect the
reasonable charges and costs involved and take all lawful steps for collection
thereof. (amd. Ord. 716, 12-13-2018)
4-2-14: ABATEMENT OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS, FILTH, RUBBISH:
   A.   The city council of the city of Ely may order an owner of property
within the city to:
      1.   Repair, safeguard or eliminate a dangerous structure or condition,
which potentially could include burned or charred buildings or structures; to
protect the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city.
   B.   The city shall send a notice to the property owner either by certified
mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service by the sheriff's office,
or both, of the existence on his or her property of a condition set forth in
subsection A of this section and a date ten (10) calendar days from the date of
mailing by which the property owner must abate the condition.
   C.   The notice shall inform the property owner of his right to request a
hearing before the city council within five (5) calendar days of the date of
the notice. The request will then be considered by the city council at its next
regularly scheduled city council meeting, so long as the notice was submitted
prior to the deadline for submitting agenda items. In such an event, the
hearing will be considered at the following regularly scheduled meeting for
which a timely agenda could be prepared and posted.
   D.   The date specified in the notice for abatement shall be tolled for the
period during which the property owner requests a hearing and until the
property owner receives a decision.
   E.   In the event the property owner does not abate the condition within the
time prescribed in the notice, and any applicable tolled time periods, the
property owner may be subject to a civil penalty of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per day for each day by the city council, following an appropriate
hearing pursuant to NRS 241.034 and NRS 241.035 starting from the date the
abatement should have occurred until the condition in subsection A of this
section, on the property has been abated.
   F.   The Ely city council may direct the city to abate the condition on the
property and may recover the amount expended by the city for labor, dump fees
and materials used to abate the condition if:
      1.   The owner has not requested a hearing within the time prescribed in
the notice sent pursuant to subsection B of this section and has failed to
abate the condition within the period specified in the notice;
      2.   After a hearing in which the owner did not prevail, the owner has
not filed an appeal within the time prescribed in subsection C of this section
and has failed to abate the condition within the time period specified within
the order; or
      3.   The Ely city council has denied the appeal of the owner and the
owner has failed to abate the condition within the period specified in the
order.
   G.   In addition to any other reasonable means of recovering money expended
by the city to abate the condition, the Ely city council may make the expense a
special assessment against the property upon which the condition is or was
located. The special assessment may be collected at the same time and in the
same manner as ordinary county taxes are collected, and is subject to the same
penalties and the same procedure and sale in case of delinquency as provided
for ordinary county taxes. All laws applicable to the levy, collection and
enforcement of county taxes are applicable to such special assessment.
   H.   The expense of abatement of the condition by the city is a lien upon
the property upon which the condition is located. The lien must:
      1.   Be perfected by recording with the county recorder a statement by
the city clerk of the amount of expenses due and unpaid and describing the
property subject to the lien.
      2.   Be coequal with the latest lien thereon to secure the payment of
general taxes.
      3.   Not be subject to extinguishment by the sale of any property because
of the nonpayment of general taxes.
      4.   Be prior and superior to all liens, claims, encumbrances and titles
other than the liens of assessments and general taxes.
   I.   Definitions:
 
           A structure or condition that may cause injury to or endanger the health, life,
           property, safety or welfare of the general public or the occupants, if any, of
           the real property on which the structure or condition is located. In order to
           determine if a dangerous structure or condition exists, both the city building
           inspector and the city engineer will be required to jointly determine that the
DANGEROUS  structure or condition may cause injury to or endanger the health, life,
STRUCTURE  property, safety or welfare of the general public or the occupants, if any, of
OR         the real property on which the structure or condition is located. The term
CONDITION: includes, without limitation, a structure or condition that:
           1.   Does not meet the requirements of a code or regulation adopted pursuant to
           Nevada Revised Statutes 268.413 with respect to minimal levels of health,
           maintenance or safety; or
           2.   Violates an ordinance, rule or regulation regulating health and safety
           enacted, adopted or passed by the Ely city council, the violation of which is
           designated as a nuisance in the ordinance, rule or regulation.
 
   J.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from seeking any other
sanctions, including the issuance of a criminal citation as provided in section
4-2-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 630, 10-23-2008; amd. Ord. 716, 12-13-2018; Ord.
739, 2-25-2021)
4-2-15: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
Anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, the owner of the real
property upon which the condition exists shall be responsible: a) for the
repairing, safeguarding or elimination of a dangerous structure or condition;
b) for the clearing of debris, rubbish, refuse, litter, garbage, abandoned or
junk vehicles or junk appliances which are not governed by chapter 459 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes (hazardous materials); or c) for the clearing of weeds
and noxious plant growth from his premises and for otherwise complying with the
terms of this chapter whether such owner is in possession personally or through
a tenant or otherwise, and whether the same accrued during occupancy of the
premises by the owner, by a tenant or while vacant or otherwise. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed as relieving from any civil or criminal
liability the person actually responsible for any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 630, 10-23-2008)
4-2-16: ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The city council is authorized to make any and all necessary or proper
regulations to carry out and enforce the provisions of this chapter, including
all matters as to notices, procedures, regulation of hours, routes of travel,
regulation of dump grounds or disposal site and similar matters. Owners hauling
their own garbage, trash and waste matter shall be bound by all such rules and
regulations of which notice may be given as required by the city council and,
as to the method of disposal of garbage, trash and waste matter at the disposal
site, by notices posted at such site or on the road leading thereto, and a
violation of the requirements of such notices shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter punishable as herein provided.
   B.   Property owners who rebuild on the same lot within three hundred sixty
five (365) days of the date of disposal shall be entitled to reimbursement of
one hundred percent (100%) of the landfill fees only arising out of disposing a
demolished structure on that same lot.
      1.   The property owner shall be responsible to provide proof to the city
of Ely, city administrator, that there were landfill fees associated with the
demolition of an old structure on the lot within the city of Ely; and
      2.   The property owner shall provide proof that the property owner paid
those landfill fees to the city of Ely; and
      3.   The property owner shall provide proof, such as an occupancy permit
issued by the city of Ely building official as proof the new structure was
completed within three hundred sixty five (365) days of the date of disposal to
be eligible to receive the reimbursement; and
      4.   The property owner shall have ninety (90) calendar days from
completion of the building to request reimbursement from the city by providing
the aforementioned items.
      5.   The city administrator shall upon payment of the reimbursement,
report the reimbursement to the city council and mayor. (Ord. 678, 9-10-2015)
4-2-17: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
This chapter shall be subject to the provisions of the constitution and the
laws of the state and ordinances enacted by the city council. (Prior code § 11-
11.6)
4-2-18: REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
Any and all remedies herein provided shall be deemed cumulative. The city and
the officers thereof shall in addition thereto have the right to exercise and
enforce all rights and remedies otherwise created or existing, including the
right of injunction, the right of abatement of nuisances, the right of action
for damages and the right of prosecution for violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter. (Prior code § 11-11.2)
4-2-19: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Prior code § 11-11.5; amd. 2001 Code)
4-2-20: LANDFILL FEES:
   A.   Limit On User/Access Fees: Pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes 444.520(2), the user/access fees established or amended by this
section are not subject to the limit on the maximum allowable revenue from fees
established pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 354.5989.
   B.   Unpaid Fees Constitute Lien: Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
444.520(3), until paid, any fee or charge levied pursuant to this section
constitutes a perpetual lien against the property served, superior to all
liens, claims and titles other than liens for general taxes and special
assessments. The lien is not extinguished by the sale of any property on
account of nonpayment of any other lien, claim or title, except liens for
general taxes and special assessments. The lien may be foreclosed in the same
manner as provided for the foreclosure of mechanics' liens.
   C.   Requirements To Establish Lien: A lien against property is not
effective until notice of the lien, separately prepared for each lot affected,
is:
      1.   Mailed to the last known owner at the owners' last known address
according to the records of the county in which the property is located;
      2.   Delivered to the office of the county recorder of the county in
which the property is located;
      3.   Recorded by the county recorder in a book kept for the purpose of
recording instruments encumbering land; and
      4.   Indexed in the real estate index as deeds and other conveyances are
required by law to be indexed. (Ord. 643, 7-8-2010)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Assault
5-1-2: Assault And Battery
5-1-3: Barbed Wire Fences
5-1-4: Bonfires
5-1-5: Checks, Issuance Without Sufficient Funds; Fraud
5-1-6: Escape Or Attempted Escape
5-1-7: Expectoration; Throwing Cigarettes, Cigars
5-1-8: Disturbing The Peace
5-1-9: Indecent Exposure
5-1-10: Interference With City Officers
5-1-11: Intoxication
5-1-12: Minors
5-1-13: Petit Larceny
5-1-14: Posting Ads
5-1-15: Property; Defacing, Injuring
5-1-16: Prostitution
5-1-17: Offenders, Assisting In Apprehension
5-1-18: Resisting Arrest
5-1-19: Rioting
5-1-20: Trespassing; Cause Disturbance
5-1-21: Vagrancy
5-1-22: Discharging Firearms; Breastwork Or Battery For Target Shooting
5-1-23: Prohibitions Regarding Synthetic Cannabinoids
5-1-24: Urination Or Defecation In Certain Places
5-1-25: Hunting Prohibition Within City Of Ely Limits
 
5-1-1: ASSAULT:
No person shall, within the city, unlawfully attempt to commit a violent injury
upon the person of another, having at the time the ability to commit such an
injury. (Prior code § 15-1)
5-1-2: ASSAULT AND BATTERY:
No person shall, within the city, wilfully and unlawfully strike, beat, bruise
or wound another or wilfully and unlawfully use force or violence upon the
person of another. (Prior code § 15-2)
5-1-3: BARBED WIRE FENCES:
   A.   Barbed wire fencing shall only be allowed at the top of a six foot (6')
tall or higher fence. No portion of the barbed wire fencing shall reach below
that six foot (6') height at any time.
   B.   The portion of the fence which utilizes barbed wire must be angled in
toward the private property and away from any public area at a minimum of a
thirty degree (30°) angle. (Ord. 637, 9-24-2009)
5-1-4: BONFIRES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to start, maintain or assist in starting or
maintaining, any bonfire, or any fire, upon any of the streets or alleys of the
city without the prior consent of the chief of the fire department. (Prior code
§ 15-4)
5-1-5: CHECKS, ISSUANCE WITHOUT SUFFICIENT FUNDS; FRAUD:
Every person who within the city shall obtain money or valuable property by
wilfully, with intent to defraud, making, passing, uttering or publishing any
bill, note, check or other instrument in writing for the payment of money or
for the payment of any labor or claims, or delivery of other valuable property,
directed to or drawn upon any real or fictitious person, bank, firm,
partnership, corporation or depository, when in fact such person shall have no
money, property or credit, or shall have insufficient money, property or credit
with the drawee of such instrument to meet and make payment of the same in full
upon its presentation, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior code § 15-5)
5-1-6: ESCAPE OR ATTEMPTED ESCAPE:
   A.   Prohibited: If any person within the city, arrested for crime and
jailed or in custody awaiting trial or convicted of crime and imprisoned or in
custody under judgment of any court, shall escape from such confinement or
custody or shall cause any damage to property or injury to any person in an
attempt to do so escape, he shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior
code § 15-8)
   B.   Aiding Or Abetting: Any person within the city who shall aid or assist
any other person to escape from lawful custody or confinement, or who shall aid
or assist another to escape after arrest by any peace officer; or who shall aid
or assist any other person in an attempt to escape from such lawful custody or
confinement or after arrest by any peace officer, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Any peace officer who negligently permits any arrested or
convicted person to escape shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior Code
§ 15-9)
5-1-7: EXPECTORATION; THROWING CIGARETTES, CIGARS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or throw cigar stumps,
cigarette stumps or squibs of tobacco upon any paved sidewalk or crosswalk
within the city. (Prior Code § 15-10)
5-1-8: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
Any person who shall wilfully or maliciously disturb the peace and quiet of any
person or persons, family or lawful assemblage of persons by loud, indecent,
profane, abusive or obscene language or conduct, or by making or causing any
loud or unusual noise, tumultuous or offensive conduct, or by quarreling,
threatening, traducing, challenging to fight or fighting, or by giving any
false alarm of fire, or by ringing of bells, blowing of horns, playing of loud
music audible to other drivers while operating a motor vehicle, or racing car
motors or operating a motor vehicle without a muffler, shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor. (Prior Code § 15-6; amd. 2001 Code)
5-1-9: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
No person shall, in the presence of another person, make any indecent or
obscene exposure of his person, or the person of another, nor shall any person
indecently exhibit or cause to be exhibited any stallion, bull, jack, dog or
any other animal within the city. (Prior Code § 15-11)
5-1-10: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY OFFICERS:
No person within the city shall interfere with any city officer in the
discharge of his duty. (Prior Code § 15-12)
5-1-11: INTOXICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to lie or sleep on any of the sidewalks,
streets or alleys or other public places within the city, or to appear therein
in such a state of intoxication or drunkenness as to be unable to take proper
care of himself. It shall also be unlawful for any person to drink any
spirituous, malt or fermented liquors or wines on any street or alley within
the city, or to lie, sleep or ride in a motor vehicle while under the influence
of liquor. (Prior Code § 15-13)
5-1-12: MINORS:
   A.   Loitering: Every person under twenty one (21) years of age, who loiters
or remains on the premises of any establishment where spirituous, malt or
fermented liquors or wines are sold, or an establishment where games of chance
are conducted, or plays slot machines in any place of business shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Possession Of Alcoholic Beverages: Every person under the age of twenty
one (21) years who shall have alcoholic beverages of any kind in his possession
at any time shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior Code § 15-14)
   C.   Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages: Every person under the age of
twenty one (21) years who shall consume alcoholic beverages of any kind at any
time shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (2001 Code)
   D.   Exceptions: Nothing in this section as pertains to loitering or
remaining on the premises of any establishment where spirituous, malt or
fermented liquors or wines are sold, or an establishment where games of chance
are conducted shall apply to:
      1.   Establishments where spirituous, malt or fermented liquors or wines
are served only in conjunction with regular meals, or where dining tables and
booths are provided separate from the bar; or
      2.   Any grocery store or drugstore where spirituous, malt or fermented
liquors or wines are not sold by the drink for consumption on the premises.
(Prior Code § 15-14)
5-1-13: PETIT LARCENY:
Every person who shall steal, take and carry, lead or drive away, the personal
goods or property of another under the value of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior Code § 15-15)
5-1-14: POSTING ADS:
   A.   Permission Required: No person shall, within the city, print, paint,
write, mark, or in any other manner post up any notice, card or advertisement
or other device upon any wall, fence, tree, post, building, bridge, land or
premises, or cause the same to be done, without the permission of the owner,
agent or tenant thereof, or of the mayor of the city if the same shall be
public property. (Prior Code § 15-16)
   B.   Tearing Down Or Defacing: No person shall, without authority, tear down
or deface any ordinance, bill, notice, advertisement or any public paper of the
business or legitimate character lawfully posted up, within the city, at any
time before the object of such notice has been accomplished. (Prior Code § 15-
17)
5-1-15: PROPERTY; DEFACING, INJURYING:
   A.   Prohibited: Any person who shall wilfully and maliciously injure, mark
or deface any church edifice, school house, or any other building, public or
private, its fixtures, books or appurtenances; or who shall wilfully and
maliciously break, destroy or injure the door or window of any dwelling house,
shop, store, or other house or building, or the door, window, windshield,
lamps, tires or other parts or accessories of any motor vehicle shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Reward For Arrest And Conviction: Any person who shall provide
information resulting in the arrest and conviction of any person who violates
any provision of this chapter shall be rewarded in the amount of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00), which amount shall be provided from the fine levied by
the court against the convicted person. (Ord. 473, 5-26-1992)
   C.   Penalty:
      1.   Fine And Jail Term: Any person who violates any of the provisions of
this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   Restitution: In addition to any fine or jail term imposed by the
court, any person who is convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of
this section shall be ordered by the court to pay the reasonable cost of
repairing, restoring or replacing the property defaced, injured or destroyed.
(Ord. 473, 5-26-1992; amd. 2001 Code)
5-1-16: PROSTITUTION 1 :
   A.   Prohibited; Exception: No person shall, within the city, commit any act
of prostitution or other lewd or lascivious act, nor offer nor agree to commit
any such act except as otherwise provided in this chapter. (Prior Code § 15-20)
   B.   Procuring:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection G of this section, no person shall,
within the city, procure nor offer to procure another for the purpose of
prostitution, fornication, or any other such lewd or lascivious act.
      2.   No person shall be in or near any thoroughfare or other public place
within the city for the purpose of enticing, inducing or procuring another to
commit any act mentioned in subsection A of this section. (Prior Code § 15-21)
   C.   Transporting: Except as provided in subsection G of this section, no
person shall knowingly transport any person to any place for the purpose of
committing any act mentioned in subsection A of this section. (Prior Code § 15-
22)
   D.   Receiving Person Into Building:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection G of this section, no person shall
knowingly receive or agree to receive any person into any place or building
within the city for the purpose of committing any act mentioned in subsection A
of this section.
      2.   Except as provided in subsection G of this section, no person having
the power to prevent it shall knowingly permit any person to remain in any
place or building within the city for any purpose mentioned in subsection A of
this section. (Prior Code § 15-23)
   E.   Directing Another: Except as provided in subsection G of this section,
no person shall direct any person to any place for the purpose of the
commission of any act mentioned in subsection A of this section. (Prior Code §
15-24)
   F.   Aiding And Abetting: No person shall in any way aid, abet or
participate in the doing of any of the acts referred to in subsections A
through E of this section. (Prior Code § 15-25)
   G.   Houses Of Ill Fame:
      1.   Permitted In Certain Areas: It shall be unlawful for any owner, or
agent of any owner, or any other person, to keep any house of ill fame or any
place to which persons may resort for lewd or lascivious purposes or purposes
of prostitution or to let or rent to any person whomsoever, for any length of
time whatever, to be kept or used for any purposes above-named any house, room,
structure, house trailer or other mobile equipment adapted for human
habitation, within the city other than High Street between Second Street and
First Street and on the west side of First Street immediately above and below
its intersection with High Street, being the area comprised within lots 16 to
20 inclusive of block "T", 1 to 5 inclusive in block "U", 11 and 12 in block
"W", and 9 and 10 in block "X". The city reserves the right to limit the number
of such establishments which may be conducted within the area last specified.
(Prior Code § 15-26)
      2.   Regulated: It shall be unlawful for any female to reside in or to
visit for the purpose of lewdness, illicit sexual gratification, prostitution
or disorderly conduct, any house, room, structure, house trailer or other
mobile equipment of the nature specified in subsection G1 of this section
within the city, other than the area referred to in subsection G1 of this
section. The operators and inmates of any such permitted establishments shall,
however, be subject to and governed by such rules and regulations as may be
promulgated from time to time by the city council, either directly or through
the city police department. (Prior Code § 15-27)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 6 for regulations governing legal prostitution.
5-1-17: OFFENDERS, ASSISTING IN APPREHENSION:
Any person refusing, when called upon by any peace officer within the city, to
aid in arresting or securing any offender, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Prior Code § 15-3)
5-1-18: RESISTING ARREST:
No person within the city shall resist lawful arrest by physical violence,
however slight. (Prior Code § 15-28)
5-1-19: RIOTING:
   A.   Prohibited: If three (3) or more persons shall assemble together within
the city and in a violent and tumultuous manner commit any unlawful act, or do
any lawful act in an unlawful, violent or tumultuous manner, to the disturbance
of the peace, quiet and good order of the city, or of any neighborhood, or of
any other person there being, it shall be deemed a riot, and every person so
offending shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Power Of Mayor: The mayor is hereby authorized to make a proclamation
among the persons so assembled or as near to them as he can safely come,
charging and commanding them in the name of the city, to immediately disperse
and peacefully depart to their habitations or lawful pursuits and if, upon such
proclamation being made, such persons shall not obey the same, the mayor may
command the chief of police, the police and the full power of the city, to
arrest the offenders and bring them before the municipal judge to be dealt with
according to law. (Prior Code § 15-29)
   C.   Failure To Assist Authorities: Any person neglecting or refusing to
give prompt assistance in quelling any riot or disturbance or in arresting any
offender under the provisions of the preceding subsection, after the making of
the proclamation provided for in subsection B of this section, and a call for
his services having been made by any officer or official, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior Code § 15-30)
5-1-20: TRESPASSING; CAUSE DISTURBANCE:
No person shall purposely and maliciously commit any trespass upon the grounds
attached to any church edifice, school house, or other buildings or any
fixtures placed thereon, or any enclosure or sidewalk about the same, nor shall
any person, in any manner maliciously and purposely interfere with or disturb
those peaceably assembled within such building. (Prior Code § 15-18)
5-1-21: VAGRANCY:
   A.   Definition: A "vagrant" is hereby defined to be:
      1.   Every idle or dissolute person without visible or known means of
living, who has the physical ability to work and who does not for the space of
ten (10) days make proper inquiry for and use due diligence to seek employment,
or does not labor when employment is offered him.
      2.   Every idle or dissolute person who roams about the country from
place to place without any lawful business.
      3.   Every person who solicits alms as a business.
      4.   Every person who makes a practice of going from house to house
begging food, money or other articles, or who seeks admission to such houses
upon frivolous pretexts for no other apparent motive than to see who may be
therein, or to gain an insight of such premises.
      5.   Every idle or dissolute person or associate of known thieves who
wanders about the streets at late and unusual hours of the night or prowls
about dark alleys, byways, or other dark or unfrequented places at any hour of
the night without any legitimate business in so doing.
      6.   Every idle or dissolute person who lodges in any barn, shed, private
or public garage, shop or any place other than that kept for lodging purposes,
without the permission of the owner or of the person entitled to the possession
thereof.
      7.   Every person who frequents gambling rooms and solicits money or the
checks or chips used therein to represent money, from the proprietor,
bystanders or bettors, and who has no other apparent means of living other than
money so obtained or obtained in a similar manner elsewhere.
      8.   Every lewd or dissolute person who lives in or about a house of ill
fame.
      9.   Every person who shall, upon the public streets or in or about any
public place or assemblage, or in any saloon, barroom, clubroom or any public
or general place of resort for men or women, or anywhere within the sight or
hearing of other persons, conduct or behave himself in an immodest, drunken,
indecent, profane, obscene or disorderly manner, either by actions, language or
improper exposure of his person.
      10.   Every common drunkard who is in the habit of lying around the
streets, alleys, sidewalks, barrooms or other public places in a state of
intoxication.
      11.   Every person under the age of twenty one (21) years who habitually
remains away from his home or place of residence after the hour of nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M. without some good, lawful and necessary business or other
imperative duty or good and sufficient cause for such absence from home after
such hour.
      12.   Every person under the age of twenty one (21) years who frequents
or passes his time in any gambling saloon or other place where gambling is
conducted or in any billiard room or poolroom, or in any saloon or other place
where intoxicating liquor is sold or drunk, except as provided in section
5-1-12 of this chapter.
      13.   Every person who at any hour of the day or night, without any
legitimate business for so doing, frequents or loafs around any low den, house
of ill fame or prostitution or other place of vice, infamy or immorality where
known thieves or vicious, infamous or immoral persons resort or congregate.
      14.   Every pimp, panderer, procurer or procuress.
      15.   Every lewd and dissolute female person known as a street walker or
common prostitute.
      16.   Every person who keeps a place where lost or stolen property is
concealed.
   B.   Misdemeanor: Any vagrant or any person who shall be deemed a vagrant
within the terms or provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Prior Code § 15-31)
5-1-22: DISCHARGING FIREARMS; BREASTWORK OR BATTERY FOR TARGET SHOOTING:
   A.   Discharge: No person shall discharge any gun or pistol within the city,
except in a duly licensed shooting gallery and against a lawful breastwork, or
in case of necessary defense of self, family or property or in case of any
civil officer in the discharge of his duty.
   B.   Breastwork Or Battery For Target Shooting: A breastwork or battery for
target shooting, to be deemed lawful, shall be a wall sixteen inches (16")
thick, six feet (6') high in the back, six feet (6') wide, with side wings one
foot (1') thick, six feet (6') high in back, six (6) flaringly to the front,
and six feet (6') high of adobes, brick or any equivalent thereto of any other
material. (Prior code § 15-33)
5-1-23: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including a corporation or other
entity, to manufacture, distribute, dispense, ingest, use, possess, purchase,
attempt to purchase, sell, publicly display for sale, attempt to sell, give,
trade or barter, any one or more of the following chemical compounds and/or
substances, including their salts, isomers, homologues and salts of their
isomers and homologues:
      1.   Salvia divinorum or Salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as Salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
      2.   Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-018);
      3.   (6ar,10ar)-9-(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a-tetrahydrobenzo[c] chromen-1-ol (also known as HU-210 or 1,1-
dimethylheptyl-11-hydroxy-delta8-tetrahydrocannabinol);
      4.   2-(3-hydroxycyclohexyl)-5-(2-methyloctan-2-yl) phenol (also known as
CP-47,497), and the dimethylhexyl, dimethyloctyl and dimethylnonyl homologues
of CP-47,497;
      5.   1-Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-073);
      6.   1-(2-(4-(morpholinyl)ethyl))-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as
JWH-200);
      7.   1-Pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole (also known as JWH-250);
      8.   1-Hexyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-019);
      9.   1-Pentyl-3-(4-cholor-1-naphthoyl)indole (also known as JWH-398);
      10.   N-benzylpiperazine (also known as BZP);
      11.   1-(3-trifluoromethylphenyl) piperazine (also known as TFMPP);
      12.   Any similar structural analogs of the above chemical compounds;
      13.   Any other synthetic cannabinoids.
   B.   It is not an offense under subsection A of this section if the person
was acting at the direction of an authorized agent of the city of Ely to
enforce or ensure compliance with this law prohibiting the sale of the
aforementioned intoxicating chemical compound.
   C.   If any of the aforementioned intoxicating chemical compounds are found
in the possession of any person, they may be confiscated and destroyed by law
enforcement officials.
   D.   This section shall not apply to drugs or substances lawfully prescribed
or to drugs or substances which have been approved by the federal food and drug
administration or which are specifically permitted by Nevada law.
   E.   Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code, unless the state statute in force at the time of commission
of such misdemeanor prescribes a different penalty. Each day during which a
violation of subsection A of this section occurs shall constitute a separate
offense.
   F.   The city of Ely shall have the authority to seek an injunction to
compel compliance of any business which fails to or refuses to comply with this
section. (Ord. 645, 11-16-2010)
5-1-24: URINATION OR DEFECATION IN CERTAIN PLACES:
   A.   For purposes of this section:
    APPROPRIATE SANITARY FACILITY: A urinal, toilet, commode or other facility
that accommodates or is designed for the sanitary disposal of human bodily
fluids or waste and that is enclosed from public view.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any walkway, street, highway, sidewalk, bridge, alley or
alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, transportation facility, park, recreational
area, parking lot, vacant or undeveloped lot or the stairwells, alcoves,
doorways and entranceways to such places.
   VERIFIED MEDICAL CONDITION: Does not include alcoholism or the excessive
consumption of alcohol.
   B.   Any person who urinates or defecates in, on or about any of the
following places, other than in an appropriate sanitary facility, is guilty of
a misdemeanor:
      1.   Any public place;
      2.   Any private property into or upon which the public is admitted by
easement or license; or
      3.   Any private property without the consent of the owner.
   C.   It is an affirmative defense to an offense described in subsection B of
this section that such person then suffered from a verified medical condition
which necessitated or caused such action.
   D.   It is unlawful for any person who has urinated or defecated in, on or
about any public place, other than in an appropriate sanitary facility, to fail
to clean or remove the material deposited, or to fail to dispose of the
material used in the cleaning or removal process in a container designed for
such disposal. Such action must be taken immediately or as is otherwise
immediately practicable under the attendant circumstances. (Ord. 692, 1-14-
2016)
5-1-25: HUNTING PROHIBITION WITHIN CITY OF ELY LIMITS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to engage in any manner of hunting protected
species and/or big game or otherwise, on lands and waters within the corporate
limits of the City of Ely. Posting regarding the prohibition of hunting will be
consistent with requirements of Nevada Revised Statutes.
   B.   The firearm, bow, or other hunting equipment, apparatus, implement or
aid, as well as any animal or game killed or secured, in possession of the
hunter when cited or arrested for a violation of this ordinance shall be seized
by the law enforcement officer for use as evidence.
   C.   A violation of this ordinance shall be deemed a Misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof, punishable by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) or not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), or by imprisonment
in the county jail for a period not to exceed one hundred and eighty (180)
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   D.   Any firearm, bow, hunting equipment, implement, apparatus, or animal or
game seized by the law enforcement officer pursuant to section B. shall be
forfeited by the court as contraband.
   E.   Exceptions to section A. include:
      1.   Discharge of a legally held weapon in self-defense.
      2.   Discharge of a legally held weapon in the case of a peace officer
performing his official duty. (Ord. 760, 10-24-2024)
CHAPTER 2
MISDEMEANOR CODE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Title
5-2-2: Adoption Of State Misdemeanors
5-2-3: Additional Misdemeanors
5-2-4: Penalty
5-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the CITY ADOPTION OF STATE
MISDEMEANORS ORDINANCE. (Ord. 465, 9-23-1991)
5-2-2: ADOPTION OF STATE MISDEMEANORS:
The commission of any act within the corporate limits of the city, or failure
to perform any act within the corporate limits, which is made a misdemeanor by
the laws of the state is hereby declared to be and shall constitute a
misdemeanor of the city. (Ord. 503, 6-22-1995)
5-2-3: ADDITIONAL MISDEMEANORS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the statutory power of the
city council from making and passing additional misdemeanors by ordinance
necessary for the municipal government and the management of city affairs as
the need arises, consistent with Nevada Revised Statutes section 266.105. (Ord.
465, 9-23-1991)
5-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code, unless the state statute in force at the time of commission
of such misdemeanor prescribes a different penalty. (Ord. 465, 9-23-1991; amd.
2001 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A. LIVESTOCK AND FOWL 1
SECTION:
5-3A-1: Animals Or Poultry
5-3A-2: Swine
5-3A-3: Running At Large; Herding
5-3A-4: Cruelty To Animals
5-3A-5: Obstructing Sidewalks
5-3A-6: Rabies Control
5-3A-7: Trapping
 
Notes
1 1. NRS § 266.325.
   
5-3A-1: ANIMALS OR POULTRY:
   A.   Keeping Of Regulated: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any
horses, cows, mules, burros, sheep, goats or poultry in the city within fifty
feet (50') of the property, dwelling or residence of another person without the
consent of all owners of real property within an area adjacent thereto, which
area is hereby established as:
      1.   Within the same block; or
      2.   Within a distance of three hundred feet (300') from the place of
such keeping. (Prior code § 4-4; amd. Ord. 532, 8-12-1999)
   B.   Enforcement: In the event of complaint by a resident of such area of
the violation of this section, law enforcement may be summoned to enforce the
provisions of this section. A violation of this section shall be punishable as
a misdemeanor with a minimum fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 614,
12-14-2006)
   C.   Exception: The provisions of this section shall not apply to that
portion of the city known as the Georgetown Ranch annexation, the area commonly
known as the Ely City Corrals, or any other areas where the specific annexation
allows the maintenance of animals covered under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 683, 9-24-2015)
5-3A-2: SWINE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any hog pen, or piggery
or to keep any hog in the city. (Prior code § 4-3)
5-3A-3: RUNNING AT LARGE; HERDING:
No horse, mule, cow, burro, sheep, goat, hog or other animal shall be suffered
to run at large or shall be herded or tied for the purpose of grazing within
that part of the city platted into streets, alleys and blocks as shown on the
official map of the city, in any street, lane, avenue, alley, court, park,
square or public place or on any property under the control of the city. (Prior
code § 4-8)
5-3A-4: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS 1 :
Any person who shall maliciously and cruelly beat, torture or injure in any
manner any animal within the city shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Prior code
§ 4-1)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-3B-16 of this chapter.
5-3A-5: OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS:
No person shall ride, drive or lead any horse or other animal upon the sidewalk
in the city except at a regular crossing, or shall suffer any horse or other
animal to stand or remain thereon or obstruct such sidewalk. (Ord. 683, 9-24-
2015)
5-3A-6: RABIES CONTROL 1 :
   A.   Vaccination Required: It is unlawful for any person who shall own or be
in actual possession and control of any dog, cat, ferret or any other warm
blooded animal subject to contracting rabies, to own, possess or have dominion
and control over such dog, cat, ferret or other warm blooded animal subject to
contracting rabies, within the corporate limits of the city without first
having said animal vaccinated for rabies by a licensed veterinarian with a
vaccine approved by the state public health department.
   B.   Enforcement: This section shall be enforced in a manner consistent with
the regulations for the control of rabies propounded by the state, attached to
the ordinance codified herein and made a part hereof by this reference.
   C.   Penalty: Except as otherwise provided, every person who violates any
part of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 468, 4-8-1992)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 5-3B-19 of this chapter.
5-3A-7: TRAPPING:
   A.   Manner Of Trapping: A citizen may request to the animal control officer
to utilize a live trap at his/her property within the city of Ely. The animal
control officer must instruct the citizen on the use of the trap to ensure the
citizen, nor the animal trapped, is injured by use of the live trap. If a
citizen utilizes a live trap to trap an animal or animals on his/her property,
they must agree to hold the city harmless for their negligent acts in the event
they are injured. In the alternative, if the animal control officer does not
believe the person requesting to live trap an animal can do so safely and
within compliance of this section, he shall refuse to allow the private party
to live trap on his/her property. Should the animal control officer not allow
the private party the ability to trap a live animal, he/she shall place the
live trap on the person's property and shall thereafter check that trap at the
beginning and end of his/her workday, or shall respond to the location when the
property owner notifies him/her that an animal has been trapped.
   B.   Care While Trapped; Transport: If a private party is authorized by the
animal control officer to utilize a live trap on his/her property within the
city of Ely, the person requesting to utilize the trap shall not allow the
trapped animal to remain trapped for twelve (12) or more hours without
appropriate food, water and shelter. The private party shall be responsible to
bring the trapped animal to the animal control facility during regular business
hours, or shall be required to call the animal control officer in the event the
animal trapped cannot be safely transported by the private party. (Ord. 694,
11-12-2015)
   C.   Disposal: It shall be unlawful for any person who has trapped an
animal, or discovers any animal so trapped, to dispose of it in any fashion,
but said person shall call the animal control officer to have said animal
picked up. (Ord. 493, 1-27-1994)
      1.   Delivery To Shelter: The animal control officer shall deliver the
trapped animal to the Ely animal control facility where it shall be fed and
sheltered for not less than three (3) consecutive days nor more than ten (10)
consecutive days.
      2.   Euthanizing Of Animal: At the conclusion of the ten (10) consecutive
days, if the animal is not recovered or adopted as set forth in subsection D of
this section, it may be humanely euthanized by a licensed veterinarian or the
animal control officer at his/her discretion or sent to another shelter. (Ord.
683, 9-24-2015)
   D.   Recovery:
      1.   Recovery; Adoption: Animals trapped pursuant to the provisions of
this article may be recovered or adopted by contacting the animal control
officer or his designee during regular business hours. (Ord. 493, 1-27-1994)
      2.   Recovery Fees: The fees for recovery of an animal trapped pursuant
to this section shall be set forth by resolution of the city council, from time
to time.
      3.   Use Of Funds: Such animal may be recovered or adopted by payment of
certain fees, set forth by resolution of the city council, which fees are to be
used for the maintenance of the Ely animal control facility to feed and shelter
animals housed in the facility and to assist in defraying the cost of humane
euthanization of animals at the facility. (Ord. 683, 9-24-2015)
   E.   Dogs: The provisions of this section do not apply to dogs. (Ord. 493,
1-27-1994; amd. 2001 Code)
ARTICLE B. DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-3B-1: Definitions
5-3B-2: Enforcement; Contractual Arrangements
5-3B-3: Animal Control Officer
5-3B-4: Maximum Number Allowed In Residential Districts
5-3B-5: License Required
5-3B-6: Running At Large
5-3B-7: Dogs Trespassing
5-3B-8: Impounding And Fees
5-3B-9: Notice To Owners And Redemption
5-3B-10: Disposition Of Unclaimed Dogs
5-3B-11: Adoption Policy
5-3B-12: Dangerous Dogs
5-3B-13: Barking Dogs
5-3B-14: Responsibility Of Parent And Head Of Household
5-3B-15: Guard Dogs
5-3B-16: Abandonment, Mistreatment And Killing Of Animals Other Than By A Legal
Method Of Take; Impoundment Of Animals
5-3B-17: Adoption And Disposition Of Impounded Animals Other Than Dogs
5-3B-18: Kennel Regulations
5-3B-19: Rabies Control
5-3B-20: Exempted Activities
5-3B-21: Law Enforcement
5-3B-22: Criminal Penalty
5-3B-23: Prosecution For Violations
5-3B-24: Additional Remedies
5-3B-25: Late Payment Penalty
5-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this article, the following definitions apply:
ANIMAL CONTROL AREA: The area affected by this article is the city limits of
the incorporated city of Ely, Nevada.
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: A person designated to implement and enforce the
provisions of this article.
DOG: Any domesticated animal of the canine family of either sex. The term "dog"
does not include wolves or wolf hybrids.
HOUSEHOLD: Any domicile for persons, regardless of the number of persons
residing there.
KENNEL: Any enclosure, premises, building, structure, lot or area where three
(3) or more dogs of a recognized type or registered breed over four (4) months
of age are kept, harbored or maintained for breeding; for showing in recognized
dog shows, field or obedience trials; for working or hunting; or for improving
the variety or breed in temperament or conformation with a view to exhibition
in shows or trials or for use as working dogs or hunting dogs. Kennel includes
any enclosure, premises, building, structure, lot or area where three (3) or
more dogs over four (4) months of age are kept, harbored or maintained for the
above listed reasons or commercial purposes.
NEUTERED DOG: A dog, whether male or female, which has been surgically rendered
incapable of producing offspring, as evidenced by a signed statement to that
effect by a licensed veterinarian.
NONNEUTERED DOG: A dog, whether male or female, which has not been surgically
rendered incapable of producing offspring.
OWNER: Any person keeping, harboring or having charge or control of, or
permitting any dog to habitually remain on or be lodged or fed within such
person's house, yard or premises. This term shall not apply to veterinarians or
kennel operators temporarily maintaining on their premises dogs owned by others
for a period of less than thirty (30) days.
RUNNING AT LARGE: A. Within the animal control area; and
   B.   Off the premises of the owner or custodian of the animal; and
   C.   Not accompanied by or under the immediate control of the owner or the
custodian of the animal.
SERVICE ANIMAL: An animal that has been trained to assist or accommodate a
person with a disability. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000; amd. Ord. 684,
9-24-2015)
5-3B-2: ENFORCEMENT; CONTRACTUAL ARRANGEMENTS:
   A.   The Ely city council may enter into a contractual arrangement with
another governmental entity, person, business entity, or agency, to facilitate
and assist in the implementation and enforcement of this article, and/or for
the care and maintenance of impounded animals.
   B.   Unless otherwise provided by contract, the city shall not in any manner
be liable by reason of any act done by any contracted entity, person, or
agency, whether in the performance of the duties prescribed by this article or
otherwise. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
5-3B-3: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
   A.   Limited Purpose Deputy; Appointment: An animal control officer is a
limited purpose deputy who shall be appointed by the city, and who shall have
the duty and power to enforce all of the provisions of this article.
   B.   Authority: An animal control officer is hereby authorized to make all
necessary seizures, impound, and keep any animal found to be in violation of
the provisions of this article.
   C.   Interference: No person shall interfere with, hinder, molest or abuse
any animal control officer in the exercise of his or her duties.
   D.   Unlawful Removal From Custody: No person shall unlawfully take or
attempt to take any animal seized pursuant to the provisions of this article
from the custody of the animal control officer, nor shall any person remove or
attempt to remove any animal from impoundment without having first redeemed the
animal or having obtained the permission of the animal control officer to do
so.
   E.   Violation; Penalty: Any violation of subsections B through D of this
section is a misdemeanor punishable by a mandatory minimum fine of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00).
   F.   Entry Upon Private Property: In the enforcement of the provisions of
this article, any peace officer or animal control officer is authorized to
enter upon private property. The authority granted by this section does not
authorize entry into any building on private property without the consent of
the person entitled to control said building. Entry into any building on
private property for enforcement purposes may be obtained upon application to
any justice of the peace and upon good cause shown.
   G.   Citations: The animal control officer or any peace officer is
authorized to prepare, sign, and serve written citations on people accused of a
violation of this article. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
   H.   Written Warning: The animal control officer may issue a written warning
to any person or persons suspected of violating the provisions of this article.
One written warning may precede or be issued in lieu of a written citation.
Whether a written warning is issued prior to issuance of a citation shall be at
the sole discretion of the animal control officer. (Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
5-3B-4: MAXIMUM NUMBER ALLOWED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Number Allowed: Only two (2) dogs over the age of four (4) months are
allowed per household in any area zoned residential and with lots of two and
one-half (2.5) acres or less. The authority to enforce this subsection is
granted to any peace officer with jurisdiction within the city of Ely or the
city of Ely animal control officer. (Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
   B.   Restriction: No dogs may be kept or harbored on any property unless the
owner or responsible party of said dogs resides upon that property.
   C.   Exception: The above limitations do not apply to dogs being used for
the purpose of herding livestock or the protection of livestock against
predators on farm or ranch property, or kennels or animal hospitals operated by
a licensed veterinarian or persons caring for a friend's dog for a period not
longer than thirty (30) days in any one calendar year. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000,
eff. 6-28-2000)
   D.   Further Exception: If a dog owner is selected by either the animal
control officer or any other established nonprofit organization that is
established to prevent the needless killing of dogs to foster a dog or dogs,
that person may house no more than three (3) dogs (including any that person
may own) for a period not to exceed sixty (60) calendar days. Upon conclusion
of the first sixty (60) calendar day period, that dog owner, in order to exceed
the two (2) dog maximum for an additional period of foster care, may request of
the animal control officer permission to continue to foster the animal for one
additional sixty (60) calendar day period. The animal control officer may, in
his/her sole discretion, grant the one additional extension of time to foster
the animal. At the conclusion of the second sixty (60) calendar day period, if
the animal has not been adopted from the foster home, the animal shall be
turned over to the animal control officer who shall thereafter follow the
requirements of this article in attempting to adopt the animal.
Additionally, should any neighbor complain to the White Pine County sheriff's
office, to the animal control officer, or to the city of Ely, regarding any
violation of this article (barking dog, dog at large, dangerous dog, or
mistreatment of dog) during the foster period, the fostering person's ability
to continue to act as a foster owner of an additional dog above the limit of
two (2) shall be rescinded for a minimum of one year.
In order to properly monitor foster care providers of dogs, the animal control
officer shall maintain a current list of foster care providers, including the
type of dog(s) for which care is being provided, along with a description of
the dog or dogs, the date the foster care began, and the date for which foster
care for a particular dog will expire. For dogs fostered or adopted through an
established nonprofit organization established to prevent the needless killing
of dogs, that organization shall provide a current list of any foster care
providers they are utilizing, including the type of dog(s) for which care is
being provided along with a description of the dog(s) being fostered, the date
the foster care began, and the date for which foster care for a particular dog
will expire, to the animal control officer.
Any foster care provider shall be responsible for any violations of this
article and liable for any damages caused by the dog(s) as if they were the
owner of said foster dog(s). (Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
   E.   Penalty:
      1.   Violation: A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable
by a mandatory minimum fine of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 545,
6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000; amd. Ord. 632, 12-11-2008)
5-3B-5: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: It is unlawful for an owner to keep or maintain a dog over
the age of four (4) months within the animal control area unless the dog is
licensed. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
   B.   Application: The owner of such dog shall make application for a license
upon a form to be provided by the city of Ely, which application shall state:
(Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
      1.   The owner's name and address.
      2.   The name, breed, color, sex, and age of each and every dog owned or
kept by the owner.
      3.   The date the owner acquired all dogs he or she now owns.
   C.   License Requirements: The animal control officer or his authorized
representative shall not license any dog until:
      1.   It has been inoculated against rabies by a veterinarian, and the
owner of the dog has produced a certificate of inoculation and a tag evidencing
such fact from a veterinarian; or
      2.   The owner of the dog has furnished a statement from a veterinarian
to the effect that the dog should not or need not be inoculated; or (Ord. 545,
6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
      3.   The owner of the dog provides proof to the animal control officer,
such as, a certificate of inoculation, that the dog has been inoculated with
the appropriate vaccine for the prevention of rabies, or a medical certificate
from a veterinarian indicating that a rabies inoculation is not medically
advisable for the health and safety of the dog. (Ord. 693, 11-12-2015)
   D.   Identification: (Rep. by Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
   E.   Licensing Fees:
      1.   Every owner of a dog over four (4) months in age shall pay the City
of Ely an animal license fee. Fees will be set by resolution of the City
Council from time to time.
      2.   The owner of a service animal shall make an application for a
license on the provided form, but the license shall be issued without charge.
(Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
   F.   Term Of License: The license fee shall be for the term of rabies
vaccination, or part thereof remaining after the date such license is obtained,
and shall be payable in advance. No prorations shall be made for fractional
parts of the year. The license fee for a dog license shall be due and payable
on or before calendar date of vaccination of year the rabies inoculation shall
become due or if such day is a legal holiday, then on the first business day
thereafter.
   G.   Three Year License Fee: The three (3) year license fee for any dog not
previously licensed shall be due and payable when an unlicensed dog reaches
four (4) months of age, upon acquiring ownership or possession of any
unlicensed dog four (4) months of age or older, or upon the owner of an
unlicensed dog four (4) months of age or older establishing a residence in the
animal control area. If any dog license fee is not paid, a fee penalty shall be
incurred which will be set by resolution from time to time by the City Council.
(Ord. 713, 5-10-2018)
   H.   Exemptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   Dogs owned by persons who are not residents of Ely and are
temporarily in Ely for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days; or
      2.   Dogs brought exclusively into Ely for a limited period of time for
the purpose of participating in a dog show, exhibition, or for herding or
hunting purposes. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
   I.   Evidence Of Compliance: Upon completion of the dog license application
and compliance with the requirements of this section, together with the payment
of the proper three (3) year license fee and penalty due, if any, the animal
control officer or his duly authorized representative will provide evidence of
compliance. (Ord. 713, 5-10-2018)
5-3B-6: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of an
animal to suffer, permit or allow the animal to run at large within the animal
control area.
   B.   Owner Responsibility: The owner of a dog within the animal control area
must restrain the dog so that it does not run at large. The owner of a dog is
responsible for the dog being at large, and is in violation of this article
unless the dog is at all times restrained by any or all of the following
methods:
      1.   Within the confines of the owner's residence or other building on
the owner's premises; or
      2.   Within the confines of a secure fence, a secure dog run, or other
secure dogtight enclosure sufficient to keep the dog on the owner's premises
and from which the dog cannot stray; or
      3.   Within the owner's automobile or within the cab or enclosed portion
of any other vehicle of the owner, or within the bed of a truck, provided the
dog is restrained by a leash which will prevent it from leaving the confines of
the truck bed; or
      4.   On a leash sufficient to hold the dog in restraint, and which is not
more than eight feet (8') in length; or
   C.   Failure To Restrain: Failure to restrain a dog in compliance with this
section is a misdemeanor. The minimum fines for failure to restrain a dog in
compliance with this section will be set by resolution of the City Council. If
none has been set at the time of the offense, the general fine provisions in
this Code governing misdemeanors will apply. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-
2000)
5-3B-7: DOGS TRESPASSING:
   A.   Running At Large: Where a dog is found to be running at large in
violation of section
5-3B-6 of this article, it may be captured by any person and turned over to the
animal control officer. If the dog is thereupon returned to its owner, the
animal control officer may issue a citation to the owner for violation of this
article or may issue a warning, at the discretion of the officer. Citations
issued will direct the dog's owner to appear before the Municipal Judge for
disposition of the citation at a specific date and time.
   B.   Animal Waste: It is unlawful for any person owning or having custody or
care of any animal to allow the animal to excrete any solid waste upon any
public property, upon any real property owned by or leased by another person or
upon any common area of an apartment or similar complex; provided, however,
that no violation of this subsection shall occur if the owner or other person
having custody or care of the animal promptly and voluntarily removes the
waste.
   C.   Enforcement: Any person who observes a violation of this section may
file a citizen's complaint with the animal control officer. The citation issued
will direct the dog's owner to appear before the municipal court judge for
disposition of the citation at a specific date and time. The fine for violation
of this section shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00), plus court costs. (Ord.
697, 2-11-2016)
5-3B-8: IMPOUNDING AND FEES:
   A.   Fees And Charges: In addition to all other fines, costs, penalties, or
other charges due for a violation of this article, the city council may also
establish certain minimum charges to be collected at the animal control
facility and paid to the city in addition to or in clarification of fees called
for in this article. These fees will be set by resolution. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000,
eff. 6-28-2000; amd. Ord. 685, 9-24-2015)
   B.   Number Of Impoundments: Impounds prior to the effective date of this
article shall not be considered in determining the above charges. In
determining the number of impounds, the total number of impounds in any other
city or county where impounds have occurred and the city shall be counted. A
dog impounded only once during any twelve (12) month period shall be treated as
if impounded for a first offense. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
   C.   Reimbursement Of Costs: The city shall be reimbursed by the owner for
the cost of apprehending, detaining, and/or caring (impoundment, board, and
veterinary expenses) for animals impounded under the provisions of this
article. The minimum cost, regardless of who apprehends and/or cares for the
animal, shall be set by city council by resolution. (Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
   D.   Liability Of Owner: Failure of the owner of an impounded animal to
claim the animal does not relieve the owner of liability for payment of fines
and fees, including, but not limited to, impoundment, board, veterinary,
euthanasia and/or disposal fees. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
5-3B-9: NOTICE TO OWNERS AND REDEMPTION:
   A.   Notice Of Impoundment: No later than twenty four (24) hours after the
impounding of a dog, the registered owner, if known, shall be notified of that
fact, by mail or personally.
   B.   Reclaiming Impounded Dog: Any dog must be reclaimed by the registered
owner within five (5) business days of impoundment. The owner shall be
responsible for payment of past due license fees and penalties, and all costs
and charges incurred for the impounding and maintenance of the dog.
   C.   Dog License Required: All dogs within the city limits shall be required
to have a dog license issued by the city of Ely. Any dog found without a dog
license must be reclaimed by the owner within five (5) business days of
impoundment and will be required to provide proof of obtaining a rabies
inoculation or a veterinary evaluation indicating a rabies inoculation is not
required within five (5) business days of reclaiming the dog. Before the dog
may be released by the animal control officer, the owner must purchase a dog
license, if the dog is within the jurisdiction of the animal control officer,
make payment of any past due license fees and penalties, and payment of all
costs and charges incurred for the capture, impounding and maintenance of the
dog. (Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
5-3B-10: DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS:
   A.   Time Limits For Reclaiming: The animal control officer shall keep any
dog with or without a dog license for five (5) business days to allow the owner
to reclaim the dog. If at the expiration of the five (5) business days, the dog
has not been reclaimed by its owner, it may be adopted out as provided in
section
5-3B-11 of this article or it may be transferred to another rescue facility.
   B.   Disposition: Ten (10) business days from date of impoundment, if a dog
has not been reclaimed or adopted, at the discretion of the animal control
officer, it may be destroyed in some humane manner.
   C.   Infectious Disease: Any dog that appears to the animal control officer
to be suffering from a terminal illness or debilitating injury, rabies or
affected with hydrophobia, mange or other infectious or dangerous disease shall
not be released, but may be forthwith destroyed without delay. (Ord. 684, 9-24-
2015)
5-3B-11: ADOPTION POLICY:
The animal control officer may offer apparently healthy dogs for adoption at
the end of the claiming period set forth in subsection
5-3B-10A of this article upon the following conditions: (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000,
eff. 6-28-2000)
   A.   Certificate From Veterinarian: The adoptive owner shall obtain a valid
rabies tag or certificate from a licensed veterinarian stating that the dog has
been inoculated with suitable vaccines for the prevention of rabies, or a
statement from a licensed veterinarian that the dog should not be so
vaccinated, and present the same to the animal control officer within thirty
(30) calendar days from adoption. At the discretion of the animal control
officer, the dog may remain in the custody of the animal control officer until
all certificates required under this section are obtained. (Ord. 684, 9-24-
2015)
   B.   Sterilization Of Dogs: The adoptive owner of the dog shall pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes sterilize the adopted dog within thirty (30) calendar
days of adoption and provide proof to the animal control officer that the
adopted dog has been sterilized. The cost of sterilization of the adopted
animal shall be borne solely by the adoptive owner. The city administrator may,
upon application by an adoptive owner, authorize the city of Ely to utilize
available grant funds for the sterilization of animals, if grant funds are
available. The availability of grant funds for sterilization shall be the sole
consideration in granting or denying the request of the adoptive owner.
   C.   Dog License Required: The adoptive owner shall pay for the animal
license prior to the animal leaving the animal control facility and must bring
proof to city hall that the animal has been vaccinated with rabies within
fifteen (15) calendar days of adoption in order to obtain the dog license.
(Ord. 693, 11-12-2015)
   D.   Noncompliance: Should an adoptive owner fail to meet the requirements
of this section, the animal control officer shall have the discretion to
retrieve the animal, or issue an administrative citation to the adoptive owner.
The city council, by resolution, shall set the administrative citation fee to
the adoptive owner for failure to comply with the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
5-3B-12: DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, "potentially dangerous dog" means
a dog with the propensity to bite human beings. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-
2000)
   B.   Prima Facie Evidence: It shall be prima facie evidence that a dog is
potentially dangerous if it has bitten any person, unless the person was
trespassing upon the property of the owner. If a dog has been identified as a
potentially dangerous dog it will have a microchip implant, at the owner's
expense, before being returned to the owner.
   C.   Notice Of Dog Bite: Whenever the owner of any dog has knowledge that
the dog has bitten a human being, the owner shall immediately inform the animal
control officer or the sheriff's office.
      1.   Any dog biting a person shall be seized on or off the premises of
the person owning, keeping or harboring such dog by the animal control officer,
and impounded for a period of ten (10) calendar days.
      2.   If a veterinarian should suspect the animal is diseased, he or she
shall notify the animal control officer who shall immediately destroy the dog
in a humane manner.
   D.   Second Bite: If a dog bites a human being on a second occasion, the dog
shall be considered a dangerous dog and shall be destroyed in a humane manner.
   E.   Restricted Dog License: A dog license issued pursuant to this article
shall be a restricted license whenever a dog is found to be a dangerous dog,
and the owner shall continuously keep the dog in a secure dogtight pen that has
been inspected and approved by the animal control officer. A dog whose license
has been restricted upon that ground shall be forthwith destroyed without delay
if it is thereafter found or observed to be out of the pen in which it is
required to be confined. (Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
   F.   Minimum Standards: The provisions of this section are minimum
standards, which do not supersede stricter or additional requirements, which
may be imposed by the Nevada Revised Statutes under the circumstances. (Ord.
545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
5-3B-13: BARKING DOGS:
   A.   Prohibited: Within the city it is unlawful for a dog owner to keep,
harbor, or maintain a dog that routinely howls, barks, whines, yelps or in any
other manner disturbs the peace and quiet of the community or of any person.
   B.   Penalty:
      1.   Violation: A violation of this subsection is a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of no less than twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2.   Exception: There is no violation if the dog owner proves the
offending dog was performing a service (e.g., guard dog).
      3.   Third Conviction: If an animal owner has been convicted three (3)
times for violation of subsection A of this section with respect to a specific
animal, the animal shall be destroyed at the animal owner's expense unless the
owner complies with subsection B4 of this section. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-
28-2000)
      4.   Removal From Area: The animal owner may remove the offending animal
from the animal control area to avoid having the animal destroyed. If the
offending animal is not removed from the animal control area within five (5)
days, upon apprehending the animal, the offending animal shall not thereafter
be released from the animal control facility. Prior to releasing the dog, the
animal control officer shall first obtain from the owner or other person
receiving the dog a written agreement that the dog will, if released, be
permanently removed from the animal control area. If the owner of the dog
refuses to so agree, the dog shall be destroyed in a humane manner. (Ord. 545,
6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000; amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 685, 9-24-2015)
5-3B-14: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT AND HEAD OF HOUSEHOLD:
   A.   The responsibility for compliance with the provisions of this article
shall rest upon the head of the household where a dog is being kept or
harbored, whether or not the ownership of such dog is claimed by any other
person. A husband or wife, or two (2) or more adults living together, may be
jointly or separately charged as heads of the household where a dog is kept or
harbored if the requirements of this article are not complied with.
   B.   It shall not be a defense to an alleged violation of this article that
the true and registered owner of a dog is of such minor age as to prohibit
answer in court, and upon such occurrence, the parent or guardian of such minor
owner shall be required to appear instead and assume full responsibility for
the actions or omissions of their minor. The parent, guardian, or custodian of
any child under eighteen (18) years of age that owns, keeps, harbors or has
custody of an animal shall be deemed to be the owner of such animal. (Ord. 545,
6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
5-3B-15: GUARD DOGS:
It is unlawful to place or maintain guard dogs in any area for the protection
of persons or property unless the following conditions are met:
   A.   Confinement Required: The dogs shall be confined to a secure, enclosed,
and dog tight area adequate to ensure that they will not escape; and
   B.   Warning Signs: Warning signs shall be conspicuously posted on the
property indicating the presence of guard dogs and shall plainly show a
telephone number where some person responsible for controlling the guard dogs
can be reached at all times. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
5-3B-16: ABANDONMENT, MISTREATMENT, AND KILLING OF ANIMALS OTHER THAN BY A
LEGAL METHOD OF TAKE; IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: Except as otherwise provided herein, it is unlawful
for any person to do any of the following:
      1.   To maliciously apprehend, detain, secrete or impound the animal of
another person, or to knowingly aid or abet any such act by some other person.
Any person aiding or abetting shall be considered a principal.
      2.   To maltreat, starve, torture, torment or tease any animal.
      3.   To overcrowd any animal in a crate, box or other receptacle, or fail
to provide the animal with adequate food, water, shelter, and sanitation.
      4.   To abandon any animal, living or dead, in a public street, road,
alley or any other public place, or upon the private property of another.
      5.   To carry or enclose, or cause to be carried or enclosed, in or upon
any vehicle or conveyance, any animal in a cruel or inhumane manner.
         a.   No person having charge or custody of any animal, as owner or
otherwise, shall place or confine the animal or allow the animal to be placed,
confined or to remain in a motor vehicle under such conditions or for such a
period of time as may endanger the health or well being of the animal due to
heat, cold, lack of food or drink, or other circumstances as may reasonably be
expected to cause suffering, injury or death.
         b.   The animal control officer or any sheriff's deputy who finds an
animal in a motor vehicle in violation of this section may break and enter the
motor vehicle if necessary to remove the animal.
   B.   Power To Impound: The animal control officer or a peace officer may
impound any animal found to be kept or treated in violation of this section.
(Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
   C.   Impounding Animals Other Than Dogs: The animal control officer or any
sheriff's deputy is authorized to enter into any agreements necessary to
impound, capture, control, transport, care for, feed and maintain large animals
such as horses, cows, sheep, or any other animal that cannot be maintained in
the animal control facility when it becomes necessary to take the animal into
custody or impound the same pursuant to this article. All expenses thus
incurred (including veterinary expenses) are to be charged to the owner or
owners of the animal upon redemption, or the owner shall be ordered to pay the
same as restitution upon conviction of a violation of this article. (Ord. 545,
6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000; amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 685, 9-24-2015)
5-3B-17: ADOPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOGS:
   A.   Notice Of Advertisement For Sale And Adoption: All animals except dogs
and those listed in Nevada Revised Statutes section 569.005 (defining
livestock) that are impounded pursuant to this article shall be advertised for
sale and adoption by the animal control officer by written notice. The notice
shall be posted conspicuously at the city hall, the entrance to the animal
control facility and at the sheriff's office. The notice shall describe the
kind and number of animals to be sold for adoption, with a description of each
animal including generally the color, age, marks, brands, and owner, if known,
together with the date and place taken into custody. The notice shall further
give the time, place, and date of the auction, and state that if the animals
are not redeemed prior to the date and time of the auction, the animals shall
be sold. The auctions shall be held no sooner than seven (7) days after
impoundment. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000; amd. 2001 Code; Ord. 685, 9-
24-2015)
   B.   Notice To Owner: If any animal is wearing an identification collar or
other means of identification, a copy of the notice shall be sent to the owner
or to the person so identified. If the means of identification is not legible
or the owner cannot be determined, the mailing required under this section may
be dispensed with.
   C.   Highest Bidder: If the ownership of the animal is not proven and the
animal is not redeemed prior to the auction, the animal control officer shall
conduct the auction at the time and place specified. At the sale the animal
control officer shall sell the animals to the highest bidder for cash, except
that if all bids received for any animal shall be less than the charges for
redemption plus any and all further costs and expenses incurred by the city in
connection with the animal and the expense of the sale, the animal control
officer may reject any and all bids. If no bids for the animal are received the
animal may be destroyed, sold at a private sale or otherwise disposed of by the
animal control officer.
   D.   Estray Livestock: Estray livestock regulated under section 569 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes shall be administered pursuant to the provisions and
regulations applicable thereto. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
5-3B-18: KENNEL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Kennels: Each business licensee who operates a kennel shall pay, in
addition to the foregoing fees, an annual fee to be set by resolution from time
to time by the city council. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
   B.   Application For License; Notice: Notice of the date, time and place the
city council shall consider the application for a kennel license shall be sent
by registered mail or personal delivery to all adjoining property owners by the
applicant. The applicant is responsible for providing the names and addresses
of all adjacent property owners and proof of mailing or personal delivery to
city hall at least three (3) business days prior to the date the matter will be
heard by the city council. (Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
   C.   Conditions Of License: The following limitations and requirements shall
apply to all kennel licenses:
      1.   Commercial Kennel License:
         a.   There shall be no limit on the number of dogs. (Ord. 545, 6-8-
2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
         b.   Every dog over the age of four (4) months of age shall have a
current inoculation against rabies administered by a licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
         c.   Dogs shall have a run of adequate size and escape proof
construction.
         d.   The property shall be zoned industrial, commercial, or O-5, and
not be within a residential area comprising lots of less than five (5) acres.
         e.   The business license number assigned to a commercial kennel
pursuant to subsection B must be displayed on the business' property, in all
advertising in which the commercial kennel offers a dog or cat for sale, and on
any receipt of sale of a dog or cat sold by the commercial kennel.
      2.   Breeder's Kennel License:
         a.   The number of dogs shall be set by the council, taking into
consideration the size and temperament of the dogs and the size of the owner's
lot and the character of the surrounding property. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-
28-2000)
         b.   Every dog over the age of four (4) months of age shall have a
current inoculation against rabies administered by a licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 684, 9-24-2015)
         c.   All dogs shall be of a recognized registered breed.
         d.   Dogs shall have a run of adequate size and escape proof
construction.
         e.   The property shall be at least one (1) acre in size and zoned
rural residential, commercial, industrial or O-5. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-
28-2000)
         f.   The business license number assigned to a breeder pursuant to
subsection B must be displayed on the business' property, in all advertising in
which the breeder offers a dog or cat for sale, and on any receipt of sale of a
dog or cat sold by the breeder. (Ord. 733, 6-25-2020)
5-3B-19: RABIES CONTROL 1 :
The city hereby adopts as its ordinance on rabies control the rules and
regulations governing the control of rabies issued by the Nevada state board of
health pursuant to Nevada administrative code 441A.410. All subsequent changes
to these rules and regulations shall become effective upon their publication in
the Nevada administrative code. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 5-3A-6 of this chapter.
5-3B-20: EXEMPTED ACTIVITIES:
Hunting, trapping, and fishing activities utilizing legal methods of take are
exempt from the provisions of this article except for the provisions regarding
mistreatment. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
5-3B-21: LAW ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this article shall not apply to agricultural uses, hunting,
or law enforcement agencies utilizing dogs for law enforcement purposes except
for the provisions regarding mistreatment. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
5-3B-22: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
   A.   Unless otherwise specified, any person who commits any act in violation
of the provisions of this article, or fails to do any act required to be done
pursuant to the provisions of this article, is guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
imprisonment in jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such
fine and imprisonment. A mandatory minimum fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
for any violation not requiring a different minimum fine shall be imposed.
   B.   Each day on which an activity occurs or continues to be conducted in
violation of the provisions of this article, shall be considered a separate
offense.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the failure or omission to do any act
constitutes a violation of any section or provision of this article, and there
shall be no penalty specifically declared for such act or omission, the penalty
provided by this section shall apply. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
5-3B-23: PROSECUTION FOR VIOLATIONS:
For the purpose of prosecution for violations of any section of this article,
it shall not be necessary in order to obtain a conviction to prove notice or
knowledge on the part of the owner that the animal was in violation of the
provisions of this article at the place and time charged. Failure to fully
comply with the provisions of this article and proof of ownership by reference
to the animal control officer or sheriff's records shall be sufficient for
conviction. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
5-3B-24: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
   A.   In addition to the penalties provided for in this article, the city may
take appropriate action to collect all sums due, including bringing suit in a
court of competent jurisdiction to obtain a judgment for all sums due,
including, but not limited to, penalties and fines.
   B.   The city may seek an injunction to prohibit any person from violating
this article. (Ord. 545, 6-8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
5-3B-25: LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
Whenever a fee, cost, charge or fine required by this article is not paid when
due, in addition to any late fees specifically mentioned, a penalty shall be
added to the fee in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the total amount
due for each month or part thereof during which the fee, cost, charge, fine,
and accumulated penalty remains unpaid. The total amount of accumulated penalty
shall not exceed one hundred percent (100%) of the original fine. (Ord. 545, 6-
8-2000, eff. 6-28-2000)
ARTICLE C. IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
5-3C-1: Ely Animal Control Facility
5-3C-2: Duty To Impound
5-3C-3: Adoption Of Dogs And Cats
5-3C-4: Unauthorized Release; Interference
5-3C-1: ELY ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY:
   A.   Maintenance; Location: Ely animal control facility shall be maintained
and located at such place as the city council shall from time to time select.
   B.   Receipts: The owner of each animal impounded in the Ely animal control
facility shall pay to the animal control officer the sum as determined from
time to time by resolution of the city council for each animal thus impounded
and all expenses of keeping and advertising during the time it shall be
impounded before such animal shall be released. In default of such payment,
such animal shall be sold as provided by section
5-3C-3 of this article. (Ord. 685, 9-24-2015)
   C.   Records: The animal control officer shall have kept, at the animal
control officer's office, a book in which all animals impounded shall be
registered with the brands and descriptions of such animals as near as may be,
the date of sale and the person to whom sold, the amount received for such
animal and the expenses of keeping and selling such animal. (Prior code § 4-11;
amd. 2001 Code)
5-3C-2: DUTY TO IMPOUND:
   A.   Animals Running At Large: It shall be the duty of the animal control
officer or any policeman, when he shall find any animal described in section
5-3A-3 of this chapter running at large, or herded or tied for the purpose of
grazing in any public street, alley, lane, avenue, court, park, square or place
within that part of the city platted into streets, alleys and blocks as shown
on the official map of the city, or when he is notified by any other person
that such is the case, to impound such animal. (Prior code § 4-13; amd. 2001
Code)
5-3C-3: ADOPTION OF DOGS AND CATS 1 :
   A.   Schedule Of Fees: A schedule of fees shall be established from time to
time by resolution of the city council. (2001 Code)
   B.   Additional Fees: The adoption fees shall apply upon adoption of any dog
or cat being held in the Ely animal control facility and shall be in addition
to applicable impoundment fees and all other requirements for adoption then
currently in effect.
   C.   Spaying And Neutering Required: All animals adopted from the Ely animal
control facility shall undergo spaying or neutering, if necessary, at the
expense of the adopting party, prior to adoption. (Ord. 498, 4-13-1995; amd.
2001 Code; Ord. 685, 9-24-2015)
   D.   Adoption Procedure: The following procedure shall apply to the adoption
of all animals from the Ely animal control facility: (Ord. 685, 9-24-2015)
      1.   Identification Of Animal To Be Adopted: Adopting party shall
identify to the animal control officer the animal to be adopted. After
identification, the adopting party shall have two (2) business days to obtain
the appropriate adoption certificate from city hall. (Ord. 498, 4-13-1995; amd.
2001 Code)
      2.   Payment Of Fees; Issuance Of Adoption Certificate: All applicable
impoundment fees, the adoption fee, and the licensing fee shall be paid to city
hall, at which time, a certificate of adoption shall be issued to the adopting
party. (Ord. 685, 9-24-2015)
      3.   Vaccination, Spaying And/Or Neutering: The adopting party shall
present the certificate of adoption to the animal control officer at which
time, the animal shall be taken to a city designated veterinarian, who shall,
upon receipt of the adoption certificate, provide vaccination and spaying or
neutering services, if required.
   E.   Certification By Veterinarian; Release Of Animal: The veterinarian
shall sign the adoption certificate, certifying that the appropriate
vaccinations and required procedures have been completed for the animal. The
animal shall be released to the adopting owner, at which time, upon
notification to the city, the city treasurer shall pay the veterinarian for his
services, pursuant to agreement between the city and the veterinarian. (Ord.
498, 4-13-1995; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 5-3B-17 of this chapter.
5-3C-4: UNAUTHORIZED RELEASE; INTERFERENCE:
No person shall release any animal after such animal shall have been placed in
the Ely animal control facility or interfere with the animal control officer or
any law enforcement personnel while driving such animal to the animal control
facility. (Ord. 685, 9-24-2015)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE D. TRAP, NEUTER, RELEASE PROGRAM FOR FERAL CATS
SECTION:
5-3D-1: Definitions
5-3D-2: Permitted Acts
5-3D-3: Community Involvement
5-3D-4: Criminal Penalty
5-3D-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
 
                         A free-roaming cat who may be cared for by one or more
COMMUNITY CAT:           residents of the immediate area who is/are known or
                         unknown; a community cat may or may not be feral.
                         A person who, in accordance with and pursuant to a
                         policy of Trap-Neuter-Return, provides care,
COMMUNITY CAT CAREGIVER: including, food, shelter or medical care to a
                         community cat, while not being considered the owner,
                         harborer, controller, or keeper of a community cat.
                         The removal of the distal one-quarter of a community
                         cat's left ear, which is approximately 3/8-inch, or 1
                         cm, in an adult and proportionally smaller in a
                         kitten. This procedure is performed under sterile
EARTIPPING:              conditions while the cat is under anesthesia, in
                         compliance with any applicable federal or state law,
                         and under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian.
                         Eartips are designed to identify a community cat as
                         being sterilized and lawfully vaccinated for rabies.
 
 
                     The process of humanely trapping, sterilizing, vaccinating
TRAP-NEUTER-RELEASE: for rabies, eartipping, and returning community cats to
                     their original location. (Ord. 721, 6-13-2019)
 
5-3D-2: PERMITTED ACTS:
The following actions shall be permitted in the Animal Control Area as defined
in
5-3B-1  as part of Trap-Neuter-Release program adopted herein, so long as there
is grant funding available to provide these services:
   A.   Trapping, for the sole purpose of sterilizing, vaccinating for rabies,
and eartipping community cats, in compliance with any applicable federal or
state law, and under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian, where
applicable.
   B.   An eartipped cat received by Animal Control may be returned to the
location where trapped unless veterinary care is required. A trapped eartipped
cat will be released on site unless veterinary care is required.
   C.   Community cat caregivers are empowered to reclaim impounded community
cats without proof of ownership solely for the purpose of carrying out Trap-
Neuter-Release and/or returning eartipped community cats to their original
locations.
   D.   A person who returns a community cat to its original location while
conducting Trap-Neuter-Release is not deemed to have abandoned the cat.
   E.   Trap-Neuter-Release shall be the preferred disposition for impounded
community cats. Animal Control is authorized and encouraged to conduct Trap-
Neuter-Release, so long as there is grant funding available for the program, to
utilize accepted volunteers who have been properly trained by the Animal
Control Officer and to direct impounded community cats into the Trap-Neuter-
Return program. (Ord. 721, 6-13-2019)
5-3D-3: COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT:
   A.   In order for the Trap-Neuter-Release program to work, the community may
contact the Animal Control Officer for location of community cats. The Animal
Control Officer will attempt to schedule the placement of traps within the area
where community cats may be located.
   B.   In order to catch these community cats, property owners may have to
grant the Animal Control Officer access to their property to place traps.
Owners will be requested to contact the Animal Control Officer if there is a
cat in the trap. If the cat is already eartipped, the Animal Control Officer
shall release the cat at that location.
   C.   If the cat is not eartipped, the Animal Control Officer shall work with
a local veterinarian to provide spay/neuter and rabies vaccination to the
captured cat. Once the veterinarian has medically released the cat, it shall be
returned to the same area where it was trapped, and it will be released.
   D.   Volunteers: The City intends to utilize volunteers to assist the Animal
Control Officer in accomplishing the goals of this chapter to the extent
possible. Volunteers will be required to submit an application to the City to
work as a volunteer at the Animal Control Facility. The application will be
reviewed by the city clerk and Animal Control Advisory Committee. Selected
volunteers will be required to attend training with the Animal Control Officer
on how to complete the volunteer tasks assigned.
      1.   For liability purposes, volunteers must comply with certain rules on
handling animals, including community cats as part of this program.
      2.   Volunteers will be covered by worker's compensation in the event
they are injured while assisting as a volunteer with the Animal Control
Facility.
      3.   No volunteer may represent themselves as speaking for either the
City of Ely or the Animal Control Facility. Volunteers must be mindful of
responding to issues on social media regarding this program or any issue
dealing with the City or Animal Control so as not to appear to be speaking in
an official capacity. The City does not intend and no volunteer should be lead
to believe they have a property interest in their volunteer work with the City.
Volunteers are allowed to volunteer at the pleasure of the City Clerk and the
volunteer may terminate their volunteer work at any time.
   E.   The Animal Control Officer, in conjunction with the Animal Control
Advisory Board, are authorized to seek grant funding to perpetuate the Trap-
Neuter-Release program in the Animal Control Area as defined by city code
5-3B-1 . Final approval of grant funding must be granted by the city council
during a properly noticed public meeting where the grant funding may be placed
on the agenda and accepted, along with any specific terms and conditions of the
awarding of the grant as required by the granting agency. The city council does
not require the Animal Control Officer or the Animal Control Advisory Board to
seek permission to obtain grant funding, only permission to accept the grant
funding. (Ord. 721, 6-13-2019)
5-3D-4: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
Unless otherwise specified, any person who commits any act in violation of the
provisions of this article, or fails to do any act required to be done pursuant
to the provisions of this article, is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), imprisonment
in jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine and
imprisonment. A mandatory minimum fine of two hundred and fifty dollars
($250.00) for any violation not requiring a different minimum fine shall be
imposed. (Ord. 721, 6-13-2019)
CHAPTER 4
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-4-1: Hours Of Curfew
5-4-2: Extension Of Curfew Hours
5-4-3: Responsibility Of Parents
5-4-4: Exceptions To Time Restrictions
5-4-5: Area Of City Affected
5-4-1: HOURS OF CURFEW:
It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of eighteen (18) years, or as
otherwise provided herein, without being engaged in any lawful occupation or
not accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or other adult person having
legal care, custody and control of the minor, to loiter, idle, wander or stroll
or be upon, in or about any of the public streets, avenues, alleys or other
public places in the city at any time between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the succeeding day, on Sunday through
Thursday, both inclusive, and between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the succeeding day, on Friday and
Saturday; provided, that upon the written request of the principal of any
school in the city, or upon the written request of the superintendent of the
county school district, or upon the written request of a governmental
subdivision of the state or upon the written request of a lawful representative
of any church in this city, directed to the chief of police, police officers
shall be empowered to extend such curfew on special occasions to no later than
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. (Prior Code § 18-9)
5-4-2: EXTENSION OF CURFEW HOURS:
Commencing on the last day of school in spring and terminating on the first day
of school in fall, and subject to the other provisions of this chapter, said
curfew shall be extended by one hour, to begin at eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
Sunday through Thursday, both inclusive and end at five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of
the succeeding day. Said curfew for the days of Friday and Saturday shall
remain between the hours or twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. of the succeeding day. (Prior Code § 18-10.3)
5-4-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS:
It is unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult person having the care,
control and custody of a minor under the age of eighteen (18) years to permit
such minor to loiter, idle, wander or stroll, or be upon, in or about any of
the public streets, avenues, alleys or other public places in the city at any
of the times enumerated in sections
5-4-1 and
5-4-2 of this chapter. (Prior Code § 18-10; amd. 2001 Code)
5-4-4: EXCEPTIONS TO TIME RESTRICTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply when a minor is a high school
graduate or is accompanied by his parents, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of the minor, or supervising his activities, or
where the minor is upon an emergency errand or other legitimate business
directed by his parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and
custody of the minor or supervising his activities. (Prior Code § 18-10.1)
5-4-5: AREA OF CITY AFFECTED:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all areas in the city. (Prior
Code § 18-10.2)
CHAPTER 5
CITY PARKS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose
5-5-2: Definitions And Terminology
5-5-3: Hours Designated For Public Use Of City Park(s)
5-5-4: Rules And Regulations Regarding Use Of Parks And Park Facilities
5-5-5: Penalty For Violations
5-5-6: Areas Affected By Chapter Provisions
5-5-1: PURPOSE:
To regulate the use of City-owned or operated Parks and Park Facilities in
order that all persons may enjoy and make use of the Parks and Park Facilities
and to protect the assets and resources of these community properties. (Ord.
628, 9-25-2008; amd. Ord. 743, 8-12-2021)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS AND TERMINOLOGY:
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, and words
used in the singular number include the plural. "Shall" is always mandatory and
not merely directory or discretionary.
 
               A parcel of land owned, operated, or maintained by the City of
PARK:          Ely and specifically set apart for the recreational use of the
               public.
               Those structures, amenities, or apparatus located in a Park
               which aid or make easier the recreational use of the Park
               (including, but not limited to, bathrooms, playgrounds, picnic
               areas, gazebos, patios, tables, benches, bleachers, dugouts,
               sports fields, concession and vendor areas, vehicles, trailers,
PARK FACILITY: parking areas, storage containers and sheds, stables and
               livestock areas, garden areas, water features, pools, ponds,
               lakes, rivers, streams, creeks, designated areas for dogs and/or
               other animals; and, any and all other developed or undeveloped
               areas, natural objects, habitat or structures, whether open,
               locked or unlocked, within a City Park). (Ord. 628, 9-25-2008;
               amd. Ord. 743, 8-12-2021)
 
5-5-3: HOURS DESIGNATED FOR PUBLIC USE OF CITY PARK(S):
   A.   Except for the issuance of a Special Use Permit to a person, persons
and/or entity stating otherwise: all City Parks and City Park Facilities will
be closed to public use on a daily basis (including weekdays, weekends and
holidays) between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. (of the succeeding day).
   B.   Special Use Permits shall only be approved and issued by the City
Public Works Director or his/her designee; and, only upon completion and
submittal of a written application for the Special Use Permit to the City
Public Works Director or his/her designee. Upon demand, Special Use Permits
issued by the City Public Works Director or his/her designee shall be displayed
to any Law Enforcement Officer on official business.
   C.   Except as provided above, in subsection A of this chapter, it is
unlawful for any person of any age to be present within a City Park between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., except for City
Employees and/or Law Enforcement Officers on official business.
   D.   The daily hours designated for closure of a City Park to public use
(the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. shall be
posted (by signs) in conspicuous places at each City Park; such as, but not
limited to, areas commonly used for public ingress and egress, intervals of
such a distance as is necessary to ensure that at least one such sign would be
within the direct line of sight of a person standing next to another such sign,
but at intervals of not more than five hundred feet (500'); and, at each corner
of the City Park, upon or near the boundary. (Ord, 743 8-12-2021)
5-5-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS REGARDING USE OF PARKS AND PARK FACILITIES:
   A.   The prior express written authorization of the City Public Works
Director or his/her designee is required for the following activities in a Park
or Park Facility:
      1.   Activities such as dunk tanks, hot air balloons, carnivals,
inflatable bounce houses, catering services, festivals, or activities which
require the use of tents, awnings or portable shelters;
      2.   Parking a vehicle or trailer in a Park during the aforementioned
hours of curfew;
      3.   Use of a Park or Park Facility for profit or personal gain;
      4.   Selling or offering for sale any service, merchandise, food,
beverage, article or thing;
      5.   Fireworks display.
   C.   No glass or breakable containers of any kind shall be permitted in a
Park or Park Facility at any time.
   D.   Alcohol is prohibited in any portion of a Park and Park Facility,
including any parking lot, unless authorized via written consent of the City
Public Works Director or his/her designee.
   E.   No person shall commit any act in a Park or Park Facility that would
endanger the health, safety or welfare of any person.
   F.   No person other than a duly authorized City Employee in the performance
of his/her duty shall cut, deface, injure or burn any structure or feature
(including landscape feature) of a Park or Park Facility or remove any
equipment from a Park or Park Facility.
   G.   No firearms, archery, paintball weapons, air guns, BB guns, or like
devices shall be allowed in a Park or Park Facility.
   H.   No person shall release, discharge, drop or spread upon any Park or
Park Facility any litter, trash, rubbish, waste, garbage, refuse, chemicals, or
ashes, other than by placing the same in trash containers or receptacles
provided by the Public Works Department.
   I.   Fireworks and other explosives are prohibited except as part of an
approved and permitted fireworks display.
   J.   There shall be no operation or parking of any motor driven vehicles,
including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, four-wheelers,
on any grass areas of any City-owned or operated Park or Park Facility. This
restriction shall not apply to authorized Park vehicles or to emergency
vehicles, i.e., ambulances, firetrucks, etc. If a resident or visitor to the
City of Ely has an event for which he/she would like to operate vehicles on the
grass areas of any City-owned or operated Park or Park Facility, he/she may
obtain prior authorization from the City Public Works Director or his/her
designee. That authorization is only valid if it is in writing, signed and
executed by the proper city authority. (Ord. 628, 9-25-2008; amd. Ord. 631, 12-
11-2008; Ord. 743, 8-12-2021)
5-5-5: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be punished according to the provisions set forth in NRS
207.200 and NRS 193.150. (Ord. 628, 9-25-2008; amd. Ord. 743, 8-12-2021)
5-5-6: AREAS AFFECTED BY CHAPTER PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply, without limitation, to all current
and future public parks, owned or controlled by the City of Ely that the Ely
City Council have designated as a public park (as defined in Section 2 of this
Chapter), including any and all City Parks within the city limits of the City
of Ely, Nevada. (Ord. 743, 8-12-2021)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS 1
SECTION:
6-1-1: Traffic Laws Adopted
6-1-2: Definitions
6-1-3: Applicability
6-1-4: Playing In Streets
6-1-5: Draining Of Gasoline And Oil On Streets
6-1-6: Repairing Vehicles
 
Notes
1 1. For state law as to city council's power of traffic control generally, see
  NRS § 266.277.
6-1-1: TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty, all of the
definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and sections
of the Nevada traffic laws, Nevada Revised Statutes, chapter 484, as amended,
are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations thereof shall be
considered violations of this title, and each such violation shall subject the
violator thereof to penalty provisions under this title. (2001 Code)
6-1-2: DEFINITIONS 1 :
For the purposes of this title, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
BOULEVARD: A through street or highway.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The chief of police of the city.
CROSSWALK:
   A.   That part of a highway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traveled portions of highways; or
   B.   Any portion of a highway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
DEPARTMENT: The police department of the city.
GARAGE: A building or other place wherein the business of storing or
safekeeping vehicles which belong to diverse members of the public is conducted
for compensation.
LOADING ZONE: That space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials, so marked
or indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times.
MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE: Every motorcycle including every motor scooter, with a
motor which produces not to exceed six and one- half (61/2) horsepower, and
every bicycle with motor attached.
OPERATOR: Every individual who shall operate a vehicle as the owner thereof, or
has control of a vehicle.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: A tire inflated or capable of inflation with compressed air.
REPAIR SHOP: A place where vehicles are repaired, rebuilt, reconditioned,
repainted or in any way maintained for the public at a charge. (Prior Code §
14-1; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. For state traffic law definitions, see NRS §§ 484.013 through 484.217.
6-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon the
streets or highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or
operated by the United States, the state, or any county, city, town, district
or any other political subdivision, subject to such specific exceptions as are
set forth in this title with reference to authorized emergency vehicles. (Prior
Code § 14-4; amd. 2001 Code)
6-1-4: PLAYING IN STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any sport, amusement or
occupation likely to impede the passage of vehicles upon any street. (Prior
Code § 14-6)
6-1-5: DRAINING OF GASOLINE AND OIL ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating any vehicle or any
machinery or apparatus using gasoline or other product of petroleum to drain,
or to permit the same to drip or run from the crank or gear case, or from any
other part of such vehicle or machinery any gasoline, oil or other petroleum
product upon any street or highway. (Prior Code § 14-7)
6-1-6: REPAIRING VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or cause to be repaired any
vehicle or any part of any vehicle upon any street, highway or alley, except
minor repairs. (Prior Code § 14-8)
CHAPTER 2
ENFORCEMENT AND PROCEDURE ON ARRESTS 1
SECTION:
6-2-1: Duty To Enforce; Authority To Direct Traffic
6-2-2: Use Of Radar
6-2-3: Procedure On Arrest
6-2-4: Illegally Parked Vehicles
6-2-5: Presumption In Reference To Violations
6-2-6: Report On Conviction
 
Notes
1 1. NRS § 266.277.
6-2-1: DUTY TO ENFORCE; AUTHORITY TO DIRECT TRAFFIC:
   A.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the officers of the police
department to enforce the provisions of this title.
   B.   Authorization: Officers of the police department are hereby authorized
to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic
laws; provided, that in the event of fire or other emergency, police officers
may direct traffic as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of
traffic laws. (Prior Code § 14-11)
6-2-2: USE OF RADAR:
   A.   Authorized: A device for the checking of the speed of moving vehicles
by radar is hereby adopted and the use thereof by the police department of the
city is hereby authorized. (Prior Code § 14-12)
   B.   Posting: An adequate number of signs indicating the use of this method
of checking speed shall be posted upon principal streets of the city stating in
substance "SPEED RADAR TIMED". (Prior Code § 14-13)
   C.   Penalty; Minimum Basis For Fines: The use of the device, authorized by
subsection A of this section, making possible the determination of the exact
rate of speed of any moving vehicle, the following is adopted as a minimum
basis for fines to be assessed for violation of established speed limits:
      1.   Twenty Mile Zones: In twenty (20) mile zones, one dollar ($1.00) for
each mile per hour of speed in excess thereof, with a minimum of five dollars
($5.00).
      2.   Thirty Five Mile Zones: In the thirty five (35) mile zones, one
dollar ($1.00) for each mile per hour of speed in excess thereof, with a
minimum of five dollars ($5.00).
   D.   Aggravated Circumstances: Aggravated circumstances, such as attempts to
evade arresting officer by speeding or otherwise, shall be considered
specially. (Prior Code § 14-14)
6-2-3: PROCEDURE ON ARREST:
   A.   Forms And Notices Of Arrest Or Appearance: The chief of police shall
provide suitable serially numbered forms for notifying violators of this title
to appear and answer to charges of violating this title. (Prior Code § 14-15)
   B.   Procedure: Any police officer may take a person arrested for a
violation of any of the traffic laws before a magistrate for the fixing of bail
or may, in lieu thereof, upon making an arrest for the violation of the traffic
laws or ordinances of the city, take the name, address and operator's license
number of the alleged violator and the registration number of the vehicle
involved and issued to him, in writing, on a form provided by the chief of
police a notice to answer to the charge against him at a place and time to be
specified in such notice in which event, the police officer, upon receiving the
written representation of the alleged violator to answer as specified in such
notice, shall release such person from custody. (Prior Code § 14-16)
   C.   Failure To Obey: No person shall fail to appear before the municipal
court of the city after having represented, in writing, to a police officer of
the city that he will so appear to answer to a charge of having violated any
provision of this title. (Prior Code § 14-17)
6-2-4: ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Notice: Whenever any motor vehicle without driver is found parked or
stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by this title or other
provisions of this code, the police officer finding such vehicle shall take its
registration number and may take other information displayed on the vehicle
which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a
notice, in writing, on a form provided by the chief of police, for the driver
to answer to the charge against him at a place and during the hours specified
in the notice. (Prior Code § 14-18)
   B.   Failure To Comply: If a violator of the restrictions on stopping,
standing or parking vehicles imposed by this title does not appear in response
to a notice affixed to such vehicle at the place and during the hours specified
in the notice within five (5) days from the date of the affixing of such
notice, he shall be guilty of violating the provisions of this title,
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which the notice was affixed.
(Prior Code § 14-19)
   C.   Impoundment 1 : Any vehicle of any kind or description whatsoever found
parked at a place or in a manner prohibited or declared to be unlawful by this
title or in violation of the restrictions on stopping, standing or parking
imposed by this title or other sections of this code is hereby declared to
constitute a nuisance and may be impounded by any police officer and shall only
be surrendered to the duly identified owner or to the duly authorized agent of
such owner, upon the payment to the garage or repair shop, the towing and
storage charges, which sum is hereby declared to be the pound fee covering the
same. (Prior Code § 14-20)
 
Notes
1 1. For state law as to authority of officer to remove illegally stopped
  vehicles, see NRS § 484.397.
6-2-5: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO VIOLATIONS:
In any proceeding for the violation of any of the provisions of this title or
of any of the restrictions imposed by this title, the registration plate or
number thereon displayed on the vehicle involved shall be received as prima
facie evidence that the registered owner of such vehicle was then operating the
same. If, at any hearing or proceeding, the registered owner of such vehicle
shall testify, under oath, that he was not operating such vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation of this title and shall submit himself to an
examination as to who, at that time, was operating such vehicle and reveal the
name of the person, or show that such vehicle was stolen, then the prima facie
evidence arising from the registration plate or number thereon shall be
overcome and the burden of proof shifted. (Prior Code § 14-21)
6-2-6: REPORT ON CONVICTION:
   A.   Submittal To State: The chief of police shall cause to be kept a full
report of every case in which a person is charged with violation of any
provisions of this title, and in the event that such person is convicted or
that his bail is forfeited, an abstract of such report shall be sent forthwith
by the municipal judge to the public service commission of the state.
   B.   Abstract Forms: Abstracts required by this section shall be made upon
forms prepared by and shall contain such detail as may be requested by the
public service commission of the state. (Prior Code § 14-22; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS, SIGNALS AND MARKERS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Authority Of Chief Of Police
6-3-2: Erection Of Appropriate Signs
6-3-3: Obedience
6-3-1: AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Uniform System: The chief of police, subject to the approval of the
city council, is hereby authorized to provide a uniform system of marking and
signing streets and highways and such system of marking and signing shall
correlate with and so far as possible conform to the system adopted in other
parts of the state. (Prior code § 14-23)
   B.   Placement: The chief of police with the assistance of the city
engineer, subject to the approval of the city council, is hereby authorized to
determine the character or type and to place or erect upon the streets and
highways traffic control signals at places where he shall deem necessary for
the safe and expeditious control of traffic, and so far as practicable, all
such traffic control signals shall be uniform as to type and location. (Prior
code § 14-23; amd. 2001 Code)
6-3-2: ERECTION OF APPROPRIATE SIGNS:
   A.   The chief of police, with the assistance of the city engineer, subject
to the approval of the city council, shall cause appropriate signs to be
erected and maintained designating railway grade crossings and such other
signs, markings and traffic control signals as may be deemed necessary to
direct and regulate traffic and to carry out the provisions of this title and
such additional signs as may be appropriate to give notice of parking and other
regulations.
   B.   Following the chief of police and city engineer's recommendations and
before a decision is made to erect or not erect any new stop sign at an
intersection not previously having one, or before any existing stop sign is
removed or relocated to another location, the subject of the placement of that
stop sign shall be subject to a public hearing.
   C.   The notice of the public hearing shall be given no less than ten (10)
days prior to the same. (Ord. 675, 9-10-2015)
6-3-3: OBEDIENCE:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, or the person in charge of
any animal, or any pedestrian, to disobey the instructions of any official
traffic sign or signal placed in accordance with the provisions of this title
unless otherwise directed by a police officer. (Prior code § 14-25)
CHAPTER 4
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Intoxication In And About Motor Vehicles
6-4-2: Careless Driving
6-4-3: Speed Restrictions
6-4-4: One-Way Streets
6-4-5: Designation Of Through Streets
6-4-6: Fire Lines
6-4-7: Quiet Zones
6-4-8: Driving On New Pavement
6-4-9: Parking Livestock Trucks, Garbage Hauling Vehicles
6-4-10: U-Turns
6-4-1: INTOXICATION IN AND ABOUT MOTOR VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person, while either intoxicated or under the
influence of intoxicating liquor, to be in or about any motor vehicle on any
street, highway or alley in the city. (Prior code § 14-20)
6-4-2: CARELESS DRIVING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a vehicle of any kind
or character in a careless manner on any street, highway or alley, while
drinking alcoholic beverages, or being impaired as a result of the consumption
of alcohol or drugs, or in other than a careful or prudent manner, or at a rate
of speed greater than is reasonable and proper, having due regard for the
traffic on, and the surface and width of the street or highway, or at such a
rate of speed as to endanger the life, limb or property of any person;
provided, that the speed of vehicles shall not exceed that provided in section
6-4-3 of this chapter; and provided, further, that the mere fact that a vehicle
is operated within the speed restrictions contained in section
6-4-3 of this chapter will not constitute prima facie evidence that such
vehicle was operated in a lawful manner. (Prior code § 14-31; amd. 2001 Code)
6-4-3: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Basic Rule: No person shall drive a vehicle upon a street, highway or
alley in violation of the provisions of section
6-4-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Maximum Speeds: No person shall drive a vehicle upon a street, highway
or alley in excess of that indicated as follows:
      1.   Fifteen miles per hour:
         a.   School Zones: When passing a school building or the grounds
thereof during school period or while children are going to or leaving or
playing about such school.
         b.   Intersections: When turning a corner from one street or highway
into another, or on going through any street intersection within the city,
except when traveling along a through street or boulevard.
         c.   Public Parks: In public parks within the city.
         d.   Alleys: In all alleys within the city.
         e.   Curves; Obstructed View: When approaching or upon a curve or
other part of a street or highway in the event the driver's view is obstructed
within a distance of one hundred feet (100') along the street or highway in the
direction in which such driver is proceeding.
         f.   Elysium Terrace Subdivision: On the streets of the Elysium
Terrace Subdivision. (Prior code § 14-33)
         g.   Avenue A: Avenue A from 9th Street to 13th Street. (Ord. 512, 7-
25-1996; amd. 2001 Code)
      2.   Twenty miles per hour: Upon any through street, boulevard or
highway.
      3.   Thirty five miles per hour: Upon any through street, boulevard or
highway marked and signed by the chief of police, with the approval of the city
council, when the marking and signing indicates the allowance of such speed.
(Prior code § 14-32)
   C.   Restricted Speed Zones:
      1.   In order to protect life, limb and property, and to facilitate the
orderly movement of vehicular traffic upon the streets and highways of the
city, the city council may establish restricted speed zones. After the
establishment of any restricted speed zone, the chief of police shall cause to
be placed upon the street or highway where such restricted speed zone has been
established appropriate signs or signals giving notice thereof.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any sign or signal placed in accordance with the provisions of
this subsection, unless otherwise directed by a police officer. (Prior Code §
14-33)
   D.   Minimum Speed: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle
upon a street or highway in the city at such a slow speed as to impede or block
the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, except when reduced speed is
necessary for safe operation. (Prior Code § 14-34)
6-4-4: ONE-WAY STREETS:
   A.   Designated: That portion of Nevada Avenue extending northward from
North Street to the north end of Nevada Avenue shall be designated as a one-way
street, northbound.
   B.   Traffic Prohibition; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate any vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle, on the designated one-way
portion of Nevada Avenue, in any direction other than northbound. Persons
convicted of violation of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   C.   Parking Prohibition; Penalty: It shall be unlawful for any person to
park any vehicle on the west side of Nevada Avenue within the designated one-
way zone. Persons convicted of violation of this subsection shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
   D.   Appropriate Signs: The chief of police, or any other person designated
by the mayor and council, shall post or cause to be posted, suitable signs for
said one-way street and restricted parking.
   E.   Towing Of Illegally Parked Cars:
      1.   Authority To Tow: Any member of the police department, or any deputy
of the county sheriff, pursuant to an active cooperative agreement between the
city and county, is hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or have removed
and towed away by commercial towing service, any car or other vehicle illegally
parked within the one-way zone.
      2.   Storage; Redemption: Cars so towed away for illegal parking shall be
stored in a safe place and shall be restored to the owner or operator of such
car upon payment of the current impound fee. (Ord. 514, 2-27-1997)
6-4-5: DESIGNATION OF THROUGH STREETS:
The following named streets shall be known as through streets or boulevards for
the purpose of this title, and every vehicle shall come to a full stop
immediately before entering any such through street or boulevard from an
intersecting street or boulevard. At all street intersections where mechanical
devices for the control of traffic may be installed, all traffic will observe
the traffic-control signal, but when such mechanical device is not in
operation, or is being operated only as a warning signal, then all provisions
of this title regulating traffic at boulevard intersections in the absence of
mechanical control shall be observed:
Aultman Street.
Campton Street.
Canyon Street.
Fay Avenue.
High Street from First Street to Fifth Street and from Seventh Street to
Aultman Street.
Lyons Avenue.
Mill Street (U.S. 6).
Murry Street.
North Street.
Pine Street. (Prior Code § 14-73)
6-4-6: FIRE LINES:
Any member of the fire department or the police department in the city may, at
any fire or alarm of fire, establish fire lines by the use of rope or other
appropriate designation, and when any such fire line shall have been so
established, no person shall cross the same without first receiving permission
so to do from the member of the fire department or police department in charge
of such line. (Prior code § 14-50; amd. 2001 Code)
6-4-7: QUIET ZONES:
   A.   Zones Established: Every street or highway within two hundred feet
(200') of a hospital building is hereby declared to be a "zone of quiet" and
the chief of police is hereby authorized to declare any portion of a street,
highway or alley within two hundred feet (200') of a sick chamber a "zone of
quiet" for temporary purposes.
   B.   Noise Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to sound gongs,
whistles, horns, sirens, or to make unnecessary noise or itinerant music in any
such "zone of quiet". (Prior code § 14-52)
6-4-8: DRIVING ON NEW PAVEMENT:
No person shall ride or drive any horse or vehicle over or across any pavement
newly laid or repaired across or around which there has been placed a barrier,
or at or near which there is a person or a sign warning persons against riding
or driving over such pavement, or a sign stating that the street or highway is
closed. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the persons actually
engaged in the paving or repair of such street or highway. (Prior code § 14-56)
6-4-9: PARKING LIVESTOCK TRUCKS, GARBAGE HAULING VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park in the city any vehicle used for
the transportation of livestock, or containing any manure, rubbish, garbage or
refuse, or any other substance which shall offend the human senses or public
decency. (Prior code § 14-90)
6-4-10: U-TURNS:
   A.   11th Street East: It shall be unlawful for a person to make a U-turn on
11th Street East between Avenue I and Avenue M.
   B.   10th Street East: It shall be unlawful for a person to make a U-turn on
10th Street East between Park Avenue and Avenue M.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, unless the state statute in force at the time of commission
of such misdemeanor prescribes a different penalty. (Ord. 656, 4-11-2013)
CHAPTER 5
REGISTRATION AND LICENSES 1
SECTION:
6-5-1: License Required
6-5-2: Possession Of License
6-5-3: Minors
6-5-4: Use Of Vehicle By Unauthorized Person
6-5-5: Suspended Or Revoked License
6-5-6: Registration Of Vehicles
 
Notes
1 1. NRS chapters 482 and 483.
6-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle upon any street or alley of the
city, unless such person shall be the holder of a valid operator's or
chauffeur's license issued by the state unless such person shall be exempted
from such license by the laws of the state. (Prior Code § 14-61)
6-5-2: POSSESSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Required: The licensee shall have such license in his immediate
possession at all times when driving a motor vehicle on any street, highway or
alley within the city, and when so driving shall display the same upon demand
of any police officer enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Dismissal Of Charge: Any charge under subsection A of this section
shall be dismissed when the person so charged produces in court an operator's
or chauffeur's license theretofore duly issued to such person and valid at the
time of his arrest. (Prior Code § 14-61)
6-5-3: MINORS:
No person shall cause or knowingly permit his child or ward under the age of
eighteen (18) years to drive a motor vehicle upon any street or alley within
the city when such minor is not authorized hereunder, or in violation of any
provisions of this chapter. (Prior Code § 14-61)
6-5-4: USE OF VEHICLE BY UNAUTHORIZED PERSON:
No person shall authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by him or
under his control to be driven upon any street or alley within the city by any
person who is not authorized hereunder, or in violation of any provisions of
this chapter. (Prior Code § 14-61)
6-5-5: SUSPENDED OR REVOKED LICENSE:
Whenever the public service commission of the state has suspended or revoked
the license of any operator or chauffeur, it shall be unlawful for such
operator or chauffeur to operate a vehicle on the streets or alleys within the
city during the period of suspension or revocation. (Prior Code § 14-61)
6-5-6: REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or for the owner thereof
knowingly to permit the operation of any motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer
upon any street, highway or alley unless the same has been registered, and has
attached thereto and conspicuously displayed thereon the number of plate or
plates currently assigned thereto by the motor vehicle department of the state,
unless such vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer shall be exempted from such
registration by the laws of the state. (Prior Code § 14-61)
CHAPTER 6
BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Number Of Persons Permitted On Bicycle
6-6-2: Operation
6-6-3: Clinging To Vehicles
6-6-4: Riding More Than Two Abreast
6-6-5: Parking
6-6-6: Riding On Sidewalks
6-6-7: Lights And Reflectors
6-6-1: NUMBER OF PERSONS PERMITTED ON BICYCLE:
It shall be unlawful to carry upon any bicycle, while being operated upon any
street, highway or alley, a number of persons greater than that for which such
bicycle is designed and equipped. (Prior Code § 14-121)
6-6-2: OPERATION:
Every person operating a bicycle upon a street, highway or alley, shall ride as
near to the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable and shall exercise
due care when passing a standing vehicle or a vehicle proceeding in the same
direction. (Prior Code § 14-122)
6-6-3: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle upon any street,
highway or alley to attach such bicycle or himself to any moving vehicle.
(Prior Code § 14-123)
6-6-4: RIDING MORE THAN TWO ABREAST:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate bicycles upon any street,
highway or alley in a group of more than two (2) bicycles abreast of one
another. (Prior Code § 14-124)
6-6-5: PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stand a bicycle upon any street,
or upon a sidewalk other than in a bicycle rack, or against a building or at
the curb in such manner as to afford the least obstruction to pedestrian
traffic. (Prior Code § 14-125)
6-6-6: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle upon any sidewalk
within the city. (Prior Code § 14-126)
6-6-7: LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any bicycle upon any street or
highway after sundown and before sunrise unless such bicycle shall be equipped
with a lamp emitting a white light visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from a distance of three hundred feet (300') in front of such bicycle and with
a red reflector on the rear so designed and located as to be visible for at
least three hundred feet (300') when directly in front of a motor vehicle, or
with a rear lamp exhibiting a red light visible from a distance of three
hundred feet (300') to the rear. (Prior Code § 14-127)
CHAPTER 7
MOTORCYCLES AND MOTOR SCOOTERS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Statute Adopted
6-7-2: Wearing Proper Shoes
6-7-3: Riding On Sidewalks Prohibited
6-7-4: Clinging To Moving Vehicles
6-7-5: Speed Limitations
6-7-6: Exception
6-7-7: Penalty
6-7-1: STATUTE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty, all of the
definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and sections
of the Nevada traffic laws, Nevada Revised Statutes, chapter 486, as amended,
are hereby adopted by the city. Any and all violations thereof shall be
considered violations of this title, and each such violation shall subject the
violator thereof to penalty provisions under this title. (2001 Code)
6-7-2: WEARING PROPER SHOES:
No operator under the age of sixteen (16) shall ride upon any vehicle covered
under this chapter unless such person is wearing properly fastened shoes to
protect the feet of the operator or rider. Open-toe sandals or bare feet are
prohibited. (Prior Code § 14-138; amd. 2001 Code)
6-7-3: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED:
No motorcycle or motor scooter shall be ridden upon any sidewalk of the city.
(Prior Code § 14-132)
6-7-4: CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES:
No rider of a motorcycle or motor scooter shall hold to any moving vehicle for
the purpose of being propelled. (Prior Code § 14-134)
6-7-5: SPEED LIMITATIONS:
No person shall operate any motorcycle or any motor scooter at a speed greater
than the speed limit legally posted; provided, that at no time may an operator
under the age of sixteen (16) years operate a motorcycle or motor scooter at a
speed greater than thirty five (35) miles per hour. (Prior Code § 14-136)
6-7-6: EXCEPTION:
This chapter shall not apply to operators or passengers of three (3) wheeled
vehicles which have an enclosed passenger compartment. (Prior Code § 14-141)
6-7-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day of such violation shall constitute a separate
offense. (Prior Code § 14-142; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 8
TRUCK ROUTES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Application
6-8-3: Truck Routes Established
6-8-4: Designated Streets
6-8-5: Truck Traffic
6-8-6: Prohibition Of Trucks
6-8-7: Enforcement
6-8-8: Penalty
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
CITY: The city of Ely.
DEVIATING TRUCK: A truck which leaves and departs from a truck route while
traveling inside the city.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
TRUCK: Any commercial vehicle designed or operated for the transportation of
property, and whose body weight or whose combined body and load weight exceeds
ten thousand (10,000) pounds (5 tons).
TRUCK ROUTE: A way over certain streets, as designated herein, over and along
which trucks coming into and going out of the city must operate. (Prior Code §
14-143)
6-8-2: APPLICATION:
   A.   Use Required: All trucks within the city shall be operated only over
and along the truck routes herein established and on the other designated
streets over which truck travel is permitted.
   B.   Exceptions: This chapter shall not prohibit:
      1.   Operation On Street Of Destination: The operation of trucks upon any
street where necessary to the conduct of business at a destination point,
provided streets upon which such traffic is permitted are used until reaching
the intersection nearest the destination point.
      2.   Emergency Vehicles: The operation of emergency vehicles upon any
street in the city.
      3.   Public Utilities: The operation of trucks owned or operated by the
city, public utilities, any contractor or material man, while engaged in the
repair, maintenance or construction of streets, street improvements, or street
utilities within the city.
      4.   Detoured Trucks: The operation of trucks upon any officially
established detour in any case where such truck could lawfully be operated upon
the street for which such detour is established. Trucks traveling to a business
establishment for overnight lodging which establishment has off-street parking
for trucks and any trailers that may be in tow except truck trailers carrying
hazardous materials as defined by title 49 of the code of federal regulations,
parts 171-179, inclusive, of the hazardous materials regulations, as from time
to time amended, hazardous materials as defined in title 10 of the code of
federal regulations, parts 71 of the nuclear regulatory commission, as from
time to time amended, and title 29 of the code of federal regulations, parts
390-397, inclusive, of the federal motor carrier safety regulations, as from
time to time amended are more particularly defined in subsections B4a through
B4c of this section shall not be permitted to deviate off the truck route for
any purpose except for the purpose of overnight lodging, and more particularly
described as follows:
         a.   Hazardous Materials:
 
Material                                                  Quantity
Class A explosives (173.53*)                              Any quantity
Class B explosives (173.88*)                              Any quantity
Poisonous gases Poison A (173.326*) require the DANGEROUS 2,500 pounds or more
WHEN WET label (172.423*) as specified in (172.101*)
Liquefied petroleum gas                                   2,500 pounds or more
Methane (liquefied) (171.101*)                            2,500 pounds or more
Liquefied hydrogen (173.316*)                             400 pounds or more
 
* Numbers in parentheses refer to sections of title 49 of the code of federal
regulations.
         b.   Flammable Liquids: Flammable liquids transported in quantities of
one thousand (1,000) gallons or more with flash points of seventy three degrees
(73°) or less as determined by tests listed in title 49 of the code of federal
regulations, with the exception of distilled spirits of one hundred forty proof
or less (173.115[a][1]).
         c.   Radioactive Materials:
            (1)   Plutonium isotopes in any quantity and form exceeding two (2)
grams or twenty (20) curies, whichever is less;
            (2)   Uranium enriches in the isotope U-235 exceeding twenty five
(25) atomic percent of the total uranium content in quantities where the U-235
content exceeds one kilogram;
            (3)   Any of the actinides (i.e., elements with atomic number 89 or
greater) the activity of which exceeds twenty (20) curies;
            (4)   Spent reactor fuel elements or mixed fission products
associated with such spent fuel elements the activity of which exceeds twenty
(20) curies;
            (5)   Any quantity of radioactive material specified as a "highway
route controlled quantity" in title 49 of the code of federal regulations,
section 173.402(L); and
            (6)   Any quantity of radioactive materials required to be
placarded by title 49 of the code of federal regulations, part 172. (Prior Code
§ 14-144)
6-8-3: TRUCK ROUTES ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established within the city the following truck routes: All
trucks entering the city for destination points outside the city shall operate
only over the following designated routes:
U.S. Highway 50
U.S. Highway 93
U.S. Highway 6
(Prior Code § 14-145)
6-8-4: DESIGNATED STREETS:
In addition to those streets in the city constituting a part of a truck route
as established herein, the following streets, and no others, shall be used for
truck traffic:
None.
(Prior Code § 14-146)
6-8-5: TRUCK TRAFFIC:
   A.   Outside Origin; Inside Destination:
      1.   Single Inside Destination Point: All trucks entering the city for a
destination point in the city shall proceed only over an established truck
route and shall deviate only at the intersection with the street, upon which
such traffic is permitted, nearest to the destination point. Upon leaving the
destination point, a deviating truck shall return to the truck route by the
shortest possible route.
      2.   Multiple Inside Destination Points: All trucks entering the city for
multiple destination points shall proceed only over established truck routes
and shall deviate only at the intersection with the street, upon which such
traffic is permitted, nearest to the first destination point. Upon leaving the
first destination point a deviating truck shall proceed to other destination
points by the shortest direction and only over streets upon which such traffic
is permitted. Upon leaving the last destination point, a deviating truck shall
return to the truck route by the shortest permissible route.
   B.   Inside Origin:
      1.   Outside Destination Point: All trucks, on a trip originating in the
city, and traveling in the city for a destination point outside the city shall
proceed by the shortest direction over streets on which such traffic is
permitted to a truck route as herein established.
      2.   Inside Destination Points: All trucks, on a trip originating in the
city, and traveling in the city for destination points in the city shall
proceed only over streets upon which such traffic is permitted. (Prior Code §
14-147)
6-8-6: PROHIBITION OF TRUCKS:
Trucks shall not be operated on any of the following streets, and in addition
thereto, the city clerk shall maintain a list of any further designated streets
where trucks are prohibited as the same may be designated by a majority vote of
the city council:
None.
(Prior Code § 14-148)
6-8-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Clerk Maintains Map: The city clerk shall keep and maintain accurate
maps setting out truck routes and streets upon which truck traffic is
permitted; the maps shall be kept on file in the office of the city clerk and
the county sheriff, and shall be available to the public.
   B.   Chief Of Police Maintains Signs: The chief of police of the city shall
cause the truck route to be clearly sign-posted to give notice that this
chapter is in effect.
   C.   Failure To Post: No person shall be charged with violating the
provisions of this chapter by reason of operating a truck upon a street wherein
truck travel is prohibited unless appropriate signs are posted on the truck
routes leading into the city at or near the corporate limits of the city
prohibiting truck traffic on all streets within the city except such streets as
may be designated as a truck route or for the purpose of obtaining overnight
lodging at a business establishment providing therefor as set forth in this
chapter.
   D.   Weigh In: The chief of police or any other appropriate city, county or
state law enforcement authority shall have the power to require any person
driving or in control of any commercial vehicle not proceeding over a truck
route or street over which truck traffic is permitted to proceed to any public
or private scale available for the purpose of weighing and determining whether
this chapter has been complied with. (Prior Code § 14-149)
6-8-8: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be subject
to a fine not less than the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Prior Code
§ 14-150)
CHAPTER 9
TRUCKS, PARKING
SECTION:
6-9-1: Prohibited
6-9-2: Erection Of Signs
6-9-3: Penalty
6-9-1: PROHIBITED:
   A.   Streets Intersecting Aultman Street Or Avenue F: It shall be unlawful
for any person to stand or park truck/trailer combos or any other vehicle whose
overall width is greater than seven feet (7') within twenty five feet (25') of
any street intersecting Aultman Street or Avenue F.
   B.   Aultman Street Or Avenue F: It shall further be unlawful for any person
to stand or park truck/trailer combos or any other vehicle whose overall width
is greater than seven feet (7') within those areas on Aultman Street or Avenue
F that are appropriately signed and designated as no truck parking areas. (Ord.
454, 12-10-1990)
6-9-2: ERECTION OF SIGNS:
The county sheriff, in cooperation with the Nevada state department of
transportation and the city council, shall cause appropriate signs to be
erected at or near each intersection, and at other appropriate places along
Aultman Street or Avenue F to supply proper notice to drivers of motor vehicles
greater than seven feet (7') in overall width. (Ord. 454, 12-10-1990)
6-9-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, for each such
offense, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 454, 12-10-1990; amd. 2001 Code)
CHAPTER 10
PEDESTRIANS' RIGHTS AND DUTIES
SECTION:
6-10-1: Right Of Way At Crosswalks
6-10-2: Crossing At Other Than Crosswalks
6-10-3: Crossing At Controlled Intersections
6-10-4: Pedestrians To Use Right Half Of Crosswalk
6-10-5: Solicitation Of Rides
6-10-1: RIGHT OF WAY AT CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Vehicle To Yield: The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or within any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
   B.   Overtaking Or Passing Prohibited: Whenever any vehicle has stopped at a
marked crosswalk or at any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a
pedestrian to cross the roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from the rear shall not overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
   C.   Absence Of Traffic-Control Signals: When traffic-control signals are
not in place or not in operation, the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right
of way, slowing down or stopping, if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian
crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of
the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is
approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in
danger.
   D.   Pedestrians: No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place
of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close that it
is impossible for the driver to yield. (Prior Code § 14-116)
6-10-2: CROSSING AT OTHER THAN CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Pedestrian To Yield: Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point
other than within a marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an
intersection shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   B.   Exercise Of Due Care: The provision of this section shall not relieve
the driver of a vehicle from the duty to exercise due care for the safety of
any pedestrian upon a roadway.
   C.   Use Of Crosswalk Required: It shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to
cross any roadway at any point other than within a crosswalk. (Prior Code § 14-
117)
6-10-3: CROSSING AT CONTROLLED INTERSECTIONS:
At intersections where traffic is controlled by a traffic-control signal device
or by police officers, pedestrians shall not cross the roadway against a red or
stop signal. (Prior Code § 14-118)
6-10-4: PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK:
Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks. (Prior Code § 14-119)
6-10-5: SOLICITATION OF RIDES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit a ride from a driver of
any vehicle while said person is standing in, on, or about any roadway within
the city limits of the city. (Prior Code § 14-120)
CHAPTER 11
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-11-1: Parking On Aultman Street
6-11-2: Special Events Parking
6-11-1: PARKING ON AULTMAN STREET:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to cause, allow,
permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the name of, or operated by such
person to be parked on Aultman Street between 3rd Street and 15th Street during
the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M., and on the
days of the week, Monday through Friday, for a period in excess of two (2)
hours.
   B.   This section shall be regulated and enforced by the respective business
owners/managers/proprietors or their respective designees who operate their
businesses on Aultman Street within the restricted parking area. Each business
owner/manager/proprietor or their designee, who chooses to regulate the parking
immediately in front of, and on the same side of the street as, their business
or establishment, shall contact the White Pine County sheriff's office and
request the issuance of a citation against the offending party and/or vehicle,
and shall sign said citation as a citizen's citation.
   C.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
punished as follows:
      1.   For a first offense, the offending party shall pay a civil fine in
the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2.   For each subsequent offense within a six (6) month period, the
offending party shall pay a civil fine in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00).
(Ord. 605, 4-14-2005)
6-11-2: SPECIAL EVENTS PARKING:
   A.   Parking Restrictions: There shall be no parking along either side of
the street during a city of Ely approved parade along the designated parade
route with the exception of handicap parking areas which shall be clearly
marked. This parking restriction shall begin one-half (1/2) hour prior to the
scheduled time of the parade and continue until such time that the parade route
is opened by proper authority for the continuation of regular traffic at the
conclusion of the parade.
   B.   Penalty: A person violating the provisions of this section shall be
cited for a parking violation by any qualified law enforcement officer who has
authority to issue citations within the city of Ely and the person shall be
fined in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) along with any appropriate
or required administrative assessment as required by Nevada state law.
   C.   Additional Enforcement Authority: In the event the owner or operator of
a motor vehicle is present when the officer is issuing the citation, and the
owner or operator of a motor vehicle refuses to remove his vehicle from the
temporary no parking area, the law enforcement officer is authorized to have
the vehicle towed by a local towing company at the motor vehicle owner's
expense. (Ord. 636, 9-24-2009)
CHAPTER 12
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-12-1: State Off Highway Vehicle Laws Adopted
6-12-2: Highways And Roads In The City Of Ely Designated For Purposes Of OHV
Travel
6-12-3:    Definitions
6-12-4:    Operation On Undesignated Highways Or Roads Prohibited
6-12-5:    Restrictions
6-12-6:    Enforcement
6-12-7:    Penalty
6-12-8:    Severability
6-12-1: STATE OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE LAWS ADOPTED:
All laws governing and regulating certification and operation of off highway
vehicles as set forth in chapter 490 of Nevada Revised Statutes are adopted and
hereby incorporated herein. (Ord. 714, 6-14-2018)
6-12-2: HIGHWAYS AND ROADS IN THE CITY OF ELY DESIGNATED FOR PURPOSES OF OHV
TRAVEL:
   A.   The following roads and highways within the City of Ely are designated
as permissible for the operation of off highway vehicles for the limited
purpose of allowing off highway vehicles to reach private or public areas that
are open for the use of off highway vehicles. Off highway vehicles shall not be
operated on designated highways or roads for any purpose other than travel to
or from (ingress and egress) the private or public area open for the use of off
highway vehicles.
      1.   Mill Street from Highway 6 on the southern portion of Mill Street to
Hayes Street, then east across Murry Street and onto Campton Street terminating
at Great Basin Boulevard.
      2.   Avenue I beginning at Great Basin Boulevard continuing east to 8th
Street East, south to Avenue M and north to Avenue H, east on Avenue H,
terminating at Fifteenth Street East.
      3.   Avenue H and Eleventh Street East (now known as Nevada Northern Rail
Way) north terminating at Avenue C.
      4.   Avenue M beginning at 8th Street East continuing east to the end of
the paved road.
      5.   13th Street East beginning at Avenue H and continuing south to
Madison Avenue. Madison Avenue west to Pioche Highway, south to the
intersection of Great Basin Boulevard and Highway 6. West on Highway 6 to
Pinion Road, less than one-half (1/2) mile.
      6.   Avenue C beginning at the railroad tracks on the east side of town,
continuing west which then changes name to North Street at 7th Street East,
terminating at Faye Avenue.
      7.   Faye Avenue beginning at North Street and terminating at High
Street.
      8.   High Street beginning at Faye Avenue and continuing west to 7th
Street, south on Lyons Avenue terminating at 5th Street. South on 5th Street
terminating at Campton Street.
      9.   11th Street beginning at High Street and continuing south to Campton
Street.
      10.   Courthouse Canyon Road, beginning at Campton Street and continuing
south across Highway 6 along the dirt road until the edge of the City limits.
      11.   JV Walker beginning at Campton Street and continuing south
approximately one-half (1/2) mile to trail leading to Highway 6, crossing over
Highway 6 at Bobcat Drive to the dirt track south of high school and north of
Great Basin College.
      12.   Ogden Avenue beginning at North Street, north to Lackawana Road.
(Ord. 714, 6-14-2018; amd. Ord. 718, 2-7-2019; Ord. 725, 2-13-2020)
6-12-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section, not to supersede State definitions:
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE (OHV): Dirt bikes, quads, ATVs, three wheelers, and any
other off highway vehicle not described as UTV.
UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLE (UTV): Large, two (2) or more person side-by- side
vehicles fitted with roll cages. (Ord. 725, 2-13-2020)
6-12-4: OPERATION ON UNDESIGNATED HIGHWAYS OR ROADS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Off highway vehicles shall not be operated on any highway or road not
designated in
6-12-2 for any purpose other than those permitted by Chapter 490 of the Nevada
Revised Statutes as follows:
      1.   If the off-highway vehicle is operated on the highway for the
purpose of crossing the highway, comes to a complete stop before crossing and
crosses as close as practicable to perpendicular to the direction of travel on
the highway;
      2.   If the off-highway vehicle is operated on the highway for the
purpose of loading or unloading the off-highway vehicle onto or off of another
vehicle or trailer, if the loading or unloading is as close as practicable to
the place of operation of the off-highway vehicle;
      3.   During an emergency if it is impossible or impracticable to use
another vehicle or if a peace officer directs the operation of the off-highway
vehicle.
   B.   In addition to the penalty imposed by
6-12-7, the minimum fine for OHVs in violation of this section shall be two
hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 725, 2-13-2020)
6-12-5: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   The operator of an OHV or UTV that is being driven on a road or highway
pursuant to this chapter shall:
      1.   Possess a valid driver's license specific to the type of OHV or UTV
the operator is driving.
      2.   Ensure that the registration of the OHV or UTV is attached to the
vehicle in accordance with NRS 490.083 or a special plate issued pursuant to
NRS 490.0827 is attached to the vehicle. Failure to have the required
registration shall result in a fine consistent with the failure to have a motor
vehicle registered.
      3.   Possess proof of liability insurance covering the OHV or UTV the
operator is driving which meets the requirements of NRS 485.185.
      4.   Wear a helmet. The penalty for failing to wear a helmet shall be the
same as that of a motorcyclist who fails to wear a helmet.
      5.   Comply with all traffic laws of this State and/or the city.
      6.   OHV use on city streets shall be restricted to thirty (30) minutes
before sunrise through thirty (30) minutes after sunset, regardless if OHV is
equipped with proper lighting, plated, and insured.
      7.   OHVs shall be restricted to use within the City of Ely only for
purposes of accessing trail heads and public lands by way of the approved OHV
routes designated in
6-12-2.
   B.   Speed Restriction: It is unlawful for OHVs to travel in excess of
fifteen (15) miles per hour when operating at any time within the City of Ely.
Plated and insured UTVs shall be restricted to posted speed limits within the
City of Ely.
   C.   Required equipment for operation on highway; exception:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection C2 and in addition to the
requirements set forth in this chapter and NRS 490.070, a person shall not
operate an off-highway vehicle on a highway pursuant to this chapter and NRS
490.090 to 490.130, inclusive, unless the off-highway vehicle has:
         a.   At least one (1) headlamp that illuminates objects at least five
hundred feet (500') ahead of the vehicle;
         b.   At least one (1) tail lamp that is visible from at least five
hundred feet (500') behind the vehicle;
         c.   At least one (1) red reflector on the rear of the vehicle, unless
the tail lamp is red and reflective;
         d.   A stop lamp on the rear of the vehicle; and
         e.   A muffler which is in working order and which is in constant
operation when the vehicle is running.
      2.   The provisions of subsections C1a and C1b do not apply to an off-
highway vehicle which is operated during daylight hours on a road or highway
designated by the City of Ely in section
6-12-2 for the operation of the off-highway vehicle without at least one (1)
headlamp specified in subsection C1a or without at least one (1) tail lamp
specified in subsection C1b. (Ord. 725, 2-13- 2020; amd. Ord. 758, 7-25-2024,
eff. 8-22-2024)
6-12-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The White Pine County Sheriff's Office and the Nevada Highway Patrol
shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall have the authority to
issue a traffic citation to the person suspected of a violation of this
chapter. If the person to be cited is a minor, law enforcement shall cite the
juvenile into the White Pine County Juvenile Court. All other violations shall
be cited into the Ely Municipal Court.
   B.   All fine amounts are subject to State mandated assessments. (Ord. 714,
6-14-2018; amd. Ord. 725, 2-13-2020)
6-12-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, for each such
offense, be subject to penalty as is generally assessed for other traffic
violations. (Ord. 714, 6-14-2018; amd. Ord. 725, 2-13-2020)
6-12-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any provisions of this chapter are held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions and each provision is hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 725, 2-13-2020)
TITLE 7
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ELY CITY FIRE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
7-1-1: Department Created
7-1-2: Mission Statement
7-1-3: Vision
7-1-4: Core Values
7-1-5: Duties
(Ch. 7-1 repealed and replaced by Ord. 729, 2-13-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. For authority of city council to establish and maintain fire department,
  see NRS § 266.310.
7-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
Pursuant to NRS 266.310, the Ely City Council hereby creates the officially
titled Ely City Fire Department. It is a department within the Public Safety
Department and oversees the Ely Volunteer Fire Department members during
incident response. (Ord. 729, 2-13-2020)
7-1-2: MISSION STATEMENT:
The mission statement of the City of Ely Fire Department is to deliver
emergency services/medical services designed to protect lives and property
incurred by fire, accidents and any given emergency needs of the citizens of
our community in a professional manner, with the support from our City leaders.
(Ord. 729, 2-13-2020)
7-1-3: VISION:
The City of Ely Fire Department strives to provide the most efficient service
for our community. We have chosen to protect the lives and property of the
citizens of our community, and the same professional care is extended to
visitors to our area. We will strive to create a strong bond with the community
by involving them in fire prevention and EMS training opportunities. (Ord. 729,
2-13-2020)
7-1-4: CORE VALUES:
Prepared For Duty: Means that our members will do everything possible to ensure
our organization is at an optimum state of readiness.
Integrity: We understand that truth and trust are the foundations of earning
the public’s respect.
Compassion: Our organization is a people-oriented service organization trained
to the highest level of fire and emergency services focused on helping those in
need.
Professional Excellence: The City of Ely Fire Department will provide its
members with the means, skills and education through a commitment to quality,
respect for each individual and a workplace that is free of harassment,
discrimination and retaliation. (Ord. 729, 2-13-2020)
7-1-5: DUTIES:
The Ely City Fire Department is hereby tasked with providing fire protection/
prevention and emergency medical services consistent with the standards and
duties mandated by state and federal law and regulations and the Ely City Code.
(Ord. 729, 2-13-2020)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
7-2-1: Adoption
7-2-1: ADOPTION:
The city's fire code shall be as adopted by the state fire marshal pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 477 et seq. (Ord. 673, 8-27-2015)
CHAPTER 3
FIRST RESPONSE
SECTION:
7-3-1: First Response To Fire Emergencies
7-3-2: Map Area Designating First Response
7-3-3: Change In Map Area Designating First Response
7-3-1: FIRST RESPONSE TO FIRE EMERGENCIES:
The Ely city fire department shall be primarily responsible for fire
emergencies, including structure fires, providing first response services
within the White Pine County fire district. (Ord. 541, 12-21-1999)
7-3-2: MAP AREA DESIGNATING FIRST RESPONSE:
The map as amended from time to time, attached to the ordinance codified
herein, on file in the office of the city clerk as exhibit A, is fully
incorporated by this reference, sets forth the area within which the Ely city
fire department will provide first response services. The dotted line on the
exhibit A encloses the area designated as the White Pine County fire district.
The designated area within range       township       of White Pine County,
Nevada. (Ord. 541, 12-21-1999)
7-3-3: CHANGE IN MAP AREA DESIGNATING FIRST RESPONSE:
The city, may by resolution of the Ely city council, change the boundaries of
the first response area which are set forth on exhibit A in conformance with
the city's agreement with White Pine County. (Ord. 541, 12-21-1999)
CHAPTER 4
EMERGENCY CALL AND RESPONSE FEES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Established
7-4-2: Basis Of Fee
7-4-3: Set By Resolution
7-4-4: Amendment
7-4-5: Assessment, Billing And Collection
7-4-6: Ambulance Service
7-4-1: ESTABLISHED:
The Ely city fire department shall charge a fee for emergency calls and
emergency responses to all persons who are not residents of White Pine County.
In addition, any person who requires emergency response or fire response within
the Ely city fire department service area who is found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to have committed a crime and the Ely city fire department
determines the crime was a contributing cause of an emergency response by the
Ely fire department shall be liable for the full costs of the response. (Ord.
553, 10-8-2001, eff. 10-8-2001)
7-4-2: BASIS OF FEE:
The fee authorized in section
7-4-1 of this chapter shall be reasonably related to the cost of the services
provided and supplies consumed in the emergency call. (Ord. 542, 4-13-2000,
eff. 5-4-2000)
7-4-3: SET BY RESOLUTION:
The city council shall adopt by resolution the fees to be charged in section
7-4-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 542, 4-13-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-4-4: AMENDMENT:
The city council may by resolution, alter, amend or revoke the fees set forth
in a prior resolution. (Ord. 542, 4-13-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-4-5: ASSESSMENT, BILLING AND COLLECTION:
The city fire department shall be responsible for the assessment, billing and
collection of the fees. (Ord. 542, 4-13-2000, eff. 5-4-2000)
7-4-6: AMBULANCE SERVICE:
The Ely city fire department shall establish an ambulance service for operation
within the boundaries of the city of Ely and elsewhere as hereafter authorized
by the Ely city council by resolution. The city of Ely fire department shall
charge all users of the ambulance service a fee established by the Ely city
council by resolution. (Ord. 640, 5-13-2010)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Selling Or Discharging
7-5-2: Permit
7-5-1: SELLING OR DISCHARGING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away, set off
or discharge any firecrackers, rocket, Roman candle, pinwheel, squib, bomb,
sparkler, torpedo or any other character of fireworks within the city, except
by permit first obtained as provided in the following section. (Prior Code § 9-
17)
7-5-2: PERMIT:
The mayor may grant permits for such sale or for the discharge of such
fireworks or of any of them as provided in the preceding section, under proper
supervision and may set or limit the time or times for such sales and the time
and place for such discharge. (Prior Code § 9-18)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS 1
SECTION:
8-1-0: Street And Alley Abandonment Criteria
8-1-1: Excavations
8-1-2: Grades
8-1-3: Water On Streets
8-1-4: Holes, Construction Or Maintenance
8-1-5: Snow, Sleet Removal
8-1-6: Daily Sweeping Required
8-1-7: Cellar Doors, Maintenance
8-1-8: Placing Goods On Sidewalks
8-1-9: Awnings
8-1-10: Signs And Signposts
8-1-11: Posts, Poles
 
Notes
1 1. NRS § 266.275.
8-1-0: STREET AND ALLEY ABANDONMENT CRITERIA:
   A.   It is the policy of the city council to review each and every request
for abandonment of a portion of any street or alley as defined by Nevada
Revised Statutes using the following criteria to ensure all requesting parties
are treated equally:
      1.   Is the roadway currently used as access to any private or public
property?
      2.   Is it presently used as a route for any utility?
      3.   Is the roadway or alley wide enough to be practically used as either
a utility or roadway corridor?
      4.   Will the proposed abandonment isolate any property from public
access?
      5.   Will the proposed abandonment diminish in any way the access of
safety or utility services to any property?
      6.   Does the roadway proposed for abandonment have future potential as
either a utility or roadway corridor?
      7.   Does the roadway proposed for abandonment have potential as a
walking trail, linear park, buffer zone, or any other public service?
   B.   If a member of the city planning commission, city engineer, city fire
chief, any public utility having a right of way on the proposed abandoned
property, or a member of the general public believe the answer to any of the
above is "yes", they shall have the right to present their arguments to the
city council for consideration, prior to the city council voting on whether to
approve the abandonment. The city council and mayor shall have the right to
refuse to accept the arguments or opinions of the aforementioned persons in
reaching their decision.
   C.   The city council and the mayor shall have the exclusive right to
approve or disapprove a request to vacate property, but shall provide the
requesting party with their rationale for approval or denial at the city
council meeting at which the matter is decided.
      1.   The city council may "fully" abandon a city street or alleyway,
meaning the roadway or alley is severed and no passage may occur.
      2.   The city council may "partially" abandon a city street or alleyway,
meaning the roadway is reduced in width but is still effective as a roadway or
utility corridor. (Ord. 682, 9-24-2015)
8-1-1: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall excavate, open, dig into, grade,
level, repair, increase, upgrade or alter the form of any construction,
excavation, or work involving any concrete, sidewalk, curb and gutter,
driveway, alley, street, road, or other right of way easement within the city
without first obtaining a written permit to do so from the city engineering
department. (Prior code § 18-1; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Application:
      1.   Form: Any person desiring to excavate, open, dig into, grade, level,
repair, increase, upgrade, or alter using any form of construction, excavation,
or work involving any concrete, sidewalk, curb and gutter, driveway, alley,
street, road, or other right of way easement within the city limits described
in subsection A of this section for the purpose of installing water, gas, sewer
or other mains, service pipes or leads, phone lines, electric lines, television
cable, sidewalk, curb and gutter, driveway, street, alley, avenue or highway,
the surface of which either has or has not been covered by macadam, concrete,
oil or gravel or other street surfacing material, shall make written
application to the city engineer upon application blanks prepared by the city
engineer.
      2.   Application: Such application shall contain the name of the person
desiring to make such excavation, the time the same is desired to be made and
the location thereof together with the cause and reason therefor.
   C.   Investigation Of Necessity; Issuance: The city engineer shall
investigate the necessity therefor and shall grant a permit therefor when
necessary. (Prior code § 18-2)
   D.   Grant Of Authority: Upon receiving such application, and after
approving of the same, the city engineer shall issue a permit granting
authority for such person and necessary employees to enter upon and make the
necessary construction, excavation, work, opening on the utility right of way
easement, concrete, street, alley, avenue, highway, curb and gutter, sidewalk,
or other roadway described in such permit and to install therein such sidewalk,
curb and gutter, driveway, water, gas, sewer or other main, service pipe or
lead, electric line, telephone line, cable television cable, or any other
utility proposed to be installed in the ground, or to repair the same.
   E.   Supervision: All excavations and refilling thereof shall be under the
direct supervision of the city engineer. (Prior code § 18-2; amd. 2001 Code)
   F.   Fee: The city clerk shall collect, in advance, at the time the permit
required by subsection A of this section is issued, from the party applying
therefor, a permit fee of seventy dollars ($70.00); provided, that if the
excavation is for the purpose of laying, repairing, altering or connecting any
sewer line, payment of the permit fee provided for in this subsection shall not
be required. All fees so received by the city clerk shall be deposited for the
use and benefit of the city. (Prior code § 18-3; amd. 2001 Code; per
correspondence dated 7-9-2007)
   G.   Bond:
      1.   Required; Amount: Any person desiring a permit as provided by
subsection A of this section, shall, before making any excavation,
construction, work or repair, or other alteration as authorized by subsection
A, execute to the city a bond, to be approved by the city clerk, and to be in
the sum sufficient to complete the cost of repairs.
      2.   Conditions Of Bond: Such bond shall contain the condition that the
obligors of such bond will pay to the city all costs, expenses and damages not
exceeding the amount of such bond to which the city may be put or necessarily
expend in restoring such street, avenue, alley, sidewalk, curb and gutter,
highway or right-of-way easement to the condition existing prior to the work,
excavation, or construction thereon by the obligor of such bond should the
person obtaining such permit neglect, refuse or fail to complete excavating,
construction, repair, alteration, addition, upgrading or other work for which
the permit was obtained within the time stated in such permit, or fail, neglect
or refuse to restore any street, alleyway, highway, avenue, roadway, curb and
gutter, sidewalk, driveway or right of way in proper condition and with new or
fresh surfacing material the same kind, grade and character as was removed
therefrom by applicant named in such permit. Such restoration must be to the
satisfaction of the city engineer who shall inspect such restoration after the
work provided for in such permit has been finished.
      3.   City Held Harmless: The bond shall contain the further condition
that the obligors shall hold the city harmless and free from all damages that
may be recovered against and from the city by reason of any such excavation,
construction or work and the obligors will immediately reimburse the city
therefor. The bond shall run to the city and to any person injured by reason of
failure of the obligors to comply with any of the provisions of the city
ordinances or property from damage by reason of such excavation. (Prior Code §
18-4)
      4.   General Bonds Covering Several Excavations: Instead of special bonds
to cover each particular piece of work, opening, construction, excavation,
work, refilling, regrading and repairing thereof, any person intending to make
excavations, construction, or perform other work in the public streets, alleys,
roadways, highways, avenues, rights of way, sidewalks, driveways, curbs and
gutters of the city may maintain a general bond in the sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00), which general bond shall be conditioned and used for the
same purpose as the special bond described in subsections G1 through G3 of this
section. Such bonds shall cover all work and excavations to be done instead of
any particular piece of work and while such general bond is maintained such
person shall not be required to make the special bond mentioned in subsections
G1 through G3 of this section but shall be required to comply with all other
provisions of this chapter. (Prior Code § 18-5)
   H.   Manner Of Filling Excavations: All excavations, constructions, or any
work requiring alteration, addition, upgrading, or repair as set forth in
subsection B of this section by any person to any of the streets, avenues,
alleys, roadways, curbs and gutters, rights of way, highways, sidewalks, or
driveways in this city shall be refilled by the party making or causing the
same to be made, and in the refilling of such excavations, construction, or
work, the different classes of material are to be returned to the place
occupied before excavating, performing construction, or working thereon
respectively, and all material shall be solidly tamped and the surface left in
a firm and compact condition and leveled off, and such street, avenue, alley,
roadway, highway, driveway, or right of way, sidewalk, curb and gutter shall be
placed in as good condition as it was before such excavation was made. (Prior
Code § 18-6)
8-1-2: GRADES:
   A.   Authority To Establish: Whenever the city council shall deem it
advisable to establish any street or sidewalk grade, or both, where no such
grade has been heretofore established, or to change any established grade, the
council shall pass an order directing the city engineer to cause the necessary
survey to be made and to submit to the council a profile map of such proposed
grade with his recommendations concerning such grade.
   B.   Adoption Of Profile Map: When such profile map shall have been approved
and adopted by a majority of the city council as a correct map of such grade,
the action of the council shall be endorsed on such map by the city clerk and
such map shall then be filed in the office of the city engineer. Such grade
shall thereafter be considered as established as shown by the profile map.
(Prior Code § 18-19)
   C.   Approval Required Prior To Construction: It shall be unlawful for any
person to erect or construct or to commence the erection or construction of any
building or other structure upon the line of any street or sidewalk where the
grade for the same has already been established without first making
application to the city engineer to indicate the grade upon which such building
or other structure is to be erected. Thereafter, it shall be unlawful to build
to any grade other than that indicated by the city engineer. (Prior Code § 18-
20)
   D.   Penalty: Every person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every period of ten (10) days
such building or other structure shall remain built, standing or constructed
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be deemed and construed as a
separate and additional offense and punishable accordingly. (Prior Code § 18-
21)
8-1-3: WATER ON STREETS:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person being the owner,
lessee, manager, superintendent or managing agent and having possession, charge
or control of any water ditch, flume, water main or pipe or other artificial
watercourse or channel through which water is being conveyed in this city, to
wilfully, maliciously, negligently or carelessly allow or permit water to run
or flow therefrom into, under, upon or over any public street, avenue, alley,
sidewalk or highway within the city so as to injure it or any part thereof or
so as to make it or any part thereof impassable or inconvenient to travel.
(Prior Code § 18-7)
   B.   Notice To Offenders: Before a conviction shall be had for an offense
under subsection A of this section, it shall be incumbent upon the prosecution
to show that notice, in writing, was served upon the person complained of,
calling attention to the fact of the violation of subsection A, giving in a
reasonably definite manner the location of the place where such violation is
occurring. The prosecution must also show that twenty four (24) hours have
elapsed since the service of such notice and that such violation still
continued. Service of notice shall be made in the same manner as service of
summons in civil actions under the laws of this state. (Prior Code § 18-8)
8-1-4: HOLES, CONSTRUCTION OR MAINTENANCE:
It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain coal holes or other openings in
the streets or sidewalks except under the supervision of the city engineer and
then only after the grant of special permission by the city council. (Prior
Code § 18-11)
8-1-5: SNOW, SLEET REMOVAL:
   A.   Removal Required: It shall be unlawful for the owner, tenant, lessee,
occupant, or any agent of said owner, tenant, lessee or occupant having charge
and control of any real property, house or other building abutting on any paved
or unpaved sidewalk, path or other walkway available for the common use of
pedestrians within the city to permit ice to form and remain thereon to an
extent dangerous to pedestrians using such walkway, or to fail to remove or
cause to be removed therefrom all hail, snow, sleet falling upon such walkway
within an hour after such hail, snow or sleet shall have ceased falling. In the
event that such walkway after the removal of hail, snow or sleet shall remain
icy or slippery, such owner, tenant, lessee or occupant, or agent thereof,
shall cause to be placed thereon a sufficient quantity of salt, sawdust, sand
or other commercially available substance used for the de-icing of walkways to
render such sidewalk, path or walkway safe for the use of pedestrians. In the
case of hail, snow or sleet occurring between the hours of five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., such precipitation must be removed by nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. following such fall.
   B.   Penalty: Any person convicted of violation of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished:
      1.   First Offense: For a first offense, by a fine of not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) or not less than twenty four (24) hours of
community service, or by both a fine and community service.
      2.   Second Offense: For a second offense, by a fine of not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) or not less than forty eight (48) hours of community
service, or by both a fine and community service.
      3.   Third And Subsequent Offenses: For a third and all subsequent
offenses, by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not less
than forty eight (48) hours of community service or not less than two (2) days'
confinement in the county jail in lieu of community service. (Ord. 530, 2-11-
1999)
8-1-6: DAILY SWEEPING REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for the owners or occupants of places of business within
the city to fail to cause the sidewalks abutting thereon to be swept each
morning. Such sidewalks shall be swept before nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. (Prior
Code § 18-16)
8-1-7: CELLAR DOORS, MAINTENANCE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building having a cellar
opening upon any street or sidewalk to fail to keep the door or other covering
thereof in good repair and safe for the passage of the customary traffic on
such street or sidewalk or to permit or allow such cellar to remain open
without being properly guarded. If the owner or occupant of any such building
shall neglect or refuse to properly repair any such door or covering for twenty
four (24) hours after notice from the city engineer to do so, the city engineer
shall cause such repairs to be made at the expense of such owner or occupant;
provided, that no such opening shall be of a greater dimension than five feet
by four feet (5' x 4'). (Prior Code § 18-12)
8-1-8: PLACING GOODS ON SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Restricted: It shall be unlawful to place or permit to be placed upon
any sidewalk, beyond two feet (2') from the front line of the lot, any goods,
wares or merchandise for sale or show or for any other purpose. (Prior Code §
18-13)
   B.   Six Foot Passageway: It shall be unlawful for any person to place or
keep or suffer to be placed or kept upon any sidewalk, any goods, wares or
merchandise which he may be receiving or delivering without leaving a six foot
(6') passageway clear upon such sidewalk.
   C.   Duration: It shall be unlawful for any person receiving or delivering
such goods, wares or merchandise to cause the same to be or remain on such
sidewalk for a period longer than four (4) hours. (Prior Code § 18-14)
8-1-9: AWNINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any awning, or
cloth or canvass used as an awning, over any of the sidewalks within the city,
unless such awnings be seven feet (7') or more above the grade of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code § 18-17)
8-1-10: SIGNS AND SIGN POSTS:
It shall be unlawful to erect any sign, or post supporting such sign, within
the curb line of any sidewalk within the city or to permit any sign to project
beyond the curb line of any such sidewalk into or over any portion of any
street or to project over such sidewalk more than three feet (3') from any
building to which it may be attached or to be so constructed that the lower
edge thereof shall be less than seven feet (7') above the sidewalk level at the
point where it is attached to such building without having first applied for
and received a special permit from the city council. (Prior Code § 18-18)
8-1-11: POSTS, POLES:
All sign posts, telegraph, telephone or electric light poles or awning or porch
posts shall be set only at such places as the city engineer shall designate.
(Prior Code § 18-22)
CHAPTER 2
CEMETERY 1
SECTION:
8-2-1: Established
8-2-2: Sexton
8-2-3: Permits And Certificates Required
8-2-4: Sale And Repurchase Of Lots
8-2-5: Fees
8-2-6: Headstones Monuments, Boundary Marks, Maintenance and Landscaping
8-2-7: Disinterment
8-2-8: Burial Elsewhere In City Prohibited
8-2-9: Burial Of Persons Executed For Crime
8-2-10: Use Of Automobiles In Cemetery
8-2-11: Burial Of Multiple Persons In Same Lot
8-2-12: Burial Requirements
8-2-13: Hours Of Operation
 
Notes
1 1. NRS § 266.316.
8-2-1: ESTABLISHED:
The plat or map of the cemetery tract prepared by the city engineer, presented
to and approved by the city council and filed with the city clerk on August 27,
1912, and such other property as the city may from time to time acquire by
motion or resolution, is hereby established and designated as the official plat
of such cemetery. (Prior code § 6-1; amd. Ord. 741, 3-11-2021)
8-2-2: SEXTON:
   A.   Appointment; Removal: The mayor shall have the power to appoint by and
with the consent of the city council, a competent person to the position of
sexton of the cemetery, who shall hold such position during the pleasure of the
mayor and city council, being subject to removal at any time, with or without
cause. (Prior code § 6-2)
   B.   Compensation: The compensation of the sexton shall be such sum as may
be determined from time to time by the city council to be reasonable for their
services. (Prior code § 6-3)
   C.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the sexton to care for the cemetery and
improve the grounds thereof, subject to the orders of the city council, to dig
or cause to be dug all graves required for the burial of the dead therein and
to perform such other duties as the city council may require. (Prior code § 6-
4; amd. Ord. 741, 3-11-2021)
8-2-3: PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES REQUIRED:
   A.   Certificate Of Purchase; Burial Permit: It shall be unlawful for any
person to bury the body of a deceased person in the city cemetery without first
paying for and obtaining a certificate of purchase of the lot or grave used
from the city clerk for such burial. In case burial is desired in a lot or part
of a lot owned by some other person, such burial shall be unlawful unless there
shall be furnished to the city clerk a written permit from the owner thereof,
which permit shall be filed and retained by the city clerk. (Prior code § 6-5)
   B.   Burial On Sunday: Except in cases of death from contagious disease or
other extreme emergency, no certificate shall be issued by the city clerk for
the digging of any grave on Sunday nor for the burial of any body in such
cemetery on a Sunday.
   C.   Lots Within Block Owned By County: The city clerk will not issue
certificates of purchase to any person for any lots or parts of lots in block
J, that block being owned by the county, but they may issue permits for burial
therein upon request of the proper officers of the county. (Prior code § 6-7;
amd. Ord. 741, 3-11-2021)
8-2-4: SALE AND REPURCHASE OF LOTS:
   A.   Conducted By City Clerk: The City Clerk is hereby empowered to sell
lots in the City cemetery and collect all dues arising from such sales. All
money so collected shall be paid by the City Clerk into the City treasury
before the last day of each month. (Prior code § 6-9)
   B.   Policy For Advance Purchase Of Burial Plots: It shall be the policy of
the City that all fees for new burial plots, including, but not limited to,
purchase of burial plot, payment of perpetual care charges, and opening and
closing costs, if applicable, shall be collected at the time of purchase,
subject to the following payment options:
      1.   Payment in full at the time of purchase.
      2.   Payment in full within ninety (90) days of purchase with a minimum
of thirty percent (30%) paid as a down payment.
      3.   Honorably discharged veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces, at the
request of the family and upon proof provided of honorable discharge, commonly
referred to as a DD214, shall be entitled to a burial plot in the veterans
section of the cemetery, provided space is available, at no expense. However,
the family shall be required to pay for opening and closing costs and perpetual
care pursuant to section
8-2-5 of this chapter.
   C.   Policy For Purchase Of Burial Plots Where Burial Is Scheduled Therein:
It shall be the policy of the City that all fees for new burial plots,
including, but not limited to, purchase of burial plot, payment of perpetual
care charges, and opening and closing costs, if applicable, shall be collected
at the time of purchase, subject to the following payment options:
      1.   Payment in full at the time of purchase.
      2.   The execution of an assignment of proceeds from an existing
insurance policy executed by all beneficiaries of said policy prior to the
scheduling of the burial.
      3.   Honorably discharged veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces, at the
request of the family and upon proof provided of honorable discharge, commonly
referred to as a DD214, shall be entitled to a burial plot in the veterans
section of the cemetery, provided space is available, at no expense. However,
the family shall be required to pay for opening and closing costs and perpetual
care pursuant to section
8-2-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 704, 6-8-2017)
   D.   Council Authority Required: The Clerk shall not dispose of more than
one (1) lot to any person, fraternal order or organization without first
obtaining special authority from the City Council.
   E.   Certificate Of Purchase: The Clerk shall give to each purchaser a
certificate for each lot or part of lot showing the description thereof and
stating the price the purchaser has paid and the Clerk shall keep duplicates of
all such certificates issued by them as part of the records of their office.
This shall include any veteran's cemetery plot donated by the City to an
honorably discharged veteran, with the price of zero dollars ($0.00) placed in
the purchase price section of the certificate.
   F.   Tax Exemption: All lots and parts of lots conveyed as provided by this
subsection, together with all improvements therein, shall be exempt from
taxation in excess of the amount expended for care and maintenance of such lots
or parts of lots. (Prior code § 6-10; amd. Ord. 526, 10-8-1998; Ord. 634, 2-12-
2009; Ord. 704, 6-8-2017)
   G.   Profits From Sales: All sums derived from the sale of lots or graves or
other services rendered or improvements made in connection with any grave or
lot or other portion of the City cemetery shall be paid into the City General
Fund. All monies placed in this fund shall be used for the care and improvement
of the cemetery or for other proper cemetery purposes. (Prior code § 6-14; amd.
Ord. 634, 2-12-2009)
   H.   Policy For Collection Of Existing Accounts:
      1.   Failure To Pay: Should the purchaser fail to comply with the
conditions of the payment option chosen, one (1) of the following will be
administratively applied at the City's option:
         a.   Ownership of the burial plot shall revert back to the City and a
refund of all amounts paid, less the service charge, if applicable, shall be
made;
         b.   The account may be sent to the City's current collection agency;
or
         c.   The account may be submitted to the City Attorney for collection.
      2.   Payment Schedule Arranged: All existing and outstanding cemetery
accounts shall be contacted by the City and given opportunity to arrange a
payment schedule consistent with the provisions of this section for discharging
any outstanding obligation on a burial plot.
      3.   Unable To Locate Responsible Party: All outstanding accounts for
whom a responsible party cannot be located or contacted shall be notified by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation of the duty to contact the
City and make payment arrangements. Such notice shall be published once a week
for a period of three (3) consecutive weeks, after which a period of twenty
(20) days shall be allowed for payment arrangements to be made on said
accounts. If no arrangements are made, said burial plots shall revert back to
ownership of the City or be placed for collection. (Ord. 529, 2-25-1999; amd.
Ord. 634, 2-12-2009)
   I.   Repurchase Of Lots: The City Administrator shall have the right to
repurchase, on behalf of the City, any burial plot previously purchased from
the City provided:
      1.   No interment has occurred on the lot; and
      2.   The seller is either the original purchaser of the lot or is a bona
fide seller of the prepaid contract as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes
452.019; and
      3.   The seller can convey title to the plot upon receipt of payment from
the City of Ely.
   J.    Sale Of Plot To City: The City Council may adopt by resolution the
policy by which a bona fide seller of a prepaid contract for the burial plot
may sell the plot back to the City. (Ord. 686, 9-24-2015; amd. Ord. 741, 3-11-
2021)
8-2-5: FEES:
The following fees shall be charged for the sale of lots, the cost of opening
and closing of graves and the cost of care or maintenance of the lot or grave:
(Ord. 526, 10-8-1998)
CHARGES FOR FULL SIZE LOTS
 
Lot                     $ 500.00
Open and close          $ 250.00
Perpetual care          $ 375.00
Disinterment of caskets $ 2,500.00
 
CHARGES ON INFANTS AND CREMATIONS HALF SIZE LOTS
 
Lot                              $ 200.00
Open and close                   $ 100.00
Perpetual care                   $ 300.00
Disinterment of caskets          $ 1,250.00
Disinterment of cremated remains $ 500.00
 
CHARGES ON CREMATIONS IN DESIGNATED AREA FOR CREMATIONS
(2 FOOT X 2 FOOT PLOT)
 
Plot                             $125.00
Open and close                   $ 125.00
Perpetual care                   $ 175.00
Disinterment of cremated remains $ 500.00
(Res. 2010-10, 5-13-2010)
The open and close fee shall be based on a per decedent placed into a lot basis
rather than a single fee for the lot. In other words, if the remains of three
(3) individuals are going to be placed in a single half size lot, the open and
close fee shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00). The City Council may from
time to time, by order or resolution, change and prescribe the selling price of
lots or graves. (Ord. 629, 9-25-2008; amd. Ord. 741, 3-11-2021)
8-2-6: HEADSTONES MONUMENTS, BOUNDARY MARKS, MAINTENANCE & LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Required:
      1.   The owners of lots or relatives of deceased persons buried in the
City cemetery shall erect Headstones, tombstones or other suitable monuments at
the heads of graves, with the name of the deceased plainly inscribed thereon.
       2.   Markers and headstones will be permitted in the grassy areas only
with a border of six inches (6") on all sides of the stone and must be
permanent/non-removable. Vases must be set inside the border.
      3.   Any border encasing the grave site must be flush with the ground.
      4.   Only one (1) upright headstone is allowed per grave. The upright
stone is to be placed only at the head of the grave. Any additional stones
placed on the grave site must be flush with the ground.
   B.   Failure To Erect: If any such person neglects or fails to erect such
Headstone, or other suitable monument for a period of three (3) months from the
date of burial, the Sexton shall place a suitable Headstone, in proper position
at the expense of the person owning or burying in such lot.
   C.   Fences; Corner Posts; Boundary Marks: No person shall erect a fence,
corner posts or other boundary marks upon any lot in the cemetery or grade of
such lot, except with the direction and approval of the Sexton or City
Engineer, who will furnish the true lines of lots according to official survey
without charge. (Prior code § 6-17)
   D.   Defacement; Removal: It shall be unlawful for any person to injure,
remove or deface any Headstone, monument, tree, grass, shrubbery or any other
property in the City cemetery or to injure or to remove any boundary marks or
stakes.
   E.   Coping, Concrete Or Masonry Work: No coping or other concrete or
masonry work shall be installed upon any grave or grave plot except by or under
the immediate direction of the Sexton. (Prior code § 6-18)
   F.   Liability: Any damage to a headstone, either due to natural causes or
otherwise, shall remain the responsibility and expense of the decedent's family
and not the city. The city shall not be held liable for lost, misplaced, or
broken vases or for damages by the elements, theft, vandals or by causes beyond
its control. The city reserves the right to regulate the method of decorating
plots and the right to remove any decoration so that uniform beauty may be
maintained. Old and/or faded flowers will be disposed of by the groundskeeper
when they deem it appropriate.
   G.   All private landscaping is prohibited in the grass sections in the
cemeteries. This includes but is not limited to curbing, trees, plants,
flowers, benches, birdbaths, rocks, woodchips, gravel, fencing, fountains, flag
poles, carpet, planters, concrete slabs, and removal of grass.
   H.   No plastic, silk, solar lights, or other artificial flowers are allowed
to be placed on grassed portions of cemetery lots during the period of April 1
through October 31 each year, except for the period of the Friday immediately
preceding Memorial Day through the 7th day after Memorial Day, items will be
removed seven (7) days after Memorial Day. Plastic, silk or other artificial
flowers may be placed on headstones or cement bases at any time. No glass
containers are allowed to be placed on cemetery lots. (Ord. 741, 3-11-2021)
8-2-7: DISINTERMENT:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to disinter any body
buried in the City cemetery except under the direction of the Sexton.
   B.   Permit Required: Before disinterment, the City Clerk shall require a
permit from the local Health Officer in accordance with the State laws and also
a written order from the owner of the lot authorizing such removal, which order
and permit shall be filed and preserved by the City Clerk.
   C.   Record Of Removal: The City Clerk shall also make a record of such
removal in a book kept for that purpose.
   D.   Death From Contagious Disease: It shall be unlawful for any person to
disinter or remove the body of a person who has died of a contagious disease
without a strict compliance with the laws of the State relative thereto. (Prior
code § 6-8)
   E.   Compliance Required: No disinterment shall take place from the City
cemetery until the party seeking the disinterment has provided written proof
that all local, State and Federal laws regarding disinterment and
transportation of deceased remains have been complied with. (Ord. 526, 10-8-
1998)
   F.   Notice of disinterment required: The city reserves the right to require
at least ten days' prior notice to any disinterment. No disinterment will be
made on Sunday, legal holidays or on the day which any holiday is legally
observed. All disinterment shall be done at the convenience of the city.
   G.   Care in removal: The city shall not be involved in the opening of the
grave for disinterment and shall assume no liability for any damage to any
casket incurred during a disinterment. The actual opening of the grave and
removal of the casket from the grave and the cemetery shall be done by the
person or persons legally authorized to make the removal. (Ord. 741, 3-11-2021)
8-2-8: BURIAL ELSEWHERE IN CITY PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to bury the body of a deceased person
within the limits of the City except in the City cemetery. (Prior code § 6-22;
amd. Ord. 741, 3-11-2021)
8-2-9: BURIAL OF PERSONS EXECUTED FOR CRIME:
The body of any person who has been legally executed for crime shall not be
interred in the cemetery except in such part as the City Council shall, on
request, designate. (Prior code § 6-22; amd. Ord. 741, 3-11-2021)
8-2-10: USE OF AUTOMOBILES IN CEMETERY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to drive or operate any vehicle within the limits
of the City cemetery at a rate of speed in excess of five (5) miles an hour or
upon or across any grave or any portion of the cemetery except upon and along
the streets or avenues designated for that purpose. (Prior code § 6-21)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle including RV's and trailers to
park overnight within the cemetery. (Ord. 741, 3-11-2021)
8-2-11: BURIAL OF MULTIPLE PERSONS IN SAME LOT:
In addition to a single full size casket, there shall be allowed up to three
(3) additional cremations to be placed in a full size lot. Those three (3)
additional cremations shall be limited to the spouse or children of the
titleholder of the burial lot. The cremated remains of no other persons shall
be allowed to be interred into a burial lot unless provisions have been made in
the titleholder's last will and testament and a copy of which has been provided
to the Cemetery Sexton, but in no event will more than three (3) additional
cremated remains be placed in a full size lot. (Ord. 629, 9-25-2008; amd. Ord.
741, 3-11-2021)
8-2-12: BURIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A burial vault shall be required for each burial in any plot.
   B.   A minimum of two working days or forty-eight (48) hours' notice must be
given for all burials.
   C.   Burials will not be done on holidays or weekends without forty-eight
(48) hours' notice, and then only if the personnel are available. An extra fee
shall be charged for holiday and weekend burials, to cover the increased
personnel costs. (Ord. 741, 3-11-2021)
8-2-13: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The cemetery gates will open at 9 a.m. and close at 5 p.m. (Ord. 741, 3-11-
2021)
CHAPTER 3
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Penalties
8-3-3: Other Remedies
8-3-4: Registration Of Carriers And Providers
8-3-5: Telecommunications License
8-3-6: License Agreement
8-3-7: Nonexclusive Grant Of License
8-3-8: License Rights Granted
8-3-9: Term Of Grant Of License
8-3-10: License Route
8-3-11: Location Of Facilities
8-3-12: Construction Permits; Licensee
8-3-13: Compensation To City
8-3-14: Service To City
8-3-15: Amendment Of Grant Of License
8-3-16: Renewal Of License
8-3-17: Telecommunications Franchise
8-3-18: Franchise Agreement
8-3-19: Nonexclusive Grant Of Franchise
8-3-20: Term Of Grant Of Franchise
8-3-21: Franchise Rights Granted
8-3-22: Franchise Territory
8-3-23: Location Of Facilities; Franchisee
8-3-24: Construction Permits; Franchisee
8-3-25: Compensation To City; Franchisee
8-3-26: Nondiscrimination
8-3-27: Service To City; Franchisee
8-3-28: Amendment Of Grant Of Franchise
8-3-29: Renewal Of Franchise
8-3-30: Fees And Compensation
8-3-31: Conditions Of Grant
8-3-32: Construction Standards
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, and the interpretation and enforcement
thereof, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings,
unless the context of the sentence in which they are used shall indicate
otherwise:
AFFILIATE: A person that (directly or indirectly) owns or controls, is owned or
controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with another person.
CITY: The city of Ely.
CITY PROPERTY: Means and includes all real property owned by the city, or other
than public streets and utility easements as those terms are defined herein,
and all property held in a proprietary capacity by the city, which are not
subject to right of way licensing and franchising as provided in this chapter.
EXCESS CAPACITY: The volume or capacity in any existing or future duct,
conduit, manhole, handhole or other utility facility within the public way that
is or will be available for use for additional telecommunications facilities.
FCC OR FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION: The federal administrative agency, or
lawful successor, authorized to regulate and oversee telecommunications
carriers, services and providers on a national level.
OTHER WAYS: The highways, streets, alleys, utility easements or other rights of
way within the city, but under the jurisdiction and control of a governmental
entity other than the city.
OVERHEAD FACILITIES: Utility poles, utility facilities and telecommunications
facilities located above the surface of the ground, including the underground
supports and foundations for such facilities.
PERSON: Means and includes corporations, companies, associations, joint stock
companies or associations, firms, partnerships, limited liability companies and
individuals and includes their lessors, trustees and receivers.
PUBLIC STREET: Any highway, street, alley or other public right of way for
motor vehicle travel under the jurisdiction and control of the city which has
been acquired, established, dedicated or devoted to highway purposes not
inconsistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC WAY: Means and includes all public streets and utility easements, as
those terms are defined herein, now or hereafter owned by the city, but only to
the extent of the city's right, title, interest or authority to grant a license
or franchise to occupy and use such streets and easements for
telecommunications facilities.
STATE: The state of Nevada.
SURPLUS SPACE: That portion of the usable space on a utility pole which has the
necessary clearance from other pole users, as required by the orders and
regulations of the Nevada public utilities commission, to allow its use by a
telecommunications carrier for a pole attachment.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Means and includes every person that directly or
indirectly owns, controls, operates or manages plant, equipment or property
within the city, used or to be used for the purpose of offering
telecommunications service.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including,
but not limited to, cables, wires, conduits, ducts, pedestals, antennas,
electronics and other appurtenances used or to be used to transmit, receive,
distribute, provide or offer telecommunications services.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: The providing or offering for rent, sale or lease,
or in exchange for other value received, of the transmittal of voice, data,
image, graphic and video programming information between or among points by
wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio, satellite or similar
facilities, with or without benefit of any closed transmission medium.
UNDERGROUND FACILITIES: Utility and telecommunications facilities located under
the surface of the ground, excluding the underground foundations or supports
for overhead facilities.
UTILITY EASEMENT: Any easement owned by the city and acquired, established,
dedicated or devoted for public utility purposes not inconsistent with
telecommunications facilities.
UTILITY FACILITIES: The plant, equipment and property, including, but not
limited to, the poles, pipes, mains, conduits, ducts, wires, plant and
equipment located under, on or above the surface of the ground within the
public ways of the city and used or to be used for the purpose of providing
utility or telecommunications services. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-2: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or
refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense shall be deemed
committed each day on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 549, 10-12-
2000)
8-3-3: OTHER REMEDIES:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial remedies
that the city may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-4: REGISTRATION OF CARRIERS AND PROVIDERS:
   A.   Registration Required: All telecommunications carriers and providers
that offer or provide any telecommunications service for a fee directly to the
public, either within the city, or outside the corporate limits from
telecommunications facilities within the city, shall register with the city
pursuant to this chapter on forms to be provided by the city clerk, which shall
include the following:
      1.   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including any
affiliates.
      2.   The name, address, and telephone number of the officer, agent or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration statement.
      3.   A description of the registrant's existing or proposed
telecommunications facilities within the city.
      4.   A description of the telecommunications services that the registrant
intends to offer or provide, or is currently offering or providing, to persons,
firms, businesses or institutions within the city.
      5.   Information sufficient to determine whether the registrant is
subject to public way licensing or franchising under this city.
      6.   Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied
for and received any construction permit, operating license or other approval
required by the federal communications commission to provide telecommunications
services or facilities within the city.
      7.   Information sufficient to determine that the applicant has applied
for and received any construction permit, operating license or other approval
required by the state of Nevada to provide telecommunications services or
facilities within the city.
      8.   Such other information as the city clerk may reasonably require.
   B.   Registration Fee: Each application for registration as a
telecommunications carrier or provider shall be submitted with a registration
fee which amount shall be set by resolution of the city council.
   C.   Purpose Of Registration: The purpose of registration under this chapter
is to:
      1.   Provide the city with accurate and current information concerning
the telecommunications carriers and providers who offer or provide
telecommunications services within the city, or that own or operate
telecommunications facilities within the city;
      2.   Assist the city in enforcement of this chapter;
      3.   Assist the city in the collection and enforcement of any municipal
taxes, franchise fees, license fees or charges that may be due the city;
      4.   Assist the city in monitoring compliance with local, state and
federal laws. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-5: TELECOMMUNICATIONS LICENSE:
Except as otherwise provided therein, any telecommunications carriers who
desire to construct, install, operate, maintain, or otherwise locate
telecommunications facilities in, under, over or across any public way of the
city for the sole purpose of providing telecommunications service to persons
and areas outside the city shall first obtain a license granting the use of
such public ways from the city.
   A.   License Application: Any person that desires a telecommunications
license pursuant to this chapter shall file an application with the city which
shall include the following information:
      1.   The identity of the license applicant, including all affiliates of
the applicant.
      2.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be
offered or provided by licensee over its telecommunications facilities.
      3.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
licensee to offer or provide such telecommunications services.
      4.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of
the facilities to be located within the city, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities.
         b.   The location of all overhead and underground public utility,
telecommunications, cable, water, sewer drainage and other facilities in the
public way along the proposed route.
         c.   The location(s), if any, for interconnections with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers.
         d.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
      5.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities, evidence
that surplus space is available for locating its telecommunications facilities
on existing utility poles along the proposed route.
      6.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing
ducts or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities;
         b.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      7.   If applicant is proposing any underground installation within new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
         a.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits;
         b.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits
after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      8.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion date.
      9.   A preliminary traffic control plan in accordance with the federal
highway administration manual on uniform traffic control devices.
      10.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to
construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
      11.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the
telecommunications facilities and services described in the application.
      12.   Information to establish that the applicant had obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services.
      13.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to this chapter.
      14.   Such other and further information as may be required by the city
clerk.
   B.   Determination By The City: Within one hundred twenty (120) days after
receiving a complete application under subsection A of this section, the city
council shall issue a written determination granting or denying the application
in whole or in part, applying the following standards. If the application is
denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for denial.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate the applicant's
proposed facilities.
      4.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the license is granted.
      5.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the license is granted.
      6.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
      7.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region.
      8.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
license is granted.
      9.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the
proposed route.
      10.   Applicable federal and state telecommunications laws, regulations
and policies.
      11.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the
public ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-6: LICENSE AGREEMENT:
No license granted hereunder shall be effective until the applicant and the
city have executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms and
provisions under which the license to occupy and use public ways of the city
will be granted. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-7: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT OF LICENSE:
No license under this chapter shall confer any exclusive right, privilege,
license or franchise to occupy or use the public ways of the city for delivery
of telecommunications services or any other purposes. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-8: LICENSE RIGHTS GRANTED:
No license granted under this chapter shall convey any right, title or interest
in the public ways, but shall be deemed a license only to use and occupy the
public ways for the limited purposes and term stated in the grant. Further, no
license shall be construed as any warranty of title. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-9: TERM OF GRANT OF LICENSE:
The term of the agreement shall be specified in the license agreement. (Ord.
549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-10: LICENSE ROUTE:
A telecommunications license granted under this chapter shall be limited to a
grant of specific public ways and defined portions thereof. (Ord. 549, 10-12-
2000)
8-3-11: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Unless otherwise specified in a license agreement, all facilities shall be
constructed, installed and located in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists and is available
within such utility facility.
   B.   A licensee with permission to install overhead facilities shall install
its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing utility poles
only if surplus space is available.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the city, a licensee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the city, a grantee that currently occupies the same public way
shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of time,
which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent extraordinary
circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the city engineer, such
relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption of the public
ways.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future telecommunications carriers. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-12: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS; LICENSEE:
All licensees are required to obtain construction permits for
telecommunications facilities as required in section
8-3-31 of this chapter provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the city and a licensee from agreeing to alternative plan review,
permit and construction procedures in a license agreement, provided such
alternative procedures provide substantially equivalent safeguards for
responsible construction practices. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-13: COMPENSATION TO CITY:
Each license granted under this chapter is subject to the city's right, which
is expressly reserved, to fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for
the property rights granted to the licensee; provided, nothing in this chapter
shall prohibit the city and a licensee from agreeing to the compensation to be
paid. Said compensation shall be set by the city and shall be substantially the
same for any licensee providing similar services. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-14: SERVICE TO CITY:
A licensee may be permitted to offer or provide telecommunications services to
persons or areas within the city upon submitting a franchise application for
approval pursuant to section
8-3-17 of this chapter. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-15: AMENDMENT OF GRANT OF LICENSE:
   A.   A new license application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to extend or locate its
telecommunications facilities in public ways of the city which are not included
in a license previously granted under this chapter.
   B.   If ordered by the city to locate or relocate its telecommunications
facilities in public ways not included in a previously granted license, the
city shall grant a license amendment without further application. (Ord. 549,
10-12-2000)
8-3-16: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Renewal Applications: A grantee that desires to renew its license under
this chapter shall, not more than one hundred eighty (180) days nor less than
ninety (90) days before expiration of the current license, file an application
with the city for renewal of its license which shall include the following
information:
      1.   The information required pursuant to section
8-3-5 of this chapter.
      2.   Any information required pursuant to the license agreement between
the city and the grantee.
   B.   Renewal Determinations: Within ninety (90) days after receiving a
complete application, the city council shall issue a written determination
granting or denying the renewal application in whole or in part, applying the
following standards. If the renewal application is denied, the written
determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
      4.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
the license agreement.
      5.   Applicable federal, state and local telecommunications laws, rules
and policies.
      6.   Such factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to use the
public ways will serve the community interest.
   C.   Obligation To Cure As A Condition Of Renewal: No license shall be
renewed until any ongoing violations or defaults in the licensee's performance
of the license agreement, or of the requirements of this chapter, have been
cured, or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the grantee has
been approved by the city. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-17: TELECOMMUNICATIONS FRANCHISE:
A telecommunications franchise shall be required of any telecommunications
carrier who desires to occupy public ways of the city and to provide
telecommunications services to any person or area in the city.
   A.   Franchise Application: Any person that desires a telecommunications
franchise pursuant to this section shall file an application with the city
which shall include the following information:
      1.   The identity of the franchise applicant, including all affiliates of
the applicant.
      2.   A description of the telecommunications services that are or will be
offered or provided by the franchise applicant over its existing or proposed
facilities.
      3.   A description of the transmission medium that will be used by the
franchise to offer or provide such telecommunications services.
      4.   Preliminary engineering plans, specifications and a network map of
the facilities to be located within the city, all in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The location and route requested for applicant's proposed
telecommunications facilities.
         b.   The location of all overhead and underground public utility,
telecommunication, cable, water, sewer drainage and other facilities in the
public way along the proposed route.
         c.   The location(s), if any, for interconnection with the
telecommunications facilities of other telecommunications carriers.
         d.   The specific trees, structures, improvements, facilities and
obstructions, if any, that applicant proposes to temporarily or permanently
remove or relocate.
      5.   If applicant is proposing to install overhead facilities, evidence
that surplus space is available for locating its telecommunications facilities
on existing utility poles along the proposed route.
      6.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation in existing
ducts or conduits within the public ways, information in sufficient detail to
identify:
         a.   The excess capacity currently available in such ducts or conduits
before installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities;
         b.   The excess capacity, if any, that will exist in such ducts or
conduits after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      7.   If applicant is proposing an underground installation within new
ducts or conduits to be constructed within the public ways:
         a.   The location proposed for the new ducts or conduits;
         b.   The excess capacity that will exist in such ducts or conduits
after installation of applicant's telecommunications facilities.
      8.   A preliminary construction schedule and completion dates.
      9.   A preliminary traffic control plan in accordance with federal
highway administration manual on uniform traffic control devices.
      10.   Financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles demonstrating the applicant's financial ability to
construct, operate, maintain, relocate and remove the facilities.
      11.   Information in sufficient detail to establish the applicant's
technical qualifications, experience and expertise regarding the
telecommunications facilities and services described in the application.
      12.   Information to establish that the applicant has obtained all other
governmental approvals and permits to construct and operate the facilities and
to offer or provide the telecommunications services.
      13.   Whether the applicant intends to provide cable service, video dial
tone service or other video programming service, and sufficient information to
determine whether such service is subject to cable franchising.
      14.   An accurate map showing the location of any existing
telecommunications facilities in the city that applicant intends to use or
lease.
      15.   A description of the services or facilities that the applicant will
offer or make available to the city and other public, educational and
governmental institutions.
      16.   A description of applicant's access and line extension policies.
      17.   The area or areas of the city the applicant desires to serve and a
schedule for built out to the entire franchise area.
      18.   All fees, deposits or charges required pursuant to section
8-3-30 of this chapter.
      19.   Such other and further information as may be requested by the city
clerk.
   B.   Determination By The City: Within one hundred fifty (150) days after
receiving a complete application under this chapter, the city council shall
issue a written determination granting or denying the application in whole or
in part, applying the following standards. If the application is denied, the
written determination shall include the reasons for denial.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the franchise is granted.
      4.   The capacity of the public ways to accommodate additional utility
and telecommunications facilities if the franchise is granted.
      5.   The damage or disruption, if any, of public or private facilities,
improvements, service, travel or landscaping if the franchise is granted.
      6.   The public interest in minimizing the cost and disruption of
construction within the public ways.
      7.   The service that applicant will provide to the community and region.
      8.   The effect, if any, on public health, safety and welfare if the
franchise requested is granted.
      9.   The availability of alternate routes and/or locations for the
proposed facilities.
      10.   Applicable federal and state telecommunications laws, regulations
and policies.
      11.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the grant to use the
public ways will serve the community interest. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-18: FRANCHISE AGREEMENT:
No franchise shall be granted hereunder unless the applicant and the city have
executed a written agreement setting forth the particular terms and provisions
under which the franchise to occupy and use public ways of the city will be
granted. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-19: NONEXCLUSIVE GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
No franchise granted under this chapter shall confer any exclusive right,
privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use the public ways of the city
for delivery of telecommunications services or any other purposes. (Ord. 549,
10-12-2000)
8-3-20: TERM OF GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
The term of grant of franchise shall be specified in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-21: FRANCHISE RIGHTS GRANTED:
No franchise granted under this chapter shall convey any right, title or
interest in the public ways, but shall be valid for a franchise only to use and
occupy the public ways for the limited purposes and term stated in the grant.
Further, no franchise shall be construed as any warranty of title. (Ord. 549,
10-12-2000)
8-3-22: FRANCHISE TERRITORY:
A telecommunications franchise granted under this chapter shall be limited to
the specific geographic area of the city to be served by the franchise grantee,
and the specific public ways necessary to serve such areas. (Ord. 549, 10-12-
2000)
8-3-23: LOCATION OF FACILITIES; FRANCHISEE:
Unless otherwise specified in a franchise agreement, all facilities shall be
constructed, installed and located in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   Telecommunications facilities shall be installed within an existing
underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists and is available
within such utility facility.
   B.   A franchise with permission to install its telecommunications
facilities on pole attachments to existing utility poles only, and then only if
surplus space is available.
   C.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the city, a franchisee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
   D.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the city, a grantee that currently occupies the same public way
shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of time,
which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent extraordinary
circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the city engineer, such
relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption of the public
ways.
   E.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity of
a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future carriers. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-24: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS; FRANCHISEE:
All franchisees are required to obtain construction permits for
telecommunications facilities as required in section
8-3-31 of this chapter provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall
prohibit the city and a franchisee from agreeing to alternative procedures
provide substantially equivalent safeguards for responsible construction
practices. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-25: COMPENSATION TO CITY; FRANCHISEE:
Each franchise granted under this chapter is subject to the city's right, which
is expressly reserved, to fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for
the property rights granted to the franchisee; provided, nothing in this
chapter shall prohibit the city and franchisee from agreeing to the
compensation to be paid. Said compensation shall be set by the city and shall
be substantially the same for any franchisee offering similar services. (Ord.
549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-26: NONDISCRIMINATION:
A franchisee shall make its telecommunications services available to any
customer within its franchise area who shall request such service, without
discrimination as to the terms, conditions, rates or charges for grantee's
services; provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a
franchise from making any reasonable classifications among differently situated
customers. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-27: SERVICE TO CITY; FRANCHISEE:
A franchisee shall make its telecommunications services available to the city
at its most favorable rate for similarly situated users, unless otherwise
provided in a license or franchise agreement. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-28: AMENDMENT OF GRANT OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   A new franchise application and grant shall be required of any
telecommunications carrier that desires to extend its franchise territory or to
locate its telecommunications facilities in public ways of the city which are
not included in a franchise previously granted under this chapter.
   B.   If ordered by the city to locate or relocate its telecommunications
facilities in public ways not included in a previously granted franchise, the
city shall grant a franchise amendment without further application. (Ord. 549,
10-12-2000)
8-3-29: RENEWAL OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   Applications: A grantee that desires to renew its franchise under this
chapter shall, not more than two hundred forty (240) days less than one hundred
fifty (150) days before expiration of the current franchise, file an
application with the city for renewal of its franchise which shall include the
following information:
      1.   The information required pursuant to subsection 8-3-17A of this
chapter.
      2.   Any information required pursuant to the franchise agreement between
the city and the grantee.
   B.   Renewal Determinations: Within one hundred fifty (150) days after
receiving a complete application under this section, the city council shall
issue a written determination granting or denying the renewal application in
whole or in part, applying the following standards. If the renewal application
is denied, the written determination shall include the reasons for nonrenewal.
      1.   The financial and technical ability of the applicant.
      2.   The legal ability of the applicant.
      3.   The continuing capacity of the public ways to accommodate the
applicant's existing facilities.
      4.   The applicant's compliance with the requirements of this chapter and
the franchise agreement.
      5.   Applicable federal, state, and local telecommunications laws, rules
and policies.
      6.   Such other factors as may demonstrate that the continued grant to
use the public ways will serve the community interest.
   C.   Obligation To Cure As A Condition Of Renewal: No franchise shall be
renewed until any ongoing violations of defaults in the grantee's performance
of the franchise agreement, or of the requirements of this chapter, have been
cured or a plan detailing the corrective action to be taken by the grantee has
been approved by the city. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-30: FEES AND COMPENSATION:
It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the payment and recovery of
all direct and indirect cost and expenses of the city related to the
enforcement and administration of this chapter.
   A.   Application And Review Fee:
      1.   Any applicant for a license or franchise pursuant to this chapter
shall pay a fee as established by resolution of the city council.
      2.   The application and review fee shall be deposited with the city as
part of the application filed pursuant to this chapter.
      3.   An applicant whose license or franchise application has been
withdrawn, abandoned or denied shall, within sixty (60) days of its application
and review fee written request, be refunded the balance of its deposit under
this chapter less all ascertainable costs and expenses incurred by the city in
connection with the application.
   B.   Other City Costs: All license or franchise grantees shall, within
thirty (30) days after written demand therefor, reimburse the city in
connection with any modification, amendment, renewal or transfer of the license
or franchise or any license or franchise agreement.
   C.   Reserved Compensation For Public Ways: The city reserves its right to
annually fix a fair and reasonable compensation to be paid for the property
rights granted to a telecommunications license or franchise grantee. Nothing in
this chapter shall prohibit the city and a grantee from agreeing to the
compensation to be paid for the granted property rights.
   D.   Compensation For City Property: If the right is granted, by lease,
license, franchise or other manner, to use and occupy city property for the
installation of telecommunications facilities, the compensation to be paid
shall be fixed by the city.
   E.   Construction Permit Fee: Prior to issuance of a construction permit,
the permittee shall pay any required permit fees.
   F.   Regulatory Fees And Compensation: The regulatory fees and costs
provided for in this chapter, and any compensation charged and paid for the
public ways provided for in this chapter, are separate from, and additional to,
any and all federal, state, local and city taxes as may be levied, imposed or
due from a telecommunications carrier or provider, its customers or
subscribers, or on account of the lease, sale, delivery or transmission of
telecommunications services. (Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
   G.   License Fee For Telecommunications Service:
      1.   Every business entity providing telecommunications service within
the city of Ely must obtain and pay for an annual business license. The fee for
such license is payable not later than thirty (30) calendar days after the end
of each quarter and shall be three percent (3%) of the total gross receipts for
the quarter of the fiscal year commencing after the effective date of this
chapter. (Ord. 555, 1-24-2002, eff. 2-18-2002; amd. Ord. 641, 6-10-2010)
      2.   "Total gross receipts" means:
         a.   All revenue received by a public utility from customers located
within the boundaries of the city of Ely for all intrastate telecommunications
services. (Ord. 555, 1-24-2002, eff. 2-18-2002)
         b.   In the case of a public utility that provides "commercial mobile
radio service" as defined in part 20 of title 47 of the code of federal
regulations, including, but not limited to, "personal wireless service",
revenue received from the first fifteen dollars ($15.00) charged monthly for
each line of access for each of its customers located within the city. (Ord.
641, 6-10-2010)
      3.   "Public utility" means a person or local government that provides a
telecommunications service, if the person or local government holds a
certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the public service
commission of Nevada and derives intrastate revenue from the provision of that
service to retail customers.
      4.   A license fee not received or postmarked within thirty (30) calendar
days after the end of each calendar quarter shall be delinquent and the
licensee shall pay, in addition to the license fee, a penalty of one percent
(1%) of the delinquent amount per month and interest on one percent (1%) of the
delinquent amount per month.
      5.   Each telecommunications provider which derives or intends to derive
intrastate revenue from customers located within the city shall, not later than
sixty (60) calendar days after the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this subsection or thirty (30) calendar days before the company begins to
provide intrastate telecommunications service to those customers, whichever
occurs later, provide to the city:
         a.   An acknowledgment that the company is operating or intends to
operate within the city; and
         b.   The date that the company began or intends to begin to derive
revenue from customers located within the city.
      6.   Each company that is subject to this section shall, not later than
thirty (30) calendar days after the end of each quarter, provide to the city a
statement of the amount of revenue the telecommunications company derived
during that calendar quarter from the sale of all intrastate telecommunications
services to each of its customers located within the city. (Ord. 555, 1-24-
2002, eff. 2-18-2002)
      7.   Companies with fees due in an amount less than fifty dollars
($50.00) per quarter may, in writing, request special permission to submit
revenue reports and payments on an annual basis coinciding with the city's
fiscal year which ends on June 30 of each year. Subsection G4 of this section
does not apply to companies paying on an annual basis.
      8.   Annual payments for license fees not received or postmarked within
thirty (30) calendar days after June 30 of each fiscal year shall be delinquent
and the licensee shall pay, in addition to the license fee, a penalty of one
percent (1%) of the delinquent amount per month and interest of one percent
(1%) of the delinquent amount per month. (Ord. 641, 6-10-2010)
8-3-31: CONDITIONS OF GRANT:
   A.   Location Of Facilities: All facilities shall be constructed, installed
and located in accordance with the following terms and conditions, unless
otherwise specified in a license or franchise agreement:
      1.   A grantee shall install its telecommunications facilities within an
existing underground duct or conduit whenever excess capacity exists and is
available within such utility facility.
      2.   A grantee with permission to install overhead facilities shall
install its telecommunications facilities on pole attachments to existing
utility poles only, and then only if surplus space is available.
      3.   Whenever any existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located underground within a public way of
the city, a grantee with permission to occupy the same public way must also
locate its telecommunications facilities underground.
      4.   Whenever any new or existing electric utilities, cable facilities or
telecommunications facilities are located or relocated underground within a
public way of the city, a grantee that currently occupies the same public way
shall relocate its facilities underground within a reasonable period of time,
which shall not be later than the end of the grant term. Absent extraordinary
circumstances or undue hardship as determined by the city engineer, such
relocation shall be made concurrently to minimize the disruption of the public
ways.
      5.   Whenever new telecommunications facilities will exhaust the capacity
of a public street or utility easement to reasonably accommodate future
telecommunications carriers or facilities, the grantee shall provide additional
ducts, conduits, manholes and other facilities for nondiscriminatory access to
future carriers.
   B.   Construction Permits: All license or franchise grantees are required to
obtain construction permits for telecommunications facilities as required in
section
8-3-32, "Construction Standards", of this chapter. However, nothing in this
chapter shall prohibit the city and a grantee from agreeing to alternative plan
review, permit and construction procedures in a license or franchise agreement,
provided such alternative procedures provide substantially equivalent
safeguards for responsible construction practices.
   C.   Interference With The Public Ways: No license or franchise grantee may
locate or maintain its telecommunications facilities so as to unreasonably
interfere with the use of the public ways by the city, by the general public or
by other persons authorized to use or be present in or upon the public ways.
All such facilities shall be moved by the grantee temporarily or permanently,
as determined by the city engineer.
   D.   Damage To Property: No license or franchise grantee nor any person
acting on a grantee's behalf shall take any action or permit any action to be
done which may impair or damage any city property, public ways of the city,
other ways or other property located in, on or adjacent thereto.
   E.   Notice Of Work: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, no license or franchise grantee, nor any persons acting on the
grantee's behalf, shall commence any nonemergency work in or about the public
ways of the city or other ways without ten (10) working days' advance notice to
the city.
   F.   Repair And Emergency Work: In the event of an unexpected repair or
emergency, a grantee may commence such repair and emergency response work as
required under the circumstances, provided the grantee shall notify the city as
promptly as possible, before such repair or emergency work or as soon
thereafter as possible if advance notice is not practicable.
   G.   Maintenance Of Facilities: Each license or franchise grantee shall
maintain its facilities in good and safe condition and in a manner that
complies with all applicable federal, state and local requirements.
   H.   Relocation Or Removal Of Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the city, a license or franchise grantee shall, at its own
expense, temporarily or permanently remove, relocate, change or alter the
position of any telecommunications facilities within the public ways whenever
the city council shall have determined that such removal, relocation, change or
alteration is reasonably necessary for:
      1.   The construction, repair, maintenance or installation of any city or
other public improvement in or upon the public way.
      2.   The operations of the city or other governmental entity in or upon
the public way.
   I.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the city, any grantee, telecommunications carrier, or other
person that owns, controls or maintains any unauthorized telecommunications
system, facility or related appurtenances within the public ways of the city
shall, at its own expense, remove such facilities or appurtenances from the
public ways of the city. A telecommunications system or facility is
unauthorized and subject to removal in the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the grantee's telecommunications
license or franchise.
      2.   Upon abandonment of a facility within the public ways of the city.
      3.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without prior
grant of a telecommunications license or franchise.
      4.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed without prior
issuance of a required construction permit.
      5.   If the system or facility was constructed or installed at a location
not permitted by the grantee's telecommunications license or franchise.
   J.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any telecommunications facilities located
within the public ways of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary,
appropriate or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency.
   K.   Damage To Grantee's Facilities: Unless directly and proximately caused
by the wilful, intentional or malicious acts by the city, the city shall not be
liable for any damage to or loss of any telecommunications facility within the
public ways of the city as a result of or in connection with any public works,
public improvements, construction, excavation, grading, filling, or work of any
kind in the public ways by or on behalf of the city.
   L.   Restoration Of Public Ways, Other Ways And City Property:
      1.   When a license or franchise grantee, or any person acting on its
behalf, does any work in or affecting public ways, other ways or city property,
it shall, at its own expense, promptly remove any obstructions therefrom and
restore such ways or property to as good a condition as existed before the work
was undertaken, unless otherwise directed by the city.
      2.   If weather or other conditions do not permit the complete
restoration required by this section, grantee shall temporarily restore the
affected ways or property. Such temporary restoration shall be at the
licensee's sole expense and the licensee shall promptly undertake and complete
the required permanent restoration when the weather or other conditions no
longer prevent such permanent restoration.
      3.   A grantee or other person acting in its behalf shall use suitable
barricades, flags, flagmen, lights, flares and other measures as required for
the safety of all members of the general public and to prevent injury or damage
to any person, vehicle or property by reason of such work in or affecting such
ways of property.
   M.   Facilities Maps: Each license or franchise grantee shall provide the
city with an accurate map or maps certifying the location of all
telecommunications facilities within the public ways. Each grantee shall
provide updated maps annually.
   N.   Duty To Provide Information: Within ten (10) days of a written request
from the city clerk, each license or franchise grantee shall furnish the city
with information sufficient to demonstrate:
      1.   That grantee has complied with all requirements of this chapter.
      2.   That all taxes, fees and/or charges due to the city in connection
with the telecommunications services and facilities provided by the grantee
have been properly collected and paid by the grantee.
      3.   All books, records, maps and other documents, maintained by the
grantee with respect to its facilities within the public ways shall be made
available for inspection by the city at reasonable times and intervals.
   O.   Leased Capacity: A license or franchise grantee shall have the right,
without prior city approval, to offer or provide capacity or bandwidth to its
customers; provided:
      1.   Grantee shall furnish the city with a copy of any such lease or
agreement.
      2.   The customer or lessee has complied, to the extent applicable, with
the requirements of this chapter.
   P.   Grantee Insurance: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, each grantee shall, as a condition of the grant, secure and maintain
the following liability insurance policies insuring both of grantee and the
city, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents and employees
as coinsureds:
      1.   Comprehensive general liability insurance with limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to every person.
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability.
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
limit of three million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each person and three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00) for each accident.
      3.   Workers' compensation within statutory limits and employer's
liability insurance with limits of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00).
      4.   Comprehensive form premises operations, explosions and collapse
hazard, underground hazard and products completed hazard with limits of not
less than three million dollars ($3,000,000.00).
      5.   The liability insurance policies required by this section shall be
maintained by the grantee throughout the term of the telecommunications license
or franchise, and such other period of time during which the grantee is
operating without a franchise or license hereunder, or is engaged in the
removal of its telecommunications facilities. Each such insurance policy shall
contain the following endorsements:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be cancelled nor
the intention not to renew be stated until 90 days after receipt by the City,
by registered mail, or a written notice addressed to the City Clerk of such
intent to cancel or not to renew.
      6.   Within sixty (60) days after receipt by the city of said notice, and
in no event later than thirty (30) days prior to said cancellation, the grantee
shall obtain and furnish to the city replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   Q.   General Indemnification: Each license or franchise agreement shall
include, to the extent permitted by law, grantee's express undertaking to
defend, indemnify and hold the city and its officers, employees, agents and
representatives harmless from and against any and all damages, losses and
expense, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of suit or defense,
arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or result from the
negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to act or misconduct
of the grantee or its affiliates, officers, employees, agents, contractors or
subcontractors in the construction, operation, maintenance, repair or removal
of its telecommunications facilities, and in providing or offering
telecommunications services over the facilities or network, whether such acts
or omissions are authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a
grant agreement made or entered into pursuant to this chapter.
   R.   Performance And Construction Surety: Before a license or franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter is effective, and as necessary thereafter, the
grantee shall provide and deposit such monies, bonds, letters of credit or
other instruments in form and substance acceptable to the city as may be
required by this chapter or by an applicable license or franchise agreement.
   S.   Construction And Completion Bond: Unless otherwise provided in a
license or franchise agreement, a performance bond written by a corporate
surety acceptable to the city equal to at least one hundred percent (100%) of
the estimated cost of constructing grantee's telecommunications facilities
within the public ways of the city shall be deposited before construction is
commenced.
      1.   The construction bond shall remain in force until sixty (60) days
after substantial completion of the work, as determined by the city engineer,
including restoration of public ways and other property affected by the
construction.
      2.   The construction bond shall guarantee, to the satisfaction of the
city:
         a.   Timely completion of construction;
         b.   Construction in compliance with applicable plans, permits,
technical codes and standards;
         c.   Proper location of the facilities as specified by the city;
         d.   Restoration of the public ways and other property affected by the
construction;
         e.   The submission of "as-built" drawings after completion of the
work as required by this chapter;
         f.   Timely payment and satisfaction of all claims, demands or liens
for labor, material or services provided in connection with the work.
   T.   Coordination Of Construction Activities: All grantees are required to
cooperate with the city and with each other.
      1.   By February 1 of each year, grantees shall provide the city with a
schedule of their proposed construction activities in, around or that may
affect the public ways.
      2.   Each grantee shall meet with the city, other grantees and users of
the public ways annually or as determined by the city to schedule and
coordinate construction in the public ways.
      3.   All construction locations, activities and schedules shall be
coordinated, as ordered by the city engineer, to minimize public inconvenience,
disruption or damages.
   U.   Assignments Or Transfers Of Grants: Ownership or control of a
telecommunications system, license or franchise may not, directly or
indirectly, be transferred, assigned or disposed of by sale, lease, merger,
consolidation or other act of the grantee, by operation of law or otherwise,
without the prior consent of the city, which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed, as expressed by ordinance and then only on such reasonable
conditions as may be prescribed therein.
      1.   No grant shall be assigned or transferred in any manner within
twelve (12) months after the initial grant of the license or franchise, unless
otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement.
      2.   Absent extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances, no grant,
system or integral part of a system shall be assigned or transferred before
construction of the telecommunications system has been completed.
      3.   Grantee and the proposed assignee or transferee of the grant or
system shall provide and certify the following information to the city not less
than one hundred fifty (150) days prior to the proposed date of transfer:
         a.   Complete information setting forth the nature, terms and
conditions of the proposed transfer or assignment;
         b.   All information required of a telecommunications license or
franchise applicant pursuant to subsection 8-3-5A or 8-3-17A of this chapter
with respect to the proposed transferee or assignee;
         c.   Any other information reasonably required by the city.
      4.   No transfer shall be approved unless the assignee or transferee has
the legal, telecommunications, financial and other requisite qualifications to
own, hold and operate the telecommunications system pursuant to this chapter.
      5.   Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise agreement, the
grantee shall reimburse the city for all direct and indirect fees, costs, and
expenses reasonably incurred by the city in considering a request to transfer
or assign a telecommunications license or franchise.
      6.   Any transfer or assignment of a telecommunications grant, system or
integral part of a system without prior approval of the city under this section
or pursuant to a license or franchise agreement shall be void and is cause for
revocation of the grant.
   V.   Transactions Affecting Control Of Grant: Any transactions which
singularly or collectively result in a charge of ten percent (10%) or more of
the ownership or working control of the grantee, of the ownership or working
control of a telecommunications license or franchise, of the ownership or
working control of affiliated entities having ownership or working control of
the grantee or of a telecommunications system, or of control of the capacity or
bandwidth of grantee's telecommunications system, facilities or substantial
parts thereof, shall be considered an assignment or transfer requiring city
approval pursuant to subsection U of this section. Transactions between
affiliated entities are not exempt from city approval.
   W.   Revocation Or Termination Of Grant: A license or franchise granted by
the city to use or occupy public ways of the city may be revoked for the
following reasons:
      1.   Construction or operation in the city or in the public ways of the
city without a license or franchise grant of authorization.
      2.   Construction or operation at an unauthorized location.
      3.   Unauthorized substantial transfer of control of the grantee.
      4.   Unauthorized assignment of a license or franchise.
      5.   Unauthorized sale, assignment or transfer of grantee's franchise or
license assets, or a substantial interest therein.
      6.   Misrepresentation or lack of candor by or on behalf of a grantee in
any application to the city.
      7.   Abandonment of telecommunications facilities in the public ways.
      8.   Failure to relocate or remove facilities as required in this
chapter.
      9.   Failure to pay taxes, compensation, fees or costs when and as due
the city.
      10.   Insolvency or bankruptcy of the grantee.
      11.   Violation of material provisions of this chapter.
      12.   Violation of the material terms of a license or franchise
agreement.
   X.   Notice And Duty To Cure: In the event that the city clerk believes that
grounds exist for revocation of a license or franchise, he shall give the
grantee written notice of the apparent violation or noncompliance, and
providing the grantee a reasonable period of time not exceeding thirty (30)
days to furnish evidence:
      1.   That corrective action has been, or is being actively and
expeditiously pursued, to remedy the violation or noncompliance.
      2.   That rebuts the alleged violation or noncompliance.
      3.   That it would be in the public interest to impose some penalty or
sanction less than revocation.
   Y.   Hearing: In the event that a grantee fails to provide evidence
reasonably satisfactory to the city clerk as provided in subsection X of this
section, the city clerk shall refer the apparent violation or noncompliance to
the city council. The city council shall provide the grantee with notice and a
reasonable opportunity to be heard concerning the matter following the same
procedure as used in quasi judicial hearings.
   Z.   Standards For Revocation Or Lesser Sanctions: If persuaded that the
grantee has violated or failed to comply with material provisions of this
chapter, or of a franchise or license agreement, the city council shall
determine whether to revoke the license or franchise, or to establish some
lesser sanction and cure, considering the nature, circumstances, extent and
gravity of the violation as reflected by one or more of the following factors:
      1.   Whether the misconduct was egregious.
      2.   Whether substantial harm resulted.
      3.   Whether the violation was intentional.
      4.   Whether there is a history of prior violation of the same or other
requirements.
      5.   Whether there is a history of overall compliance.
      6.   Whether the violation was voluntarily disclosed, admitted or cured.
(Ord. 549, 10-12-2000)
8-3-32: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   General: No person shall commence or continue with the construction,
installation or operation of telecommunications facilities within the city
except as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Construction Codes: Telecommunications facilities shall be constructed,
installed, operated and maintained in accordance with all applicable federal,
state and local codes, rules and regulations including the national electrical
safety code.
   C.   Construction Permits: No person shall construct or install any
telecommunications facilities within the city without first obtaining any
required construction permit therefor, provided, however:
      1.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities within the city unless the telecommunications
carrier has filed a registration statement with the city pursuant to section
8-3-4 of this chapter.
      2.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities in the public ways unless the telecommunications
carrier has applied for and received a license or franchise pursuant to
sections
8-3-5 and
8-3-17 of this chapter.
      3.   No permit shall be issued for the construction or installation of
telecommunications facilities without payment of any and all construction
permit fees.
   D.   Applications: Applications for permits to construct telecommunications
facilities shall be submitted upon forms to be provided by the city and shall
be accompanied by drawings, plans and specifications in sufficient detail to
demonstrate:
      1.   That the facilities will be constructed in accordance with all
applicable codes, rules and regulations.
      2.   The location and route of all facilities to be installed on existing
utility poles.
      3.   The location and route of all facilities to be located under the
surface of the ground, including the line and grade proposed for the burial at
all points along the route which are within the public ways.
      4.   The location and route of all existing underground utilities,
conduits, ducts, pipes, mains and installations which are within the public
ways along the underground route proposed by the applicant.
      5.   The location of all other facilities to be constructed within the
city, but not within the public ways.
      6.   The construction methods to be employed for protection of existing
structures, fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent to the public ways.
      7.   The location and dimension and types of all trees within or adjacent
to the public ways along the route proposed by the applicant, together with
landscape plan for protecting, trimming, removing, replacing and restoring any
trees or areas to be described during construction.
   E.   Engineer's Certification: All permit applications shall be accompanied
by the certification of a registered professional engineer that the drawings,
plans and specifications submitted with the application comply with applicable
technical codes, rules and regulations.
   F.   Traffic Control Plan: All permit applications which involve work on,
in, under, across or along any public ways shall be accompanied by a traffic
control plan demonstrating the protective measures and devices that will be
employed, consistent with uniform manual of traffic control devices, to prevent
injury or damage to persons or property and to minimize disruptions to
efficient pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   G.   Issuance Of Permit: Within forty five (45) days after submission of all
plans and documents required of the applicants and payment of the permit fees
required by this chapter, the city engineer, if satisfied that the
applications, plans and documents comply with all requirements of this chapter,
shall issue a permit authorizing construction of the facilities, subject to
such further conditions, restrictions or regulations affecting the time, place
and manner of performing the work as he may deem necessary or appropriate.
   H.   Construction Schedule: The permittee shall submit a written
construction schedule to the city engineer ten (10) working days before
commencing any working in or about the public ways. The permittee shall further
notify the city engineer not less than two (2) working days in advance of any
excavation or work in the public ways.
   I.   Compliance With Permit: All construction practices and activities shall
be in accordance with the permit and approved final plans and specifications
for the facilities. The city engineer and his representatives shall be provided
access to the work and such further information as he or she may require to
ensure compliance with such requirements.
   J.   Display Of Permit: The permittee shall maintain a copy of the
construction permit and approved plans at the construction site, which shall be
displayed and made available for inspection by the city engineer or his
representatives at all times when construction work is occurring.
   K.   Survey Of Underground Facilities: If the construction permit specifies
the location of facilities by depth, line, grade, proximity to other facilities
or other standards, the permittee shall cause the location of such facilities
to be verified by a registered Nevada land surveyor. The permittee shall
relocate any facilities which are not located in compliance with permit
requirements.
   L.   Noncomplying Work: Upon order of the city engineer, all work which does
not comply with the permit, the approved plans and specifications for the work
or the requirements of this chapter, shall be removed.
   M.   Completion Of Construction: The permittee shall promptly complete all
construction activities so as to minimize disruption of the city ways and other
public and private property. All construction work authorized by a permit
within city ways, including restoration, must be completed within one hundred
twenty (120) days of the date of issuance.
   N.   As Built Drawings: Within sixty (60) days after completion of
construction, the permittee shall furnish the city with two (2) complete sets
of plans, drawn to scale and certified to the city as accurately depicting the
location of all telecommunications facilities constructed pursuant to the
permit.
   O.   Restoration Of Improvements: Upon completion of any construction work,
the permittee shall promptly repair any and all public property improvements,
fixtures, structures and facilities in the public ways or otherwise damaged
during the course of construction, restoring the same as nearly as practicable
to its condition before the start of construction.
   P.   Landscape Restoration: All trees, landscaping and grounds removed,
damaged or disturbed as a result of the construction, installation,
maintenance, repair or replacement of telecommunications facilities, whether
such work is done pursuant to a franchise, license or permit shall be replaced
or restored as nearly as may be practicable, to the condition existing prior to
performance of work. All restoration work within the public ways shall be done
in accordance with landscape plans approved by the city engineer.
   Q.   Construction Surety: Prior to issuance of a construction permit, the
permittee shall provide a performance bond, as provided in subsection 8-3-31R
of this chapter.
   R.   Exception: Unless otherwise provided in a license or franchise
agreement, all telecommunications carriers are subject to the requirements of
this chapter.
   S.   Responsibility Of Owner: The owner of the facilities to be constructed
and, if different, the license or franchise grantee, are responsible for
performance of and compliance with all provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 549,
10-12-2000)
CHAPTER 4
WHITE PINE COUNTY LIBRARY
SECTION:
8-4-1: Detainment Or Destruction Of Library Property
8-4-2: Agreements With State Library And Archives Administrator For Improvement
Of Services
8-4-3: Overdue Materials
8-4-4: Library Privileges Suspended
8-4-5: Damaged Materials
8-4-6: Lost Materials
8-4-1: DETAINMENT OR DESTRUCTION OF LIBRARY PROPERTY 1 :
   A.   Any person who wilfully detains any book, newspaper, magazine,
pamphlet, manuscript, filmstrip, videotape, audiotape or other property of the
public library or reading room for more than thirty (30) days after receipt of
written notice demanding the return of any such article or property shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
   B.   Any person who wilfully cuts, tears, defaces, breaks or injures any
book, map, videotape, audiotape, newspaper, magazine, pamphlet, manuscript,
chart, picture, engraving, statue, coin, model, apparatus or other work of
literature, art, mechanics or object of curiosity deposited in the public
library or reading room or other property of the public library or reading room
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   C.   The parent or guardian of a minor who wilfully and maliciously commits
any acts within the scope of subsection A or B of this section is liable for
all damages so caused by the minor. (Ord. 607, 7-6-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 379.160.
8-4-2: AGREEMENTS WITH STATE LIBRARY AND ARCHIVES ADMINISTRATOR FOR IMPROVEMENT
OF SERVICES:
A library operated pursuant to the provisions of this chapter may enter into
agreements with the state library and archives administrator, where the
objective of the agreements is the improvement of library service. (Ord. 607,
7-6-2005)
8-4-3: OVERDUE MATERIALS:
The following fines will be charged for overdue materials at the White Pine
County library:
 
Adult and juvenile materials (including books on     $0.05 per item, per day
tape)
Videocassettes                                       1.00 per item, per day
 
The first overdue notice will be sent fourteen (14) to twenty eight (28) days
after the due date of the materials. If the materials are not returned twenty
eight (28) to forty five (45) days after the due date a second notice will be
mailed and the patron will be called. If the materials are not returned forty
five (45) to sixty (60) days after the due date a third notice with a letter
will be sent to the patron. The letter states that Nevada Revised Statutes
379.160 makes them criminally liable and the patron is responsible to pay the
cost of the library material and a three dollar ($3.00) processing fee for each
book if the materials are not found. If the materials are not returned within
two (2) weeks of the third notice, a letter will be hand delivered by law
enforcement with a specific date by which the materials must be returned. If
the materials are not returned by the date mentioned in the hand delivered
letter, the patron will be issued a citation under section
8-4-1 of this chapter.
All White Pine County library circulating materials have a seven (7) day
(dating from the original due date) grace period during which no overdue fines
will be collected. After the grace period is up, overdue fines will be computed
from the due date. There is no grace period for videocassettes. (Ord. 607, 7-6-
2005)
8-4-4: LIBRARY PRIVILEGES SUSPENDED:
   A.   When library privileges are suspended the patron may not borrow library
materials. Library privileges are suspended for the following reasons:
      1.   When the patron received the third notice (45 to 60 days after the
due date) for library materials that have not been returned, or
      2.   When the patron has five dollars ($5.00) or more in outstanding
fines for library materials that have been returned late, or
      3.   When the patron owes for lost or damaged materials.
   B.   Exceptions to suspending privileges due to reasons in subsection A2 or
A3 of this section can be made when the patron shows good faith by making
payment on an existing fine or bill. (Ord. 607, 7-6-2005)
8-4-5: DAMAGED MATERIALS:
Patrons are responsible for damaged materials when it can be determined they
are liable. The charges are as follows:
   A.   Minor Damage:
Pencil damage                             $0.10 per page
Crayon, ink and other permanent stains    0.20 per page
Pages torn, but mendable                  0.20 per page
Cassette hang up bags                     0.70 each
Missing nonessential page                 1.00 each
Book pocket                               0.25 each
Bar code                                  0.50 each
Plastic book jacket:                    
Up to 10 inches                           0.25 each
Up to 12 inches                           0.30 each
Over 12 inches                            0.35 each
Videocassette carrier box                 1.50 each
Audiocassette carrier box:              
1 - 2 cassettes                           3.00
4 cassettes                               5.00
6 cassettes                               5.25
8 cassettes                               5.35
12 cassettes                              6.00
 
   B.   Extensive Damage: For books and other library materials beyond repair
the patron will be charged the cost of the book or material plus a three dollar
($3.00) processing fee. Library materials include all materials belonging to
the library that are available for loan. (Ord. 607, 7-6-2005)
8-4-6: LOST MATERIALS:
When a patron reports the borrowed material lost or fails to return the
materials, the patron will make restitution to the library by paying for the
materials. Once the patron has paid for the book or library material the patron
owns the material. There are no refunds. (Ord. 607, 7-6-2005)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRICAL POWER, TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND CABLE PLANNING, INSTALLATION AND
REMOVAL OF POLES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Definitions
8-5-3: Policy
8-5-4: Exceptions And Conditions, New Development
8-5-5: Exceptions And Conditions, Rebuilding
8-5-6: Plans And Approval, New Construction
8-5-7: Requirements For Relocating Poles And Structures
8-5-8: Requirements Before Relocating From Existing Poles And Structures
8-5-9: Severance
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
In order to promote the health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the
inhabitants of all new residential, commercial, and industrial developments;
and to improve the aesthetic appearance of the city, the purpose of this
chapter is to require electrical and communication distribution lines,
including television service facilities, wires, and cables installed within and
for the purpose of serving new residential, industrial and commercial
developments, shall be placed underground, except as hereinafter provided; and
further to establish a program for removal of poles, overhead wires and
associated structures of existing electrical and communications facilities
within the city that do not meet the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 703,
11-17-2016)
8-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this chapter the words or phrases hereinafter defined are used,
they shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in this section:
CITY: The city of Ely, a municipal corporation of the state of Nevada.
CIVIL DEFENSE SIREN POLE: A pole used exclusively to provide notification to
the general public for civil defense purposes, by siren, owned, installed and
maintained by the city of Ely, White Pine County or the state of Nevada for
their exclusive use.
COMMISSION: The city of Ely planning commission.
COUNCIL: The Ely city council.
EXCESS POLE: Any pole or set of poles that exceeds the city of Ely's pole
limitations of two (2) poles per one hundred (100) linear feet, absent approval
by the city engineer based on the topography of particular pole locations and
applications, or service connections and existing street layouts.
LEAD UTILITY: The utility company initiating a project subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
LIGHT POLE: A pole used exclusively for the provision of street lighting owned,
installed and maintained by the city of Ely, White Pine County, or the state of
Nevada.
MIGRATION PLAN: A plan submitted by a utility company to remove its appliances
from a pole as part of a submitted project, to include time frames in which the
utility company will remove their appliances and the plan to remove the pole
that is being replaced as part of the submitted plan.
PERSON: Includes individuals, businesses, firms, corporations, partnerships and
their agents and employees.
POLES, OVERHEAD WIRES AND ASSOCIATED OVERHEAD STRUCTURES: Poles, towers,
supports, wires, conductors, guywires, stubs, platforms, crossarms, braces,
transformers, insulators, cutouts, switches, communication circuits,
appliances, attachments and appurtenances located above ground upon, along,
across or over the public streets, alleys and ways of the city and used or
useful in supplying electric, communication, cable or similar and/or associated
services.
REPLACEMENT POLE: Includes, but is not limited to, a pole being installed to
transfer facilities from an existing pole to a new pole to replace an unsafe
pole, pole realignment, poles that cannot support the load required by the lead
utility, and the physical location of a pole (for example: moving a pole from
in front of a driveway, inside a sidewalk or gutter).
TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION POLE: A pole used for on site construction, such as a
business or residence, to provide temporary lighting and/or power to the
construction site on either private or city property.
TRAFFIC CONTROL POLE: A pole used exclusively for the control of traffic on
streets owned, installed and maintained by the city of Ely, White Pine County
or the state of Nevada.
TRANSMISSION POLE: A pole used for transmission of more than sixty thousand
(60,000) volts.
UNDERGROUND FACILITIES REQUIRED, NEW DEVELOPMENTS: All electric distribution
and communication lines, including television service facilities, wires,
cables, conduits or pipes installed within the limits of the city for the
purpose of serving any new developments, including residential, commercial,
industrial, recreational or civic use, shall be placed underground, subject to
exceptions provided in section
8-5-4 of this chapter.
UNDERGROUND FACILITIES REQUIRED, REBUILDING: Utilities may construct, own,
operate and maintain underground lines along public streets, roads and highways
which the utility has a legal right to occupy, and on public lands and private
property across which rights of way and easements have been obtained whenever
there is a requirement to rebuild, replace or move an existing distribution
line, or to build a new distribution line consistent with the existing
conditions, except for new subdivision requirements in title 11 of this code.
UTILITY: Includes all persons or entities supplying electric, communication,
cable or similar or associated services.
UTILITY CUSTOMER: The owner, developer, subdivider, resubdivider, builder or
other person, partnership, association, firm or governmental agency requesting
utility services. (Ord. 703, 11-17-2016)
8-5-3: POLICY:
It is the policy of the city of Ely to allow aboveground utilities for the
provision of power, telephone and cable services within the incorporated city
limits except as provided in titles 9, 11 and 12 of this code, or changes to
those designated city codes as may occur from time to time by the city council.
It is also the policy of the city of Ely that companies providing utilities or
services from a pole shall be required to meet and confer prior to work
beginning on the placement of new poles or replacement of existing poles
pursuant to this chapter, that these companies bring forth a comprehensive plan
to remove excess poles that are being abandoned in favor of newly constructed
or newly placed poles, adding the requirement that all utility companies are
required to obtain a building or construction permit prior to work beginning on
the replacement of poles or the relocation of existing poles pursuant to title
9 of this code. (Ord. 703, 11-17-2016)
8-5-4: EXCEPTIONS AND CONDITIONS, NEW DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Municipal equipment installed under the supervision of and to the
satisfaction of the city engineer or the city building official. All conductors
for new construction to city owned structures shall be underground, if
conditions allow for underground installation, in accordance with this chapter.
   B.   High voltage transmission lines transmitting electricity over sixty
thousand (60,000) volts or distribution lines of over six hundred (600) volts
may be carried on poles. On new transmission lines, metal poles or equivalent
poles as may be required by the city engineer at major angle points for the
purpose of eliminating the necessity for guywires (excluding purposes of
aesthetics). The poles for all tangent structures shall follow the lead utility
industry standards. Pole installation shall conform to good construction
practices with poles properly plumbed or raked. The new poles shall be located
on routes approved by the city engineer and/or building official within the
existing city rights of way or easement.
   C.   Service connections from an overhead distribution line in an existing
developed residential area may be aerial if the majority of services in the
immediate vicinity are aerial; or may be underground at the request of the
customer.
   D.   Radio and television antennas and associated equipment and supporting
structures used for furnishing communication services, but not including a
communications distribution system on poles.
   E.   House service switch boxes, exposed conduits at buildings and electric
meters may be above ground. Communications enclosed terminal blocks may be
pedestal mounted or placed underground and will be located as close to electric
transformers as is practicable.
   F.   Subdivisions (as defined in title 11 of this code) for which a final
map has been recorded within one year prior to the effective date hereof, and
which is actively under construction but not completed are not required to
comply with the terms of this chapter. A subdivision will be considered to be
actively under construction if substantial construction work has been performed
on at least fifty percent (50%) of all working days during the period from the
start of construction to the effective date hereof.
   G.   Industrial and commercial developments which have received all
necessary approvals required for the planning commission and the city council
within six (6) months prior to the effective date hereof, and which are under
construction on the effective date hereof.
   H.   Temporary service, other than emergency services, may be approved by
the city engineer and/or building official upon application by the utility
stating the reasons for such temporary construction. Among valid reasons for
approving a temporary overhead line is unavailability of supplies or equipment
because of manufacturer delays. Approval for temporary overhead distribution
must be obtained prior to construction. In the event the city engineer and/or
building official do not approve an application for temporary overhead
distribution and the utility wishes to appeal the decision, they may make
application to the city planning commission whose recommendation shall be
considered by the city council for approval or disapproval of the application.
The determination of the city council to approve or disapprove the application
shall be final. Permission to make a temporary service installation shall be
for a definite period of time and the time may be extended upon acceptable
grounds.
   I.   Emergency services are required because of malfunction or damage to any
existing system or components. The utility may make such emergency connections
as are required to maintain service to any customer and shall, within two (2)
business days based upon the lead utility's business hours, after such
construction, report the same to the city engineer and/or building official in
writing if the emergency service is still in use. If the emergency service is
to be used longer than fourteen (14) consecutive days, then the utility shall
make application for a temporary service as described above. (Ord. 703, 11-17-
2016)
8-5-5: EXCEPTIONS AND CONDITIONS, REBUILDING:
   A.   Emergency line or pole replacements shall not require the parties to
meet and confer or obtain a building permit prior to repair. However, as soon
as practicable after reestablishing services, the utility company shall provide
documentation to support the emergency nature of the repair, shall provide a
copy of the "as builts" and shall then meet and confer with the other affected
utilities to ensure a remediation plan is provided to move the other utilities
from the old pole to the new pole, if a new pole is in place.
   B.   The addition of new circuits, or upgrading of existing wires or cables
on an existing serviceable pole line for the purpose of serving additional
customers shall not be construed as rebuilding or replacing a distribution
line.
   C.   All applicable exceptions included in section
8-5-4 of this chapter apply in this section.
   D.   The city shall, at its own expense, remove all city owned equipment
from poles required to be removed. Removal shall be made upon notification by
the utility that such removal is necessary. (Ord. 703, 11-17-2016)
8-5-6: PLANS AND APPROVAL, NEW CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   The utility customer shall be responsible for complying with all
applicable requirements of this chapter and shall make the necessary
arrangements with the utility companies involved. For the specifications, the
utility companies shall comply with this chapter in the installation of said
facilities. The installation specifications and design plans shall comply with
the national electrical safety code and any other applicable federal, state or
local ordinances.
   B.   New subdivision utility customers shall provide a statement on the
tentative map or development map, indicating desired access and terminal points
of distribution system proposed, and shall provide the utility companies with
copies of all proposed development plans necessary for proper design of the
utility system. The utility company shall show its approval by authorized
signature on the map prior to its submission to the city.
   C.   The utility shall furnish the applicant and the city engineer and/or
building official with approved plans required by the utility for overall
underground system. The utility services will be furnished in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the planning commission and this chapter, where
applicable.
   D.   An "as built" plan shall be furnished to the city engineer and/or
building official by the utility companies involved which will show the
underground distribution system as actually installed.
   E.   It shall be the responsibility of the utility customer to provide
underground utility easements as may be required.
   F.   Underground electrical, communication or similar associated services
shall be installed in conduit or direct buried with spare conduit available
when crossing any major street or at any street intersection. The size of the
conduit shall be determined by the utility involved, allowing for future
requirements. The requirements may be waived by the city engineer and/or
building official for just cause, except "valued engineering".
   G.   The utility shall furnish the city engineer and/or building official
plans for approval for construction of any utility system which is to be
installed within any portion of a public right of way or easement. (Ord. 703,
11-17-2016)
8-5-7: REQUIREMENTS FOR RELOCATING POLES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   All utilities wishing to relocate from an existing pole or structure to
a new pole or structure, reerect, reconstruct, or replace a one hundred (100)
linear foot in length section or more of an existing system of poles and
overhead wires and associated overhead structures, shall use minimum industry
standard poles based upon the lead utility's engineering standards. Where the
continuity of alignment is broken by the intersection with a major thoroughfare
or highway, by change in alignment of a street or a pole line, or the end of a
pole line, or by city owned property, the city engineer and/or building
official may require the replacement of smaller sections with industry standard
poles as designated by the lead utility engineering standards.
   B.   In the event the city engineer and/or the building official do not
approve the plan provided by the lead utility, the lead utility may appeal that
decision to the planning commission for a recommendation to the city council
for final approval. If the city council does not approve the plan submitted by
the lead utility, the lead utility may then file a complaint in the 7th
judicial district court, in and for the county of White Pine. Unless
recommended for approval by the city engineer and/or building official, or
based upon an appeal to the planning commission and city council there cannot
be more than two (2) poles of any type covered by this chapter within one
hundred (100) linear feet.
   C.   The plan must specify the distance between each existing pole and any
new pole the utility intends on installing.
   D.   The party responsible for each action or task in the pole plan,
meaning, which utility is responsible for installing the new pole, the time
frame in which each of the other utilities may migrate to the new pole, go
underground, or wireless and which utility will be responsible for removing the
"excess" pole.
   E.   The actual date, within ninety (90) calendar days from migration to the
new pole system, when the "excess pole" will be removed.
   F.   If the utilities are unable to agree upon a migration plan, the matter
will be submitted to the building official and the city engineer, if not
approved by the building official and the city engineer, to the planning
commission for a recommendation to the city council to impose a migration plan
upon all of the utilities in order to meet the requirements of this chapter.
The building official and the city engineer have the authority to issue a
"notice to proceed" to the lead utility while the parties appeal the action
through the planning commission and city council. (Ord. 703, 11-17-2016)
8-5-8: REQUIREMENTS BEFORE RELOCATING FROM EXISTING POLES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Construction And Migration Plan Required: Except in emergency
situations, such as downed poles, before any utility can move from an existing
pole to a new pole or series of poles the lead utility shall:
      1.   Obtain a building permit from the city of Ely building department,
pay the appropriate fee (established by the city council by resolution to
recover the actual costs of the city engineer and the building official's
actual hours incurred in the plan review and any subsequent work on the
project, such costs to be equally divided between all utilities with facilities
on each of the affected poles), and provide a copy of all plan documents,
including, but not limited to, drawings, design specifications, etc., related
to the migration from one pole or set of poles to a new pole or set of poles or
an alternative installation plan;
      2.   Within fourteen (14) business days or as soon thereafter as is
practicable, all utilities affected by the planned migration, shall meet and
confer 1  with the city building official and the city engineer, to discuss the
installation plans, time requirements, and the necessity for the migration.
Each utility will be required to provide a migration plan, including design
specifications for placement of other utilities on the poles being migrated to;
      3.   During the meet and confer, all affected utilities shall discuss and
each affected utility shall provide to the building official and city engineer,
any and all plans, design specifications, and a written plan for their
migration from an existing pole to the new pole, or in the alternative, their
proposal to either go wireless or underground. Should a utility wish to
transition to underground rather than incur the cost to migrate from an
existing pole to the newly designed pole, they shall provide their migration
plan, along with the applicable fees to the building official and/or city
engineer for review and approval;
      4.   Following the meet and confer with the building official and the
city engineer, but before construction begins, all affected utilities shall be
required to provide their migration plan, including which utility will be
responsible for the removal of the pole migrated from and a time line in which
this will be accomplished, but in all cases, absent unavoidable emergencies or
acts of God, all migration shall be completed by all affected utilities and the
"old" pole shall be removed and the surface area in the right of way shall be
rehabilitated to a condition similar to the adjoining or abutting areas where
the pole is removed from (e.g., if the location is a dirt lot, then the hole
shall be filled with appropriate soil) within ninety (90) calendar days of
completion of the migration;
      5.   The migration plan for each utility must be accomplished within
ninety (90) calendar days from the time the lead utility company notifies the
city of Ely the project is completed.
   B.   Denial Of Construction And Migration Plan:
      1.   The city building official and the city engineer must recommend
approval of the construction plan and migration plan in order for a building
permit to issue. The building official and/or the city engineer shall deny a
construction plan or the migration plan if it fails to meet the requirements of
this chapter.
      2.   If the city building official and/or the city engineer deny the
construction and/or migration plan, the utility may resubmit, within ninety
(90) calendar days from the date of denial, an amended or corrected
construction and/or migration plan which will be treated as a new plan review,
subject to the appropriate plan review fees.
   C.   Appeal Of Denial Of Construction And Migration Plan:
      1.   The utility whose construction and/or migration plan is denied may
request a hearing with the planning commission and subsequently with the city
council by providing written notification to the city administrator of its
desires to be placed on the agenda for the express purpose of appealing the
decision of the city building official and/or the city engineer. The city
administrator will place the item on the next available agenda for the planning
commission and subsequently the city council.
      2.   Except for design requirements as the reason for denial of the
construction plan and/or migration plan, the city council's decision shall be
final. The city council may, at its sole discretion but subject to the veto of
the mayor, override the denial of the city building official and/or city
engineer, it may grant an extension of time for the affected utilities to
migrate from an existing pole to a new pole outside of the ninety (90) calendar
day requirement above, or it may grant a variance addressing issues affecting
the location of the placement of the new pole, it may grant a variance to allow
an existing pole to remain, or it may grant other relief it deems appropriate.
      3.   Thereafter, the affected utility may appeal to the 7th judicial
district court, in and for White Pine County, state of Nevada. Should the
affected utility file a cause of action with the 7th judicial district court,
in and for White Pine County, state of Nevada, the city is not waiving any of
its rights or remedies under the law for enforcement of this chapter. (Ord.
703, 11-17-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. The meet and confer may be conducted via telephone and does not require
  the parties to physically meet in Ely, Nevada.
8-5-9: SEVERANCE:
Should the 7th judicial district court, in and for White Pine County, state of
Nevada, or any appellate court with jurisdiction over the claims determine any
provision of this chapter be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, or the
occurrence of any event renders any portion or provision of this chapter void,
shall in no way affect the validity or enforceability of any other portion or
provision of this chapter. Any void provision shall be deemed severed from this
chapter and, to the greatest extent possible, the balance of this chapter shall
be construed and enforced as if this chapter did not contain the particular
portion or provision held to be void. (Ord. 703, 11-17-2016)
CHAPTER 6
SALE OR LEASE OF CITY REAL PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose of Appraiser Provisions
8-6-2: Conflict of Ordinances
8-6-3: List of Qualified Appraisers
8-6-4: Appraiser Selection Process
8-6-1: PURPOSE OF APPRAISER PROVISIONS:
Pursuant to the legislative mandate of Nevada Revised Statutes 268.059(2) the
City Council of the City of Ely, Nevada does hereby adopt this chapter
establishing the procedures for creating and amending a list of appraisers
qualified to conduct appraisals of real property offered for sale or lease by
the council. This chapter applies when the city is offering real property for
sale or lease except as otherwise provided by state law including, but not
limited to, those exceptions contained in Nevada Revised Statutes 268.059. This
chapter does not create a legal right, including but not limited to a property
or other constitutional right, to be placed upon the established appraisal
lists or to be awarded a contract for professional services. (Ord. 747, 5-11-
2023)
8-6-2: CONFLICT OF ORDINANCES:
   A.   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with state law applicable to the city, state law shall control.
   B.   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in
any way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or
ordinances or with private restrictions placed upon real property by covenant,
deed, or other private agreements in existence prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   C.   In cases where two or more provisions of this chapter conflict, the
most stringent or restrictive shall prevail. (Ord. 747, 5-11-2023)
8-6-3: LIST OF QUALIFIED APPRAISERS:
   A.   The city shall obtain from the Nevada real estate division a list of
all qualified appraisers in White Pine County. The city shall send a request
for qualification to each appraiser on that list to determine which appraisers
are interested in performing appraisals for sale or lease of city property. The
request for qualifications shall ask the appraiser to designate whether he or
she is willing and qualified to provide an appraisal for the subject property
(ies). The request shall also ask whether the appraiser will and is qualified
to appraise city owned property to be leased. An appraiser who fails to respond
to the request for qualifications for the property(ies) within the time
specified in the request is not eligible to perform appraisals for the city
until requests for qualifications are next released.
   B.   From the responses to the request for qualifications the city shall
prepare a list of appraisers qualified to conduct appraisals of real property
offered for sale or lease by the council. The following standards shall be used
to determine minimum qualifications:
      1.   The appraiser must possess a current and valid business license in
the city;
      2.   The appraiser must possess a general license issued by the State of
Nevada, Nevada Real Estate Division;
      3.   The appraiser must not have violated professional appraiser
standards or statutory requirements in the performance of appraisals or cannot
have been disciplined or fined by any state or federal agency for conduct that
relates to the ability of the appraiser to perform the work to be required by
the city;
      4.   The appraiser must have the ability to obtain and maintain insurance
coverage as required by the city;
      5.   The appraiser must have the professional qualifications and
experience for the specific appraisal required by the city;
      6.   During the five (5) years immediately preceding the date of the
appointment by the city the appraiser must not have breached any contracts with
a public agency or person in this state or any other state or, as a result of
causes within the control of the appraiser, failed to perform any contract:
         a.   In the manner specified by the contract, as amended, and property
approved by the city;
         b.   Within the time specified in the contract unless extended and
properly approved by the city;
         c.   For the amount of money specified in the contract, as amended,
and property approved by the city;
      7.   The appraiser must not have filed as a debtor in a business capacity
under the provisions of the United States Bankruptcy Code during the five (5)
years immediately preceding the date of the application and/or while appraiser
is placed upon any appraiser list.
      8.   The appraiser must not have been disciplined or fined by any state
or federal agency for conduct that relates to the ability of the appraiser to
perform the work to be required by the city;
      9.   The appraiser must have the ability to maintain accurate records for
a period of seven years after completion of the appraisal services rendered to
the city;
      10.   The appraiser's application must be truthful and complete; and
      11.   The appraiser must execute the application form and consent to and
have the ability to satisfy all terms and conditions contained in any proposed
contract for appraisal services presented by the city.
   C.   Appraisers on the list shall keep the city informed of any change in
the status of standards listed in subsections B1 through B10 of this section.
The change in the appraiser's status or failure to maintain the minimum
qualifications is cause for immediate removal from the list by the city. The
city shall provide written notice to any appraiser of his or her removal.
   D.   The names on the list shall be labeled to indicate the appraiser's
willingness and qualification to perform the appraisal(s) on the subject
property(ies). The names on the list must be organized in a random order in a
fashion determined by the city.
   E.   The names of appraisers who are organized in a firm of appraisers may
be placed on the list independently if each is independently qualified. No two
(2) appraisers from the same firm can be selected to appraise the same real
property. An appraiser who cannot be selected because of an appraisal firm
relationship retains his or her place on the list for the next appraisal
required by the city.
   F.   From time to time the city shall obtain a new list from the state real
estate division and follow the procedures in subsections B and C of this
section to assemble a new list. An appraiser whose name is stricken from the
list as required in subsection
8-6-4 (B) of this chapter may be added to the new list if properly qualified
and responsive.
   G.   The ability for an appraiser to be qualified and remain on the list(s)
is a privilege and not a right. All appraisers applying for placement on a list
must acknowledge and agree that any change in the appraiser's status or ability
to maintain the minimum qualification requirements set forth herein shall be
cause for removal from the list. (Ord. 747, 5-11-2023)
8-6-4: APPRAISER SELECTION PROCESS:
   A.   When an appraisal is required for the sale or lease of city real
property the city shall send a request for proposal to the appraiser whose name
is next on the list for the type of property appraisal required. The request
shall identify the property to be appraised, the desired terms and conditions
of appraisal and the requirements for the response to the request for proposal.
The response from the appraiser must include: a statement of specific
qualifications to do the type of appraisal required; a proposal that complies
with the terms and conditions of the request for proposal; the names of other
appraisers in the appraiser's firm, if any; a disclosure statement which
includes, without limitation, all sources of income of the appraiser that may
constitute a conflict of interest, any prior appraisal by the appraiser of the
subject property and any relationship of the appraiser with the city, the owner
of the subject property or the owners of any adjoining property to the one
being appraised; and a statement that the appraiser is not related within the
first degree of consanguinity or affinity to any person who has an interest in
the real property or an adjoining property.
   B.   If an appraiser responds to the request in terms that are responsive
and satisfactory to the city, the appraiser's proposal shall be presented to
the city council which shall verify the qualifications of the appraiser. The
determination of the council as to qualifications is conclusive. An appraiser's
name shall be stricken from the list for the type of appraisal requested if the
appraiser does not satisfactorily respond to the request as determined by the
city or the council declines to verify the appraiser's qualifications.
   C.   The city shall use the list and repeat the selection procedures until
the council approves an appraiser. To expedite the selection process, the city
may send a request for proposal to more than one appraiser on the list. Those
appraisers who respond but are not selected shall retain their places on the
list. The city may also send the name of more than one appraiser to the council
but shall report to the council the order of the appraisers on the list. (Ord.
747, 5-11-2023)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code Adopted
9-1-2: Building Official; Office Established
9-1-3: Building Official; Qualifications
9-1-4: Building Official; Duties
9-1-5: Permit and Plan Review Fees
9-1-6: Nonliability of City
9-1-7: Violation; Penalty
9-1-8: Appeals
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   The City of Ely hereby adopts the International Building Code (IBC),
2018 edition, including all appendices as published by the International Code
Council as the building code for the City of Ely, in the state of Nevada for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and
the demolition of such structures as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said building code
on file in the office of the Ely city clerk are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter.
   B.   At least one (1) copy of the operative building code shall be on file
in the office of the city clerk of the City of Ely for use and examination by
the public. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-1-2: BUILDING OFFICIAL; OFFICE ESTABLISHED:
   A.   The office of the building official is created and the executive office
in charge shall be known as the building official.
   B.   The building official shall be appointed by the Ely city council by its
own motion. His/her appointment shall continue during good behavior and
satisfactory service. He/she shall not be removed from office except on
specific charges.
   C.   During the temporary absence or disability of the building official,
the Ely city council shall designate an acting building official. (Ord. 746, 8-
18-2022)
9-1-3: BUILDING OFFICIAL; QUALIFICATIONS:
To be eligible to appointment, the candidate for the position shall have had
experience as an architect, structural engineer, building inspector or
superintendent of building construction. He/she shall be in good health,
physically capable of making the necessary examinations and inspections. He/she
shall not have any interest, directly or indirectly, in the sale or manufacture
of any material, process or device entering into or used in or in connection
with building construction, alterations, removal, and demolition. (Ord. 746, 8-
18-2022)
9-1-4: BUILDING OFFICIAL; DUTIES:
   A.   Duties: The building official shall devote all necessary time to the
duties of his office. He/she shall receive applications required by this code,
issue permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. He/she shall examine
premises for which permits have been issued and shall make necessary
inspections to see that the provisions of law are complied with and that
construction is prosecuted safely. He/she shall enforce all provisions of the
building code. He/she shall, when requested by proper authority, or when the
public interest so requires, make investigations in connection with matters
referred to in the building code and render written reports on the same. To
enforce compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe conditions, to secure
the necessary safeguards during construction, or to require adequate exit
facilities in buildings and structures, he/she shall issue such notices or
orders as may be necessary.
   B.   Inspections; Issuance of Certificates: Inspections required under the
provisions of the building code shall be made by the building official or his
duly appointed assistant. The building official may accept reports of
inspectors of recognized inspection services, after investigation of their
qualifications and reliability. No certificate called for by any provision of
the building code shall be issued on such reports unless the same are in
writing and certified to by a responsible officer of such service.
   C.   Records: The building official shall keep comprehensive records of
applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made,
or reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued. He/she shall retain on
file copies of required plans and all documents relating to building work so
long as any part of the building structure to which they relate may be in
existence. All such records shall be open to public inspection for good and
sufficient reasons at the stated office hours but shall not be removed from the
office of the building official without his written consent.
   D.   Reports to Council: The building official shall make written reports to
the Ely city council once each month, or oftener if requested, including
statements of permits and certificates issued, and orders promulgated.
   E.   Assistance and Cooperation: The building official may request and shall
receive, so far as may be necessary in the discharge of his duties, the
assistance and cooperation of other officials of the city. (Prior code § 5-6)
   F.   Right of Entry: The building official, in the discharge of his official
duties, and upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any
building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-1-5: PERMIT AND PLAN REVIEW FEES:
   A.   No permit as required by the building code shall be issued until the
fee prescribed by the applicable building code shall have been paid.
   B.   The city building official(s) shall impose fees for issuing permits and
for plan review. All such fees shall conform to the 1997 Uniform Administrative
Code.
   C.   Plan review fees and building permit fees will be applied fairly to all
persons seeking permits. Plan review fees must be paid to each entity
performing plan review. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-1-6: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
This chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the city any liability or
responsibility for damages to any person or property caused by any defect in
the workmanship or structure for which a permit has been issued as herein
provided, nor as a result of defective materials used herein. (Ord. 746, 8-18-
2022)
9-1-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, association, or corporation, whether public or private, who
shall violate any of the provisions of this code hereby adopted or fail to
comply therewith, or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate
or permit issued thereunder, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-1-8: APPEALS:
The Ely city council shall act as a board of appeals. A quorum of the city
council constitutes a quorum of the board of appeals. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
CHAPTER 2
UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Title
9-2-2: Uniform Code For The Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings Adopted
9-2-3: Construction Of Code
9-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the CITY ADOPTION OF THE UNIFORM CODE
FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS. (Ord. 746, - -2022)
9-2-2: UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS ADOPTED:
There is adopted by the Ely city council, for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the repair, vacation and demolition of dangerous buildings
and structures, including permits and penalties, that certain code for the
abatement of dangerous buildings known as the uniform code for the abatement of
dangerous buildings, promulgated by the International Conference of Building
Officials, being particularly the latest and most current edition thereof and
the whole thereof, and all official amendments and supplements thereto, and
future editions on their effective dates, save and except such portions as may
be hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which not less than one (1)
copy have been and now are filed in the office of the city clerk, and the same
are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein,
the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all
buildings and structures in the City of Ely. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-2-3: CONSTRUCTION OF CODE:
This code is to be construed in conjunction with the International Building
Code (IBC). (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Title
9-3-2: Residential Code Adopted
9-3-1: TITLE:
These provisions shall be known as the RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE AND TWO FAMILY
DWELLINGS OF THE CITY OF ELY. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-3-2: RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, one (1) copy of which is on file in the office of the clerk
of the City of Ely, being marked and designated as the International
Residential Code (IRC), the 2018 edition, including appendix chapters G,
"Swimming Pools, Spas And Hot Tubs" H, "Patio Covers", and Q, "Tiny Houses", as
published by the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the
residential code of the City of Ely, in the state of Nevada for regulating and
governing the construction, alteration, movement, enlargement, replacement,
repair, equipment, location, removal and demolition of detached one- and two-
family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings (townhouses) not more
than three (3) stories in height with separate means of egress as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said residential code on file in the office of City of
Ely are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this chapter. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
9-4-1: Title
9-4-2: Adoption of Plumbing Code
9-4-3: Administrative Authority
9-4-4: Nonliability Of City
9-4-5: Violation; Penalty
9-4-6: Appeals
9-4-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as the ELY CITY PLUMBING CODE. (Ord. 746,
8-18-2022)
9-4-2: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
There is adopted by the Ely City Council, Nevada, for the purpose of
establishing regulations, for the installation, alteration and maintenance of
plumbing and drainage systems, that certain plumbing code known as
International Plumbing Code (IPC), being particularly the 2018 edition thereof
and the whole thereof, and official amendments and supplements thereto, and
future editions on their effective date, save and except such portions as are
hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which not less than one (1) copy
in now filed in the office of the City clerk of the City of Ely, Nevada, and
the same are adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein,
and from the effective date hereof, the provisions thereof shall be controlling
in the installation, alteration, and maintenance of plumbing and drainage
systems contained in the City of Ely. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-4-3: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
Whenever the term "administrative authority" is used in this code, it shall be
construed to mean the individual appointed by the Ely city council to serve as
building official, or the person in charge of the department delegated by the
Ely city council as the administrative authority. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-4-4: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
This chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the city any liability or
responsibility for damages to any person or property caused by any defect in
the workmanship or structure for which a permit has been issued as herein
provided, nor as a result of defective materials used herein. (Ord. 746, 8-18-
2022)
9-4-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Section 114.4 of the International Plumbing Code (IPC) is amended so that the
first sentence of the section reads as follows: Section 114.4 Violation
penalties. Any person, firm, association or corporation, whether public or
private, who shall violate any of the provisions of this code hereby adopted or
fail to comply therewith shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 746, 8- 18-2022)
9-4-6: APPEALS:
The City Council shall act as a board of appeals. A quorum of the City Council
constitutes a quorum of the board of appeals. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Adoption of Uniform Administrative Code
9-5-2: Enforcement Administration of National Electric Code
9-5-3: Unlawful Use
9-5-4: Violations And Penalties
9-5-5: Appeals
9-5-1: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE CODE:
There is adopted by the Ely city council, for the purpose of administering and
enforcing in the city, the technical provisions of the 2011 edition of the
National Electric Code (NEC), that certain uniform code known as the uniform
administrative code promulgated by the International Conference Of Building
Officials, being particularly 2011 and the whole thereof, and official
amendments and supplements thereto, and future editions on their effective
date, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or
amended, of which not less than one (1) copy is now on file in the office of
the city clerk, and the same are adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out in length herein. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-5-2: ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
Enforcement of the 2011 edition of the National Electric Code (NEC) in the
city, in effect pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.583, shall be the
responsibility of the office of the building official of the city. (Ord. 746,
8-18-2022)
9-5-3: UNLAWFUL USE:
   A.   Prohibited: Any person who, with intent to injure or defraud any other
person, shall injure, alter, obstruct, or prevent the action of any meter
provided for the purpose of measuring or registering the quantity of electrical
current consumed by or at any burner, orifice or place or supplied to any lamp,
motor, machine or appliance, or shall cause or procure or aid the injuring or
altering of any such meter, or prevention of its action, or shall make or cause
to be made with any electrical conductor of any kind any connection so as to
conduct or supply electrical current to any place, lamp, motor, machine or
appliance from or in which such electrical current may be used or utilized,
without passing through or being registered by a meter, or without the consent
or acquiescence of any person furnishing or transmitting such electrical
current through such electrical conductor, or shall willfully or intentionally
injure, molest or destroy any of the poles, lines, wires, meters or other
appliances or the property or material belonging to any such person furnishing
or transmitting such electrical current, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   Prima Facie Evidence of Guilt: In all prosecutions under subsection A
of this section, proof that any of the acts therein forbidden were done on or
about the premises owned or occupied by the defendant charged with the
commission of such offense or that the defendant received the benefit of such
electric current on account of the commission of such acts, shall be prima
facie evidence of the guilt of such defendant. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-5-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, association or corporation, whether public or private, who
shall violate any of the provisions of this code hereby adopted or fail to
comply therewith shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-5-5: APPEALS:
The City Council shall act as a board of appeals. A quorum of the City Council
constitutes a quorum of the board of appeals. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
CHAPTER 6
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
9-6-1: Adoption of Mechanical Code
9-6-2: Nonliability of City
9-6-3: Violations And Penalties
9-6-4: Appeals
9-6-1: ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE:
There is hereby adopted by the City Council of the City of Ely, Nevada, for the
purpose of providing minimum standards to safeguard the life or limb, health,
property and public welfare by regulation and controlling the design,
construction, installation, quality of materials, location, operation, and
maintenance or use of heating, ventilating, cooling, refrigeration systems,
incinerators and other miscellaneous heat producing appliances, including
permits and penalties, that certain code known as the International Mechanical
Code (IMC) produced by the International Code Council (ICC), being particularly
the 2018 edition thereof and the whole thereof, and official amendments and
supplements thereto, and future editions on their effective date, save and
except for such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of
which not less one (1) copy now on file, in the office of the city clerk, and
the same is adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein,
and the provisions thereof shall be controlling pursuant to the scope of said
code within the City of Ely, state of Nevada. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-6-2: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
This chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the city any liability or
responsibility for damages to any person or property caused by any defect in
the workmanship or structure for which a permit has been issued as herein
provided, nor as a result of defective materials used herein. (Ord. 746, 8-18-
2022)
9-6-3: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Section 108.4 of the International Mechanical Code (IMC) is amended to read as
follows: Section 108.4. Any person, firm, association, or corporation, whether
public or private, who shall violate any of the provisions of this code hereby
adopted or fail to comply therewith shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof shall be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-6-4: APPEALS:
Section 109.1 of the International Mechanical Code (IMC) reference to the board
of appeals means: The City Council shall act as a board of appeals. A quorum of
the City Council constitutes a quorum of the board of appeals. (Ord. 746, 8-18-
2022)
CHAPTER 7
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
9-7-1: Adoption Of Energy Conservation Code
9-7-2: Substantial Compliance Standard
9-7-3: Nonliability Of City
9-7-4: Violations And Penalties
9-7-5: Appeals
9-7-1: ADOPTION OF ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
The Ely city council adopts and incorporates herein by reference, as its energy
code, the 2018 International Energy Conservation Code as published by the
International Code Council in its entirety excepting any amendments and/or
changes as stated in this chapter; and, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling pursuant to the scope of said code within the City of Ely, Nevada.
At least one (1) copy of this code is on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-7-2: SUBSTANTIAL COMPLIANCE STANDARD:
In the enforcement of specific provisions of the adopted technical codes and
standards, the building official or designee is authorized to grant minor
variations from the strict application of specific code and standards
provisions where, in the opinion of the building official, the work is in
substantial compliance with the intent of the adopted codes and standards.
(Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-7-3: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
This chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the City any liability or
responsibility for damages to any person or property caused by any defect in
the workmanship or structure for which a permit has been issued as herein
provided, nor as a result of defective materials used herein. (Ord. 746, 8-18-
2022)
9-7-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, association, or corporation, whether public or private, who
shall violate any of the provisions of this code hereby adopted or fail to
comply therewith shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-7-5: APPEALS:
The City Council of the City of Ely shall act as a board of appeals. A quorum
of the City Council shall constitute a quorum of the board of appeals. (Ord.
746, 8-18-2022)
CHAPTER 8
OFF-SITE MODULAR AND PREFABRICATION CONSTRUCTION CODE
SECTION:
9-8-1: Adoption of Off-Site Modular and Prefabrication Construction Code
9-8-2: Substantial Compliance Standard
9-8-3: Nonliability of City
9-8-4: Violation; Penalty
9-8-5: Appeals
9-8-1: ADOPTION OF OFF-SITE MODULAR AND PREFABRICATION CONSTRUCTION CODE:
The Ely city council adopts and incorporates herein by reference, as its Off-
site Modular and Prefabrication Construction Code, the International Code
Council (ICC) and Modular Building Institute (MBI), ICC/MBI 1200-2021 Standard
for off-site construction, planning, design, fabrication and assembly, as
published by the ICC and MBI in its entirety excepting any amendments and/or
changes as stated in this chapter; and, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling pursuant to the scope of said code within the City of Ely, Nevada.
At least one (1) copy of this code is on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-8-2: SUBSTANTIAL COMPLIANCE STANDARD:
In the enforcement of specific provisions of the adopted technical codes and
standards, the building official or designee is authorized to grant minor
variations from the strict application of specific code and standards
provisions where, in the opinion of the building official, the work is in
substantial compliance with the intent of the adopted codes and standards.
(Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-8-3: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
This chapter shall not be construed as imposing upon the city any liability or
responsibility for damages to any person or property caused by any defect in
the workmanship or structure for which a permit has been issued as herein
provided, nor as a result of defective materials used herein. (Ord. 746, 8-18-
2022)
9-8-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, association or corporation, whether public or private, who
shall violate any of the provisions of this code hereby adopted or fail to
comply therewith shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-8-5: APPEALS:
The Ely city council shall act as a board of appeals. A quorum of the Ely city
council shall constitute a quorum of the board of appeals. (Ord. 746, 8-18-
2022)
CHAPTER 9
IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
9-9-1: Definitions
9-9-2: Curb, Curb and Gutter, Sidewalk
9-9-3: Review By City Engineer
9-9-4: Violation; Penalty
9-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
COMMERCIAL BUILDING:        A building in which a business of any nature is
                            located.
RESIDENCE:                  A place for permanent, human cohabitation which
                            falls into one of the following categories:
                            A multi-unit structure in which units are
                            individually owned, but which does not provide the
   Condominium:          features of condominium/hotel or hotel structure.
                            In a condominium there is outright ownership of a
                            unit or airspace with a divided interest in the
                            common element.
                            A group of three (3) or more dwellings, located on
   Dwelling Group:       a parcel of land in one ownership and having any
                            yard or court in common.
   Dwelling Unit:        One or more rooms designed for occupancy by one
                            family.
   Duplex:               A building containing two (2) dwelling units. Also
                            known as a two-family dwelling.
   Multi- Family DwellingA building containing three (3) or more dwelling
                            units.
                            Multi-family or condominium residences which share
   Row Houses:           common walls and the entrance to each is from the
                            ground floor, i.e., there are no units located
                            totally above or below another unit.
                            A building designed or used for residential
   Single- Family Dwellinpurposes by not more than one family shall be
                            considered a single-family dwelling.
   Two-Family Dwelling:  See definition of Duplex. (Ord. 441, 6-27-1990;
                            amd. Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
 
9-9-2: CURB, CURB AND GUTTER, SIDEWALK:
   A.   Definitions:
      1.   Curb: A curb, by definition, incorporates some raised or vertical
element. The type and location of curbs affect driver behavior and, in turn,
the safety and utility of a roadway. Curbs serve any or all of the following
purposes: drainage control, roadway edge delineation, right-of-way reduction,
aesthetics, delineation of pedestrian walkways, reduction of maintenance
operations, and assistance in orderly roadside development.
      2.   Gutter: A depression that runs parallel to a road and is designed to
collect rainwater that flows along the street. A gutter alleviates water
buildup on a street, allows pedestrians to pass without walking through
puddles, and reduces the risk of hydroplaning by road vehicles. A gutter can be
a part of a L-curb or Valley Gutter.
         a.   A curb gutter and valley gutters are a specific channel for the
collection of rain and runoff water that directs and carries water to a
specific location.
         b.   The concrete gutters are used to protect the edge and overall
surface of the asphalt pavement road.
      3.   Sidewalk: That portion of the roadway right-of-way primarily
constructed for the use of pedestrians
   B.   Existing Structures:
      1.   Curbs shall be Portland cement "L" curb, "A" curb, or roll curb, at
the direction of the City Engineer.
      2.   All improvements within the City right-of-way shall conform with the
requirements of the proposed accessibility guidelines for pedestrian facilities
in the public right-of-way in compliance with ADA, as published in the Federal
Register on July 26, 2011. No monolithic curb, gutter or sidewalk pours are
allowed.
   C.   Existing Residential:
      1.   Property owners may elect to place curb, gutter, and sidewalk along
any part or whole frontage of their property.
      2.   Residential property sidewalks may be constructed of either Portland
cement or asphalt. If constructed of Portland cement, the sidewalk shall have a
medium broom finish and no colorization, tints, or stamps.
      3.   Any improvements that intersect the City right-of-way must have
curb.
      4.   The City shall, at no cost to the property owner, provide staking
for the location of curb and gutter.
      5.   Design and layout of curb, gutter, and sidewalk to be approved by
the City Engineer.
   D.   Existing Commercial:
      1.   Improvements to an existing commercial property must be carried out
through the entire property frontage.
      2.   Only Portland cement may be used for sidewalks.
      3.   All sidewalks are to have a medium broom finish with no other
patterns, textures, or colorization.
      4.   Property owner is responsible for the design and layout of proposed
improvements to be approved by the City.
   E.   New Residential Buildings:
      1.   All new single family residential buildings constructed within all
street frontages shall construct curbs. Curbs shall be Portland cement
concrete, "L", "A", or "Roll" curbs shall have minimum widths of eighteen
inches (18"). The minimum curb return radius shall be five feet (5'). All
corner construction of curbs and sidewalks shall provide for handicap access.
(Ord. 441, 6-27-1990)
      2.   Sidewalks shall meet requirements of the proposed accessibility
guidelines for pedestrian facilities in the public right-of-way in compliance
with ADA, as published in the Federal Register on July 26, 2011, and be
finished with a medium broom finish with no colorization, tints, or stamps.
      3.   The City shall, at no cost to the property owner, provide staking
for the location of curb and gutter.
      4.   The style of gutter to be installed shall be at the direction of the
City Engineer.
   F.   New Commercial Buildings:
      1.   All new commercial buildings, multi-home developments, subdivisions,
and apartments constructed within all street frontages shall construct curbs.
Curbs shall be Portland cement concrete, "L", "A", or "Roll" curbs shall have
minimum widths of eighteen inches (18"). The minimum curb return radius shall
be five feet (5'). All corner construction of curbs and sidewalks shall provide
for handicap access.
      2.   Sidewalks shall meet requirements of the proposed accessibility
guidelines for pedestrian facilities in the public right-of-way in compliance
with ADA, as published in the Federal Register on July 26, 2011, and be
finished with a medium broom finish with no colorization, tints, or stamps.
      3.   New building construction of commercial property shall require a
five foot (5') minimum sidewalk in addition to curb along all property street
frontage.
      4.   Sidewalks in commercial areas shall be exclusively Portland cement
and no monolithic curb and gutter or sidewalk pours will be allowed.
      5.   The style of gutter to be installed shall be at the direction of the
City Engineer.
   G.   All curb, gutter, and sidewalk within the City's right-of-way, once
installed, is the property of the City of Ely. The City may install signage,
utilities, etc., within its right-of-way. Commercial and residential
properties, which front sidewalk, whether installed by the City or the property
owner, are responsible for the cleaning of the curb, gutter and sidewalk, as
well as snow removal. (Ord. 441, 6-27-1990; amd. Ord. 735, 8-13-2020; Ord. 746,
8-18-2022)
9-9-3: REVIEW BY CITY ENGINEER:
Prior to the construction of any curbs and gutters, the residence or commercial
building owner shall cause the city engineer's office to be notified of the
proposed construction. Thereafter the city engineer shall review the proposed
site location, proposed construction plans, together with any other relevant
information and shall thereafter approve or disapprove the proposed
construction of curbs and gutters. The city engineer may, in his/her sole
discretion, delete the requirement for curbs and gutters if, in his/her
opinion, the proposed location for curbs and gutters is not feasible. (Ord.
441, 6-27-1990; amd. Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-9-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
violation and, upon conviction thereof, may be punished by a fine of not more
than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in the city jail of not
more than ninety (90) days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day
that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The
imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender from compliance with
all requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 441, 6-27-1990; amd. Ord. 746, 8-18-
2022)
CHAPTER 10
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
9-10-1: Established
9-10-2: Definitions
9-10-3: Prohibited Acts And Practices
9-10-4: Penalty
9-10-1: ESTABLISHED:
There is created in the city a FAIR HOUSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 461, 6-10-1991;
amd. Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, and words
used in the singular include the plural. "Shall" is always mandatory and not
discretionary:
DISCRIMINATION
OR             Any difference in treatment on the basis of race, color, religious creed, national
DISCRIMINATORY origin, ancestry, sex, handicap, or familial status.
HOUSING
PRACTICE:
               Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed or
               intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and any vacant land
               which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any
               such building, structure or portion thereof.
               A.   Dwelling does not include a single-family house sold or rented by an owner if:
                  1.   Such owner does not own more than three (3) single-family houses at any one
               time; or
                  2.   Such owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on
               his behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all,
               or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three (3) such
               single-family houses at any one time; and
                  3.   Such house was sold or rented without the use in any manner of the sales or
               rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any estate broker, real estate
               broker-salesman or real estate salesman licensed pursuant to chapter 645 of Nevada
               Revised Statutes; and
DWELLING:         4.   Such house was sold or rented without the publication, posting or mailing
               of any notice, statement or advertisement prohibited by subsection 3 of Nevada
               Revised Statutes section 118.100.
               B.   Rooms or units and dwellings containing living quarters occupied by not more
               than four (4) families living independently of each other if the owner actually
               maintains and occupies one of such living quarters as his residence and such owner
               has not within the preceding twelve (12) month period participated:
                  1.   As the principal in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or
               rental of any dwelling or any interest therein; and
                  2.   As an agent, otherwise than in the sale of his own personal residence in
               providing sales or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
               transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or any interest therein.
               C.   The sale of a single-family house by an owner not residing in such house at
               the time of the sale or who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to
               the sale shall not bring such house within the definition of "dwelling" unless
               there is more than one such sale within any twenty four (24) month period.
FAMILY:        Includes a single individual.
FINANCIAL      Any "person", as defined below, engaged in the business of lending money or
INSTITUTION:   guaranteeing losses.
MORTGAGE       An individual who is engaged in or who performs the business or services of a
BROKER:        mortgage broker as defined by the Nevada Revised Statutes.
               The market which is informed of the availability for sale, purchase, rental or
               lease of any housing accommodation, whether informed through a real estate broker
OPEN MARKET:   or by advertising by publication, signs or by any other advertising method directed
               to the public or any portion thereof, indicating that the property is available for
               sale, purchase, rental or lease.
               Includes a lessee, sublessee, co-tenant, assignee, managing agent or other person
OWNER:         having the right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell, rent or lease
               any housing accommodation.
               Includes individuals, children, firms, associations, joint ventures, partnerships,
               estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates, fiduciaries, corporations, the state
               of Nevada, and all political subdivisions and agencies thereof, and all other
PERSON:        groups or combinations. "Person" does not include any nonprofit, fraternal,
               educational or social organization or club, unless it has the purpose of promoting
               discrimination in the matter of housing against any person or persons because of
               race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap or familial
               status.
               Any individual, qualified by law, who, for a fee, commission, salary, or for other
               valuable consideration, or who with the intention or expectation of receiving or
               collecting the same, lists, sells, purchases, rents or leases any housing
REAL ESTATE    accommodations, including options thereupon, or who advertises or holds himself out
BROKER OR REAL as engaged in such activities; or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a loan,
ESTATE         secured by a mortgage or other encumbrance, upon transfer of any housing
SALESMAN:      accommodation; or who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or
               contracting for collection of a fee in connection with a contract whereby he
               undertakes to promote the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing
               accommodation through its listing in a publication issued primarily for such
               purpose; or an individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
REAL PROPERTY: Buildings, structures, lands, tenements, leaseholds, cooperations and condominiums.
               Rent, lease, sublease, let or otherwise grant for a consideration the right to
RENT:          occupy premises not owned by the occupant. (Ord. 461, 6-10-1991; amd. Ord. 746, 8-
               18-2022)
 
9-10-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND PRACTICES:
No person may, because of race, color, religious creed, national origin,
ancestry, sex, handicap or familial status:
   A.   Refuse to sell or rent or refuse to negotiate for sale or rental of, or
otherwise make unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any person.
   B.   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or privileges
of sale or rental of a dwelling, including the amount of brokerage fees,
deposits or other undue penalties, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith.
   C.   Make, print or publish, or cause to be made, printed or published, any
notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination, or an
intention to make any such preference, limitation or discrimination.
   D.   Represent to any person because of race, religious creed, color,
national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap or familial status, that any dwelling
is not available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact
so available.
   E.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person of a particular race, religious creed, color,
national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap, or familial status.
   F.   Discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or privileges of
the sale, purchase, rental or leasing of any housing accommodation, or in the
furnishing of facilities of services in connection therewith.
   G.   Refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase, rent
or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his race,
religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap, or familial
status.
   H.   Offer, solicit, accept or use a listing of any housing accommodation
for sale, purchase, rental or lease with the understanding that a person may be
subjected to discrimination in connection with such sale, purchase, rental or
lease, or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith;
   I.   Induce directly or indirectly, or attempt to induce directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the listing for any of the
above of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons of any particular race, color, religious creed,
national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap, familial status, or place of birth,
in the area to be affected by such sale, purchase, rental or lease will or may
result in either:
      1.   The lowering of property values in the area;
      2.   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
      3.   A decline in the quality of schools serving the area.
   J.   Make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale, purchase,
rental or lease, or the anticipated listing for any of the above, or the sale,
purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation in any area in the city
for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce any such listing or any of
the above transactions.
   K.   Engaging in, or hire to be done, or the conspiring with others to
commit acts or activities of any nature, the purpose of which is to coerce,
cause panic, incite unrest or create or play upon fear, with the purpose of
either discouraging or inducing, or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase,
rental or lease, or the listing for any of the above, of any housing
accommodation.
   L.   Retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he has
filed complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner in any
investigation, proceeding, hearing or conference under this chapter.
   M.   Aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any of the
practices prohibited by this chapter; or to obstruct or prevent any person from
complying with the provisions of this chapter; or any order issued thereunder.
   N.   By canvassing, commit any unlawful practices prohibited by this
chapter.
   O.   Otherwise deny to, or withhold any housing accommodation from a person
because of his race, color, religious creed, national origin, ancestry, sex,
handicap or familial status.
   P.   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or other
corporation, association, firm, or enterprise whose business consists in whole
or in part, in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan or
other financial assistance to a person applying therefore for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration
or other financial assistance, because of the race, color, religious creed,
national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap or familial status of such person or
of any person associated with him in connection with such loan or other
financial assistance or the purpose of such loan or other financial assistance
or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given.
   Q.   Deny any qualified person access to or membership or participation in
any multiple-listing service, real estate broker's organization, or other
service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or to discriminate against him in their terms or conditions
of such access, membership, or participation, on account of race, color,
religious creed, national origin, ancestry, sex, handicap or familial status.
   R.   Refuse to rent a dwelling solely because a guide dog, hearing dog or
helping dog will be residing with the prospective tenant in the dwelling. A
landlord may require proof that a dog is a guide dog, hearing dog or helping
dog. This requirement may be satisfied by way of example and not of limitation,
by exhibition or the identification card normally presented to a visually,
aurally or physically handicapped person upon his graduation from a school for
guide dogs, school for hearing dogs or school for helping dogs. For the purpose
of this section, the terms "guide dog", "hearing dog", "helping dog", "school
for guide dogs", "school for hearing dogs", and "school for helping dogs" have
the meanings ascribed to them in Nevada Revised Statutes sections 426.075 to
426.095, inclusive. (Ord. 461, 6-10-1991; amd. Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-10-4: PENALTY:
Anyone convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Nothing contained herein shall prevent a person from exercising
any right or seeking any remedy to which he might otherwise be entitled or from
filing a complaint with any appropriate governmental agency. (Ord. 461, 6-10-
1991; amd. Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
CHAPTER 11
MURALS
SECTION:
9-11-1: Definition Of Mural
9-11-2: Regulation
9-11-3: Appeal Procedure
9-11-4: Exemption From Regulation
9-11-5: Penalties
9-11-1: DEFINITION OF MURAL:
A "mural" is an artistic rendition on the exterior of any structure which
covers more than twenty five percent (25%) of the surface area of any single
exterior wall of such structure. A business logo or registered trademark is not
an artistic rendition under this chapter. (Ord. 537, 12-21-1999; amd. Ord. 746,
8-18-2022)
9-11-2: REGULATION:
No mural shall be painted on any structure within any area designated on the
master plan of the city as a business district, without having received prior
written approval of the Ely renaissance society mural selection committee and
prior ratification by resolution of that approval by the city council. (Ord.
537, 12-21-1999; amd. Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-11-3: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
If a structure owner feels aggrieved due to a denial by the Ely renaissance
society mural selection committee of the structure owner's request for
permission to paint a mural on their structure, the aggrieved owner may appeal
to the city council by placing an agenda item on any city council meeting
within thirty (30) days of such denial. The city council will consider the
structure owner's request and make a final determination on whether the mural
can be created. The decision of the city council is final. (Ord. 537, 12-21-
1999; amd. Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
9-11-4: EXEMPTION FROM REGULATION:
No building owned by the county of White Pine, state of Nevada or federal
government is subject to this regulation. (Ord. 537, 12-21-1999; amd. Ord. 746,
8-18-2022)
9-11-5: PENALTIES:
No person may proceed to create an unapproved and/or unratified mural. The city
is entitled to seek immediate injunctive relief to halt, demand removal and
seek restitution of costs and fees incurred while seeking injunctive relief and
to force removal of the offending mural from any person who is violating or who
the city reasonably believes is about to violate this chapter. After written
demand to cease violation, any person who continues to violate this chapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person found guilty of misdemeanor violation of
this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) or more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each day the
misdemeanor violation continues is a separate misdemeanor. (Ord. 537, 12-21-
1999; amd. Ord. 746, 8-18-2022)
TITLE 10
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Definitions
10-1-3: Sewer Use Regulations
10-1-3-1: Use Required
10-1-3-2: Sewer Service
10-1-3-3: Design, Construction Of New Connections; Inflow Sources
10-1-3-4: Sewer Main Extension/Enlargement
10-1-3-5: Inspection
10-1-3-6: Refusal To Serve
10-1-3-7: Prohibited Discharges
10-1-3-8: Testing Of Sewage Waste
10-1-3-9: Determination Of Character Of Waste Matter
10-1-3-10: Pretreatment
10-1-3-11: Unlawful Installations
10-1-3-12: Altering Connections
10-1-3-13: Connection Of Inflow Sources
10-1-3-14: Continuity Of Service
10-1-3-15: Discontinuance
10-1-3-16: Termination
10-1-3-17: Restoration Of Service
10-1-3-18: Septic Tanks
10-1-3-19: Amendments
10-1-4: Sewer Revenue System
10-1-4-1: Capitalization Fund
10-1-4-2: Sewer Connection Charges
10-1-4-3: Fees, Penalties And Extraordinary Charges
10-1-4-4: User Charge System
10-1-4-5: Financial Management System
10-1-4-6: Separate Accounts
10-1-4-7: Operation, Maintenance And Replacement
10-1-4-8: Sale Of Related Byproducts
10-1-4-9: User Charge Rate
10-1-4-10: Equivalent Dwelling Unit
10-1-4-11: EDU Loading Levels
10-1-4-12: Commercial/Industrial User Charge Rate
10-1-4-13: Annual User Charge Rate (UCR)
10-1-4-14: Surcharge
10-1-4-15: Discharge Permit Fees/Toxic Pollutants
10-1-4-16: Sewer Fee Schedule
10-1-4-17: Annual Notification
10-1-4-18: Infiltration/Inflow
10-1-4-19: Biennial Review Of Operation, Maintenance Charges
10-1-4-20: Termination Of Service Procedure For Nonpayment
10-1-4-21: Credit
10-1-4-22: Appeals
10-1-4-23: Penalty
10-1-4-24: Precedence
10-1-4-25: Fixture Unit Value Table
10-1-4-26: Appendix A, Sewer Fee Schedule; FY 1990
10-1-4-27: Appendix B, Strength Of Sewage Charge
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be cited as the SEWER CODE OF THE CITY OF ELY. (Ord. 453, 11-
29-1990)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter unless otherwise noted, the following are to mean:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter in a specified time and at a specified
temperature, usually at five (5) days and twenty degrees Centigrade (20°C).
BOARD: Utilities board of the city of Ely.
CAPITAL ASSETS: Permanent property such as land, buildings, sewer collections,
pipelines, tanks, etc., intended for long-term use, and initially funded by
capital outlays from the capitalization fund.
CAPITAL COSTS: Costs of major rehabilitation, expansion or upgrading required
as facilities reach the end of their useful life.
CAPITAL OUTLAYS: Expenditures which result in the acquisition of, or additions
to, capital assets.
CAPITALIZATION CHARGE: The charge to sewer system customers to produce revenues
to retire outstanding indebtedness and maintain reserve accounts for capital
improvements to the sewer system, and other such nonoperating, maintenance and
replacement items as the board may specify.
CAPITALIZATION FUND: The reserve account to which capitalization charges accrue
and from which capital costs are met. The fund may be used to meet debt
service, depreciation and such other expenses as the board determines (except
OM&R).
CITY SEWER SYSTEM: The system of conduits, pumps, treatment plants and
structures used for the purpose of conveying from their source, treating in any
manner and conveying to final points of disposal all wastes of any nature
permitted by this chapter to enter said system. Specifically included as
integral parts of the system are all conduits of any nature forming a network
of conduits or connected directly or indirectly to said network; all pumps,
treatment plants and structures of any kind used in connection with the
collection, treatment and disposal of the wastes handled by the system; and all
appurtenances to any of the above, either physically or functionally connected
therewith. "Sanitary sewers", as defined herein, are all included as parts of
the city sewer system.
CONNECTION CHARGE (SYSTEM OBLIGATION FEE): A fee charged in order to equalize
the investment in sewer plant equipment and related facilities made by the
city. The charge is applied to all new users of sewer facilities in approximate
proportion to their anticipated usage and is for the right of service in the
system. All system charges and fees collected are deposited in the
capitalization fund.
DEPARTMENT: The division of city government empowered by the utilities board
and the city council with responsibility for and authority over the operations
and policies of the wastewater treatment facilities of the city.
DIRECTOR: The city engineer or any of his designated duly authorized
representatives.
EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU): The three hundred fifty (350) gallon
allowance of domestic strength wastewater the average residential user is
estimated to contribute daily to the total wastewater flow including the user's
proportionate share of infiltration and inflow. Equivalent to one hundred
twenty six thousand (126,000) gallons per year.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: The accounting and budgetary procedures utilized
in the development and application of the user charge system, following
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and those of the governmental
accounting standards board (GASB).
FIXTURE UNIT: The arbitrary value assigned to various plumbing fixtures based
upon the fixtures' typical discharge loading contribution to the sewer system.
Utilized in the development and application of connection charges and user
charge rates which are proportional to usage (derived from uniform plumbing
code). See definition of Sewerage Fixtures.
INFILTRATION: Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system
(including sewer service connections) from the ground, through such means as
defective pipes, pipe joint connections, or manholes, etc.
INFLOW: Water other than wastewater that enters a sewerage system through such
sources as roof, yard and cellar drains, catch basins, surface runoff, street
wastewaters or drainage.
OM&R FUND: The fiscal account to which all user charge system revenues shall
accrue and through which funds are disbursed to meet only OM&R expenses.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (OM&R): Those functions that result in expenditures
during the useful life of the treatment works for materials, labor, utilities,
and other items which are necessary for managing and maintaining the sewage
works to achieve the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement" as defined in this section. The term shall exclude expenditures
for capital assets, debt service, and depreciation.
PREMISES: A continuous tract of land, building or group of adjacent buildings
under a single control with respect to use of sewer and responsibility for
payment thereof. Subdivision of such use or responsibility shall constitute a
division into separate premises as herein defined; except that where more than
one dwelling is being served through the same sewer service, in which case each
of said dwellings shall constitute separate premises and shall be subject to
the same separate charges as if separate single-family dwellings.
REPLACEMENT: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
"replacement". The term excludes replacement of any capital asset.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer intended to carry only sanitary or sanitary and
industrial wastewaters from residences, commercial buildings, plants and
institutions.
SEWER USE ORDINANCE: Legally binding document which establishes parameters
controlling connecting to, and wastes contributed to a wastewater treatment
system, including a mandate that all residences shall be connected; all
connections shall be properly designed and constructed; the introduction of
hazardous or toxic wastes which may threaten public safety or the plant's
physical integrity shall be prohibited; new sources of inflow shall be
prohibited.
SEWERAGE FIXTURES: Approved receptacles, devices or appliances which are
supplied with water or which receive liquid or liquid- borne wastes, and
discharge such wastes into the drainage system to which they may be directly or
indirectly connected. Industrial or commercial tanks, vats and similar
processing equipment are not sewerage fixtures, but may be connected to or
discharged into approved sewerage fixtures.
SHALL: Is an imperative; "may" is permissive.
STORM DRAIN: A drain (sewer line) intended to carry only storm waters, surface
runoff, street wash waters, and drainage.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS): Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
TREATMENT WORKS, TREATMENT FACILITY, SEWER PLANT, SEWER SYSTEM: Any devices and
systems for the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of city sewage,
domestic sewage or liquid industrial wastes. These include intercepting sewers,
outfall sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping, power, and other equipment
and their appurtenances; extensions, improvement, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply
and any works, that will be an integral part of the treatment process or is
used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
USER: A recipient of wastewater treatment services:
Commercial User: All retail stores, restaurants, office buildings, laundries,
and other private business and service establishments.
Industrial User: Includes any nongovernmental, nonresidential user of publicly
owned treatment works which is identified in the standard industrial
classification manual, 1972, office of management and budget, as amended and
supplemented, under the following divisions:
Division A - Agriculture, forestry, and fishing.
         Division B - Mining.
Division D - Manufacturing.
Division E - Transportation, communications, electric, gas and sanitary.
Division I - Services.
Residential User: Any contributor to the city's treatment works whose lot,
parcel or real estate, or building is used for domestic dwelling purposes only.
USER CHARGE FUND: This distinct account to which user charge revenue shall
accrue and through which OM&R expenses are met, also known as the OM&R fund.
USER CHARGE RATE (UCR): The charge assessed users of a wastewater treatment
facility to obtain revenue to fund the users' proportionate share of OM&R
expenses. The rate shall be proportionate to their usage (volume and loading)
of the facility. The rate is determined through the application of the user
charge system. The user charge rate is a distinct portion of the annual/monthly
sewer fees, reflecting only OM&R expenses, and a nominal sum for a prudent
reserve.
USER CHARGE SYSTEM: The process through which OM&R expenses are determined and
the correlating user charge rate derived and assessed to users of the treatment
facility (proportionate to usage), to generate revenue to meet those OM&R
expenses, thereby assuring fiscal self-sufficiency of the plant over its useful
life, inclusive of:
- Rates proportionate to usage.
- Annual notification to each user of the UCR and OM&R costs.
- A financial management system which accounts for OM&R expenses and
establishes the user charge rates.
- Disposition of infiltration/inflow expense.
- Precedence over conflicting legal enactments.
- Disposition of earned (or capital income).
(Ord. 453, 11-29-1990; amd. 2001 Code)
10-1-3: SEWER USE REGULATIONS:
10-1-3-1: USE REQUIRED:
Each owner of a house, building or other property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, commercial, industrial, or other like purpose situated
within the incorporated areas of the city shall connect to such sewer within
ninety (90) days after such sewer is available for use wherever such public
sewer line is within four hundred feet (400') of the nearest property line.
Connections to the sewer system are the sole responsibility of the owner of the
property so connected. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-2: SEWER SERVICE:
   A.   Applications:
      1.   Content: Each applicant for sewer service shall be required to sign,
on a form provided by the sewer department, an application which shall set
forth:
         a.   Date.
         b.   Location of premises to be served, giving street address and
description of property to be served.
         c.   Applicant's name and mailing address and the name and mailing
address of the legal owner of the premises.
         d.   Purpose for which the property will be used (residential,
commercial, apartments, etc.).
         e.   Person and address to which the monthly bills are to be mailed.
         f.   The date the applicant will be ready for sewer service.
         g.   The name of the contracting or plumbing agency that will be
hooking the premises to the city sewer system (new connections).
         h.   If the applicant is not the legal owner of the property, the
applicant shall provide written evidence of authorization to apply for service
from the legal owner of the property.
      2.   Purpose: The application is merely a written request for service and
does not bind the applicant to take service for any period of time, nor does it
bind the city to serve except under reasonable conditions.
      3.   Responsibility: The legal owner is responsible for the payment of
all sewer charges at the premises for which an application is made. Only the
legal owner of the premises may request termination of sewer service or a
change in the person or address to which the monthly sewer bill is to be sent.
The legal owner is also responsible to ensure that the dwelling being serviced
has the street number on the building visible from the street, and that the
street number matches the address given to the sewer utility.
   B.   Change In Customer's Fixtures, Equipment Or Operations: A customer
making any change in the size, character or extent of the equipment or
operations for which the service is utilized shall immediately file with the
sewer department a new application for additional service.
   C.   Sewer Service Laterals: All sewer service laterals shall be constructed
and maintained by the property owner in accordance with sewer department
standards, rules and regulations. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-3: DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION OF NEW CONNECTIONS; INFLOW SOURCES:
No new connection shall be made to the city sewer system unless the same is
properly designed and constructed complying with the building code. All "inflow
sources" as defined in EPA regulations, section 40 CFR part 35, including, but
not limited to, roof leaders, cellar, yard and area drains, foundation drains,
cooling water discharge, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers,
cross-connections from storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm
waters, surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage shall not be permitted
to be connected to the sewer system. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-4: SEWER MAIN EXTENSION/ENLARGEMENT:
Sewer main facilities may be extended by subdivider, developer, property owner,
or other persons in accordance with plans and specifications submitted to, and
approved by, the city engineer.
   A.   Minimum Size; Cost: The inside diameter of every sewer main shall not
be less than eight inches (8"), except as may be determined by the city
engineer. The subdivider, developer, property owner, or other person shall
construct all sewer mains in accordance with the plans and specifications as
submitted to, and approved by, the city engineer; and pay any and all costs for
the minimum size sewer main required for this development as determined by the
city engineer.
   B.   Dedication: Upon connection to the sewer system, the subdivider,
developer, property owner, or other person shall dedicate all new sewer mains
that connect into the existing city sewer system to the city. Upon dedication
and after the one year contractor warranty period has expired, the city will
operate and maintain the new sewer mains.
   C.   Construction Of Larger Mains: Whenever, in the opinion of the city
council or city engineer, it is necessary that a sewer main be constructed of a
capacity larger than the minimum capacity set forth in subsection A of this
section, the subdivider, developer, property owner, or other person shall be
required to purchase materials, construct and install such oversized sewer main
as required. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-5: INSPECTION:
Authorized individuals including employees and officials of the city may enter
any premises connected to the sewer system and the treatment facility to
ascertain if all applicable ordinances and regulations are being met. If an
exception to compliance with a law or ordinance is noted, the owner of said
premises, or his agent, shall, upon notice, cause such sewer or its attachments
to be so altered, repaired, or reconstructed so as to make them conform to the
requirements of the laws and ordinances within fifteen (15) days from the time
of receipt of such notice. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-6: REFUSAL TO SERVE:
   A.   Conditions For Refusal: The sewer department may refuse to serve an
applicant for service under the following conditions:
      1.   If the applicant fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter.
      2.   If the intended use of the service is of such a nature that it will
be detrimental or injurious to existing customers.
      3.   If, in the judgment of the sewer department, the applicant's
installation for utilizing the service is unsafe or hazardous, or subject to
freezing, or of such nature that satisfactory service cannot be rendered.
      4.   Where service has been discontinued for fraudulent use, the sewer
department will not serve an applicant until it has determined that all
conditions of fraudulent use or practice have been corrected.
      5.   If, in the judgment of the sewer department, there is insufficient
capacity to serve the applicant.
   B.   Notification To Applicant: When an applicant is refused service under
the provisions of this chapter, the sewer department will notify the applicant
that he may appeal the decision of the sewer department to the board. (Ord.
453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-7: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   All Sewers: Sewage, waste or any matter having any of the following
characteristics shall, under no conditions, be discharged into, be placed where
they might find their way into, or be allowed to run, leak, or escape into any
part of the sewer system including:
      1.   Ashes, cinders, sand, earth, coal, rubbish or any matter which is
chemically or physically stable for at least five (5) days at twenty degrees
Centigrade (20°C) or which would form a deposit or obstruction or damage or
reduce the capacity of sewer into which it was placed.
      2.   Liquids, gases, or solids or any matter which after entrance into a
sewer might reasonably be expected to form into flammable, explosive or
poisonous liquids, gases or solids.
      3.   Liquid matter of any nature containing suspended solids in excess of
one thousand (1,000) parts per million.
      4.   Matter of any nature containing five (5) day biochemical oxygen
demand in excess of three hundred (300) parts per million or any petroleum
products.
      5.   Animal or vegetable greases, oils or matter containing animal or
vegetable greases or oil of any nature in excess of three hundred (300) parts
per million. Grease trap and further methods of pretreatment necessary to
reduce the grease loading to acceptable levels shall be employed by the user
before the liquid enters the sewerage fixtures.
      6.   Liquid matter with a hydrogen ion (pH) concentration, below 5.5 or
above 9.0 measured at the point where discharge enters the sewer main.
      7.   Any matter that would be poisonous to or inhibit the organisms
associated with any sewage treatment process, and which in the opinion of the
department, might interfere with the satisfactory operation of any treatment
facility or any portion of the sewer system.
Upon obtaining the written approval of the director, sewage wastes or other
matters herein excluded may be discharged into the sewage system upon the
payment to city of the additional costs for processing the same as hereinafter
provided and set forth.
   B.   Storm Drains: In addition to the matter excluded in subsection A of
this section, all other matter of any nature shall be excluded from pipes and
ditches designated by the director as storm drains, excepting only surface
drainage waters. All drainage waters shall be directed into storm drains only
under the authorization and direction of the director.
   C.   Sanitary Sewers: In addition to the matter excluded heretofore, all
surface drainage water (inflow) shall be excluded from all parts of the city
sewer system. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-8: TESTING OF SEWAGE WASTE:
Authorized city officials and employees may enter upon any and all premises at
all reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing of sewage waste in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter; and it is unlawful for any person to prevent or attempt to prevent any
such entrance or obstruct or interfere with any such officer or employee while
so engaged. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-9: DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER OF WASTE MATTER:
Prior to the introduction of any material which may reasonably be expected to
threaten public safety effluent water quality, the physical integrity of the
plant or any section of this chapter or of state or federal regulations, the
department shall be apprised of such proposed discharge and, upon analysis,
shall issue conditional approval permits or prohibition within twenty one (21)
days. The department shall have responsibility for instituting and/or
completing such analysis, assigning costs for such analysis and issuing
permits. The fact that any matter has been discharged into the sewer system
prior to the passage of this chapter or subsequent thereto, but without any
objection from the department, does not constitute a valid right to so
discharge such matter. If, upon discovery that matter being discharged into the
sewer does not conform to the requirements of this chapter, the department may
stop the discharge of such matter into the sewer system. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-10: PRETREATMENT:
   A.   Required: Any discharge matter which may be made to comply with the
discharge standards herein contained may be discharged into the sewer system
provided it is treated prior to discharge (pretreatment) thereby bringing it
into compliance with the declared standards.
   B.   Pretreatment Plans: Such pretreatment plans shall be understood to
include grease traps, chemical or biochemical plants, sedimentation chambers
and any other devices which effect a change of any nature in the
characteristics of the matter being treated. Any and all such devices and
equipment shall be:
      1.   Subject to the approval of the department.
      2.   Issued a written permit of approval issued by the department prior
to operation.
      3.   Provided with all necessary features of construction to permit
inspection of operations and testing of material passing through them.
      4.   Open to the inspection of the department at any time.
   C.   Alternative To Pretreatment: The producer, in lieu of the treatment of
said sewage as hereinabove provided for, may, with the prior written approval
of the department, discharge said sewage, waste, or other matter into said
sewage system, subject to the provisions of this chapter and subject to the
payment of the additional cost of the treatment hereof as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-11: UNLAWFUL INSTALLATIONS:
It is unlawful to install, change, bypass, adjust or alter any metering device
or any piping arrangement connected therewith as to show the quantity of sewage
discharged from the premises to be less than the actual quantity. (Ord. 453,
11-29-1990)
10-1-3-12: ALTERING CONNECTIONS:
It is unlawful to change, bypass, adjust, or alter any piping arrangement
(including metering devices) from a premises and connecting to the sewer system
without the prior written consent of the department. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-13: CONNECTION OF INFLOW SOURCES:
All sources of inflow including, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar, yard
and area drains, catch basins, manholes, etc., shall be prohibited from
connection to the sewer system. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-14: CONTINUITY OF SERVICE:
   A.   Emergency Interruptions: The sewer department will make all reasonable
efforts to prevent interruptions to service, if and when such interruptions
occur and will endeavor to reestablish service with the shortest possible delay
consistent with the safety of its customers and the general public.
   B.   Scheduled Interruptions: Whenever the sewer department finds it
necessary to schedule an interruption to its service, it will, where feasible,
notify all customers to be affected by the interruption, stating the
approximate time and anticipated duration of the interruption. Scheduled
interruptions will be made at such hours as will provide least inconvenience to
the customers consistent with reasonable sewer department operations. (Ord.
453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-15: DISCONTINUANCE:
Sewer service will normally be considered terminated when the water service to
the property has been shut off. The billing for sewer service will be
discontinued at that time and the customer will be billed in accordance with
this chapter. If, in the opinion of the director, unusual circumstances warrant
continued billing for sewer service or partially billing for service, the
customer shall be so notified. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-16: TERMINATION:
   A.   Noncompliance With Rules: The sewer department may terminate water and/
or sewer service to any customer for violation of these rules after it has
given the customer written notice of such intention.
   B.   Unsafe Apparatus: If any condition is found to exist on a customer's
premises which constitutes a hazard to health or which threatens to damage any
portion of the city sewer system, the service may be terminated without notice.
The sewer department shall notify the customer immediately of the reasons for
the discontinuance and the corrective action to be taken by the customer before
service can be restored.
   C.   Fraudulent Use Of Service: When the sewer department declares that a
customer has obtained service by fraudulent means, the service to that customer
may be discontinued without notice. The sewer department shall not restore
service to such customer until that customer has complied with this chapter and
rules and reasonable requirements of the sewer department and the sewer
department has been reimbursed for the full amount of the service rendered and
the actual cost to the sewer department incurred by reason of the fraudulent
use. Connection to the sewer system without having first obtained the necessary
permits shall be considered such fraudulent use and is subject to a fine. (Ord.
453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-17: RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
Sewer service shall be considered restored and subject to billing at such a
time as the water reconnection takes place. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-3-18: SEPTIC TANKS:
   A.   Contents: It is unlawful for anyone to discharge the contents of any
septic tank, cesspool or chemical toilet into the sewer system of the city
except in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Designation Of Places; Manner Of Discharge: The department shall
designate, in writing, the particular points where the contents of septic
tanks, cesspools or chemical toilets can be discharged into the sewer system,
and the manner in which said contents shall be discharged. No matter prohibited
from sewers by this chapter shall be permitted to be so discharged. (Ord. 453,
11-29-1990)
10-1-3-19: AMENDMENTS:
The board shall have the power and duty to adopt and may from time to time
amend rules and regulations for the operation of the city sewer system;
including, but not limited to, rules and regulations concerning the method of
hooking up, and the type of use of the sewer, so long as such amendments are
not in conflict with the rules and regulations of the U.S. environmental
protection agency, Nevada division of environmental protection or city and
county law. The Nevada division of environmental protection shall be advised of
all amendments to this chapter at least fourteen (14) days prior to their
effective date. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4: SEWER REVENUE SYSTEM:
The city sewer revenue system shall be responsible for the fiscal operations of
the city wastewater treatment facilities. The sewer revenue system shall
consist of two (2) separate and discrete programs: the capitalization fund and
the user charge system. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-1: CAPITALIZATION FUND:
The capitalization fund shall provide funding for capital expenditures and all
other nonoperating maintenance and replacement costs as the board may consider
appropriate, including redemption of the principal and payment of the interest
on sewer bonds. Revenue components for the sewer capitalization fund shall
include: (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
   A.   Service Charges: Assessed customers to recover non-OM&R costs (for
which the user charge system is not appropriate) including late payment and
other penalties, the sewer connection fees, and the annual/monthly
capitalization charge. The rate of the capitalization charge shall be
established by the board and customers shall be notified of the charge as a
portion of their monthly sewer fee. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Revenue Offsets: Funds generated through activities other than
wastewater treatment services including sales of excess equipment or
facilities. However, revenue derived from the sale of treatment related
byproducts shall accrue only to the user charge system. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-2: SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES:
   A.   Initial Or New Connection: For each initial or new connection made to
the sewer system, there shall be charged an initial payment in the form of a
connection fee in accordance with the following schedules:
      1.   Residential: Each separate residential unit or other individual
housing unit, within a multi-family dwelling, apartment house or trailer court
shall be considered one equivalent dwelling unit (equal to 20 fixture units)
for which the connection charge shall be set by the board and approved by the
city council.
The connection charge shall apply to all parcels and lots which have not
previously been served for three (3) years or longer by the city sewer system
and each lot of any new subdivision to be served by the city sewer system.
(Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
      2.   Commercial And Industrial: For all initial or new commercial and
industrial sewer connections, the connection charge shall be determined by the
director based on the number of fixture units. Each fixture unit shall be
valued at one-twentieth (1/20) of the equivalent dwelling unit. The number of
fixture units is determined by using the schedule for commercial and industrial
buildings as set forth in this code. The minimum connection charge for
commercial/industrial buildings shall be the fee charged for a single-family
residence. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990; amd. 2001 Code)
      3.   Modification, And Expansion Of Facilities: If any modification or
expansion to the existing premises having an active sewer account within the
last three (3) years, increases the fixture unit count, the connection charge
will be charged for the net increase in fixture unit count times the dollars
per fixture unit based on the equivalent dwelling unit residential connection
fee per twenty (20) fixture units. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990; amd. Ord. 506, 6-8-
1995)
      4.   Determination Of Sewer Fixture Unit Count: The building inspector
will conduct a fixture unit survey at the time a building permit is requested.
This will be done through an assessment of the construction plans provided by
the applicant. The final count will be based upon the final inspection by the
building inspector of the completed structure.
   B.   Payment: The sewer connection charge shall be payable on demand to the
city before the building inspector issues a building permit. Funds received
through connecting charges shall accrue to the capitalization fund.
   C.   Rate For Sewer Use And Connection:
      1.   Residential Users: Until further resolution of the board, the rate
for sewer use and connection to the sewer system for residences shall be
calculated at one equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) per dwelling unit. One EDU is
the equivalent of twenty (20) sewer fixture units.
      2.   All Other Users: All sewer users not specifically identified in
subsection C1 of this section shall be classified as commercial or industrial
users and fixture units shall be determined on the basis of the fixture unit
value table contained in section
10-1-4-25 of this chapter. The minimum user and capitalization charge for
commercial/industrial users shall be the residential charge. (Ord. 453, 11-29-
1990)
10-1-4-3: FEES, PENALTIES AND EXTRAORDINARY CHARGES:
Fees, penalties and extraordinary charges collected by the district and not
related to regular OM&R expenses shall accrue to the capitalization fund. (Ord.
453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-4: USER CHARGE SYSTEM:
The user charge system shall be based or actual use of the city's wastewater
treatment facilities. Each user (user class) shall pay his proportionate share
of operation, maintenance and replacement expenses based upon his estimated
(actual) contribution to the flow volume and loading of the plant, thereby
assuring the fiscal self-sufficiency of the facility over its useful (design)
life. The user charge system shall include the following sections
10-1-4-5 through
10-1-4-27 of this chapter. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990; amd. 2001 Code)
10-1-4-5: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM:
The financial management system shall prescribe accounting budgetary procedures
to accurately depict revenue requirements and procedures to generate revenue
sufficient to operate and maintain the plant. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-6: SEPARATE ACCOUNTS:
Separate accounts shall be maintained for the user charge and the
capitalization fund. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-7: OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT:
Operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) costs of the treatment system
shall be enumerated through a line item budget including the following
categories:
   A.   Salaries and wages;
   B.   Indirect salary and wage costs;
   C.   Contractual services;
   D.   Materials and supplies;
   E.   Utilities;
   F.   Equipment replacement; and
   G.   Administrative expenses.
OM&R costs shall include the costs required to achieve and maintain compliance
with discharge permits. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-8: SALE OF RELATED BYPRODUCTS:
Revenue generated through sale or use of treatment related byproducts shall be
credited to the user charge system to offset OM&R expenses. (Ord. 453, 11-29-
1990)
10-1-4-9: USER CHARGE RATE:
The user charge rate shall generate revenue sufficient to meet OM&R costs,
thereby assuring the facilities fiscal operational viability, through charges
to customer which are proportionate to their usage (volume and loading). (Ord.
453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-10: EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT:
The equivalent dwelling unit (EDU) shall form the basis for the user charge
system until such time as water metering is instituted. An equivalent dwelling
unit shall be the equivalent volume of three hundred fifty (350) gallons per
day; ten thousand five hundred (10,500) gallons per month; and one hundred
twenty six thousand (126,000) gallons per year. One EDU equals twenty (20)
fixture units.
   EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT TABLE
 
Unit Type                                               EDU
All single-family dwellings                            1
Each unit of multiple-family dwellings (duplex, etc.)  1
Apartments (per unit)                                  1
Mobile homes                                           1
Mobile homes, per connection, in parks                 1
 
(Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-11: EDU LOADING LEVELS:
          Domestic Wastewater
Parameter Strength Loading
          Domestic Wastewater
Parameter Strength     Loading
          
BODr         200 mg/0.65 lbs/day
SSd          200 mg/0.46 lbs/day
Pp           11.0 mg0.03 lbs/day
Nn           26.0 mg0.07 lbs/day
                      
Sewer fixture unit equivalent: 20
 
(Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-12: COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL USER CHARGE RATE:
All sewer users not specifically identified above shall be classified as
commercial/industrial users and their user charge rate shall be based upon the
sewer fixture table in section
10-1-4-25 of this chapter or average metered water use and a surcharge based
upon the established flow and loading factors. Minimum commercial/industrial
(C/I) user charge rate (UCR) shall be the residential rate, or one EDU. (Ord.
453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-13: ANNUAL USER CHARGE RATE (UCR):
The annual user charge rate (UCR) shall be based on the following formula for
one equivalent dwelling unit (EDU):
   OM&R = UCR for one EMU
   EDUT
Total OM&R expenses divided by the total number of EDUs (EDUT) is the user
charge rate for one EDU. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-14: SURCHARGE:
   A.   Levied: A surcharge shall be levied upon customers whose discharge
loadings exceed those found to be the average amongst the predominant user
class (residential), section
10-1-4-11 of this chapter.
   B.   Basis: The surcharge shall be based on treatment costs of loadings over
the EDU loading levels given in section
10-1-4-11 of this chapter, expressed as an EDU or fractions thereof. (Ord. 453,
11-29-1990)
10-1-4-15: DISCHARGE PERMIT FEES/TOXIC POLLUTANTS:
All commercial/industrial discharges must obtain a discharge permit at time of
service application. All discharges whose anticipated discharge level of toxic
pollutants which can be expected to increase the cost of treating the
wastewater or effluent/sludge shall pay for such increased costs. (Ord. 453,
11-29-1990)
10-1-4-16: SEWER FEE SCHEDULE:
A sewer fee schedule shall be established by the utilities board, and enacted
as a resolution of (or by) the city council, as appendix A of this chapter 1 .
This fee schedule shall contain the basis determinants upon which the sewer
fees are based, i.e., number of users, OM&R expenses, and capitalization
requirements and present the regular rates and charges (user charge rate,
capitalization and connection charges). See appendix A of this chapter. (Ord.
453, 11-29-1990; amd. 2001 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 10-1-26 of this chapter.
10-1-4-17: ANNUAL NOTIFICATION:
An annual notification shall be given to each customer with the annual sewer
fee schedule of the anticipated OM&R costs, number of EDUs and the user charge
rate (and capitalization charge) per EDU. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-18: INFILTRATION/INFLOW:
Infiltration/inflow costs shall be commingled with operation, maintenance and
replacement (OM&R) expenses and shall be distributed among customers
proportionate to their usage of the treatment facilities. (Ord. 453, 11-29-
1990)
10-1-4-19: BIENNIAL REVIEW OF OPERATION, MAINTENANCE CHARGES:
The board shall review not less often than every two (2) years the contribution
of users and user classes, the total cost of operation and maintenance of the
treatment works and its approved user charge system. The board shall revise the
charges for users or user classes to accomplish the following:
   A.   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among users and user classes as required herein.
   B.   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and maintenance
costs necessary for the proper operation and maintenance (including necessary
equipment replacement) of the treatment works.
   C.   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation and maintenance for the next year and adjust the rate accordingly.
(Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-20: TERMINATION OF SERVICE PROCEDURE FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Due Date; Notice Of Termination: On the sixteenth day succeeding the
mailing of any sewer bill, or in the event the sixteenth day falls on a
holiday, Saturday, or Sunday, then on the next succeeding working day, all
charges to that date, whether or not billed, and all charges accrued for sewer
services are deemed due and payable. If charges are not paid by that date, the
city clerk shall mail a notice to the legal owner or the applicant for service
and the occupant at the address receiving service that the sewer service will
be terminated on a specific date, which date shall be ten (10) days after the
date of mailing of such delinquent notice.
   B.   Request For Appearance: The owner or applicant applying for service or
occupant of the premises may request to present his position concerning
termination of sewer services to the board and the board's action will be
final.
   C.   Failure To Appear: Failure of the owner, customer or occupant to appear
before the board after having requested such right, as provided above, will
cause the sewer service to be terminated on the next working day.
   D.   Lien: On the date of termination of sewer services, or any date
thereafter, the city clerk may cause to be filed with the county recorder a
statement of the amount due and unpaid for sewer services and a description of
the property to which the services were rendered to perfect a lien against the
property.
   E.   Notice To Discontinue Service: Upon vacating the premises, all
customers desiring to discontinue sewer service shall notify the sewer
department two (2) days prior to vacating the premises. Unless discontinuance
of service is ordered, the customer shall be liable for charges whether or not
the sewer is used. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-21: CREDIT:
   A.   Establishment And Maintenance: Each applicant for service shall
establish and maintain credit to the satisfaction of the sewer department
before service will be rendered.
   B.   Loss And Reestablishment Of Credit: Any amount due for sewer service
that remains unpaid for twenty (20) days after presentation of a bill during
the depositor's first year of service, may be deducted from the guarantee
deposit and service shall be subject to discontinuance until the deposit is
again restored to the original amount. Any such unpaid amount accruing
subsequent to the depositor's first year of service, where the premises are
owned by the depositor, may also be deducted from any guaranty deposit
remaining in the department's possession. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-22: APPEALS:
The board shall review any decision made by the director or his representatives
or agents in interpreting, applying or enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, upon the receipt of an application or petition, in writing, requesting
a review of such decision. In exercising its powers of review, the board may,
in conformity with the provisions of the law, reverse or affirm wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination of the
director. The board may also initiate a review of the director's interpretation
of the provisions of this chapter by a motion and by a vote of a majority of
the quorum or a majority of the members present if such number exceeds a
quorum. In all cases, the decision of the board shall be final. (Ord. 453, 11-
29-1990)
10-1-4-23: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's violation of the provisions of this chapter may
be deeded a separate offense. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-24: PRECEDENCE:
This user charge system shall take precedence over the terms or conditions of
any agreements or contracts which the city is party to which are inconsistent
with the requirements of the water quality act (as amended) and the regulations
of the U.S. EPA (40 CFR parts 35.2005 - 35.2208). (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990; amd.
2001 Code)
10-1-4-25: FIXTURE UNIT VALUE TABLE:
Fixture unit surveys are conducted and fixture units established in accord with
the following table: (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
Description Of Fixture  Fixture Value
                        Per Unit
Description Of Fixture                                            Fixture Value
                                                                  Per Unit
Bathroom group:                                                   
   Sewer closet, sink, bathtub and/or shower                           7
   Sewer closet with flushometer                                       9
                                                                 
Bathtub (if not included above, with or without shower)                   2
                                                                 
Bedpan washer and sterilizer                                              2.5
                                                                 
Bidet                                                                     2
                                                                 
Car wash (per stall)                                                      12
   If the car wash is equipped to recycle its water (per stal          8
                                                                 
Continuous flow per GPM                                             100
                                                                 
Dental unit cuspidor                                             1
                                                                 
Dental unit lavatory                                                1
                                                                 
Dishwashers:                                                      
   Commercial:                                                 
      Conveyor                                                50
      Undercounter                                            5
   Residential                                                   4
                                                                 
Disposals                                                           25
                                                                 
Drinking fountains                                                  1
                                                                 
Floor drains                                                        2
   Grease traps, oil, solids                                     3
                                                                 
Hose bibs                                                           1
                                                                 
Landscaping per 1,000 square feet                                   6
                                                                 
Laundry tub and faucets                                             2
   Commercial clothes washer (per gallon of water used per       0.32
load)
   Residential clothes washer                                    2
                                                                 
Receptors for refrigerator, coffee urn, soft drinks, ice            1
machines, etc.
                                                                 
Showers per head and drain                                          2
                                                                 
Sinks:                                                            
   Bar                                                           1
   Flushing rim (clinic)                                         6
   Industrial; washup, etc.                                      3
   Kitchen                                                       2
   Lavatory                                                      1
                                                                 
Swimming pool per 100 square feet                                   3
                                                                 
Trailer parks:                                                    
   Dump station                                                  13
   Recreational vehicles park per pad                            4
                                                                 
Urinals:                                                          
   Pedestal-siphon                                               6
   Stall                                                         2
   Trough (for every 2 feet)                                     3
   Wall                                                          2
                                                                 
Water closet:                                                     
   Flush valve                                                   6
   Tank                                                          4
 
(Ord. 622, 2-14-2008)
For fixture types not listed, fixture unit value shall be estimated by using
similar use and performance description.
For nonresidential facilities which operate or are open to the public in excess
of twelve (12) hours per day, a multiplier of 1.5 shall be applied to the
fixture unit value per unit. (Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
10-1-4-26: APPENDIX A, SEWER FEE SCHEDULE; FY 1990 1 :
1.   Number of EDUs in system                .
2.   Anticipated new connections in EDUs                .
3.   Total EDUs (#1 + #2)                .
4.   Budgeted OM&R (user fund) expenses $                .
5.   Annual user charge rate per EDU (#4 - #3) $                .
6.   Monthly user charge rate per EDU (#5 - 12)               .
7.   Budgeted capitalization fund requirements $               .
8.   Annual capital charge rate per EDU (#8 - #3)               .
9.   Monthly capital charge rate per EDU (#9 - 12)            .
10.  Connection charge per EDU - $800.00.
11.  Monthly total sewer billing per EDU (#5 + #9)            .
 
(Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. To be updated annually with the new budget for the fiscal year.
10-1-4-27: APPENDIX B, STRENGTH OF SEWAGE CHARGE:
   BASED ON BOD5 = 200 mg/l and SS = 200 mg/l
Industrial/Commercial Type BOD SS Strength
                                  Factor
Industrial/Commercial Type      BOD SS  Strength
                                        Factor
1. Hotel/casino with restaurant 340 211 1.2
2. Restaurant                   691 200 1.6
3. Commercial laundry           470 302 1.5
4. Bakery                       781 251 1.8
5. Market with bakery           274 200 1.1
6. Service and repair station   200 280 1.1
7. Mortuaries                   808 800 2.5
 
(Ord. 453, 11-29-1990)
CHAPTER 2
WATER DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Intent
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-3: Policy
10-2-4: Applications, Changes, Charges, Shutoffs, Valves, And Service Lines
10-2-5: Discontinuance Of Service
10-2-6: Restoration Of Service
10-2-7: Deferred Payment Plan
10-2-8: Refusal To Serve
10-2-9: Continuity Of Service
10-2-10: Service To Users Outside City Limits
10-2-11: Water Rates
10-2-12: Meters
10-2-13: Temporary Service From A Fire Hydrant
10-2-14: Public Water Main Extensions
10-2-15: General Provisions
10-2-16: Penalties For Violation Of Watering Restrictions Or Wasting Water
10-2-17: Appeals Process
10-2-1: INTENT:
To govern the provision of water service to any and all persons having access
to and utilizing the city of Ely's water distribution system. (Ord. 674, 5-12-
2016)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
ascribed in this section, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: An approved device when properly installed prevents
contamination of the city water supply from the customer's facility.
BOARD: The municipal utility board.
CUSTOMER: The legal owner of the property or authorized legal agent.
ELY WATER SYSTEM: The system of conduits, pumps, tanks, and structures used for
the purpose of conveying from its sources, treating in any manner and conveying
to final points of use, all water service requested of the city and on a
schedule approved by the board and city council. Specifically included as
integral parts of the system are all parts of the system that are conduits of
any nature forming a part of the general network of conduits or connected
directly or indirectly to said network; all pumps, treatment facilities, tanks
and structures of any kind used in connection with the collection, treatment
and disposition of water; and all appurtenances to any of the above, either
physically or functionally connected.
EMERGENCY: Leaking, broken, plugged, or frozen water lines occurring after
regular business hours which may cause a health or safety hazard or waste of
water resources.
ENGINEER: The city engineer or any duly authorized representatives.
PREMISES: A continuous tract of land, building or group of adjacent buildings
under a single control with respect to use of water and responsibility for
payment. Subdivision of such use or responsibility shall constitute a division
into separate premises as herein defined, except that where more than one
dwelling is being served through the same water service in which case each
dwelling shall constitute a separate premises and shall be subject to the same
separate charges as if separate single-family dwellings.
SYSTEM OBLIGATION CHARGES: A fee charged new customers in order to equalize the
investment in plant and equipment and other facilities made by present water
users in the city. The charge is for the right of service in the system.
WILL SERVE LETTER: An application for new service for a new building or an
existing building that has not been served within the last five (5) years.
(Ord. 674, 5-12-2016)
10-2-3: POLICY:
   A.   This chapter sets forth the policy, provisions and authority to ensure
compliance with this title and all federal, state, and local requirements for
the protection of public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all residents of the
city, a responsible party operating, maintaining, repairing, relocating,
removing, and/or disconnecting to or from the public water system and/or
publicly owned treatment works, and/or users of city provided utilities.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided herein, the city administrator or designee
shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any
powers granted or duties imposed upon the city administrator may be delegated
by the city administrator to persons acting in the beneficial interest of the
city. (Ord. 674, 5-12-2016)
10-2-4: APPLICATIONS, CHANGES, CHARGES, SHUTOFFS, VALVES, AND SERVICE LINES:
   A.   Application:
      1.   Applicant: Application for services may be made only by an owner of
property to be served, or such owner's duly authorized agent.
      2.   Content: Each applicant for water service shall be required to
submit a signed application requesting service containing the following minimum
information:
         a.   Date.
         b.   Location of premises to be served, giving street address and
description of property to be served.
         c.   Applicant's name and mailing address of the legal owner of the
premises to which the monthly bills are to be mailed.
         d.   Purpose for which the property will be used (residential,
commercial, apartments, etc.).
         e.   The date the applicant will be ready for water service.
         f.   An approved "will serve" letter and the name of the contracting
or plumbing agency which will be connecting water service to the city water
system (new connections).
      3.   Purpose: The application is merely a written request for service and
does not bind the applicant to take service for any period of time, nor does it
bind the city to serve except under reasonable conditions.
      4.   Responsibility: The applicant, being the legal owner, is responsible
for the payment of all water charges at the premises applied for and within the
meaning of this chapter is referred to as the "customer". Only the original
applicant may request termination of water service or a change in the person or
address to which the monthly water bill is to be sent. Pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes 266.285(3), the property owner is solely liable for all unpaid
water bills, even if the property owner has a tenant.
   B.   Deposit Requirements, New Service:
      1.   Residential: All new residential service connections shall be
charged a refundable one hundred dollar ($100.00) deposit.
      2.   Commercial: All new business service connections shall be charged a
refundable two hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) deposit.
   C.   Deposit Requirement When Service Has Been Disconnected For Nonpayment:
      1.   Residential: All customers who have had their residential service
disconnected for nonpayment, shall be required to pay a refundable deposit of
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
      2.   Commercial: All business customers who have had their service
disconnected for nonpayment, shall be required to pay a refundable deposit of
five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   D.   Refund Of Deposit:
      1.   The customer making the deposit may request a refund of the deposit
made upon their account, provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   The customer paid all of the required payments; and
         b.   The payments were made timely for twelve (12) consecutive months.
      2.   Upon voluntary termination of services, the city shall:
         a.   If the customer pays the entire balance owed on the account
within thirty (30) calendar days of the "final" bill, return the entire deposit
to the address requested by the customer; or
         b.   At the customer's request, apply the deposit against the balance
on the final bill. If the final bill is less than the deposit the remaining
balance shall be forwarded to the customer at the address provided.
      3.   If services are terminated for nonpayment, the city retains the
right to apply any deposit against that account. The customer will be charged a
new deposit upon seeking reconnection or a new service at another address.
      4.   Requests for refunds of deposit must be made in writing to city
hall. The city administrator shall be responsible to verify the requirements of
subsection D1 of this section, were met. If the requirements have been met, the
city administrator shall issue a refund check to the customer within thirty
(30) calendar days of the written request. If the customer failed to meet the
requirements for a refund, the city administrator shall issue a letter to the
customer explaining the reason for the denial.
      5.   In the event a customer, who made a deposit on their account,
subsequently dies prior to a refund of the deposit being made, shall first have
the deposit applied against their outstanding water bill, if any, then any
balance shall be refunded to the customer's next of kin as determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction and upon proof by the next of kin or a court
order obtained during the settling of the deceased's estate.
   E.   Change In Customer's Equipment Or Operations:
      1.   A customer needing or wanting to make any change in the size,
character or extent of the equipment or operations for which the service is
utilized shall immediately file with the city a new application for additional
service.
      2.   The city council upon advice of the board may require the customer
to provide whatever improvements to the water system deemed necessary
(including, but not limited to, items such as extension of a public water main
or installation of backflow prevention devices) to approve the change.
      3.   Backflow prevention devices are required on all businesses,
including churches, public parks, sprinkler systems, fire suppression systems,
boilers, certain residential units and other commercial, noncommercial
buildings as determined by this code, state or federal law. See chapter 5 of
this title, and applicable state and federal law. Installation, maintenance,
and annual recertification and testing of the backflow prevention device or
assembly shall be the sole responsibility of the property owner. Failure to
comply with annual recertification requirements may result in either a late
penalty as established by the city council by resolution, or termination of
services.
   F.   Service Taps:
      1.   Meter boxes shall be installed at the location of the curb stop or
on the property side of the sidewalk or future sidewalk. The city engineer
shall generally determine the location for placement of meter boxes. In no case
will a service connection be made unless the property to be served abuts a
street or alley with an adequately sized water main for the full length of the
property. The property owner may be required to install a water main extension
to obtain service. In no instance will service connections be installed across
private property.
      2.   If adequately sized mains are not available, the property owner must
request a main be extended in accordance with this code.
      3.   If the service is installed in an existing paved street or concreted
area (e.g., sidewalks, curbs or gutters), the applicant's contractor shall be
responsible for replacing the asphalt or concrete with a permanent patch, which
shall be inspected by the city to ensure the replacement asphalt meets city
requirements.
   G.   Service Connection:
      1.   Water service pipes from the water main to the service shutoff (curb
stop) valve shall be maintained by the city after initial connection. The city
shall maintain the water meter or service shutoff valve on the city's side of
the meter or shutoff valve, but the customer shall be responsible for all other
connections, water pipes, valves or other devices from the customer's side of
the water meter or shutoff valve onto the customer's property.
      2.   The customer shall be responsible for the installation of all pipes/
fixtures, etc., in accordance with all local, state and federal rules and
regulations for all new service connections. All work on city maintained
portions of the new service must be done by an appropriately licensed
contractor.
      3.   For new service installations which replace existing deteriorated
facilities, the city shall be responsible for the installation of the water
main connection and piping from the main to the service shutoff (curb stop)
valve or meter. The time frames, parts, and methods of construction shall be at
the discretion of the city.
      4.   In certain situations, the city retains the right to negotiate,
authorize and pay for a contractor to replace service connections on the
property owner's side of the meter or curb stop with consent of the property
owner. The property owner and the city must enter into a binding contract for
repayment on a time and material basis, plus accrued interest at the rate of
1.5 percent per month on all unpaid balances before work begins. The balance
must be paid off in twelve (12) months.
   H.   System Obligation Fees:
      1.   Initial Fee: For each initial or new connection made to the water
system, there shall be charged an initial payment in the form of a system
obligation fee. For each residential or other housing unit, multi-family
dwelling, apartment house, trailer court, commercial and industrial connection
the charge shall be set by resolution of the city council upon advice of the
board and shall be based upon the diameter size of the pipe to service the
property.
      2.   Exemption: Water lines installed for fire protection only, with no
normal service usage, are exempt from the connection charge.
      3.   Applicable To: The system obligation charge shall apply to all lots
of record which have not previously been served by the Ely municipal water
system and each lot of any new subdivision or development to be served by Ely's
water system.
      4.   Modification And Expansion Of Facilities: If additional floor area
is added to the premises of a user requiring a larger size service connection,
a system obligation charge will be assessed at the rate currently charged for
the new connection size less the amount currently charged for the old size. No
refunds of system obligation charges will be made for changing to a smaller
service size.
      5.   Payable On Demand: The system obligation charge shall be payable on
demand by the city before the then recorded owner of the property or the
licensed contractor obtains a building or excavation permit.
   I.   Individual Service And Shutoff Valve: Each residence shall have an
individual service and shutoff valve installed.
      1.   Existing residences where more than one parcel is served by a single
service shall be allowed to continue so long as all bills for water service are
kept current and the requirements of this code are not violated. If there is a
change in the service for any parcel where more than one parcel is served by a
single service shutoff valve or meter, the new owner shall be required to
install, at his/her expense, a separate service line from the main to the
parcel/residence.
      2.   The city may decline to furnish water until separate services are
provided, at its sole discretion and at any time any of the requirements
contained in this chapter are violated.
      3.   In all cases where water has been supplied to several parties or
tenants from a connection controlled by one valve or meter, and the city has
contracted with one of the several parties, upon his/her or their failure to
abide by this code, the water may be shut off to all parties.
   J.   Alterations Or Extensions: No person shall be authorized to make any
alterations or extensions to any water pipe or fixture owned by the city except
in compliance with the provisions of this code and permission from the city
council upon recommendation of the board.
   K.   Placement And Maintenance: Service lines shall be placed and maintained
in a covered trench with at least sixty inch (60") cover over the pipe.
Further, soil type and compaction shall comply with the national plumbing code
or other applicable codes as adopted by the city.
   L.   Master Shutoff Valve, Backflow Prevention Device: Every building or
premises served by a water service line shall have a master house or building
shutoff valve installed at the expense of the owner at or near the service
entrance into the building or house, in addition to the city shutoff valve or
meter at the curb stop, so the occupant or owner can shut off the water supply
to the building or premises without using the city shutoff valve or requiring
the city to close any other valves. The building may also be required to
install a backflow prevention device if required by this code, state or federal
law.
   M.   Violations, Penalty: No person, other than authorized city personnel,
shall open, close, operate, tamper with, tap or connect into any city valve,
meter, mains, pipes, laterals, hydrants or other valves or pipes owned or
controlled by the city or used by the city in connection with the municipal
water works, unless authorized by the city engineer. Violation of this section
shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 674, 5-12-2016)
10-2-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Voluntary Termination Of Service:
      1.   A customer may request to have a service discontinued by giving not
less than one business day's advance written notice at city hall. Charges for
water service will terminate the date the service is disconnected.
      2.   Emergency situations will not require this prior notice. If the
reason for the emergency shutoff is the lack of an appropriate shutoff at the
building or residence, the customer shall be required to reimburse the city for
the emergency service on a time and material basis and will be required to
install, at the owner's expense, a shutoff valve near the service entrance into
the house per subsection 10-2-4L of this chapter.
      3.   Except in emergency situations, customers requesting discontinuance
of water service must do so by signing a request for discontinuance of service,
must pay their balance in full and pay a disconnection fee, the amount to be
established by resolution of the city council.
      4.   Customers requesting discontinuance of water service in nonemergency
situations for nonregular working hours will be charged a call out fee as
established by resolution of the city council.
   B.   Discontinuance Due To Nonpayment:
      1.   Policy: It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility services
to a residential unit or a business if that residential unit or business fails
to pay in full their monthly utility billing (including water, sewer and
landfill) for two (2) consecutive billing cycles (2 months) or if the bill,
including late fees and penalties, is equal to or greater than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00). The two hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) amount is not
applicable to those businesses whose normal monthly billing is greater than two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      2.   Procedure: The city shall provide the affected service location a
minimum of ten (10) calendar days' written notice, sent to the customer's
billing address, informing the customer that the city intends on discontinuing
services and provide the date, which will be at least ten (10) calendar days
from the date the city mails the notice, of its intent to terminate services.
If the city does not receive a response from the customer, the city shall send
a second notice to the customer using any method which ensures the notice is
delivered to the customer or the customer's premises at least forty eight (48)
hours before services are terminated.
         a.   Service Of Written Notice: The initial notice must be served upon
the customer by depositing the notice with the United States postal service,
properly addressed and postage prepaid, for delivery by first class mail to the
customer's last known mailing address.
         b.   Service Of Initial Notice: Service of initial notice shall be
deemed completed on the date the notice is deposited with the United States
postal service, properly addressed and postage prepaid, for delivery by first
class mail to the customer's last known mailing address.
         c.   Contents Of Notices: The initial notice and second notice shall
contain:
            (1)   The account number and address to which services are to be
terminated;
            (2)   The date on which the termination will occur;
            (3)   The reason for the intended termination, including, if the
intended termination is for nonpayment, a statement designating the bill as one
for actual or estimated use and specifying the total amount owed, the period
over which that amount was incurred and the minimum payment required to avoid
termination;
            (4)   The procedures the customer may use to dispute or appeal from
the intended termination, providing the address and telephone number for the
city;
            (5)   A statement that the city will promptly investigate any
complaint or dispute and provide the customer its written decision on the
matter;
            (6)   A statement that if the customer wishes to dispute any fact
or interpretation of a regulation relied upon by the city in its decision to
terminate services, the customer must appeal to the city council;
            (7)   A statement that services will not be terminated before a
resolution of the dispute if the customer pays the questioned portion of the
bill at the time the dispute arises and pays all subsequent bills;
            (8)   An explanation of any arrangements for payment which the
utility offers to customers who have difficulty in paying their bills,
including any deferred payment programs;
            (9)   An explanation of the restrictions on the termination when
dangerous to the customer's health; and
            (10)   An explanation of the utility's fee schedule and procedures
for reconnecting service.
      3.   Requirements Before Services Reconnected: A customer whose service
has been disconnected for nonpayment will be required to pay a disconnection
fee, the balance due, or sign a contract for deferred payment plan, a deposit,
and a reconnection fee before services will be turned back on.
      4.   Right Of City To Require Deposit Before Services Reconnected: The
city retains the right to require any customer who has failed to make timely
payments on their services or who have had their water turned off due to
nonpayment to pay a one hundred fifty dollar ($150.00) deposit as a condition
precedent for water, sewer and landfill services being reauthorized.
      5.   Dates Due And Payable, Delinquent: Bills for water service are due
and payable on or about the fifteenth of each month and become delinquent on
the twenty fifth day of each month. Delinquent accounts will be charged one and
one-half percent (1.5%) interest on the outstanding account balance.
      6.   Right Of City To File Lien: The city retains the right to file a
lien against the service property for nonpayment of utilities pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes 266.285.
   C.   Involuntary Termination Of Service With Prior Written Notice: The city
may involuntarily terminate service to any customer with prior written notice
for:
      1.   Nonpayment of delinquent bill for water services provided.
      2.   Failure to make a security deposit for water service or an
installment payment on a delinquent bill.
      3.   Negligent or wasteful use of water on the premises of the customer.
         a.   The city may terminate service for wasting water where the water
from a customer's premises is flowing into, under, upon or over any public
street, avenue, alley, sidewalk or highway, or so excessively upon the
customer's own premises as to constitute a waste of water in the determination
of the appropriate city personnel or the White Pine County sheriff's office.
         b.   The city may charge the customer a civil penalty for wasting
water or violating the city's seasonal watering restrictions as identified in
section
10-2-16 of this chapter.
         c.   The city may terminate water service for violation of the city's
seasonal watering restrictions, which shall be printed in a local newspaper in
April of each year.
      4.   Violation of any rules contained in this code.
   D.   Involuntary Termination Of Service Without Prior Written Notice: The
city may involuntarily terminate service to any customer without prior written
notice for the following:
      1.   If an unsafe or hazardous condition related to water service is
found to exist on the customer's premises which constitutes a hazard to health
or which may contaminate the water supply or which threatens to damage any
portion of the city water system, or, the city may terminate the service
without prior notice, but shall notify the customer immediately of the reasons
for the discontinuance and the corrective action to be taken by the customer
before service can be restored;
      2.   If the use of water service by any apparatus, appliances, equipment
or otherwise on the customer's premises is found to be detrimental or damaging
to the facilities or services of the city, or to other customers;
      3.   Upon the order of any court;
      4.   If the acts of the customer or the conditions upon the customer's
premises are such as to indicate to the city that the customer intends to
defraud it;
         a.   When the city has discovered that a customer has obtained service
by fraudulent means, or has diverted the water service for unauthorized use, or
has stolen water service by means of opening a valve or meter that was closed
for nonpayment or failure to open an account, the service to that customer may
be discontinued without notice.
         b.   The city will not restore service to such customer until that
customer has complied with the rules and reasonable requirements of the city
and the city has been reimbursed for the full amount of the service rendered
and the actual cost to the city incurred by reason of the fraudulent use.
         c.   The illegal taking of services without paying for them is a
misdemeanor and shall carry a minimum fine of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00).
      5.   If the city has tried diligently to meet the requirements for notice
in this section, but has not been able to give such notice;
      6.   If an event occurs which could not have been reasonably anticipated
or controlled and which requires the termination of service;
      7.   If the location where service is provided has been abandoned; or
      8.   If the customer is providing services to another location. (Ord.
674, 5-12-2016)
10-2-6: RESTORATION OF SERVICE:
   A.   Reconnection Fees: Where service has been terminated for any reason,
the city shall charge a reconnection fee, the amount of which shall be set by
the city council by resolution, which must be paid prior to reconnection to
water service.
   B.   Connection After Regular Working Hours: If the customer requests
connection of service after regular working hours of the water department, the
customer shall pay a fee, set by the city council by resolution, to cover costs
of overtime and equipment usage.
   C.   Payment, Payment Plan: Water service shall not be reestablished until
all delinquent bills plus interest at the rate of one and one-half percent
(1.5%) per month and the reconnection fee set by resolution of the city council
and any legal fees are paid in full or the customer has signed a deferred
payment plan agreement.
   D.   Issuance Of "Will Serve" Letters: The city shall not issue "will serve"
letters for new service to any individual, person, company, contractor or
corporation with any delinquent water bills. (Ord. 674, 5-12-2016)
10-2-7: DEFERRED PAYMENT PLAN:
   A.   Before termination of services, the customer may request a deferred
payment plan under this section where the customer agrees to the following
terms:
      1.   The customer must pay all past due payments, incurred fees,
penalties and interest within sixty (60) calendar days of execution of the
agreement, in three (3) equal payments, with the first payment due upon
execution of the agreement; and
      2.   The customer agrees to pay all future bills when due.
   B.   The city shall meet its obligation to notify the customer of their
opportunity to enter a deferred payment plan in the written notice of intent to
terminate service for failure to pay.
   C.   During the pendency of the deferred payment plan, should the customer
default on making their payments pursuant to this section, the city, providing
at least twenty four (24) hours' advanced written notice to the customer, shall
terminate services. (Ord. 674, 5-12-2016)
10-2-8: REFUSAL TO SERVE:
   A.   Conditions For Refusal: The city may refuse to serve an applicant for
service or to continue with an existing customer under the following
conditions:
      1.   If the applicant or customer fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter.
      2.   If the intended use of the service is of such a nature that it will
be detrimental or injurious to existing customers or the water system.
      3.   If, in the judgment of the city, the applicant's installation of
fixtures, pipes or other apparatus needed for the provision of water is unsafe,
hazardous, subject to freezing, or installed in violation of any local, state
or federal law, including, but not limited to, the uniform plumbing code.
      4.   Where service has been discontinued for fraudulent use, the city
will not serve an applicant until it has been determined that all conditions of
fraudulent use or practice have been corrected.
   B.   Notification To Customers: When an applicant is refused service under
the provisions of this chapter, the city will notify the applicant promptly of
the reason for the refusal to serve and of the right of the applicant to appeal
the decision of the city administrator to the board, which will make a
recommendation to the city council. The decision of the city council shall be
final. (Ord. 674, 5-12-2016)
10-2-9: CONTINUITY OF SERVICE:
   A.   Emergency Interruptions:
      1.   The water department will make reasonable efforts to prevent
interruptions to service and when such interruptions occur will endeavor to
reestablish service with the shortest possible delay consistent with the safety
to its customers and the general public.
      2.   Where any emergency interruption of service affects the service to
any public fire protection device, the water department will promptly endeavor
to notify the fire department headquarters of such interruption and the return
to normal service.
   B.   Scheduled Interruptions: Whenever the water department finds it
necessary to schedule an interruption to its service, it will endeavor to
notify affected customers, providing the approximate time and anticipated
duration of the interruption. The water department will attempt to schedule
interruptions at such hours as will provide the least inconvenience to the
customers while meeting the operational needs of the water department.
   C.   Apportionment Of Supply During Times Of Shortage: During times of
threatened or actual water shortages, the water department will apportion the
supply in the manner that appears most equitable under the circumstances then
prevailing, and with due regard to public health and safety. (Ord. 674, 5-12-
2016)
10-2-10: SERVICE TO USERS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
The city council shall have authority, under Nevada Revised Statutes 266.285 to
make and enter into such contracts as may be necessary, convenient or proper
with respect to water service to improved property outside the territorial
limits of the city and with respect to the payment of proper charges for such
service, which shall in no case be less than the rates established for users
within the city. No such contract shall impair the ability of the water
department to properly serve its customers within the city. (Ord. 674, 5-12-
2016)
10-2-11: WATER RATES:
Water rates for all classes and types of use shall be set and may be changed by
resolution of the city council, after notice of public hearings is made by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the city of Ely, an
opportunity for a public hearing in front of the utility board and subsequently
in front of the city council, with final approval by the city council. (Ord.
674, 5-12-2016)
10-2-12: METERS:
   A.   Metered Service: All customers whose premises are not used primarily as
residence shall be a metered service. All meters will be tested prior to
installation and no meter will be installed which registers more than a two
percent (2%) error rate.
      1.   Water meter boxes and meter loops will be installed in the street or
sidewalk area, and shall be owned by the city.
      2.   New construction shall require the installation of a water meter
box, meter loop or meter idler, and an appropriate shutoff valve at the curb
stop, at the customer's expense. The city may require the installation of a
city approved meter. The customer cannot charge the city rent or any other
charge for a meter or other facilities, including connections.
      3.   After installation, all meters will be sealed by the city and no
seal shall be altered or broken except by an authorized city employee or
authorized agent.
      4.   The city may install a water meter box and meter loop for an
existing customer. The choice to install a meter box and meter loop for an
existing structure shall be solely within the discretion of the city, and will
depend on operational concerns of the city affecting the viability of
installation.
      5.   In the event the city replaces a water service line from the main to
the curb stop, a meter box and meter loop shall be installed, if one is not
present, or may be replaced if necessary as part of the work performed by the
city or its agent.
      6.   The city may install meters at residential services for purposes of
studying water usage to develop a rate structure that encourages conservation.
If the city installs meters for this purpose the property owner must agree, in
writing, to the installation of the meter, but will be charged the same rate as
those customers who do not have water meters installed at their residential
service location until such time as the city implements a citywide water meter
billing system or program.
   B.   Change In Location Of Meters: Meters moved for the convenience of
customer will be relocated at the customer's expense on a time and materials
basis. Meters moved to protect city property or facilities will be moved at the
city's expense.
   C.   Water Meter Testing And Billing Adjustments:
      1.   Adjustment Of Meter Error For A Fast Meter: In the event a water
meter tests more than two percent (2%) fast, the meter shall be repaired or
replaced at the city's discretion and expense to prevent overcharging of the
customer.
      2.   Adjustment Of Meter Errors For A Slow Meter: In the event a meter
tests more than two percent (2%) slow, the meter shall be repaired or replaced
at the city's discretion and expense to prevent undercharging of the customer.
      3.   Nonregistering Meters: In the event a meter is found not to be
registering the water usage for the service location, the customer shall be
charged the average usage for that location for that month in the prior year.
   D.   Damage To Meters: The city reserves the right to set and maintain a
meter on any service connection. The water consumer shall be held liable,
however, for any damage to the meter due to negligence or carelessness of the
customer, invitees, agents and guests, including, but not limited to, repair
and replacement of the damaged meter, on a time and materials basis required to
replace and repair the damaged meter, and any damage to the water distribution
system as a result of the negligence or carelessness of the customer, invitees,
agents or guests.
   E.   Meters On New Services: All parts, labor and equipment to install new
services shall be paid for by the developer of the property. All new services
require the installation of meters and meter boxes to facilitate metering. New
water services over one inch (1") in diameter and commercial water services
shall be metered. All new meters, meter boxes, service piping, and related
items shall be approved by the city engineer or city building official as
appropriate, prior to installation. All methods of construction of the water
service line to the service address shall be preapproved by the building
official and/or the city engineer. Installation of meters must meet all
federal, state and local rules and laws. (Ord. 674, 5-12-2016)
10-2-13: TEMPORARY SERVICE FROM A FIRE HYDRANT:
   A.   Application: Any customer seeking temporary service from a fire hydrant
either to fill a water truck, or emergency service to a business or residence
for nonpotable uses only, must file an application with the city for approval
before service from a fire hydrant will be authorized. Service from a fire
hydrant may be temporarily discontinued in the event the fire department is
required to access the fire hydrant in order to test the hydrant or utilize the
hydrant for fire suppression purposes.
   B.   Duration Of Service: Temporary service from a fire hydrant shall be
disconnected and terminated before freezing conditions prevail, unless the city
grants an extension of time in writing upon good cause shown for the need for
an extension of time.
   C.   Fees And Charges: Service supplied through a fire hydrant will be
charged in accordance with the rate set by the city council by resolution. The
user of the fire hydrant meter shall pay a refundable deposit with the city,
the amount to be set by resolution of the city council.
   D.   Installation And Operation: All facilities for temporary service from a
fire hydrant to a customer connection shall be made or inspected by the city
and shall be operated in accordance with instructions from the city, including,
but not limited to, a requirement that the customer use an approved backflow
prevention device on the fire hydrant to prevent contamination of the city
water supply and use a water meter to measure the gallons of water used for
billing purposes.
   E.   Responsibility For Meters:
      1.   The customer shall use all possible care to prevent damage to the
city's meter or to any other facilities loaned to the customer by the city
involved in furnishing temporary service from the fire hydrant from the time
the equipment or facilities are installed until they are removed.
      2.   The customer utilizing the fire hydrant for temporary service shall
provide the city a minimum of forty eight (48) hours' advanced written notice
of the customer's completion of work requiring temporary service from a fire
hydrant.
      3.   The customer shall be solely responsible for all damages to the fire
hydrant, meter or other facilities resulting from their use of such equipment,
or the negligence and/or carelessness of the customer, invitees, guests or
agents.
   F.   Use Of Fire Hydrant:
      1.   A customer may make application to utilize water from a fire hydrant
by filing an application with the city and obtaining a permit issued by the
city. If approved, the customer is responsible to provide a hydrant wrench and
a clean water hose. If available, the customer may lease from the city the
equipment necessary to utilize the fire hydrant (hydrant wrench and hose) at
the rate set by the city council by resolution.
      2.   In all cases, the customer must rent from the city or utilize a city
approved backflow prevention device (with proof of current backflow prevention
certification) to prevent contamination of the city water system through the
use of the fire hydrant.
      3.   Any person who wilfully and unlawfully tampers with or uses water
from a fire hydrant without proper authority issued by the city is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   G.   Billing And Enforcement:
      1.   The applicant shall be provided a water use reporting form, which
shall be used to report all water used from hydrants by any and all
contractors. All fire hydrants used by a contractor must be approved in advance
of use by the city engineer's office or the designated representative.
      2.   The water use reporting form shall be submitted to the city the last
week of the month of water usage and must include the following:
         a.   Name of contractor/customer,
         b.   Permit number,
         c.   Beginning and ending meter reading for the preceding month, and
         d.   Location of each fire hydrant utilized to obtain water, the date
each hydrant was utilized, and the number of total gallons used at each hydrant
location.
      3.   City crews shall note the name of each contractor/customer they
observe utilizing a hydrant, the date of the observed use and the location of
the hydrant used. Should the city's notes when compared to the contractor's/
customer's submitted use forms not agree, the refundable deposit paid by the
contractor/customer may be retained by the city in lieu of the accurate use
report.
      4.   The monthly use reporting sheet will be used to determine the amount
owed to the city for water usage on a monthly basis.
      5.   The contractor/customer shall be billed monthly for the use of any
equipment in addition to the actual water used by the contractor/customer. All
bills must be paid no later than the twenty fifth day of the month. Failure of
the contractor/customer to pay their bill by the twenty fifth of each month may
result in termination of their ability to utilize water from a fire hydrant and
an increase in any deposit required of the contractor/customer in the future.
   H.   Deposit: The applicant shall pay the estimated cost of the service in
advance or shall otherwise provide a letter of credit from a current customer
to ensure payment for the water utilized by the applicant. (Ord. 674, 5-12-
2016)
10-2-14: PUBLIC WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS:
   A.   The owner of one or more lots or parcels of land desiring the extension
of one or more water mains to serve such property shall apply for a will serve
letter. The application must contain the legal description of the property to
be served, any additional information required by the board and city council,
and must be accompanied by a map showing the location of the proposed
connections.
   B.   Upon receipt of the application, the city engineer shall investigate
and survey the proposed extension and shall submit a written report of findings
to the board and city council along with the application, on the feasibility of
the request.
   C.   The board shall consider the application and report, and provide its
recommendation for approval or denial of the application to the city council.
   D.   If approved by the city council, the applicant shall contract a
currently licensed Nevada engineer to design the main line extension. The city
engineer shall not design the extension for the applicant as part of the duties
of the city engineer. The contract engineer shall design the extension, provide
for the inspection of the installation, and upon completion of the
installation, provide the city with a letter that the installation meets city
standards and specifications, and provide an "as built" drawing identifying the
location of the facilities in sufficient detail acceptable to the city engineer
showing all valves, service connections or other details necessary to assist
the city in servicing the line.
   E.   All water main extensions installed, tested and accepted by the city
shall become the property of the city.
      1.   Generally, the minimum circumference for a water main extension pipe
is eight inch (8") diameter pipe. Should the city engineer recommend the
installation of facilities greater or less than the minimum required, a report
shall be prepared by the city engineer justifying the variance and provide that
to the customer.
      2.   Should the owner of the property disagree with the recommendation of
the city engineer, they may appeal to the board for a recommendation to the
city council on whether to uphold the decision of the city engineer or overturn
the decision. The property owner shall have the right to present arguments and
other facts supporting their argument for why a variance is not required. The
city engineer shall provide the rationale for the variance. Following each
party's presentation, the board shall make a recommendation to the city
council.
      3.   If the board recommends installation of oversized facilities, the
property owner shall have the right to appeal that decision to the city
council. If the city council follows the recommendation of the city engineer,
the property owner shall be required to install the larger pipe at their
expense. No dead end lines shall be permitted except at the discretion of the
city engineer, and in cases where circulation lines are necessary they shall be
designed and installed as part of the main extension and the cost paid by the
applicant.
      4.   The size, type and quality of materials and location of the line
shall be approved by the city engineer. The applicant will be required to pay
the cost of all necessary rights of way and easements for the construction of
water mains in the event obtaining a utility easement is required.
      5.   The following general conditions shall apply to the installation of
any water main extensions, in addition to any specific conditions set by the
city engineer and as may be recommended by the board and approved by the city
council:
         a.   Materials for construction of pipelines shall be as approved by
the board and the city engineer.
         b.   Lines and grades of water mains must be as preapproved by the
city engineer. Water main depths shall not be less than five feet (5') to top
of pipe, absent special circumstance, in which case, written preauthorization
of the city engineer shall be obtained.
         c.   Valves shall be installed as required by the city engineer.
         d.   Fire hydrant type and location shall be as approved by the city
engineer, the water department and the city of Ely fire chief and shall meet
all federal, state and local laws and ordinances. Hydrant line valves shall be
installed at the locations approved by the city engineer with concurrence of
the fire chief.
         e.   All main extensions shall meet the requirements of uniform
plumbing code or other applicable codes adopted by the city, and all applicable
state health regulations.
      6.   After the city council has approved the proposed water main
extension, the applicant shall contract an appropriately licensed contractor to
install the facilities. The city engineer or authorized representatives of the
city engineer shall approve the installation.
      7.   The water department may make extensions to the facilities
constructed under this section without obligation to the applicant.
      8.   The city may enter into an agreement with the applicant to provide
for the installation of the facilities comprising the water main extension in
accordance with the plans and specifications approved by the city and subject
to inspection by the city engineer.
   F.   Reimbursement For Main Extension:
      1.   Where the cost of the main extension has been paid by the property
owner, the property owner shall thereafter but not longer than ten (10) years
after the date the extension is originally connected to the city water system,
collect a portion of the cost of the extension from any water user connecting
to that section of the main extension with a service tap.
      2.   The prorated cost of such an extension must be calculated based upon
the width or length of the property abutting the water main extension, divided
by the total length of the water main extension for the prorated amount
(example: If the water main extension is 150 feet in total length, and the new
service's parcel is 35 feet along the main to be connected to, the prorated
calculation is 35 divided by 150 for a total of .2333 or 23.33 percent of the
total cost of the installation of the water main extension). The city shall
bear no responsibility to the original contractor/customer to ensure the new
service connecting to the water main extension pays any portion of the prorated
cost to the original contractor/customer. It shall be the sole responsibility
of the contractor/customer to seek payment pursuant to this section.
      3.   When different property owners, including the city contribute to the
installation of the extension, such sums shall be refunded to such property
owners pro rata according to the amounts which they contributed toward the
extension and pursuant to the preceding plan.
      4.   Where special conditions exist, upon recommendation of the board and
approved by the city council to justify reimbursement to persons paying the
cost of a main extension on any basis other than that provided in this chapter,
the board may recommend a special reimbursement contract. Any special
reimbursement contract must be entered into and approved by the city council
prior to commencement of the work.
   G.   Subdivisions: Installation of water services in a subdivision shall
meet the requirements of Nevada Revised Statutes 278 et seq., this chapter and
title 11 of this code. (Ord. 674, 5-12-2016)
10-2-15: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Pools And Tanks: When an abnormally large quantity of water is desired
for filling a swimming pool or for other purposes, arrangements must be made
with the city prior to taking such water. Permission to take water in unusual
quantities will be given only if it can be safely delivered through the water
department facilities and if other consumers are not inconvenienced thereby.
   B.   Responsibility For Equipment: The customer shall, at their own risk and
expense, furnish, install and keep in good and safe condition all equipment
that may be required for receiving, controlling, applying and utilizing water.
The city water department shall not be responsible for any loss or damage
caused by the improper installation of such equipment, or the negligence or
wrongful act of the customer or of any of their tenants, agents, employees,
contractors, licensees or permittees in installing, maintaining, operating or
interfering with such equipment. The city shall not be responsible for damage
to property caused by faucets, valves and other equipment that are open when
water is turned on at the meter or curb stop valve, either originally or when
turned on after a temporary shutdown.
   C.   Water Used Without Application Being Made: A person taking possession
of premises and using water from an active service connection without having
made application to the city for water service, shall be held liable for the
water delivered from the date of the last recorded metered or flat rate
billing, and if there is no meter or the meter is found inoperative, the
quantity consumed will be estimated. If proper application for water service is
not made upon notification to do so by the water department, and if accumulated
bills for service are not paid immediately, the service may be discontinued by
the city without further notice.
   D.   Damages Through Leaking Pipes And Fixtures: In no circumstance will the
city turn on a water line unless the customer or his/her representative is
present. When turning on the water supply as requested, the customer must be
present. The city's jurisdiction and responsibility ends at the property line
and the city will in no case be liable for damages occasioned by water running
from open or faulty fixtures, or from broken or damaged pipes inside the
property line.
   E.   Outside Residential Watering Restrictions: The following outside
watering restrictions apply to Ely residents or any business not metered
beginning May 1 until September 30 of each year:
      1.   Outside watering is only allowed from five o'clock (5:00) A.M. to
ten o'clock (10.00) A.M. and from five o'clock (5:00) P.M. to ten o'clock
(10.00) P.M.
      2.   Even numbered houses shall only water on even numbered days and odd
numbered houses shall only water on odd numbered days.
   F.   Outside Business Watering Restrictions: Businesses with water meters
installed are not required to follow the watering restrictions identified
herein, unless changed by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 674, 5-12-2016)
10-2-16: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF WATERING RESTRICTIONS OR WASTING WATER:
   A.   To promote conservation of the city's water resources, the following
penalties for wasting water or violation of water restrictions for any calendar
year identified in this chapter shall be issued to the property owner as
follows:
      1.   First offense: Written warning issued by the city administrator,
sent to the property owner.
      2.   Second offense: A civil fine, payable to the city of Ely, in the
amount of fifty dollars ($50.00).
      3.   Third offense: A misdemeanor with a minimum fine of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00), plus court costs and fees.
      4.   Fourth offense: A misdemeanor with a minimum fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00), plus court costs and fees.
   B.   The city of Ely's compliance officer is vested with the power to issue
the above citations to the property owner.
   C.   Persons or businesses caught utilizing water without applying for
services shall be charged as a misdemeanor with a minimum fine of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) plus court costs and fees. (Ord. 674, 5-12-2016)
10-2-17: APPEALS PROCESS:
   A.   Any person, property owner, business, or agent of the aforementioned
shall have the right to appeal any administrative decisions in this chapter to
the municipal utility board, who shall make a recommendation to the city
council regarding the issue on appeal.
   B.   All appeals must be in writing, submitted to the city administrator in
sufficient time to appear on the next available municipal utility board agenda.
   C.   The person appealing shall be permitted to present evidence related to
their appeal, including testimony of witnesses. The municipal utility board
will listen to the evidence, may ask questions of the witnesses, and conduct
any other investigation regarding the facts surrounding any appeal. The person
appealing bears the burden, by a preponderance of evidence, to prove their
case. Following the hearing of the municipal utility board, the board will
provide its recommendation to the city council to consider. The municipal
utility board shall place in the minutes its reasons for the recommendation it
will provide to the city council.
   D.   The city council may adopt the recommendation of the municipal utility
board, amend the recommendation of the municipal utility board, or deny the
recommendation of the municipal utility board. The city council may direct the
person appealing to appear before the city council to respond to questions or
to provide clarification if necessary. The decision of the city council is
final.
   E.   The city attorney shall be responsible to represent the city and its
employees during any appeal to the municipal utility board and shall provide
the city council with the recommendation of the municipal utility board. (Ord.
674, 5-12-2016)
CHAPTER 3
WATER SERVICE RATES
SECTION:
10-3-1: Water Service Fees
10-3-2: EDA Grant
10-3-3: Automatic Termination
10-3-1: WATER SERVICE FEES:
The monthly municipal water service use fees shall be as established by the
city council, and kept on file therewith. (Per correspondence dated 3-18-2008)
10-3-2: EDA GRANT:
This chapter is conditioned upon the city obtaining a grant from the EDA in the
amount of nine hundred fifty thousand dollars ($950,000.00) for the project.
(Ord. 484, 6-6-1993)
10-3-3: AUTOMATIC TERMINATION:
This rate increase shall be terminated upon completion of the debt service
associated with the project or in forty (40) years, whichever occurs sooner.
(Ord. 484, 6-6-1993)
CHAPTER 4
WELLHEAD PROTECTION
SECTION:
10-4-1: Short Title
10-4-2: Purpose
10-4-3: Definitions
10-4-4: Establishment Of Wellhead Protection Overlay District
10-4-5: Prohibited Uses Within Zone I Of The Wellhead Protection Area
10-4-6: Notice Of Proposed Action To Operator Of Public Water System
10-4-7: Proposed Land Uses Within Zone II Of The Wellhead Protection Area
10-4-8: Nonconforming Uses
10-4-9: Enforcement
10-4-10: Amendments
10-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the WELLHEAD PROTECTION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 620, 1-
10-2008)
10-4-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to contamination
of the public water supply, and to formalize ground water protection
procedures. Specific goals are to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Ensure that the public is provided with a sustainable, safe potable
water supply;
   C.   Minimize expenditure of public money for pollution remediation
projects;
   D.   Clarify regulations on land use; and
   E.   Minimize business interruptions. (Ord. 620, 1-10-2008)
10-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this section:
COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: A public system, which serves at least fifteen (15)
service connections used by year round residents or regularly serves at least
twenty five (25) year round residents.
COMMUNITY WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports,
seals, valves and other appurtenances.
CONTAMINANT: An undesirable substance not normally present, or an undesirably
high concentration of a naturally occurring substance.
FACILITY: Refers to any business or corporation that is built, installed, or
established to serve a particular purpose.
HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY: A hazardous waste treatment, storage, or
disposal facility that receives hazardous material as described in part 40,
chapter 260.1 of the code of federal regulations.
HAZARDOUS WASTE OR MATERIAL: Any waste or material which, because of its
quantity, concentration; physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
   A.   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
   B.   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed; or
   C.   Any material or substance designated as a hazardous or toxic substance
defined by title 40, part 261.3 of the code of federal regulations, or any
material or substance designated as a hazardous or toxic substance by the state
of Nevada, acting through the division of environmental protection or any
successor agency.
NONCOMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: A public water system that is not a community water
system.
PERMITTING AGENCY: For the purposes of this chapter, the city of Ely building
department is the permitting agency responsible for authorization and
enforcement of building and land use permits.
PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM: A system that provides the public with piped water for
human consumption, if such system has at least fifteen (15) service connections
or regularly serves an average of at least twenty five (25) individuals daily
at least sixty (60) days out of the year, including:
   A.   Any drinking water source procurement, pumping, treatment, storage, and
distribution facilities under control of the operator of such system, and used
primarily in connection with such system; and
   B.   Any drinking water source procurement, pumping or pretreatment storage
facilities not under such control that are used primarily in connection with
such system.
A public water system is either a "community water system" or a "noncommunity
water system".
TIME OF TRAVEL DISTRICTS (TOT): The time required for a water molecule or
contaminant to move through an aquifer from a specific point to a well or
spring.
UNDERGROUND INJECTION WELL: A well that is used for or intended to be used for
the subsurface emplacement of fluids.
   A.   A bored, drilled or driven shaft whose depth is greater than the
largest surface dimension; or
   B.   A dug hole whose depth is greater than the largest surface dimension;
or
   C.   An improved sinkhole; or
   D.   A subsurface fluid distribution system.
WELL: A penetration in the ground made for the purpose of measuring, testing or
sampling the underground strata or producing ground water. This term includes a
water well, monitoring well or exploratory well; or any excavation or
artificial opening into the ground which provides an unnatural conduit for
fluids to migrate to the water table.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT: A land use designation on the land use
map, or a zoning designation on a zoning map, that modifies the basic
underlying designation in some specific manner. The wellhead protection overlay
district map will define specific area districts that delineate the surface and
subsurface area surrounding a drinking water well or well field. The map is
delineated using methods established in the NDEP "Wellhead Protection Program
Guide".
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT I: Per Nevada administrative code 444.792
and/or Nevada Revised Statutes 439.200, 444.650, a minimum fixed radius
extending no less than one hundred fifty feet (150') from the wellhead
supplying potable water to the public water supplies.
WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT II: A ten (10) year or twenty (20) year,
whichever is greater, time of travel district (TOT), as defined in this
section, and as defined in the public water system's approved or endorsed
wellhead protection program, recognized by the state of Nevada's wellhead
protection program, administered by the Nevada division of environmental
protection. (Ord. 620, 1-10-2008)
10-4-4: ESTABLISHMENT OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION OVERLAY DISTRICT:
There is hereby established a wellhead protection overlay district identified
and described as all the area within the ten (10) year or twenty (20) year TOT
district around public water supplies as shown on the official zoning map. It
is further established that these areas be composed of two (2) districts,
"wellhead protection overlay district I" and "wellhead protection overlay
district II", as they are defined in this chapter. The board of commissioners
may record with the county recorder's office a metes and bounds description of
the wellhead protection overlay district. (Ord. 620, 1-10-2008)
10-4-5: PROHIBITED USES WITHIN ZONE I OF THE WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA:
Uses permitted within zone I shall be limited to transformers and substations,
and necessary public water supply wellhead equipment, including the following:
wellhead facility buildings, water storage tanks, disinfection and treatment
equipment, disinfection and treatment chemical storage and approved
landscaping. All other uses shall be prohibited, including, but not limited to:
   A.   Manufacturing or industrial businesses involving the collection,
handling, manufacture, use, storage, transfer or disposal of any hazardous
solid or liquid material or waste having a potential impact on ground water
quality that would change ground water quality to below state drinking water
quality standards, and any land use activities posing a hazard or contamination
threat to existing ground water quality.
   B.   Sewer lines, septic tanks, drain fields or the disposal of waste oil,
oil filters, tires and all other petroleum products.
Exceptions may be allowed upon issuance of a special use permit. The planning
commission may instigate a special use permit process during the application
review process. (Ord. 620, 1-10-2008)
10-4-6: NOTICE OF PROPOSED ACTION TO OPERATOR OF PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM:
Whenever there is a request that requires a special use permit from the
planning commission for land lying within a wellhead protection district,
written notice no less than thirty (30) days before the hearing shall be given
to all entities operating a public or community water supply system within that
overlay district. The planning commission may require a granting of easements
for monitoring wells if the commission deems it appropriate for protection of
the public water supply. (Ord. 620, 1-10-2008)
10-4-7: PROPOSED LAND USES WITHIN ZONE II OF THE WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA:
Upon requesting a permit for land use or development within the wellhead
protection overlay district II, applicants will be informed by the permitting
agency regarding the goals of the wellhead protection plan for the associated
PWS. The permitting agency must promptly send a copy of the application to the
PWS. The PWS will then be allowed thirty (30) days to respond to the proposed
development or land use as they pertain to the goals stated in their wellhead
protection program.
The PWS may then request more detailed information or submit a nonbinding
advisory statement detailing any suggested restrictions, modifications and/or
justification for denial or approval of the permit. (Ord. 620, 1-10-2008)
10-4-8: NONCONFORMING USES:
Any legal use existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter and listed
as a prohibited use herein, shall become a legal nonconforming use and is
required to conform to this chapter upon any change or transfer of ownership or
upon expansion or improvement, except as otherwise provided in the zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 620, 1-10-2008)
10-4-9: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, government entity or business
to occupy or use the land within the area designated in the wellhead protection
overlay district of zone I, and/or II, contrary to, or in violation of, any of
the provisions of this chapter and/or adopted water quality legislation and
pursuant regulations to protect ground water from potential contaminant sources
as identified in the White Pine County title ordinances and in various chapters
of the Nevada administrative code. (Ord. 620, 1-10-2008)
10-4-10: AMENDMENTS:
Proposed amendments will require advance notice to all entities operating
public or community water supplies that this chapter affects. (Ord. 620, 1-10-
2008)
CHAPTER 5
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose
10-5-2: Definitions
10-5-3: Cross Connection Protection Requirements
10-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to fulfill the Ely municipal water department's
responsibilities under the federal safe drinking water act and state of Nevada
regulations relating to cross connection controls and to protect the public
water system from potential contamination or pollution via back pressure or
back siphonage from a consumer's private plumbing system or internal
distribution system. This will be accomplished by imposing the following
requirements designed to eliminate cross connections or to install approved
backflow prevention assemblies to minimize contamination to the city of Ely
water supply. (Ord. 658, 7-11-2013)
10-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
AIR GAP: A physical separation sufficient to prevent backflow between the free
flowing discharge end of the potable water system and any other system.
Physically defined as a distance equal to twice the diameter of the supply side
pipe diameter but never less than one inch (1").
APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY: A backflow prevention assembly that has
passed rigorous testing by the University Of Southern California Foundation For
Cross Connection Control And Hydraulic Research or other state approved
organization.
ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER: A device which prevents back siphonage by creating
an atmospheric vent when there is either a negative pressure or subatmospheric
pressure in a water system.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises, other
than the purveyor's public water supply, will be considered as an auxiliary
water supply.
BACK PRESSURE: A condition in which the owner's system pressure is greater than
the supplier's system pressure.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source other
than its intended source caused by the sudden reduction of pressure in the
potable water supply system.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances, under
positive or reduced pressure in the distribution pipes of a potable water
supply from any source other than its intended source. The undesirable flow of
water in the reverse direction. Backflow can occur under two (2) conditions:
back siphonage and back pressure.
CERTIFIED BACKFLOW TESTER: A person who has been certified and has a license to
test backflow prevention assembly from the American Water Works Association
(AWWA), American Backflow Prevention Association (ABPA) or other state approved
entity that can certify backflow testing procedures.
CONSUMER: The owner or user of water from the public water system.
CONTAMINATION: The presence of any substance that will impair the quality of
the water to a degree that it creates a serious health hazard to the public
leading to poisoning or the spread of disease.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any actual or potential connection between the public water
supply and a source of contamination or pollution.
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL SPECIALIST: A person who is certified in conducting
surveys, identifying cross connections and specializing in proper backflow
protection.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An approved backflow prevention assembly of two
(2) independently operating spring loaded check valves with tightly closing
resilient seated shutoff valves on each side of the check valves, plus properly
located test cocks for the testing of each check valve.
OWNER: Any person; whether individual, corporation, company, association,
partnership, municipality, public utility, or other public body or institution;
who has legal title to, or license to operate or habitat in, a property upon
which a cross connection inspection is to be made or upon which a cross
connection is present.
PLAN OF ACTION: A detailed plan the property owner must submit for approval to
the Ely municipal water department within thirty (30) days of receiving the
follow up letter summarizing the on site survey. The plan of action must state
the specific time line the owner needs to save funds for and install the
required backflow prevention assembly.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance, that if permitted to get into
the public water system, will degrade its quality so as to constitute a
moderate hazard. Or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree
which does not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does
adversely and unreasonably affect such water for domestic use.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLY: An approved backflow prevention assembly
consisting of two (2) independently operating spring loaded check valves with
an automatically operating differential relief valve located between the two
(2) check valves, tightly closing resilient seated shutoff valves on each side
of the check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the testing of the
check valves and the relief valve. (Ord. 658, 7-11-2013)
10-5-3: CROSS CONNECTION PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General Provisions: Unprotected cross connections with the public water
supply are prohibited.
Whenever backflow protection has been found necessary by the Ely municipal
water department, it will require the water user to install an approved
backflow prevention assembly by and at the user's expense for continued
services or before new service will be granted. Owners will be educated and
involved in the decision making process as to which type of protection best
suits their particular needs while ensuring backflow prevention. All backflow
prevention assemblies shall be installed and comply with the requirements set
forth in the Ely municipal water department cross connection control plan.
   B.   Internal Controls: Should an owner determine, as agreed upon with the
water department supervisor or his designee, that the most appropriate backflow
prevention system for his/her facility would be by means of internal control,
said system must be available for inspection during reasonable work hours to
authorized representatives of the Ely municipal water department to determine
whether cross connections are present and if appropriate backflow prevention
assemblies have been installed and maintained. In addition, the owner must
cause a certified backflow tester to test each assembly at least annually or
more frequently as determined by the Ely municipal water department.
   C.   External Controls: This consists of backflow protection at the meter.
Installation of an external backflow prevention assembly may necessitate
installation of a hot box, electrical wiring, and protective bollards depending
on the winter climate and site conditions. The owner must cause a certified
backflow tester to test each assembly at least annually.
   D.   Hydrant Use: Hydrant use is not permitted outside of fire department
activities and Ely municipal water department operations and maintenance, or an
Ely municipal water department approved and inspected air gap system is
properly installed.
   E.   Installation, Maintenance And Testing: All backflow prevention
assemblies required by the Ely municipal water department must be installed and
maintained on the owner's premises. Ownership, installation, testing and
maintenance of the assembly and all associated costs (including property or
device damage) are the responsibility of the property owner. Property owners
must employ a certified backflow tester approved by the Ely municipal water
department to test the assembly for proper operation and the property owner
must ensure a copy of the test result is submitted to the Ely municipal water
department. All backflow prevention assemblies must be installed in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions and state regulations. Any bypass around a
backflow prevention assembly at any time, including when the assembly is in
need of testing, repair, or replacement, is prohibited.
   F.   Program Enforcement: Ely municipal water department will disconnect
service to property owners who fail to comply with any requirement of this
chapter.
      1.   The Ely municipal water department will inform the property owner in
writing, via certified letter or personal delivery showing proof of service, of
said owner's requirement to comply with this chapter, informing said owner of
said owner's responsibility to provide a plan of action to the Ely municipal
water department within thirty (30) days.
      2.   In the event a property owner does not submit said owner's plan of
action within the required time period, a second writing, via certified letter
or personal delivery, will be submitted to the property owner allowing for an
additional thirty (30) days to submit a plan of action. In the event of
noncompliance following the second notice, the property owner will be subject
to immediate water service disconnection.
      3.   In the event of disconnection, all applicable reconnection fees
specified in the rate structure are the responsibility of the owner and shall
be paid before reconnection may occur. (Ord. 658, 7-11-2013)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Purpose; Intent
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: Sale Or Offer Of Lots Prohibited
11-1-4: Violation; Penalty
11-1-1: PURPOSE; INTENT:
The purpose of this title is to provide for the orderly growth and harmonious
development of the city to ensure adequate traffic circulation through
coordinated subdivision street systems with relation to major thoroughfares,
adjoining subdivisions, and public facilities to achieve individual property
lots of optimum utility and livability; to secure adequate provisions for water
supply, drainage, sanitary sewerage and other health requirements; to
facilitate reservation of adequate sites for schools, recreation areas and
other public facilities; to promote the conveyance of land by accurate legal
description and to provide logical procedures for the achievement of this
purpose; to safeguard the public health, safety and general welfare; and to
ensure development in conformance with the city general plan. In its
interpretation and application, the provisions of this title are intended to
provide a common ground of understanding and a sound and equitable working
relationship between public and private interests to the end that both
independent and mutual objectives can be achieved in the subdivision of the
land. (Prior Code § 18A-1)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this title, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
BLOCK: A piece or parcel of land or group of lots entirely surrounded by public
rights of way, streams, railroads or parks, or a combination thereof.
BUILDING LINE: A line between which and the street right-of-way line no
building or structure, or portions thereof, shall be erected, constructed or
otherwise established.
COMMISSION: The regional planning commission of the county.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL: An affirmative action by the commission or city council
indicating the approval of preliminary plat will be forthcoming upon compliance
with certain specified stipulations.
DEVELOPMENT MASTER PLAN: A preliminary map showing the tentative layout of
streets and arrangement of land uses including the location of schools,
recreation areas and other community facilities for the entirety of a large
landholding of which a portion is to be submitted as a preliminary plat; a map
meeting the requirements of section
11-2-2 of this title.
EASEMENT: A grant by the owner of the use of a strip of land by the public, a
corporation or persons for specific and designated uses and purposes.
ENGINEERING PLANS: Plans, profiles, cross sections and other required details
for the construction of public improvements, prepared in conjunction with the
plat and in compliance with standards of design and construction approved by
the city council.
EXCEPTIONS: Any parcel of land located within the perimeter of the subdivision
but which is not included in the plat.
FINAL APPROVAL: Unconditional approval of the final plat by the city council as
evidenced by certification on the plat by the mayor of the city. Final approval
constitutes authorization to record the plat.
GENERAL PLAN: The adopted plan, or parts thereof, providing for the future
growth and improvement of the city and for the general location and
coordination of streets and highways, schools and recreation areas, public
building sites and other physical development which shall have been duly
adopted by the city council.
LOT: A piece or parcel of land separated from other pieces or parcels by
description, as in a subdivision or on a record survey map, or by metes and
bounds, for purpose of sale, lease or separate use.
Corner Lot: A lot abutting on two (2) or more intersecting streets.
Double-Frontage Lot: A lot abutting two (2) parallel or approximately parallel
streets.
Interior Lot: A lot having but one side abutting on a street.
Key Lot: An interior lot, one side of which is contiguous to the rear line of a
corner lot.
LOT DEPTH: The shortest distance measured on a line parallel to the axis of the
lot, between points on the front and rear lot lines.
LOT LINE: A line bounding a lot.
Front Lot Line: A line coinciding with the street line; or, in the case of a
corner lot, the shortest of two (2) lot lines coinciding with street lines; or,
in the case of a double- frontage lot, both lot lines coinciding with street
lines.
Rear Lot Line: The lot line opposite and farthest from the front lot line; for
a pointed or irregular lot, the rear lot line shall be an imaginary line,
parallel to and farthest from the front lot line, not less than ten feet (10')
long and wholly within the lot.
Side Lot Line: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line; in the case of
a corner lot, the lot line abutting the side street is designated as the
exterior side lot line; all other side lot lines are designated as interior
side lot lines.
LOT WIDTH: A. In the case of a rectangular lot or a lot abutting on the outside
of a street curve the distance between side lot lines measured parallel to the
street or to the street chord and measured on the street chord.
   B.   In the case of a lot abutting on the inside of a street curve the
distance between the side lot lines measured parallel to the street or the
street chord at the rear line of the dwelling or, where there is no dwelling,
thirty feet (30') behind the minimum front setback line.
NEIGHBORHOOD PLAN: A plan prepared by the city to guide the platting of
remaining undeveloped parcels in a partially built-up neighborhood so as to
make reasonable use of all land, correlate street patterns and achieve the best
possible land use relationships.
OFFICIAL STREET AND HIGHWAY PLAN: A plan adopted by the city council which
provides for development of a system of major streets and highways.
OWNER: The person holding title by deed to land, or holding title as vendee
under land contract, or holding any other title or record.
PARCEL MAP: As defined in the Nevada revised statutes.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A public or private walk through a block from street to street
or from a street to a school, park, recreation area or other public facility.
PLAT: A map of a subdivision; the same as "map" as defined in the Nevada
Revised Statutes.
Final Plat: A plat of all or part of a subdivision essentially conforming to an
approved preliminary plat, prepared in accordance with provisions of subsection
11-2-4B of this title.
Preliminary Plat: A preliminary, tentative map including supporting data,
indicating a proposed subdivision development, prepared in accordance with
subsection 11-2-3B of this title.
Recorded Plat: A final plat bearing all the certificates of approval required
by this title and duly recorded in the county recorder's office.
PRELIMINARY APPROVAL: Approval of a preliminary plat by the planning
commission. Preliminary approval constitutes authorization to proceed with
preparation of engineering plans and the final plat.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS: A set of standards approved by the city council
regulating the design and construction of public improvements in the city.
PUBLIC UTILITIES: Underground, aboveground or overhead facilities furnishing to
the public electricity, gas, steam, communications, water, drainage, sewage
disposal, flood control, irrigation or refuse disposal, owned and operated by
any person, city department or board duly authorized by state or city
regulations. Public utilities, as used herein, may also refer to such persons,
departments or boards as the context indicates.
STREET: Any existing or proposed street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane,
parkway, place, bridge, viaduct or easement for public vehicular access; or, a
street shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law; or, a street in a
plat duly filed and recorded in the county recorder's office. A street includes
all land within the street right of way whether improved or unimproved, and
includes such improvements as pavement, shoulders, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
parking spaces, bridges, viaducts, lawns and trees.
Alley: A public way providing secondary vehicular access and service to
properties which also abut a street.
Arterial Street: A general term including freeways, expressways and major
arterial streets, and interstate state and/or county highways having regional
continuity.
Collector Street: A street generally with limited continuity serving the
primary function of moving traffic between arterial streets and local streets
and the secondary function of providing access to abutting properties.
Cul-De-Sac Street: A short local street having one end permanently terminating
in and including a vehicular turning area.
Local Street: A street serving the primary function of providing access to
abutting property.
Marginal Access Street: A local street parallel to and abutting an arterial
street which provides access to abutting property, intercepts other local
streets and controls access to the arterial street.
STREET LINE: A line describing the limits of a street right of way.
SUBDIVIDER: A person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, syndicate,
trust or other legal entity that files application and initiates proceedings
for the subdivision of land in accordance with the provisions of this title;
provided, that an individual serving as agent for such legal entity shall not
be deemed the subdivider.
SUBDIVISION: As defined in the Nevada Revised Statutes. (Prior Code § 18A-2)
11-1-3: SALE OR OFFER OF LOTS PROHIBITED:
No person shall sell or offer for sale any lot, piece or parcel of land which
is within a "subdivision" as defined in this chapter until a plat thereof has
been recorded in accordance with provisions of this title. (Prior Code § 18A-3)
11-1-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this title shall be guilty of a
violation and, upon conviction thereof, may be punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. The imposition of any sentence shall not exempt
the offender from compliance with all requirements of this title. (Prior Code §
18A-4)
CHAPTER 2
PLATS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Outline Of Procedures
11-2-2: Preapplication
11-2-3: Preliminary Plat
11-2-4: Final Plat
11-2-1: OUTLINE OF PROCEDURES:
The preparation, submission, review and official action concerning all
subdivision plats located within the city shall proceed through the following
progressive stages:
 
Stage I:   Preapplication (conference) stage.
Stage II:  Preliminary plat stage.
Stage III: Final plat stage.
 
(Prior Code § 18A-4)
11-2-2: PREAPPLICATION:
The preapplication stage of subdivision planning comprises an investigatory
period proceeding actual preparation of the preliminary plat by the subdivider.
During this stage, the subdivider shall make known his intentions to the
commission and be advised of specific public objectives related to the subject
tract and other details regarding platting procedures and requirements. During
this stage, it shall be determined whether a change in zoning will be required
for the subject tract or any part thereof and, if such change is required, the
subdivider shall initiate the necessary application for zoning amendment in
conjunction with submission of the preliminary plat. In carrying out the
purposes of the preapplication stage, the subdivider and the commission shall
be responsible for the following actions:
   A.   Actions By Subdivider: The subdivider shall meet with the commission
and present a general outline of his proposal, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Sketch plans and ideas regarding land use, street and lot
arrangements, and tentative lot sizes.
      2.   Tentative proposals regarding water supply, sewage disposal, storm
drainage and street improvements, and any additional information required by
the commission.
   B.   Actions By Commission: The commission may advise the subdivider of
procedural steps, design and improvement standards and general plat
requirements. The commission may then proceed with the following investigations
and report its recommendations to the subdivider:
      1.   Check existing zoning of the tract and of abutting properties and
determine whether a zoning amendment is necessary or desirable.
      2.   Determine the adequacy of existing and proposed schools, parks and
other public facilities.
      3.   Determine the relationship of the site to major streets, utility
systems and adjacent land uses, and determine whether there are any potential
problems related to topography, utilities, drainage or flooding.
      4.   Determine whether a development master plan shall be prepared and
approved prior to preparation and consideration of a preliminary plat.
   C.   Development Master Plan: Whenever, in the opinion of the commission,
the proposed subdivision is sufficiently large to comprise a major part of a
future neighborhood, or the tract initially proposed for platting is only a
part of a larger land area the development of which is complicated by unusual
topographic, utility, land use, land ownership problems or other conditions,
the subdivider shall be required to prepare a development master plan for the
larger area.
      1.   Preparation: The plan shall be prepared on a sheet twenty four
inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32"), shall be accurate commensurate with
its purpose and shall include:
         a.   General street pattern with particular attention to the location
and general alignment of collector streets and to convenient circulation
throughout the neighborhood.
         b.   General location and size of school, park and other public
facility sites.
         c.   Location of shopping centers, multi-family residential and other
proposed land uses.
         d.   Methods proposed for sewage disposal, water supply and storm
drainage.
      2.   Approval: When the plan has been approved by the commission, it
shall constitute the general design approach to be followed in the preparation
of all preliminary plats within its limits. If development is proposed to take
place in several stages, the plan shall be submitted as supporting data for
each preliminary plat. The plan shall be kept up to date by the subdivider as
modifications occur or become necessary. (Prior Code § 18A-6)
11-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Procedure: The preliminary plat stage includes preparation, submission,
review and commission action on the preliminary plat. Processing of the
preliminary plat will be expedited by submission of all information essential
to determining the intended character and general acceptability of the
proposal.
      1.   Zoning Amendments: The preliminary plat shall be designed to meet
the specific requirements of the zoning district in which it is located;
however, in the event that an amendment of zoning is necessary, an application
for such amendment shall be submitted and processed in conjunction with the
preliminary plat. The commission shall not proceed with the processing of the
plat unless and until such application is submitted. The application for zoning
amendment should be heard by the commission at the same meeting as the
preliminary plat, but shall be acted upon separately. When a preliminary plat
constitutes only one unit of a larger development intended for progressive
platting, the zoning amendment shall usually be limited to the area contained
in and abutting the initial plat. In any event, any required zoning amendment
shall have been approved by the commission prior to preliminary plat approval.
Zoning amendments must conform with the general plan adopted by the city
council.
      2.   Sanitary Sewerage, Water Supply, Storm Drainage And Garbage
Disposal: As a prerequisite of preliminary plat review by the commission, the
subdivider shall have informed the commission, health department and city
engineer of his tentative plans and shall provide adequate information to
determine the general requirements for sewage disposal, water supply, storm
drainage and garbage disposal as applied to the subject tract.
      3.   Submission Of Plat:
         a.   Filing; Number Of Copies: Six (6) copies of the preliminary plat
and any required supporting data, prepared in accordance with requirements of
this title, shall be filed with the commission at least fourteen (14) days
prior to the commission meeting at which the subdivider desires to be heard.
Scheduling of the case for commission hearing shall be dependent upon
submission of adequate data and completion of processing. If additional copies
of the submission are needed for proper review of the proposal, they shall be
furnished by the subdivider.
         b.   Check For Completeness: The submission shall be checked by the
commission for completeness and, if it meets with all requirements of
subsection B of this section, it shall be assigned a file number; if
incomplete, it shall be rejected and the subdivider notified as to its
deficiencies.
         c.   Filing Fee: The subdivider shall, at the time of filing, pay to
the city clerk a filing fee based upon the number of lots in the plat. The
filing fee shall also cover filing of any amended or revised preliminary plat
which may be processed as the same case. If preliminary approval subsequently
expires prior to application for final approval, the plat shall be resubmitted
for preliminary approval as a new case, and the subdivider shall pay the
required fee in accordance with the adopted schedule. The fee shall be one
hundred dollars ($100.00) plus one dollar ($1.00) per lot.
      4.   Review:
         a.   Distribution Of Copies: The subdivider shall distribute copies of
the preliminary plat to:
            (1)   The city engineer;
            (2)   The school district superintendent; and
            (3)   The utility companies.
         b.   Review By Commission: The commission shall review the preliminary
plat submitted for compliance with the provisions of this title and the zoning
requirements, and shall consult with and seek the advice of appropriate city
departments and agencies on any matters of design or improvement. It shall be
the responsibility of the subdivider to provide any necessary data.
         c.   Modification Required: In the event the commission requires
modification of the plat as submitted, the commission shall so inform the
subdivider and may provide him advice in overcoming deficiencies prior to
commission hearing. A recommendation for modification or change may be
sufficiently important to warrant postponement of the commission hearing until
the matter has been resolved with the subdivider.
      5.   Approval/Disapproval:
         a.   Consideration By Commission: The commission shall consider the
preliminary plat within forty five (45) days after the plat has been filed. The
commission shall report to the city council within thirty (30) days after
review of the preliminary plat. The report shall approve or disapprove the map
or maps of the subdivision. If conditionally approved or disapproved the report
shall state the conditions under which the map would have been approved or that
approval was withheld because the land proposed to be subdivided was not
suitable for such development. If approval is withheld, the report shall state
the reasons why the land was not considered suitable.
         b.   Findings: Before approving a tentative plat, the planning
commission and city council shall make such findings as are not inconsistent
with the provisions of sections 278.101 to 278.630, inclusive, of the Nevada
Revised Statutes or local ordinances adopted pursuant thereto, including, but
not limited to, findings that the subdivision:
            (1)   Water Or Air Pollution: Will not result in undue water or air
pollution. In making this determination it shall consider:
               (A)   Topography: The topography of the land and its relation to
the floodplains or areas subject to flooding or water damage;
               (B)   Soils And Subsoils: The nature of soils and subsoils and
their ability adequately to support waste disposal;
               (C)   Slope: The slope of the land and its effect on effluents;
               (D)   Sewerage Plans: The effectiveness of sewerage plans; and
               (E)   Health Regulations: The applicable health laws and
regulations.
            (2)   Water: Has sufficient water meeting applicable health
standards for the reasonably foreseeable needs of the subdivision.
            (3)   Soil Erosion: Will not cause an unreasonable soil erosion or
reduction in the capacity of the land to hold water so that a dangerous or
unhealthy condition may result.
            (4)   Burden On Water Supply: Will not cause an unreasonable burden
on an existing water supply, if one is to be utilized.
            (5)   Traffic Congestion: Will not cause unreasonable street or
highway congestion or unsafe conditions with respect to use of the streets or
highways existing or proposed.
            (6)   Conformance With General Plan: Is in conformance with the
duly adopted general plan. No provision of this title shall be construed to
prevent the city council from disapproving a tentative map if such disapproval
is in the best interests of the public health, safety or welfare, and such
disapproval is made by a majority vote of its members and made within the time
limit provided.
         c.   Preliminary Approval: If satisfied that the preliminary plat
meets all requirements of this title, the planning commission may grant
preliminary approval, whereupon the secretary shall note such approval on three
(3) copies of the plat, return one copy to the subdivider, retain one copy in
the permanent commission file, and one copy for the city engineer.
         d.   Conditional Approval: If the plat is generally acceptable but
requires minor revision, the planning commission may find conditional approval
and the required conditions and revisions shall be noted in the meeting
minutes. Thereafter, at the discretion of the commission, the plat may be given
preliminary approval when it has been satisfactorily revised in accordance with
the commission's stated conditions.
         e.   Disapproval: If the plat is disapproved by the commission, any
new filing of a plat for the same tract, or any part thereof, shall follow the
aforesaid procedure and be subject to payment of a new filing fee. The
subdivider may appeal the planning commission's decision to the city council
within thirty (30) days. The city council may overrule any ruling of the
planning commission in regard to the tentative plat.
         f.   Delivery To Utility Company: Upon preliminary approval, the
subdivider shall deliver one copy of the plat to the utility company.
      6.   Significance Of Preliminary Approval: Preliminary approval
constitutes authorization for the subdivider to proceed with preparation of the
final plat and engineering plans. Preliminary approval is based upon the
following terms:
         a.   Basic Conditions: Basic conditions under which preliminary
approval is granted shall not be changed prior to expiration date.
         b.   Term Of Approval: Approval is valid for a period of twelve (12)
months from date of commission action and may be extended once for six (6)
months at the discretion of the commission. The subdivider may submit the final
plat, or any part thereof, on or before the expiration date.
         c.   Site Improvements: Preliminary approval does not constitute an
authorization to proceed with site improvements prior to approval by the city
engineer of engineering plans.
      7.   Expiration Of Approval: If preliminary approval expires prior to
filing of a final plat for the subdivision, the preliminary plat, if
resubmitted, shall be processed as a new case and a new fee paid. If commission
review of a resubmitted plat reveals no significant change from the previously
approved preliminary plat and conditions under which previous approval was
granted have not changed, the filing fee shall be as set by the city council
and the resubmitted plat scheduled for hearing by the commission at its first
regular scheduled meeting thereafter. (Prior Code § 18A-7)
   B.   Required Information:
      1.   Form And Scale: Preliminary plat information hereinafter required
shall be shown graphically on one or more plan sheets with written data either
entered directly thereon or attached thereto. All mapped data for the same plat
shall be drawn at the same standard engineering scale, such scale having not
more than one hundred feet to the inch (1" = 100'). Whenever practicable, the
plan scale shall be selected to produce an overall sheet measuring twenty four
inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32").
      2.   Identification Data:
         a.   Proposed subdivision name, location and section, township and
range; reference by dimension and bearing to a section corner or quarter
section corner.
         b.   Name, address and phone number of the subdivider.
         c.   Name, address and phone number of the engineer or surveyor
preparing plat, together with the registration number issued to such engineer
or surveyor by the state registering board.
         d.   Scale, north point and date of preparation, including dates of
any subsequent revisions.
         e.   A small-scale location map showing the relationship of the tract
to existing community facilities which serve or influence it, including:
arterial streets, railroads, shopping centers, parks and playgrounds and
churches.
         f.   Legal description defining the boundaries of the subdivision.
      3.   Existing Conditions Data:
         a.   Topographs by two foot (2') contour intervals related to U.S.
geological survey datum shown on the same map as the proposed subdivision
layout. Topographic data shall be adequate to show the character and drainage
of the land.
         b.   Location of water wells, streams, private ditches, washes and
other water features, including direction of flow; location and extent of areas
subject to frequent, periodic or occasional inundation.
         c.   Within or adjacent to the tract, the location, widths and names
of all platted streets, railroads, utility rights of way of public record,
public areas, permanent structures to remain and city corporation lines.
         d.   Name, book and page numbers of all recorded plats abutting the
tract or across a boundary street from the tract.
         e.   Existing zoning classification of the tract and adjacent
properties.
         f.   Dimensions of all tract boundaries; gross and net acreage of
tract.
      4.   Proposed Conditions Data:
         a.   Street Layout: Street layout, including location and width of
streets, alleys, pedestrianways and easements, including connections to
adjoining platted subdivisions and through unsubdivided tracts, proposed names
of all streets and approximate grade of all rights of way.
         b.   Lot Layout: Lot layout, including dimensions of typical lots; the
dimensions of all corner lots and lots on street curves; each lot numbered
consecutively; total number of lots.
         c.   Easements: Location, width and proposed use of easements.
         d.   Land Dedicated For Public Use: Location, extent and proposed use
of all land to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including school sites
or parks.
         e.   Zoning Districts: Location and boundaries of all proposed zoning
districts.
         f.   Deed Restrictions: Draft of proposed deed restrictions.
         g.   Proposed Utility Methods:
            (1)   Sewage Disposal: It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider to furnish information as to design for sewage disposal connecting
to the city's system.
            (2)   Water Supply: Evidence of adequate volume and quality
satisfactory to the city engineer from the city's system.
            (3)   Storm Drainage: Preliminary drainage calculations and layout
of proposed storm drainage system, including location of outlets, shall be
submitted.
            (4)   Telephone, Power, Gas And Television: Design and location
shall be shown. (Prior Code § 18A-8)
11-2-4: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   Procedure: The final plat stage includes the final design and
engineering of the subdivision, and the preparation, submission, review and
action on the final plat and engineering plans.
      1.   Presubmission Requirements:
         a.   Zoning: The final plat shall meet all requirements of the zoning
district in which it is located, and any necessary zoning amendments shall have
been adopted by the city council prior to filing of the final plat.
         b.   Preparation Of Plat: The final plat shall conform closely to the
approved preliminary plat and be prepared in accordance with the provisions of
this title.
         c.   Easements: The final plat submission shall include a letter
signifying approval of utility easements by all public utilities involved and
shall be so indicated by an affidavit on the map.
      2.   Submission:
         a.   Review For Conformity: The planning commission shall review the
final plat for conformity with the preliminary plat and conformity with
engineer's approval of final plat and construction drawings.
         b.   Filing; Number Of Copies: The subdivider shall file with the city
clerk the final plat and four (4) true copies thereof, together with the
recordation fee, at least ten (10) days prior to the city council's meeting at
which the subdivider desires to be heard.
      3.   Review:
         a.   Incomplete: Upon receipt of the final plat submittal, the city
clerk shall record receipt and the date of filing, and transmit all copies of
the final plat to the city engineer for checking the submission for
completeness. If incomplete, the filing date shall be voided and the subdivider
so notified.
         b.   Compliance With Preliminary Plat: In the event that the city
engineer finds that the final plat does not substantially conform to the
approved preliminary plat as approved by the commission, then the final plat
shall be submitted to the commission for review and recommendations prior to
consideration by the city council.
      4.   Approval And Recordation:
         a.   Placed On Agenda: Upon notification from the city engineer that
the plat is in order, the city clerk shall place the case on the agenda of the
next regular meeting, at which time the city council shall approve or deny the
plat.
         b.   Approval Denied; Approval: If the city council denies approval of
the plat for any reason whatsoever, such reasons shall be recorded in the
minutes and the subdivider so notified. If the city council gives final
approval of the plat, the city clerk shall transcribe upon the plat a
certificate of approval signed by the mayor and the city clerk, first making
sure that all other required certifications have been duly signed and that
engineering plans have been approved by the city engineer.
         c.   Distribution Of Prints: The subdivider shall then cause signed
prints of the plat to be provided to the city engineer, the county recorder,
the county assessor and the commission, all at the expense of the subdivider.
(Prior Code § 18A-9)
   B.   Required Information:
      1.   Form And Content: The final map shall be clearly and legibly drawn
black waterproof India ink upon good tracing cloth or mylar, including
affidavits, certificates and acknowledgments. Each sheet shall be twenty four
inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32") in size. A marginal line shall be drawn
completely around each sheet showing an entirely black margin of one inch (1')
at bottom, top and right edge and two inches (2") on the left edge on the
twenty four inch (24") dimension. The scale of the map shall be not less than
one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'). The particular number of the
sheet and the total number of sheets comprising the map shall be so stated on
each of the sheets and the number in relation to each adjoining sheet shall be
clearly shown. The title sheet shall contain the location of the property being
divided with references to maps which have been previously recorded or by
reference to the plat of the United States survey. Copies of the final plat
shall be reproduced in the form of blueline or blackline prints on the white
background.
      2.   Identification Data:
         a.   Name of subdivision and location by section, township, range and
county.
         b.   Name, address and registration number of the registered land
surveyor preparing the plat.
         c.   Scale, north point and date of plat preparation.
      3.   Survey Data Required:
         a.   Boundaries: Boundaries of the tract fully balanced and closed,
showing all bearings and distances, determined by an accurate survey of the
field; all dimensions expressed in feet and decimals thereof.
         b.   Exceptions: Any exceptions within the plat boundaries located by
bearings and distances expressed in feet and decimals thereof, determined by an
accurate survey in the field.
         c.   Cardinal Points: Location and description of cardinal points to
which all dimensions, angles, bearings and similar data on the plat shall be
referenced; the subdivision traverse shall be tied by course and distance to a
section corner or quarter section corners.
         d.   Easements: Location and description of all physical encroachments
upon the boundaries of the tract.
      4.   Descriptive Data:
         a.   Name, right-of-way lines, courses, lengths, widths of all
streets, alleys, pedestrianways and utility easements; radii, points of
tangency and central angles of all curvilinear streets and alleys; radii of all
rounded street line intersections.
         b.   All drainageways, designated as such.
         c.   All utility and public service easements, including designation
whether for public access or utilities.
         d.   Location and dimensions of all lots, parcels and exceptions.
         e.   All residential lots shall be numbered consecutively throughout
blocks.
         f.   Location, dimensions, bearings, radii, arcs and central angles of
boundaries of all sites to be dedicated to the public, including designation of
proposed use.
         g.   Location of all adjoining subdivisions with name, date, book and
page number of recordation noted, or if unrecorded, so noted, along with names
of adjoining landowners of unsubdivided property.
         h.   Any private deed restrictions to be imposed upon the plat, or any
part thereof, written on or attached to the plat and each copy thereof.
      5.   Dedication And Acknowledgment:
         a.   Statement Of Dedication: Statement of dedication of all streets,
alleys, pedestrianways and easements for public purposes by the person holding
title of record, by persons holding title as vendees under land contract, and
by wives of such persons. If lands to be dedicated are mortgaged, the mortgagee
shall also sign the plat. Dedication shall include a written description by
section, township and range of the tract. If the plat contains private streets,
public utilities shall be reserved the right to install and maintain utilities
in such street rights of way.
         b.   Execution Of Dedication: Execution of dedication acknowledged and
certified by a notary public.
      6.   Additional Information:
         a.   Where the center line has been established for any street,
highway, alley or public way within an adjoining subdivision, all monuments
along such street, highway, alley or public way within the proposed subdivision
shall be located with reference to that center line which shall be shown on the
map.
         b.   The center line of each highway, street, alley or way within the
proposed subdivision and width on each side of the center line, and showing the
width to be dedicated, and there shall be designated on all center lines the
bearing thereof and length of each radius, central angle and length of each
curve within the proposed subdivision.
         c.   The location of monuments or other evidence formed upon the
ground and used in determining the boundaries of the subdivision. If other
subdivisions adjoin, the map shall show sufficient corners of such adjoining
subdivisions, sufficiently identified to locate precisely the limits of the
proposed subdivision.
         d.   The length and bearing of each block line, lot line and boundary
line; length, radius and central angle of each curve or the length of curve and
that portion of the central angle lying within each lot. Such data shall be
shown in a manner satisfactory to the city engineer.
         e.   Each city boundary line crossing or adjoining the subdivision
with adequate ties to monuments set or found within the subdivision.
      7.   Information Checked By City Engineer:
         a.   Final Map: The city engineer shall check the final map as to
accuracy of dimensions, the placing of monuments, the establishment of survey
records shown on such map and the conformance of such map with the preliminary
map. The final map shall be accompanied by:
            (1)   A worksheet showing the closure of the exterior boundaries of
the proposed subdivision and of the closure of lots and blocks therein;
            (2)   A complete set of construction plans are required by the city
engineer showing typical street sections, center line and curb grades, sanitary
sewer and storm drain locations and invert grades and elevations;
            (3)   Construction plans for manholes, catchbasins and other
appurtenant structures; and
            (4)   An estimate of quantities required to complete the
improvements.
         b.   Minimum Allowable Error: The minimum allowable error of closure
shall be one per ten thousand (1/10,000). Temperature and tension correction
shall be applied to all measured distances in conformance with the standard
adopted by the federal board of surveys and maps in May 1925.
      8.   Required Certifications: The following certifications shall appear
on the final map:
         a.   Record Owners: A certificate signed and acknowledged by all
parties having any record title interest in the land subdivided, consenting to
the preparation and recordation of the map. A lien for state, county, city or
local taxes and for special assessments or beneficial interest under bond
indentures shall not be deemed to be an interest in land for the purpose of
this section. Any map including territory originally patented by the United
States or the state, under patent reserving interest to either or both of the
entities, may be recorded under the provisions of sections 278.010 to 278.630,
inclusive, of the Nevada Revised Statutes without the consent of the United
States or the state thereto, or to dedications made thereon. Signatures
required by this section of parties owning rights of way, easements or
reversions which by reason of changed conditions, long disuse or laches appear
to be no longer of practical use or value, and which signatures it is
impossible or impracticable to obtain, may be omitted if the names of such
parties and the nature of their interest is endorsed on the map, together with
a reasonable statement of the circumstances preventing the procurement of such
signatures.
         b.   Dedication For Public Use: A certificate, signed and acknowledged
as above, offering for dedication for certain specified public uses (subject to
such reservations as may be contained in any such offer of dedication) those
certain parcels of land which the parties desire so to dedicate. The
certificate may state that any certain parcel or parcels are not offered for
dedication; but a local ordinance may require as a condition precedent to the
approval of any final map that any or all of the parcels of land shown thereon
and intended for any public use shall be offered for dedication for public use
except those parcels other than streets intended for the exclusive use of the
lot owners in such subdivision, their licensees, visitors, tenants and
servants.
         c.   City Clerk: A certificate for execution by the city clerk stating
that the body approved the map and accepted or rejected on behalf of the public
any parcels of land offered for dedication for public use in conformity with
the terms of the offer of dedication.
         d.   Easements: A certificate signed and acknowledged by all parties
having any record title in the land subdivided, evidencing their grant of
permanent easements for utility installations and access as designated on the
map, together with a statement approving such easements, signed by each public
utility company or agency in whose favor the easements are created or whose
utility services are to be required for the platted parcels.
         e.   Engineer Or Surveyor: A certificate by the engineer or surveyor
responsible for the survey and final map, giving the date of the survey and
stating that the survey was made by him or under his direction and that the
survey is true and complete as shown. The certificate shall also state that the
monuments are of the character and occupy the positions indicated or that they
will be set in such positions and at such time as is agreed upon under the
provisions of Nevada law.
         f.   City Engineer: A certificate by the city engineer stating that he
has examined the final map, that the subdivision as shown thereon is
substantially the same as it appeared on the tentative map, and any approved
alterations thereof, that all provisions of sections 278.010 to 278.630,
inclusive, of the Nevada Revised Statutes and of any local ordinance applicable
at the time of approval of the tentative map have been complied with, and that
he is satisfied that the map is technically correct and that the monuments as
shown are of the character and occupy the positions indicated or that the
monuments have not been set and that a proper performance bond has been
deposited guaranteeing their setting on or before a day certain. The
certificate shall be dated and signed by the city engineer or by an authorized
deputy.
         g.   Division Of Environmental Health: A certificate by the state
reading: "This final map is approved by the division of environmental health
concerning sewage disposal, water pollution, water quality and water supply
facilities in accordance with the Nevada revised statutes. This approval
predicates (community, individual) water supply and (community, individual)
sewage disposal."
         h.   State Engineer: A copy of the review by the state engineer
required by subsection B8g of this section shall be furnished to the subdivider
who in turn shall provide a copy of such review to each purchaser of land prior
to the time the sale is completed. No statement of approval or review as
required in subsection B8g of this section is a warranty or representation in
favor of any person as to the safety or quantity of such water.
         i.   Division Of Water Resource: The final subdivision map shall
contain the following certificate: "Division of Water Resource Certificate:
This final map is approved by the Division of Water Resources of the Department
of Conservation and Natural Resources concerning water quantity subject to the
review of approval on file in this office." (Prior Code § 18A-10)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Conformance With General Plan
11-3-2: Public Facility Sites
11-3-3: Land Unsuitability
11-3-4: Streets
11-3-5: Blocks
11-3-6: Lots
11-3-7: Easements
11-3-8: Parcel Maps
11-3-9: Modification Of Standards
11-3-1: CONFORMANCE WITH GENERAL PLAN:
Every subdivision shall conform to the requirements and objectives of the city
general plan, title 12 of this code, other ordinances and regulations of the
city and to the statutes of the state. (Prior Code § 18A-11)
11-3-2: PUBLIC FACILITY SITES:
Whenever the statutes of the state permit the dedication of school sites or
parks, the city council may require the subdivider to dedicate such sites.
(Prior Code § 18A-11)
11-3-3: LAND UNSUITABILITY:
No land shall be subdivided which is held by the commission to be unsuitable
for use by reason of flooding, concentrated runoff, inadequate drainage,
adverse soil or rock formation, extreme topography, erosion susceptibility or
similar condition which is likely to prove harmful to the health, safety and
general welfare of the community or the future property owners. The commission,
in applying the provisions of this chapter, shall state the particular facts
upon which its conclusions are based, and shall also define the conditions
under which the land may, in its opinion, become suitable for the proposed
development. Any subdivider proposing development of such land shall have the
right to present evidence to the city council contesting such determination of
unsuitability, whereupon the city council may affirm, modify or withdraw the
restriction. (Prior Code § 18A-11)
11-3-4: STREETS:
   A.   Location And Arrangement:
      1.   Official Street And Highway Plan: Whenever a tract to be subdivided
embraces part of a street designated in an official street and highway plan of
the city, such street shall be platted in conformance therewith.
      2.   Layout: Street layout shall provide for the continuation of such
streets as the commission may designate.
      3.   Extensions: Certain proposed streets, as designated by the
commission, shall be extended to the tract boundary to provide future
connection with adjoining unplatted lands. Such extensions shall generally not
be farther apart than the maximum permitted length of a block, as hereinafter
provided.
      4.   Local Streets: Local streets shall be so arranged as to discourage
their use by traffic originating outside the immediate neighborhood.
      5.   Marginal Access Streets: Lots intended for single-family residential
use shall not normally front or have access from arterial streets. Where a
proposed subdivision abuts an existing or proposed arterial street, the
commission may require marginal access streets or reverse property frontage
with nonaccess easements abutting the arterial streets, or such other treatment
as may be justified for protection of residential properties from the nuisance
and hazard of high volume traffic, and for protection of the traffic function
of the arterial street.
      6.   Limited Access Highway: Where a residential subdivision abuts the
right of way of a railroad, a limited access highway or a commercial or
industrial land use, the commission may require location of a street
approximately parallel to such right of way or use at a distance being
determined with due regard for approach grades, drainages, bridges and future
grade separation.
      7.   Topography: Streets shall be so arranged in relation to topography
as to produce desirable lots of maximum utility and streets of reasonable
gradient, and to facilitate adequate surface drainage.
      8.   Alleys: Where alleys are permitted, their alignment and arrangement
shall be such as to minimize backtracking and single- tier service by trash
collection forces and to avoid the facing of residences directly into alley
openings.
      9.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited. In the event that
any subdivision is constructed and a street borders undeveloped real property,
the owner of the subdivision or its successors in interest shall be entitled to
receive reimbursement for one-half (1/2) of all costs of construction of the
street in the event that the undeveloped real property is developed within ten
(10) years of the date of completion of the construction of the street.
      10.   Dead-End Streets: Dead-end streets shall be prohibited unless a
modification is granted by the commission in locations designated by the
commission as necessary for future street connection to adjacent unplatted
lands.
      11.   Separation Of Grades; Intersections: Whenever any street or highway
is proposed requiring a separation of grades or requiring any special form of
intersection design at its intersection with any street, highway or railway,
the subdivision shall be so designed to conform to any plan adopted by the city
for the intersection design and all lots within the subdivision shall, when
necessary, be provided with suitable access from another public way. Any street
or highway intersecting with another street or highway shall intersect it at an
angle as nearly a right angle as shall be practicable. (Prior Code § 18A-12)
   B.   Design:
      1.   Required Right Of Way And Street Widths:
         a.   Primary Or Arterial: Shall have a right-of-way width of one
hundred feet (100') or more and an improved section of seventy seven feet
(77'), and may contain a center dividing strip.
         b.   Secondary Roads: Shall have a right-of-way width of eighty feet
(80') or more, and an improved section of sixty five feet (65').
         c.   Collector And Local Streets: Shall have a right-of-way width of
sixty feet (60') or more, and an improved section of fifty feet (50').
         d.   Limited Access Street: Shall have a right-of-way width of fifty
feet (50') or more, and an improved section of not less than thirty six feet
(36').
         e.   Cul-De-Sac Street: Shall have a right-of-way width of fifty feet
(50') or more, and an improved section of not less than thirty six feet (36').
Total center line length is not to exceed four hundred feet (400'). Such street
shall terminate in a circular right of way not less than fifty feet (50') in
radius with an improved turning circle at least forty five feet (45') in
radius.
         f.   Alleys: Where permitted or required, twenty feet (20') abutting
commercial or industrial property.
            (1)   Alleys in residential sections shall be prohibited.
            (2)   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be
avoided, but where necessary, corners shall be cut off ten feet (10') on each
side to permit safe vehicular movement.
            (3)   Dead-end alleys shall be prohibited.
            (4)   Half alleys shall be prohibited.
         g.   Dead-End Streets: Where permitted, a dead-end street serving more
than four (4) lots shall provide, by easements, temporary turning circle with a
fifty foot (50') radius or other approved and acceptable design to accomplish
the same purpose.
         h.   Lesser Developed Street Rights Of Way: Lesser developed street
rights of way and sections may be permitted when it can be clearly established
that no on-street parking is required or desired or where related to planned
unit development approaches. Increased widths may be required where streets are
to serve commercial property or where public traffic conditions warrant such.
In both cases, final sections will be recommended by the city engineer and
established by the city council and planning commission.
      2.   Grades:
         a.   Maximum Grades:
            (1)   Arterial Streets: As determined by the city engineer.
            (2)   Collector Streets: Eight percent (8%).
            (3)   Local Streets: Ten percent (10%).
         b.   Minimum Grades: Asphalt streets with concrete gutters:
            (1)   Desirable: 0.50.
            (2)   Minimum: 0.30.
         c.   Exceptions: Where rigid adherence to these standards causes
unreasonable or unwarranted hardship in design or cost without commensurate
public benefit, exceptions may be made by the commission.
      3.   Vertical Curves:
         a.   Arterial And Secondary Streets: All changes in grade should be
connected by a vertical curve of minimum length equal to twenty (20) times the
algebraic difference in the rates of grade or a length of one hundred feet
(100'), whichever is larger.
         b.   Collector And Local Streets: The length of curve for these
streets should be ten (10) times the algebraic difference in the rates of grade
or a length of one hundred feet (100') whichever is larger.
         c.   Reverse Or Compound Curves: Reverse or compound curves shall be
separated by tangents of not less than one hundred feet (100') on primary,
secondary and collector streets.
      4.   Horizontal Alignment:
         a.   Arterial Streets: For arterial streets, as determined by the city
engineer.
         b.   Tangent Center Lines: When tangent center lines deflect from each
other by more than ten degrees (10°) and less than ninety degrees (90°), they
shall be connected by a curve having a minimum center line radius of two
hundred feet (200') for collector streets or one hundred fifty feet (150') for
local streets.
         c.   Reverse Curves: Between reverse curves there shall be a tangent
section of center line not less than one hundred feet (100') long.
         d.   Intersections With Arterial Streets: Streets intersecting an
arterial street shall do so at a ninety degree (90°) angle. Two (2) collector
streets, two (2) local streets or a collector and a local street shall
typically intersect at ninety degree (90°) angles, but in no case at less than
seventy five degree (75°) angles.
         e.   Street Jogs: Street jogs shall be avoided except where justified
by unusual existing conditions and approved by the city engineer.
         f.   Local Streets Intersecting Collector Or Arterial Street: Local
streets intersecting a collector street or arterial street shall have a tangent
section of center line at least one hundred fifty feet (150') in length
measured from the right-of-way line of the more major street; except, that no
such tangent shall be required when the local street curve has a center line
radius greater than four hundred feet (400') measured from a center line
located on the more major street right-of-way line.
         g.   Intersections: Street intersections with more than four (4) legs,
and Y-type intersections with legs meeting at acute angles, shall be
prohibited.
      5.   Asphalt Thickness: Minimum asphalt thickness of all streets shall be
two and one-half inches (21/2").
      6.   Slope And Fill Requirements:
         a.   Maximum Slope: No existing slope or proposed cut slope shall be
steeper than one and one-half horizontal to one vertical (11/2:1) and no fill
slope, existing or proposed, shall be steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1), unless recommended by a competent soils engineer acceptable to
the City. Slope areas are not to be included in usable lot areas.
         b.   Slope Easement: Where a cut or fill slope is outside the normal
right of way of the street, a slope easement shall be provided of sufficient
width to permit proper maintenance of the slopes by the city, or the dedicated
right-of-way width shall be widened to include such slopes.
         c.   Retaining Walls: Retaining walls may be required whenever
topographic conditions warrant or where necessary to retain fill or cut slopes
within the rights of way or slope easement.
         d.   Fills: All fills to be used for building sites shall be compacted
to not less than ninety percent (90%) in accordance with AASHO modified
specification T149-57.
   C.   Naming: At the preliminary plat stage, the subdivider shall propose
names for all streets, which names shall be subject to approval by the
commission. (Prior Code § 18A-14)
11-3-5: BLOCKS:
   A.   Maximum Length: Within the following maximums, blocks shall be as long
as reasonably possible, in order to achieve all possible street economy and to
reduce the expense and safety hazard arising from excessive street
intersections. Maximum block length measured along the center line of the
street and between intersecting street center lines shall not exceed:
      1.   In subdivisions with lot areas averaging under one-half (1/2) acre,
six hundred eighty feet (680') exclusive of streets.
      2.   In subdivisions with lot areas averaging one-half (1/2) acre or
more, or where extreme topographic conditions warrant, one thousand sixty feet
(1,060') exclusive of streets.
   B.   Pedestrianways: Pedestrianways within a right-of-way width of ten feet
(10') may be required where, in the opinion of the commission, they are
essential for pedestrian circulation within the subdivision or access to
schools, playgrounds or other community facilities. Pedestrianways may be used
for utility purposes.
   C.   Corners: At each street intersection, the property line at each block
corner shall be rounded by a curve having a radius of not less than fifteen
feet (15') for right angle corners. (Prior Code § 18A-15)
11-3-6: LOTS:
   A.   Lot Width, Depth And Area: Lot width, depth and area shall comply with
requirements of title 12 of this code and shall be appropriate for the location
and character of development proposed and for the type and extent of urban
street and utility improvements being installed. "Urban improvements" shall be
interpreted to mean paved and curbed streets, sidewalks, the local storm
drainage system, public water supply and public sanitary sewage. However, where
steep topography, unusual soil conditions or drainage problems exist or
prevail, the commission may require increased lot width, depth and/or area
exceeding the minimum requirements of the particular zoning district.
   B.   Minimum Width, Depth: Generally, lot depths shall be at least one
hundred feet (100') and widths at least sixty feet (60'); provided, however,
that the planning commission may allow narrower widths on cul-de-sacs.
   C.   Setbacks: Minimum front and exterior side building setbacks shall be
twelve feet (12').
   D.   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles
or radial to street lines except where, in the opinion of the commission, other
alignment may be justified.
   E.   Street Access: Every lot shall abut a public street.
   F.   Double-Frontage Lots: Double-frontage lots intended for single-family
residences shall be prohibited; provided, that subject to the approval of the
commission, such lots may be platted abutting an arterial street so long as
dwellings front on local or collector streets and all access from the arterial
street is prohibited.
   G.   Off-Street Parking: A minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces per
dwelling unit shall be required (1 parking space is 9 feet x 20 feet or 180
square feet). (Prior Code § 18A-16)
11-3-7: EASEMENTS:
   A.   Overhead Utilities: Utilities shall be placed underground unless a
modification is approved to permit overhead utilities by the planning
commission and only where overhead utilities are determined acceptable by the
commission.
      1.   Alleys: Where alleys are platted, utility easements four feet (4')
wide on each side of alley for aerial overhang shall be provided by dedication.
Where alleys are not platted, utility easements six feet (6') wide on each side
of rear lot lines shall be provided and delineated on the plat. In addition,
guy and anchor easements shall be provided one foot (1') wide on each side of a
side lot line and thirty five feet (35') in length measured from the rear lot
line in locations selected by the utility committee, or as required by the
utility company.
      2.   Alongside Lot Lines: Alongside lot lines where required for
distribution facilities, utility easements five feet (5') wide on each side of
side lot lines; where service to street lighting is required, one foot (1') on
each side of such lot lines or as required by the utility company.
   B.   Underground Utilities: Where all utilities are underground:
      1.   Rear Lot Lines: Where alleys are platted, easements as required by
serving utilities.
      2.   Side Lot Lines: All utility service lines, including gas, electric,
telephone and street lighting, shall be channeled in easements four feet (4')
wide on each side of the lot line separating pairs of lots, as required by the
utilities for service.
   C.   Curvilinear Streets, Alleys And Easements: For lots facing on
curvilinear streets, alleys and easements for overhead utilities shall usually
consist of a series of straight lines with points of deflection not less than
one hundred twenty feet (120') apart, such points of deflection always
occurring at the junction of side and rear lot lines on the side of the
exterior angle; however, curvilinear easements or alleys may be employed,
providing that the minimum radii of center lines shall be not less than eight
hundred feet (800').
   D.   Stream Or Major Surface Drainage Course: Where a stream or major
surface drainage course abuts or crosses a tract, dedication of a public
drainage easement which is sufficient to permit widening, deepening, relocating
or protecting such drainage course shall be required. Information shall be
prepared by subdivider's engineer.
   E.   Land Within Easement: Land within a public street or drainage easement,
or land within a utility easement for major power transmission lines or
pipelines, shall not be considered a part of the minimum required lot area;
provided, however, that this provision shall not be applicable to land included
in utility easements to be used for distribution of service purposes.
   F.   Lots Backing Arterial Streets, Railroads, Canals Or Commercial Or
Industrial Districts: Lots arranged to back to arterial streets, railroads,
canals or commercial or industrial districts as provided in this title shall
have a minimum depth of one hundred ten feet (110'), the rear one foot (1') of
which shall be recorded as a nonaccess private easement. (Prior Code § 18A-17)
11-3-8: PARCEL MAPS:
Parcel maps shall be in accordance with chapter 278 of the Nevada Revised
Statutes and all subsequent revisions. (Prior Code § 18A-18)
11-3-9: MODIFICATION OF STANDARDS:
   A.   Extraordinary Conditions: Where, in the opinion of the planning
commission, there exist extraordinary conditions of topography, land ownership
or adjacent development, or other circumstances not provided for in this title,
the city council may modify the provisions in such manner and to the minimum
extent necessary to carry out the intent of this title.
   B.   Additional Requirements: In modifying the standards or requirements of
this title, the city council may make such additional requirements as are
necessary in its judgment to secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements so modified. (Prior Code § 18A-19)
CHAPTER 4
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Responsibility Of Subdivider
11-4-2: Engineering Plans
11-4-3: Construction And Inspection
11-4-4: Improvements Required
11-4-5: Agreement To Install
11-4-6: Performance Guarantee
11-4-7: Dedication Of Open Space For Parks, Playgrounds, Recreational
Facilities
11-4-1: RESPONSIBILITY OF SUBDIVIDER:
The design, construction and financing of all required sidewalks, curbs,
gutters, pavements, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains, fire hydrants,
drainage structures and monuments shall be the responsibility of the subdivider
and shall conform to public improvement standards established by the city
engineer and approved by the city council; provided, however, that the
subdivider may meet such requirements by participation in an improvement
district approved by the city. (Prior Code § 18A-20)
11-4-2: ENGINEERING PLANS:
It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to have prepared by an
engineer registered in the state a complete set of engineering plans,
satisfactory to the city engineer, for construction of all required street and
utility improvements. Such plans shall be based on and be prepared in
conjunction with the final plat. Engineering plans shall have been approved by
the city engineer prior to recordation of the final plat. (Prior Code § 18A-21)
11-4-3: CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Improvements: All improvements in the public right of way shall be
constructed under the inspection and approval of the city engineer.
Construction shall not be commenced until a permit has been issued for such
construction, and if work has been discontinued for any reason, it shall not be
resumed until after notifying in advance the department having jurisdiction.
   B.   Underground Utilities: All underground utilities to be installed in
streets shall be constructed prior to the surfacing of such streets. Service
stubs to platted lots within the subdivision for underground utilities shall be
placed to such length as to avoid disturbance of street improvements when
service connections are made. (Prior Code § 18A-22)
11-4-4: IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED:
   A.   Streets And Alleys: All streets and alleys within the subdivision shall
be graded, drained and surfaced to cross sections, grades, standards and
profiles approved by the city engineer. Where there are existing streets
adjacent to the subdivision, proposed streets shall be fully improved to the
intercepting paving line of such existing streets. Temporary dead-end streets
serving more than four (4) lots shall be provided a graded and asphalt surfaced
temporary turning circle. Adequate permanent culverts and bridges at all points
within the subdivision where watercourses are crossed by streets or alleys
shall be constructed, such construction to be in conformity with the
specifications of the city engineer for such structures, and such structures
shall be constructed to the full width of the dedicated street or alley.
   B.   Curbs: Curbs shall be portland cement concrete. Curbs and gutters and
valley gutters shall have minimum widths of eighteen inches (18"). The minimum
curb return radius shall be five feet (5').
   C.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be surfaced with concrete or other approved
materials. Asphalt or asphalt-concrete shall not be used for sidewalk
surfacing. Pedestrian walkways or sidewalks shall conform to the following
minimum width requirements:
      1.   Residential areas, local streets within subdivisions, four feet
(4');
      2.   Collector streets in residential neighborhoods, five feet (5');
      3.   Commercial areas, without parking meters, six feet (6');
      4.   Commercial areas, with parking meters, seven feet (7').
   D.   Pedestrianways: Portland cement concrete or approved paving of walks
shall be constructed to a width, line and grade approved by the city engineer.
Fencing on both sides with a four foot (4') maintenance free fence with posts
set in concrete may be required.
   E.   Street Name Signs: Street name signs shall have been installed at all
street intersections by the time the street pavement is ready for use. Design,
construction, location and installation shall conform to approved city
standards.
   F.   Storm Drainage: The design and construction of public streets and
alleys, and the grading of private properties, shall provide for adequate
disposal of storm waters. Existing major drainage courses shall be maintained
and dedicated as public drainageways. The type, extent, location and capacity
of drainage facilities shall be planned by subdivider's engineer and approved
by the city engineer. Storm and surface water drainpipes and mains shall be
installed to the grade and in the locations and to the depth and of the
materials shown on plans and specifications approved by the city engineer,
together with catch basins, to provide discharge from the same in a manner and
at a place to be approved by the city engineer.
   G.   Sanitary Sewerage: Public sanitary sewers shall be installed in all
subdivisions which are accessible to an existing or planned and programmed
public sewer system, as determined by the city engineer. Sewers shall be
constructed to plans, profiles and specifications approved by the division of
environmental protection and the city engineer. The subdivider shall install to
the grade and in the locations and to the depth and of the materials shown on
the plans and specifications approved by the city engineer, sanitary sewer
mains with connections therefrom to each lot in such subdivision, such mains to
be connected to the sewer system of the city at a point to be specified by the
city engineer. All necessary manholes shall be installed in connection with the
installation of sanitary sewer mains, such holes to be installed at the points
and in the manner and according to the specifications approved by the city
engineer.
   H.   Water Supply: Each lot shall be supplied with safe, pure and potable
water in sufficient volume and pressure for domestic use and fire protection,
in accordance with approved city standards. The subdivider shall install to
grade all water mains and lines of the materials shown on plans and
specifications approved by the city engineer, connections from such mains and
lines to be installed to each lot in such subdivision. Maps and plats shall
show locations of shutoff valves to each block and lot. All proposed water
systems shall connect to the city system.
   I.   Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be installed in all subdivisions in
accordance with approved city standards as set by the fire department.
   J.   Power, Communications And Gas Utilities: All electrical distribution
facilities shall be installed underground, except in unusual situations
involving short extensions of overhead facilities existing on abutting
subdivisions wherein such extensions may be approved by the city council.
   K.   Monuments: Permanent monuments shall be installed in accordance with
approved city standards at all corners, angle points, points of curve and at
all street intersections. After all improvements have been installed, the
subdivider shall have a registered land surveyor check the location of
monuments and certify their accuracy. Monuments shall be set at intermediate
points of approximately one thousand feet (1,000') or at such lesser distances
as may be necessary by reason of topography or culture to ensure accuracy in
the reestablishment of any point or line without unreasonable difficulty. All
monuments shall be permanently and visibly marked with the registration or
license number of the registered land surveyor under whose supervision the
survey was made, and a description of such monument shall be shown on the final
map.
The subdivider shall set monuments at street intersections and at the beginning
and ending of each curve unless the intersection of tangents of such center
line falls within the street right of way, in which event the city engineer may
permit the subdivider to establish a monument at such intersection in lieu of
monuments at the beginning and end of curve.
   L.   Lot Corner Stakings: Five-eighths inch (5/8") reinforcing steel shall
be set at all corners, angle points and points of curve for each subdivision
lot prior to recordation of the plat.
   M.   Street Lighting: Street lighting shall be required on all streets
within the subdivision and shall be placed at locations designated by the city
engineer and to the specifications with respect to materials, design and
construction as set forth by the city engineer. The subdivider will bear all
costs relating to the purchase and placement of the street lights. (Prior Code
§ 18A-23)
11-4-5: AGREEMENT TO INSTALL:
   A.   Required: Prior to certification of final plat approval by the mayor,
the subdivider shall have executed and filed an agreement between himself and
the city providing that:
      1.   All required subdivision improvements will be completed within a
specified period of time to the satisfaction of the city.
      2.   In the event that such improvements are not completed within the
specified period, the city may, at their option, complete or cause to be
completed such work and recover from the subdivider full cost and expenses
therefor.
   B.   Additional Provisions: The aforesaid agreement may also provide for:
      1.   Construction of improvements in predetermined stages.
      2.   An extension of the construction period under certain specified
conditions.
      3.   Progress payments to the subdivider from any deposit which the
subdivider may have made or reduction in bonds, not exceeding ninety percent
(90%) of the value of improvements completed and approved, as determined by the
city engineer. (Prior Code § 18A-24)
11-4-6: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
   A.   Forms: Prior to certification of final plat approval by the Mayor, the
subdivider shall have provided the city a financial guarantee of performance in
completion of required improvements, in one or a combination of the following
forms as determined by the city:
      1.   Performance Or Surety Bond: Performance or surety bond in the amount
deemed sufficient by the city engineer to cover but not to exceed the full cost
of required improvements, engineering inspections, incidental expenses and
replacement and repair of any existing streets and utilities or other
improvements which may be damaged during construction of required improvements.
Such bond shall be executed by a surety company authorized to do business in
the state, must be approved by the city attorney as to form and have a length
of term not exceeding twenty four (24) months from the date of final plat
recordation.
      2.   Cash, Certified Check Or Negotiable Bonds: Deposit of cash,
certified check or negotiable bonds, payable to the city finance director or to
a responsible escrow agent or trust company approved by the city attorney, in
the same amount and for the same purpose as heretofore provided for performance
bond.
      3.   Street Abutting Property Not Under Control Of Subdivider: In cases
where all properties abutting a public street within any given block are not
under the control of the subdivider and the street abutting such properties is
not fully improved in accordance with the requirements of this title, the
subdivider may petition the city to construct the required improvements and to
assess the cost thereto against abutting properties in accordance with local
practice pertaining to special assessments; provided, however, that the
subdivider shall be responsible for any difference between the cost of such
improvements and the amount which can be legally assessed by the city against
the property to be subdivided and shall furnish any necessary waivers to permit
assessment of the entire cost of such improvements. Any such agreement shall be
in a form approved by the city attorney.
      4.   Letter From Lender: In addition to complying with the requirements
set forth in subsections A1, A2 and A3 of this section, the subdivider, in the
event that he obtains a construction loan or financing from a lender, will
cause such lender to furnish a letter to the city guaranteeing that no funds
will be disbursed to the subdivider until such time as he has completed, and
the city has approved, each specific part of the construction project.
   B.   Penalty In Case Of Default: In the event that the subdivider fails to
complete all required subdivision improvements in accordance with terms of his
agreement with the city, the city may have such work completed and, in order to
reimburse itself for the cost and expense thereof, may appropriate the deposit
of cash or negotiable bonds or take such steps as may be necessary to secure
performance under the bond.
   C.   One Year Maintenance: The subdivider shall guarantee the adequacy of
street and utility improvements for a period of one year.
   D.   Job Progress Payments: No job progress payments from cash or negotiable
bond shall be made by the city except upon certification by the city engineer
and approval by the city council. (Prior Code § 18A-25)
11-4-7: DEDICATION OF OPEN SPACE FOR PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS, RECREATIONAL
FACILITIES:
In accordance with the laws of the state to provide for the acquisition and
development of such park, playground and recreational facilities as are
reasonably necessary to serve the residents of new subdivisions and development
within the jurisdiction of the city, the planning commission and city council
may require the dedication of land, payment in lieu of dedication or
residential tax in accordance with the recreation and open space element of the
duly adopted general plan of the city. (Prior Code § 18A-26)
TITLE 12
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: General Definitions
12-1-1: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title the masculine includes the feminine and the singular
includes the plural. Unless the context of this title otherwise requires, the
following definitions of words and phrases shall be used in the interpretation
and construction of this title:
ABUTTING: Lots having a common boundary line, or existing as contiguous units,
except that where two (2) or more lots adjoin only at a corner or corners, they
shall not be considered as abutting or contiguous unless the common property
line between the two (2) parcels measures not less than eight feet (8') in a
single direction.
ACCESS OR ACCESS WAY: The place, means or way by which pedestrians and vehicles
shall have a safe, adequate and usable ingress and egress to a property or use
as required by this title.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE: A structure or use incidental, appropriate and
subordinate to the main structure or use on the same lot.
ADJACENT: Near, close; for example, an industrial district across the street or
highway from a residential district shall be considered as adjacent.
ADJOIN: See definition of Abutting.
ADOPT: The legislative action of governing bodies when passing a law,
ordinance, regulation or policy.
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock-in-trade books, magazines, films for sale or viewing on
premises by use of motion picture devices or any other coin-operated means, and
other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas or an establishment with a segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of such material.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which is
licensed to serve food and/or alcoholic beverages, which features topless
dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar entertainers.
ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building with a capacity of less
than fifty (50) persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
ADVERTISING: Any writing, printing, dissemination, painting, display, emblem,
drawing, sign or other device, designed, used or intended to be used to
advertise products, goods, services, or promote the sale of objects, or attract
attention to a place, or lettering for the purpose of making anything known.
Off-Premises Advertising: Any advertising display indicating the business
transacted, services rendered, goods sold or produced, name of business,
person, firm or corporation which is not available or located on the same
premises as the display.
On-Premises Advertising: Any advertising display strictly incidental to a
lawful use of the premises on which it is located, indicating the business
transacted at, services rendered, goods sold or produced on the premises, name
of the business, name of the person, firm or corporation occupying the
premises.
ADVERTISING STRUCTURE: Any notice or advertisement, pictorial or otherwise, and
any structure used as or for the support of any such notice or advertisement,
for the purpose of making anything known about goods, services, or activities
not on the same lot as the said advertising structure.
AESTHETICS: Any object of zoning concerned with the beautiful, the moral, and
especially the useful; usually limited to matters affecting the sense of sight.
AGRICULTURE: The use of the land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture,
apiaries, and animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses
for storing produce; provided, that the above uses shall not include the
operation of feedlot or other commercial feeding of animals.
AIRPORT/HELIPORT: Any area of land which is used or intended for use for the
landing and takeoff of aircraft, and any appurtenant areas which are used, or
intended for use, for airport buildings or other airport facilities or rights
of way, together with all airport buildings and facilities located thereon. See
definition of Landing Strip.
Airport Approach: That area of approach and transition surface areas around
airports where special land use and height regulations are established.
Airport Approach Zone: An imaginary surface, beginning at the end of, and at
the same elevation as, the primary surface and extending a specified horizontal
distance along the extended runway center line which is necessary for the safe
takeoff and landing of aircraft. Precision approaches are preserved with a
fifty foot (50') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical approach surface, ten
thousand feet (10,000') long, following by a forty thousand foot (40,000')
long, 40:1, to one approach surface. Visual runways have a five thousand foot
(5,000') long, 20:1, approach surface.
Airport Hazard: Any structure, tree, or use of land which hinders or obstructs
the airspace required for the safe operation of aircraft in or around an
airport or landing field.
Airport Reference Point: The highest point of an airport's usable landing area,
measured in feet above mean sea level.
Airspace Obstructions: Any structure, tree, land mass, smoke or steam, or use
of land which penetrates a primary, transitional, horizontal, or conical
surface of an airport as defined by federal aviation regulations (FAR, part
77).
Conical Surface Zone: An area extending outward of the horizontal surface, at a
ratio of twenty to one (20:1), to a height of three hundred fifty feet (350')
above the airport reference point elevation.
Horizontal Surface Zone: That flat disc-shaped, imaginary surface, one hundred
fifty feet (150') above the airport reference point elevation through which no
structures or uses should penetrate and which is necessary to protect the
airspace.
Primary Surface: A surface, longitudinally centered, on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two
hundred feet (200') beyond each end of that runway; but, when the runway has no
specially prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface
ends at each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface of a runway
will be that width prescribed in part 77 of the federal aviation regulations
(FAR), for the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that
runway. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway center line.
Runway: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and/or takeoff of
aircraft along its path.
Transitional Surface Zones: That area necessary to protect the airport approach
surfaces which extend at a ratio of seven feet (7') horizontal to one foot (1')
vertical, beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary
and the approach surfaces, and extending to a height of one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport reference point elevation, except where approach
surfaces extend upward and beyond the horizontal surface. A transitional zone
is also established at the same seven to one (7:1) ratio.
Turning Zone: The circular area centered upon an airport reference point.
ALLEY: See definition of Roads.
AMEND: To change or revise.
AMUSEMENT, COMMERCIAL: Any amusement enterprise, in an indoor or outdoor
setting, offering entertainment or games of skill to the general public for a
fee or charge; this term includes, but is not limited to, a golf driving range,
archery range, and miniature golf course, bowling alley, movie theater, or pool
hall.
ANCILLARY USES: Those uses which are secondary and complimentary to the primary
uses in an area or district.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: A place where animals or pets are given medical or surgical
treatment and are cared for during the time of such treatment. Use as a kennel
shall be limited to short-time boarding and shall be only incidental to such
hospital use.
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY: Management, breeding and raising of animals.
ANNEXATION CONTRACT: A binding agreement between the city and county which
requires the parties to accomplish specified tasks prior to and/or after
property identified in the contract is annexed by city action into the city's
jurisdiction.
APARTMENT: See definition of Residence.
APPEAL: The process for appeal of a planning action depends upon the source of
the action and varies in cost.
APPLICANT: A person who sponsors and is responsible for an application. The
applicant is responsible for meeting all conditions on the issuance of the
permit and otherwise ensuring that all policies and regulations are implemented
in the development.
APPLICATION: A statement containing information, maps and reports for the
purpose of notifying the governing body, referral agencies, and the public of
the applicant's intention to conduct, undertake or use a development.
APPROVAL: In reference to an application, approval means a decision indicating
that the development meets all requirements and has received a majority of
votes in support of the development at a public hearing.
AREAS OF NATURAL DISASTER AND HAZARDS: Areas that are subject to natural events
that are known to result in death or endanger the works of man, such as stream
flooding, ocean flooding, groundwater, erosion, and deposition, landslides,
earthquakes, weak foundation soils and other hazards unique to local or
regional areas.
ASSESSOR: The county assessor of White Pine County.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: The general repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: Upholstering of, replacement of parts (including
glass) for, and motor service to passenger cars and trucks not exceeding one
and one-half (11/2) tons capacity, but not including any operation named under
the definition of "Automobile Repair, Major", or any other operation similar
thereto.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A building or lot having pumps and storage tanks
where fuels, oils, or accessories for motor vehicles are dispensed, sold, or
offered for sale at retail only, and where repair service is secondary.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any property where:
   A.   The business of wrecking of motor vehicles or trailers is conducted;
   B.   The storage, sale or disposal of dismantled, partially dismantled, or
wrecked vehicles or their parts is conducted; or
   C.   The open storage of five (5) or more unlicensed motor vehicles not in
running condition from which parts have not been removed.
BAR, LOUNGE, DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT OR TAVERN: An establishment, the primary
activity of which is the sale and consumption on the premises of beer, wine, or
other liquor, and where food service, if any, is secondary to the sale of beer,
wine, or other liquor.
BASE MAP: A map showing certain information to which other information may be
added.
BASEMENT: A part of a building below ground level.
BATCH PLANT: A plant which measures out the material for batches of concrete.
BILLBOARD: The same as the definition of Advertising Structure.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners for White Pine County.
BOARDING OR LODGING HOUSE: A dwelling or part thereof, other than a hotel or
motel or multiple-family dwelling, where lodging with or without meals is
provided for compensation for three (3) or more persons.
BONUS: A credit given to a development, usually by allowing more intensive use
of the land in return or certain public benefits, such as open space, special
housing, etc. See definition of Bonus Density.
BONUS DENSITY: An increase in density permitted by the regional planning
commission or governing body pursuant to the zoning and subdivision
regulations, which is granted in order to promote developments which
incorporate innovative means of providing open space, preserving or enhancing
natural features, providing recreational facilities, enhancing energy
conservation, and providing innovative designs. See the definition of Bonus.
BUFFER: An area created to separate or protect one type of land use from
another. This could be in the form of a planting screen or another land use.
BUILDABLE LANDS: Lands in urban and urbanizable areas that are suitable,
available and necessary for residential use.
BUILDING: Any structure built and maintained for the shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind, fully enclosed with walls
(including windows and doors, but excluding canvas or fabric) and having a roof
(canvas or fabric excluded) and conforming to applicable legal requirements
affecting design and construction. Travel trailers with or without wheels shall
not be considered as buildings.
BUILDING, AGRICULTURAL: A structure the use of which shall be primarily for
storage of farm implements, crops, feed or similar farm products or to provide
shelter for livestock, poultry or fowl.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point of
the coping of a flat roof, or to the average height of the highest gable of a
pitch or hip roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof.
BUILDING INSPECTOR: The building inspector of the city and county, as
appropriate.
BUILDING LINE: The building setback line; a line on a plan or map indicating
limit behind which buildings or structures may be erected.
BUILDING LOT: A lot occupied or intended to be occupied by a principal building
or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings, together with such open
spaces as are required by this title, and having the required frontage on a
street.
BUILDING, MAIN: A building within which is conducted the principal use
permitted on the lot as provided in this title.
CAFETERIA: A self-service restaurant.
CAMPGROUND, DRY: A camping facility which does not provide water or septic
hookups to each space.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM: A program which provides for coordinated financing
and development of community facilities such as sewer, water, roads, fire
protection, libraries, and other governmental facilities related to the
physical development of the community. The program details planned capital
expenditures over a five (5) or six (6) year period and is one principal means
of implementing the master plan.
CARETAKER'S QUARTERS: A dwelling unit for the housing of personnel required for
maintenance or protection of the main use or structure on the property.
CARPORT: A permanently constructed building with a covered roof and open sides
available for the parking of a motor vehicle.
CASINO: Any place where gaming is operated or maintained, except that "casino"
shall not be construed to include any place devoted to slot machines.
CEMETERY: Any land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
may include columbariums, crematoriums, mausoleums, and mortuaries when
operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery.
CHURCH: A structure the primary use of which is for worship by religious
organizations.
CITY: The city of Ely, Nevada.
CITY COUNCIL OR COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Ely, Nevada.
CLINIC, MEDICAL, DENTAL OR OPTICAL: Facility for examining, consulting with and
treating patients, including offices, laboratories and outpatient facilities,
but not including hospital beds for overnight care or treatment except for
emergency or temporary care.
CLUB: An association of persons (whether or not incorporated), religious or
otherwise, for a common purpose, but not including groups which are organized
primarily to render a service carried on as a business for profit.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT: See definition of Residential.
COMMERCIAL FEEDLOT: A lot or portion of a property where ten (10) or more
livestock are penned and fed for the purpose of preparing them for resale or
slaughter, and in which the land area is incapable of producing sufficient
forage to support the number of animals confined. This definition is intended
to apply only to activities carried on as commercial enterprises, and,
therefore, does not apply to the feeding of animals accessory to a dairy use or
other permitted use, or to the fattening of animals solely for the domestic use
of the property owner, or to the penning and feeding of animals for display or
show.
COMMERCIAL POWER GENERATION FACILITY: An electrical power generation plant with
a nominal electrical generating capacity of more than twenty five thousand
(25,000) kilowatts, including, but not limited to, a thermal power plant, hydro
power plant, geothermal power plant, or a nuclear installation disposal
facility, and any facility handling a quantity of fissionable materials
sufficient to form a critical mass. A commercial power generation facility
includes related or supporting facilities, including any structure adjacent to
and associated with an energy facility, including associated transmission
lines, reservoirs, intake structures, road and rail access, pipelines, office
or industrial structures built in conjunction with and used as part of the
energy facility. A commercial power generation facility does not include a
portable power plant, the principal use of which is to supply power in
emergency or for individual domestic use.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: An open area within a development, designed and intended for
the use or enjoyment of all residents of the development, or for the use and
enjoyment of the public in general, and can include use of land, water and
complimentary structures and improvements.
COMMUNITY BUILDING: A facility owned and operated by a governmental agency or a
nonprofit community organization; provided, that the primary purpose of the
facility is for recreation, social welfare, community improvement or public
assembly; and further provided, that no permanent commercial eating or drinking
facility shall be operated on these premises.
COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM: A subsurface sewage disposal system or sewer system
which will serve more than one lot, parcel, or dwelling unit.
COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM: Domestic water supply source or distribution system
which serves more than three (3) single residences or other users for the
purpose of supplying water for household uses, but is neither a "municipal
water supply system" nor a "public utility water supply system" as defined by
state law.
COMPATIBLE: Uses which coexist in harmony and do not conflict in regard to type
of use, height of building, or bulk.
CONCRETE MIXING: The mixing of hard building material made of cement, sand,
gravel and water.
CONDOMINIUM: A multi-unit structure in which units are individually owned, but
which does not provide the features of condominium/hotel or hotel structure. In
a condominium there is outright ownership of a unit or airspace with a divided
interest in the common element.
CONDOMINIUM/HOTEL: A multi-unit structure in which units may be individually
owned and which provides a centralized management structure incorporating the
following features: a twenty four (24) hour front desk check-in operation, a
central phone system to individual rental units, meeting rooms, food services,
and recreational or leisure amenities.
CONFERENCE GROUNDS: A retreat or meeting place used for organized discussion or
consultation.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST: An indirect or direct personal or financial interest by a
government employee or appointee in an item which is to be reviewed at public
hearing. According to Nevada Revised Statutes section 281.481, a public officer
or employee shall not use his position in government to secure or grant
unwarranted privileges, preferences, exemptions or advantages for himself, any
member of his household, any business entity in which he has a significant
pecuniary interest, or any other person.
CONSENSUS: The general agreement of a group which is not necessarily arrived at
through voting so much as talking something over until everyone knows which
issues are agreed upon, and which are not. Consensus is not binding on a group;
it is not a "decision" as defined in this chapter.
CONTIGUOUS: Lots, parcels, or lots and parcels that have a common boundary.
Contiguous does not include lots, parcels, or lots and parcels separated by a
dedicated road or alley.
COTTAGE INDUSTRY: A processing, assembling, packaging or storage industry,
conducted wholly within an enclosed building located on a site isolated from
other such uses, generating low traffic volume and with little or no noise,
smoke, odor, dust, glare or vibration detectable at any property line, being
generally compatible with surrounding uses or uses permitted in the districts
and being secondary in use to a residential use.
COUNTY: White Pine County, Nevada.
COURT: An open unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings.
COVENANT: An obligation or promise, either express or implied, which may be
binding upon the land, the owner, or both. See definition of Restrictive
Covenant.
CRITERIA: The requirements which must be addressed and met prior to development
of any proposal. When making a decision, it is assured that sufficient evidence
has been submitted to make a finding that the criteria have or have not been
met.
DAYCARE FACILITIES: Those facilities licensed by the state which provide
daycare only for the following groups:
   A.   Infant and toddler care;
   B.   Small child care;
   C.   Family group homes;
   D.   School age children's care;
   E.   Senior citizens' care;
   F.   Any similar daycare center or school.
DECISION: A binding agreement established after a review of the issues and
relevant criteria. In the case of a public body, this binding agreement is
established upon a vote of a quorum (as established by ordinance) and shall be
rendered as one of the following as appropriate: approval, approval with
conditions, recommend approval, recommend approval with conditions, denial,
recommend denial, postpone to a specific date, or table for further review or
information.
DEDICATION: Turning over of private land for public use and its acceptance by
the governmental agency using it. Dedication of roads, parks, school sites, or
other uses to serve the public are often conditions for approval of a
development.
DELI: A store that sells ready-to-eat food and also may provide seating for
consuming food.
DENSITY: The amount of dwellings per acre, based on the total area of the
parcel, including vacated rights of way, and excluding noncontiguous lands,
lands designated previously or common open space, and lands used for rights of
way.
DETACHED: Not structurally attached to the main structure.
DEVELOPER: A person or other legal entity who subdivides or partitions land.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved tracts of land and
including, but not limited to, construction of buildings or their structures,
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations
located within the area.
DRIVE-IN: An establishment so developed with a driveway, drive- up, or drive-
through facility or parking area that services are supplied in whole or in part
to a customer in a motor vehicle or, in the case of self-service food or drink,
for consumption outside the building, where adequate measures have been taken
in regard to traffic safety.
DWELLING: See definition of Residence.
DWELLING GROUP: See definition of Residential Use.
EASEMENT: The right of one property owner or member of the public to make use
of the land of another.
ENGINEER, CITY: The engineer or engineering firm formally appointed by the city
council to serve the city.
ENGINEER, COUNTY: The engineer or engineering firm formally appointed by the
board of county commissioners to serve White Pine County.
ESSENTIAL SERVICE: The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by a
public utility of underground, surface or overhead gas, electrical, steam, heat
transmission or distribution systems, communication, supply or disposal
systems, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, cables, fire alarm boxes,
police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith reasonably necessary for the furnishing of
adequate service by such public utilities for the public health, safety, or
general welfare, not including buildings, electric substations and transmission
towers.
EX PARTE CONTACT: Private meetings held with members of a public body, outside
of the public hearing, at which there is discussion of an item which will be
heard and a decision rendered at public hearing. Whereas such contact can
destroy the credibility of the hearings process and deprive it of an appearance
of fairness, any ex parte contact with a member of a public body can disqualify
that member from the vote. Ex parte contact does not include discussions with
employees of the governing body for the public of clarification or requests for
additional information, but does include discussions in regard to the merits of
the hearing item.
FEEDLOT: See definition of Livestock Feed Yard.
FENCE, SIGHT OBSCURING: A fence constructed in such a way as to obstruct
vision.
FINDINGS: A written statement of facts, conclusions and determinations based on
the evidence presented in relation to the hearings criteria and prepared by the
approving authority in support of a decision.
FLAG LOT: A parcel of land created by a subdivision or partition and which
includes a narrow projection or flagpole, to the public right of way.
FLAGPOLE: A narrow extension of property on a lot from the buildable area of a
lot to the public right of way.
FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP: An official map of certain portions of White
Pine County entitled "Flood Boundary and Floodway Map" issued by the federal
emergency management agency.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP: An official map of a community issued by the federal
emergency management agency where the boundaries of the flood, mud slide (i.e.,
mud flow) and related erosion areas having hazards have been designated as zone
A, M, and/or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE: The insurance coverage provided under the federal flood
insurance program.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community on which the
federal emergency management agency has delineated both the special hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency that includes flood profiles, the "Flood Boundary and
Floodway Map", and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD PLAIN, 100-YEAR: The land within the county subject to a one percent (1%)
chance of flooding in any given year, including the floodway and floodway
fringe.
FLOOD, SHALLOW ZONE: An area where the base flood depths range from one foot
(1') and three feet (3'), a clearly defined channel does not exist, and the
path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate. Such areas are designated
AH or AO on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot (1').
FLOODWAY FRINGE: That area of the flood plain lying outside of the floodway,
but still subject to inundation by waters of a base flood.
FLOODWAY; REGULATORY: The sum of all areas depicted as lying within a floodway
on the "Flood Boundary and Floodway Map", as defined in this section, and those
other areas determined to be subject to flooding.
FLOOR, AREA: The maximum horizontal area of the building at the finished floor
line, including any storage area.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: A mathematical expression determined by dividing the total
floor area of a building by the area of one lot on which it is located, as
floor area ÷ lot area = floor area ratio.
FRONTAGE: That portion of a parcel of property which abuts a public way, a
dedicated public street or highway.
GOVERNING BODY: Any group of individuals elected by the citizens of Ely who are
given the authority to make final decisions regarding points of ordinance or
law after consideration of communitywide (public) interest; the Ely city
council may delegate the responsibilities for implementation of public policies
to appointed bodies (for example, planning commission and hearings councils)
and professional staff.
GRADE: The average elevation of the finished ground surface adjacent to the
exterior walls of a building or base of a structure.
GUEST HOUSE: An accessory residence built with no kitchen facilities, or a
travel trailer, used for temporary use less than four (4) months living
accommodations, which is restricted to one such structure or trailer in
addition to the main residence per legal lot.
HABITABLE FLOOR: Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes working,
sleeping, eating, cooking, recreation, or a combination thereof. A floor used
only for storage purposes is not a habitable floor.
HARDSHIP: A condition under which the strict adherence to the standards of this
title would result in the virtual confiscation of the property in question; a
condition so injurious to bear as to deprive a property owner of the use of his
land.
HELIPORT: Any area used or to be used for the landing or takeoff of helicopters
or other steep gradient aircraft capable of hovering, and shall include any and
all of the area or buildings which are appropriate to accomplish these
functions. See definition of Airport/Heliport.
HISTORIC DISTRICT: An area which exhibits the unique, historic character of the
area and has been designated as such on the official maps.
HISTORIC LANDMARK: Any historic resource, including its site or a geographic
area, listed on the Nevada state register of historical landmarks.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION: The act or process of applying measures to sustain the
existing form, integrity, material of an historic building, structure, or
object, and the existing form and vegetation cover of a site. It may include
initial stabilization work, where necessary, as well as ongoing maintenance of
the historic building materials.
HISTORIC REHABILITATION: The act or process of returning a property to a state
of utility through repair or alteration, which makes possible an efficient,
contemporary use, while preserving those portions or features of the property
which are significant to its historical, architectural, and cultural values.
HISTORIC RESOURCE: A district, site, building, structure, object, or natural
feature significant in American history, prehistory, architecture, archaeology,
and culture. It may be of value to the nation as a whole, or solely to the
community in which it is located.
HOG RANCH: Any premises where three (3) or more hogs over six (6) months of age
are kept.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any activity engaged in for profit or a business carried on by
a resident as a secondary use of the property in accordance with applicable
requirements of this title 1 .
HORTICULTURE: The cultivation of vegetation.
HOSPITAL: An establishment catering to persons receiving medical, obstetrical,
or surgical care which provides both eating and sleeping facilities for
patients and provides nursing services on a continual basis.
HOTEL: A building which is designed, intended or used for the accommodation of
tourists, transients, and permanent guests for compensation and in which no
provision is made for cooking in individual rooms or suites of rooms. Such
rooms are not part of an institution in which human beings are normally housed
or retained under legal restraint.
INJUNCTION: A legal order issued by the court prohibiting a party from doing a
specified act. This may be either a temporary or permanent injunction.
INTERESTED PARTIES: Persons or agencies with standing (i.e., having a
proprietary or monetary interest or being within sight or sound of the subject
item) or persons having a significant interest in an issue.
INTERIOR YARDS: The area within the designated setback.
JUNKYARD: A place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, based, packed, disassembled or handled, including auto
wrecking yards, house wrecking yards, used lumber yards, and places or yards
for storage of salvaged house wrecking and structural steel materials and
equipment; but not including places where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building, such as pawn shops and establishments
for the sale, purchase or storage of used furniture and household equipment,
used cars in operative condition, or salvaged materials incidental to
manufacturing operations.
KENNEL: A lot or building in which four (4) or more dogs or cats at least six
(6) months of age are kept for the purpose of protecting the animals from
injury, containing the animals, and restricting entrance of other animals.
KINDERGARTEN: Public or private school or class for children, usually from four
(4) to six (6) years old.
KITCHEN: Any room and/or portion of a dwelling designed to be used for the
cooking and preparing of foods.
LANDING STRIP, PERSONAL USE: An airstrip restricted, except for aircraft
emergencies, to use by the owner of the aircraft based at the landing strip and
by his invited guests. See definition of Airport/Heliport.
LEGISLATIVE ACTION: An action or decision which is a law-making function rather
than a law-applying action. See definition of Quasi Judicial Action.
LIVESTOCK FEED YARD: A lot or parcel of land improved with corrals, fences,
buildings, or improvements, and used primarily for the feeding and fattening of
livestock for subsequent sale, and includes the feeding of garbage for
disposal.
LOCAL UTILITIES: The usual electric power, telephone, gas, water, sewer
drainage lines, and those in-line facilities such as gas regulating stations
and water pumping stations.
LOT: A parcel of land used or capable of being used under the regulations of
this title, lawfully created as such in accordance with the subdivision laws or
ordinances in effect at the time of its creation and suitable for sale, lease,
or separate use.
LOT AREA: The total area contained within the lot lines, measured on a
horizontal plane, and excluding that area used for public ways, roads, streets
and alleys.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection,
or upon two (2) parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the same
street forming an interior angle of less than one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°) within the lot lines.
LOT COVERAGE: That percentage of the total lot area covered by "structures" as
herein defined.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot lines. In
the case of a corner lot, the depth shall be the length of its longest front
lot line.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE: The property line bounding a lot or parcel.
Front Lot Line: The property line separating a lot or parcel from the street.
In the case of a corner lot, the shortest property line along a street. In the
case of a flag lot, the closest line, parallel to the public road, at the end
of the flagpole.
Rear Lot Line: A property line which is opposite and more distant from the
front lot line. In the case of an irregular, triangular, or other shaped lot, a
line ten feet (10') in depth within the lot parallel to and at a maximum
distance from the front lot line.
Side Lot Line: Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. In the case of
a corner lot, the lot line abutting the side street is termed an exterior side
lot line; all other side lot lines are termed interior side lot lines.
LOT OF RECORD: Any platted subdivision lot, partition filed with the real
estate commissioner of the state of Nevada, approved major or minor land
partition parcel, independent ownerships of land, parcels for which valid
building permits have been issued, or lots approved as provided in this title.
LOT, THROUGH: An interior lot having a frontage on two (2) streets and/or
highways.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines ordinarily
measured parallel to the front lot lines. See definition of Lot Line, Front Lot
Line, for corner lots.
LOT WIDTH, AVERAGE: The result obtained by dividing the total of lot width
measurements taken every twenty feet (20'), beginning with the widest point, by
the number of such measurements.
MAINTAIN: To cause or allow to continue in existence. When the context
indicates, the word shall mean to preserve and care for a structure,
improvement, condition or area to such an extent that it remains attractive,
safe and presentable and carries out the purpose for which it was installed,
constructed or required.
MAJOR ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION LINE: Any electrical line carrying an electrical
load of sixty six (66) KV and above.
MASTER PLAN: A generalized map data base policy statement, and implementation
plan adopted by the board of county commissioners, as outlined in chapter 278
of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
METALLURGY: The reduction or extraction of metals from their ores by
mechanical, physical or chemical methods, including their refinement and
preparation for use as raw materials.
MINING ACTIVITIES: The act, process or business of extracting resources from
the ground, but not including the processing of such resources.
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit designed for long-term
occupancy. It is not constructed on the site of its original occupancy and it
is designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, on a flatbed
or other trailer on detachable wheels, and bearing an insignia of compliance as
required by state law.
MOBILE HOME LOT: A portion of land within a mobile home park which is rented or
held out for rent to accommodate a mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: An area or tract of land where two (2) or more mobile homes
or mobile home lots are rented or held out for rent. Mobile home park does not
include those areas or tracts of land, whether where the lots are held out or
within or outside of a park, rented on a nightly basis.
MOBILE HOME SETBACK: Distance between the property line and the nearest portion
of a mobile home on the property.
Front: Setback from front line to nearest part of the mobile home.
Rear: Setback from rear line to nearest part of the mobile home.
Side: Setback from side line to nearest part of the mobile home.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A portion of land within a mobile home park used or intended
to be used for parking of one mobile home, including required yards and parking
area, attached or detached accessory building and open space.
Depth: Distance between the front and rear space lines measured in the main
direction of the side space line.
Front Line: Narrowest dimension fronting on a street.
Frontage Width: Distance between the side space lines measured at the front
line.
Side Line: Space line or lot line which runs perpendicular to or approximately
perpendicular to the front line.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A subdivision of land platted in conformance with the
Nevada revised statutes and applicable city ordinances for the purpose or
providing mobile home lots.
MODIFICATION TO AN EXISTING PERMIT: Any change in the scope, character or
nature of plans, specifications, etc., of any development which has been
reviewed and approved by the governing body or its representative office.
MODULAR UNIT: A prefabricated residence, office or structure, other than a
mobile home, that meets the uniform building code standards for a given
occupancy, and is transportable to a building site in distance modules or
units.
MORATORIUM: Generally refers to a temporary freeze on the approval of all new
development proposals or the issuance of building permits, pending certain
actions or conditions. In recent years building moratoriums have been
instituted by water and sewer agencies when sewage treatment facilities are
inadequately providing for public health or where water shortages are
threatened.
MOTEL: A building or group of buildings used for transient residential purposes
containing guest rooms or dwelling units with automobile parking space provided
in connection therewith, which building or group is designed and used primarily
for the accommodation of transient automobile travelers, including groups
designated as auto cabins, motor courts, motor hotels and similar designations.
MOTOR HOME: A self-propelled vehicle providing residential accommodations.
NONCONFORMING LOT, STRUCTURE OR USE: A lawful lot, structure, or use, existing
at the time this title or any amendment thereto takes effect, which does not
conform to the requirements of this title or its amendments.
NUISANCE: Any activity on one's land which tends to diminish the ability of the
neighbors to enjoy their lands or rights. A public nuisance is generated if
there is a violation of this title or other law, or if there is a violation of
the public welfare in general. A nuisance per se' is an activity that all
reasonable men agree is a nuisance to the community as a whole.
NURSING OR CONVALESCENT HOME: An establishment providing bed care or chronic or
convalescent care for one or more persons, exclusive of relatives who by reason
of illness or physical infirmity are unable to properly care for themselves;
excluding, however, institutions for the care of alcoholics, drug addicts, and
persons with mental or communicable diseases.
OFF-STREET: Land which is not within the rights of way of any street or alley.
OFFICIAL MAP: An ordinance adopted and amended from time to time after public
hearing by the board of county commissioners, containing a map or maps that
show the precise locations of future rights of way and lands to be acquired by
city or county, either through purchase or dedication. Copies of the official
map will be maintained in the regional planning office for public inspection
and will be used to facilitate the proper placement of buildings and structures
in relation to future property lines.
OVERLAY ZONE: A supplementary zone addressing the unique or special
circumstances on the use of land beyond those normally applied to the zone
(e.g., flooding, slopes, historic character).
PARCEL: A tract of land created by a partition or a lot of record.
PARKING AREA: An area containing parking spaces.
PARKING LOT: An area other than for single-family dwellings used for the off-
street parking of more than two (2) motor vehicles, including parking spaces,
access and maneuvering aisles.
PARKING SPACE: An area permanently reserved for the temporary storage of any
motor vehicle and connected with a street or driveway suitable for such
vehicles, situated entirely outside the right of way of any public street or
alley.
PERMITTEE: The person who is proposing to use or who is using the land pursuant
to any permit required herein.
PERSON: Every natural person, partnership, association, social or fraternal
organization, corporation, estate, trust, receiver, syndicate, branch of
government, or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
PETS: Shall mean:
   A.   Dogs;
   B.   Common household cats, excluding large or exotic varieties normally
located in the wild or displayed by zoological societies;
   C.   Birds, including poultry, and other small animals, when contained and
housed within a residential structure and not present in sufficient numbers as
to constitute a nuisance to neighbors or to constitute a business.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD): A development of residential, commercial,
industrial, and/or semipublic units grouped in a fashion which provides for
variety and diversification of design features while maintaining density
requirements. Planned unit developments should each be planned as an entity
with options for such uses as grouping dwelling units, allowing an area for
open space, mixing housing types (including mobile homes) and land uses, and
should be designed to preserve or enhance natural features.
PLANNING DIRECTOR: The director of planning for the White Pine county regional
planning commission or his authorized representatives.
PORNOGRAPHY: Writings, pictures or films, etc., that are intended to stimulate
erotic feelings by description or portrayal of sexual activities.
PRIVATE GARAGE: An enclosed accessory building, attached or detached, used for
storage of motor vehicles used by occupants of the principal building and
providing no public shop or services in connection therewith.
PROFESSION, RECOGNIZED: A vocation, calling, occupation, or employment
involving labor skills, education, special knowledge and compensation for
profit where the labor and skill involved is predominately mental or
intellectual rather than physical or manual.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: The place of business of a person engaged in a recognized
profession.
PUBLIC BODY: Any administrative, advisory, executive or legislative body of the
state or a local government which expends or disburses, or is supported, in
whole or in part, by tax revenue, including, but not limited to, any board,
commission, committee, subcommittee or other subsidiary thereof.
PUBLIC BUILDING: Relating to people as a whole, or a building that is used open
to entire community.
PUBLIC HEARING: A meeting of members of a public body, at which a quorum is
present, and where there is an opportunity for all interested parties to be
heard (i.e., to offer their views and to supply evidence in support of this
view), and at which decisions are made on any matter over which the public body
has jurisdiction or advisory power.
PUBLIC HEARING, DE NOVO: A complete new hearing, including presentation of
testimony and evidence and review of the criteria.
PUBLIC HEARING, ON THE RECORD: A public hearing at which no new testimony or
evidence is presented and decision making is based on the public records,
testimony and evidence of a previous public hearing.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, firm, corporation, municipality or municipal head
duly authorized under state or municipal regulations to furnish to the public
electricity, gas, steam, communications, water, drainage, flood control,
irrigation, garbage or trash disposal, or sewage disposal. (See Nevada Revised
Statutes section 704.020)
QUASI JUDICIAL: (Literal Meaning) See definition of Legislative Action. As if,
or almost as if, it were judicial. A type of activity where general laws or
policies are applicable to specific property, according to certain
preestablished procedures and in accordance with certain objective standards
and criteria.
RECREATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, INTENSIVE USE: The development of structures or areas
for human enjoyment, refreshment, interaction, diversion or amenity, where such
structure exceeds eight hundred (800) square feet of floor area or where
vehicular traffic is generated in excess of approximately one hundred (100)
trips per acre per day. This may include, but shall not be limited to, such
uses as bars, lodges, amusement centers, restaurants, social clubs, community
centers, unless otherwise restricted by ordinance.
RECREATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, LOW INTENSITY USE: The development of structures or
areas for human enjoyment, refreshment, interaction, diversion or amenity,
where such structures have less than eight hundred (800) square feet of floor
area or where vehicular traffic is generally generated in an amount less than
one hundred (100) trips per acre per day. This may include, but shall not be
limited to, such uses as parks, fishing, boating, equestrian activities, golf
courses, playgrounds, unless otherwise restricted by ordinance.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vacation trailer, camping vehicle, or other unit with
or without motive power, less than ten feet (10') wide and not more than forty
five feet (45') long, which is designed for temporary human occupancy, for
recreational travel, camping or emergency purposes, and has a floor space of
less than two hundred twenty (220) square feet, excluding built in equipment
such as wardrobes, closets, cabinets, kitchen units or fixtures, and bath or
toilet rooms. The unit shall be identified as a recreational vehicle by the
manufacturer. See definition of Travel Trailer.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: See definition of Travel Trailer Park.
RESIDENCE: A place for permanent, human habitation which falls into one of the
following categories:
Condominium: A multi-unit structure in which units are individually owned, but
which does not provide the features of a condominium/hotel or hotel structure.
In a condominium there is outright ownership of a unit or airspace with a
divided interest in the common element.
Duplex: A building containing two (2) dwelling units. Also known as a two-
family dwelling.
Dwelling Group: A group of three (3) or more dwellings, located on a parcel of
land, in one ownership, and having any yard or court in common.
Dwelling, Multi-Family: A building containing three (3) or more dwelling units.
Dwelling, Single-Family: A building designed or used for purposes by not more
than one family and containing one dwelling unit. A manufactured home or mobile
home shall be considered a single-family dwelling.
Dwelling, Two-Family: See definition of Residence: Duplex.
Dwelling Unit: One or more rooms designed for occupancy by one family.
Row Houses: Multi-family or condominium residences which share common walls and
the entrance to each is from the ground floor, i.e., there are no units located
totally above or below another unit.
RESTAURANT: Any establishment where food and drink are prepared for sale to the
public.
RESTRICTIVE COVENANT: A promise or condition contained in a deed or other
recorded instrument imposing a limitation on the use of property.
RETAIL USE: A commercial establishment selling goods at retail; however, a home
occupation shall not be considered as a retail use.
RIPARIAN VEGETATION: Vegetation found on or near the banks of a river or other
body of water.
ROAD FUNCTION:
Alley: A public or private way not more than thirty feet (30') wide affording
only secondary means of access to abutting property.
Connector: A road which is used primarily as a connector from or through local
areas or districts to one or more arteries.
Cul-De-Sac: A street with only one outlet, having sufficient space at the
closed end to provide vehicular turning area.
Frontage Road: A road which is parallel to and adjacent to an arterial or other
limited access road or a railroad right of way, and which provides access to
abutting properties.
Local Street: The function of the local street is to provide access to the
property abutting the right of way and easements for utilities. The movement of
traffic is secondary to access. There is no through traffic.
Principal Arterial: A road which provides for through traffic between major
centers of activity in urban, suburban, and rural areas.
Stubbed Road: A road having only one outlet, but which is intended to be
extended or continued.
ROADS: The following definitions apply to roads:
Road: The term road, street, or highway shall include the entire area between
the right-of-way lines of any public road, or the entire width of a private
road easement created to provide ingress or egress to land, including a private
way that is created to provide ingress or egress to land in conjunction with
the use of such land for forestry, mining, or agricultural purposes. Roads may
be classified by their expected level of service and function.
Road Level Of Service And Ownership: City Or County Road: A road which has
become part of the city or county road system through dedication, has been
given a city or county road name or number and has a description on file in the
office of the department of transportation. Such a road may or may not be
maintained by the governing body.
Dedicated Way: A road dedicated to the public for road purposes, shown on a map
or plat approved by the city or county and recorded in the records of either.
Dedicated Way, Maintained: A road which has been dedicated and is maintained by
the governing body.
Prescriptive Road: A road which has judicially gained a public character by
adverse use. A prescriptive road will not be considered suitable access for
division purposes, unless it is improved to the applicable standards set forth.
The county is not responsible for improving or maintaining a prescriptive road.
Private Road: A private road is created to provide ingress or egress to one to
three (3) lots, parcels, areas, or tracts of land, and which has been approved
for access purposes by the Governing Body. A private road shall be considered
that portion of a lot or parcel that is used for access purposes as described
by an easement. A private road is neither maintained by the governing body, nor
can the governing body regulate its use or contract for its maintenance.
Public Road: A public road is a state highway or road, or any road which has
been dedicated to the use of the public for road purposes. The term public road
does not include a road which has nominally or judicially gained a public
character by prescriptive or adverse use, nor does the term apply to roads
within the USDA forest service and bureau of land management (BLM) road
systems.
Service Road: A road contained entirely within property boundaries and used for
internal traffic flow.
ROADSIDE STAND: A temporary structure designed or used for the display or sale
of agricultural products produced on the premises upon which such a stand is
located.
ROOMING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel or motel where, for compensation
and by prearrangement for definite periods of time, lodging is provided for
individuals who are not members of a resident family.
SANITARIUM: A building or institution for the recuperation and treatment of
persons with physical or mental disorders.
SANITARY LANDFILL: The disposal of solid waste by compaction in or upon land
and the covering up of all waste deposited with earth or other approved cover
material at least once each operating date.
SATURDAY MARKET OR ARTS AND CRAFTS FAIR: The outdoor extended sales of newly
manufactured (handcrafted) goods (including sales of food). A manager shall
accept responsibility, supplying proof of ownership or lease arrangement.
SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE: An educational institution, which may include
curriculums in kindergarten, elementary, secondary, higher education,
vocational education or special education. Public schools being those that
received their support through public taxation and whose textbooks and courses
of study are under the control of the state board of education.
SCREEN WALL: A masonry wall or opaque fence so constructed as to prevent the
view of enclosed activities or uses from without.
SETBACK: The requirement of zoning and building regulations that a building be
placed a certain distance from a street or lot line either on the street level
or at a prescribed height.
SIGN: Any device which identifies, describes, illustrates or otherwise directs
attention to a product, place, activity, goods, services, person, institution
or business, or which otherwise promotes the sale of objects or identifies
objects for sale, and which is affixed to a building, structure or the land.
This definition shall not include official notices issued by a court or public
body or officer, or directional, warning or information signs or structures
required by or authorized by law or by federal, state, county or city
authority.
Area: In determining whether a sign is within the area limitations of this
title, the area of the total exterior surface shall be measured and computed in
square feet; provided, that where the sign has two (2) or more faces, the area
of the total exterior surface shall be measured and divided by the number of
faces; and provided further, that the interior angle between the planes of two
(2) faces exceeds one hundred thirty five degrees (135°), they shall be deemed
a single face for the purposes hereof. Measurements shall be made at the
extreme horizontal and vertical limits of a sign. In regard to signs painted on
walls or fences, the area shall be that rectangle which would cover the sign.
Ground Sign: Any sign which is supported by one or more uprights, poles or
braces in or upon the ground other than a combination sign.
Projecting Sign: A sign, other than a wall sign, which projects from and is
supported by a wall of a building or structure.
Roof Sign: A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet of a building or
structure.
Temporary Sign: Any sign, banner, pennant or advertising display constructed of
cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or other light material, with
or without frames, intended to be displayed for a limited period of time only.
Wall Sign: Any sign attached to or erected against the wall of a building or
structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to the plane of
said wall.
SITE PLAN: A plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and with complete
dimensioning, all of the uses proposed for a specific parcel of land.
SKETCH OR CONCEPTUAL PLAN: A quickly drawn plan made only after limited study
and analysis. Its function is to assemble ideas early in the planning process
to elicit response from the client or policy makers in order to set a direction
for subsequent stages of work.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE: A place where cattle, sheep, hogs or other animals are killed
or butchered for market or for sale.
SLOPE EASEMENT: An area adjoining a road which is affected by the road fill or
cut, but is not within the road easement or right of way.
SOLAR ORIENTATION: The layout and design of parcels and siting of a structure
on building lots to take advantage of solar insulation for optimal utilization
of the sun as an energy source.
SOLID WASTE: All putrescible and nonputrescible refuse in solid or semisolid
form, including, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish, junk vehicles, ashes or
incinerator residue, street refuse, dead animals, demolition waste,
construction waste, solid or semisolid commercial and industrial waste. The
term does not include hazardous waste managed pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes sections 459.400 to 459.600, inclusive.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE: An area used for the collection, storage, transfer,
treatment utilization, or processing of waste material. A solid waste disposal
site includes, but is not limited to, dumps, landfills, sanitary landfills,
incineration, transfer stations, and composting and recycling plants.
SPOT ZONING: The awarding of a use classification to an isolated parcel of land
which is detrimental or incompatible with the uses of the surrounding area,
particularly when such an act favors a particular owner. Such zoning has been
held to be illegal by the courts on the grounds that it is unreasonable and
capricious. A general plan or special circumstances such as historical value,
environmental importance, or scenic value could justify special zoning for a
small area.
STREET: See definition of Roads.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change to the supporting members of a building,
including foundations, bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, girders, or
any structural change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed. An edifice or building of any
kind or any piece of work artificially built upon or composed of parts joined
together in some manner and which requires location on the ground or which is
attached to something having a location on the ground.
SUBSTATION: A station subordinate or subsidiary to another station.
TAVERN: A place where the preparation, sale or consumption of alcoholic
beverages is the principal activity.
TAX LOT: A parcel, lot, or other unit of land as created by the county assessor
for the purpose of taxation.
TEMPORARY LIVING QUARTERS: A dwelling unit which is utilized for a specified
and limited time only.
TENT: A fabric shelter supported by poles or rope, which is designed for human
occupancy and to be used temporarily for recreational or emergency purposes,
but not for permanent or residential purposes.
TOWNHOUSE: A single-family dwelling unit on a separately platted lot, with use
and occupancy identical to all other single-family dwellings, except without
the required yard setbacks in the side yard. Fire separations are required
between each townhouse, and such required fire separation may be obtained by
two (2) separate one-hour fire-resistive walls, or a single masonry common
wall, having a two (2) hour fire-resistive rating. Said fire walls shall have
no penetrations whatsoever. Each townhouse must have separate utility services;
however, general utility services, on that land owned and maintained by a
homeowner's association, will be allowed. Each common wall shall be covered by
a set of deed restrictions.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A portable structure mounted on wheels, constructed on a
vehicular-type of chassis, primarily designed as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping or travel use and designed to be drawn by another vehicle
and designated by the manufacturer as a travel trailer. A vehicle is not a
travel trailer if, when equipped for highway use, it is more than eight feet
(8') wide. See definition of Recreational Vehicle.
TRAVEL TRAILER PARK: A development designed primarily for transient service on
which two (2) or more travel trailers, pickup campers, tent trailers, or
similar items, self-propelled motorized vehicles are parked and used for the
purpose of supplying to the public a temporary location while traveling,
vacationing, or recreating, including any accessory buildings, structures and
uses customarily incidental to such a park.
UNIFORM BUILDING CODE: The latest edition of the uniform building code
published by the Pacific coast building officials conference, which has been
adopted by the city or county, as appropriate, and as it may have been amended
in its adoption.
URBAN AREA: Land that is planned for urban settlement and use. Generally, the
area in which a full range of services already exist; that area within the
corporate limits of the city.
URBAN FACILITIES AND SERVICES: Key facilities and appropriate types and levels
of at least the following: police protection; fire protection; sanitary
facilities; storm drainage facilities; planning, zoning, and subdivision
control; health services; recreation facilities and services; energy and
communication services; and community governmental services.
URBAN FRINGE: An area at the edge of an urban area usually made up of mixed
agricultural and urban land uses.
USE: The purpose for which land or a structure is designed, arranged or
intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, whether on a permanent or
temporary basis.
USE, PERMITTED: Those uses which are allowed to occur in a zoning district
without review at a public hearing.
USE, PERMITTED CONDITIONALLY: Those uses which require a public hearing and a
decision of approval prior to issuance of a permit.
UTILITY FACILITY: Those necessary appurtenances including related rights of way
for the transmission of electric power, gas, water, sewage, telephone and other
in-line facilities needed for the operation of such facilities, such as gas
regulating stations, pumping stations, power or communication substations,
dams, reservoirs, and related power houses. Additionally, a utility facility
means any energy device and/or system that generates energy from renewable
energy resources, including solar, hydro, wind, biofuels, wood, geothermal, or
similar sources.
VISION CLEARANCE AREA: An area adjacent to the rights of way of a road or
street which contains no sight-obscuring planting, fence, wall, or structure.
WASTE DISPOSAL SITE, NONHAZARDOUS: Land used for the disposal or handling of
solid wastes, including, but not limited to, dumps, landfills, sludge lagoons,
sludge treatment facilities, disposal sites or septic tank pumping or cesspool
cleaning by the public or by a solid waste collection service and composting
plants. Nonhazardous sites do not include "hazardous wastes" as defined by
state administrative rule.
WORKYARD, PUBLIC: An enclosed area for the storage of vehicles and supplies and
the provision of maintenance services for public facilities.
YARD: An open space on a lot which is unobstructed from the ground upward
except as otherwise provided in this regulation.
Front Yard: A yard between side lot line measured horizontally at right angles
to the front lot lines from the front lot line to the nearest point of the
building.
Rear Yard: A yard between side lot lines measured horizontally at right angles
to the rear lot line from the rear lot line to the nearest point of the
building.
Side Yard: A yard between the front and rear yard measured horizontally and at
right angles from the side lot line to the nearest point of the building. In
the case of a corner lot, the side yard bordering the street shall extend from
the front yard to the rear lot line. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986; amd. 2001 Code; Ord.
635, 9-24-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 14 of this title.
CHAPTER 2
OPEN RANGE DISTRICT (O-5)
SECTION:
12-2-1: Purpose
12-2-2: Uses
12-2-3: Minimum Lot Area, Width And Yard Regulations
12-2-1: PURPOSE:
The O-5 classification is intended to encourage farm activity in conjunction
with rural residential living. Normal ranching and agricultural practices shall
not be considered a nuisance condition. Nothing in this regulation is intended
to interfere with normal ranching or agricultural practices that might result
in conditions such as noise, dust or odor for temporary periods of time.
Mineral and natural resources' exploration and extraction also shall be
permitted in this zoning. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-2-2: USES:
P = Permitted Use
S = Special Use
N = Not Permitted
 O-5
                                                                        O-5
Ranch agricultural, including dwellings and accessory buildings         P
Buildings or structures over 21/2 stories or 35 feet in height          S
Commercial power generating and transmission facilities necessary for   S
public use
Correctional facilities                                                 S
Explosives' and fireworks' storage                                      S
Forest industries                                                       P
Greenhouse and nurseries                                                P
Home occupation                                                         P
Law enforcement - training area                                         S
Parks and recreational area, preserves and forests                      P
Public utilities and communications buildings/substations necessary for S
public use
Public utilities and communications rights of way necessary for public  S
service
Mineral and refinery exploration, extraction and processing             S
Other uses commission deems to be similar                               P
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-2-3: MINIMUM LOT AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
Area 5 acres
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
CHAPTER 3
RANCH AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (R-A-1, R-A-5, R-A-2.5)
SECTION:
12-3-1: Purpose
12-3-2: Uses
12-3-3: Minimum Lot Area, Width And Yard Regulations
12-3-1: PURPOSE:
The ranch agricultural district is established to provide areas on the fringe
of the corporate area where residential uses may be harmoniously integrated
with agricultural pursuits. The zone is intended to allow the keeping of farm
animals and fowl in conjunction with single-family dwelling units to an extent
consistent with said developments. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-3-2: USES:
P = Permitted Use
S = Special Use
N = Not Permitted
 R-A-1 R-A-5 R-A-2.5
                                                            R-A-1 R-A-5 R-A-2.5
Accessory buildings                                         P     P     P
Agricultural, including greenhouses and nurseries           P     P     P
Churches                                                    S     S     S
Commercial livestock or sales yard, dairies, commercial
kennels and animal raising farms at least 1,000 feet from a S     S     S
district boundary except an O district
Commercial power generating and transmission facilities and S     S     S
corridors
Dwelling: one-family, including mobile home                 P     P     P
Home occupation                                             S     S     S
Public utilities and communication buildings/substations    S     S     S
necessary for public use
Public utilities and communications rights of way necessary S     S     S
for public service
Signs as follows: nameplate, advertising, at least 1,000    P     P     P
feet apart, public information, property and identification
Temporary stand for sale of products raised on premises at  P     P     P
least 20 feet from front property line
Other uses commission deems to be similar                   S     S     S
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-3-3: MINIMUM LOT AREA, WIDTH AND YARD REGULATIONS:
 
            R-A-1    R-A-5    R-A-2.5
Area        1 acre   5 acres  2.5 acres
Width       150 feet 300 feet 250 feet
Yard, front 30 feet  30 feet  30 feet
Yard, side  25 feet  25 feet  25 feet
Yard, rear  30 feet  30 feet  30 feet
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. R-E-43, R-E-21 DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-4A-1: Purpose
12-4A-2: Uses
12-4A-3: Minimum Lot Area, Width, Yard And Maximum Height Regulations
12-4A-4: Accessory Structures And Patios
12-4A-1: PURPOSE:
To provide permanent area for small farms, hobby farms, and limited
agricultural development for personal use. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-4A-2: USES:
 
P = Permitted use
S = Special use
N = Not permitted
 
 R-E-43 R-E-21
                                                                  R-E-43 R-E-21
Accessory buildings and uses                                      P      P
Agricultural uses as follows: field crops, truck gardening, berry
and tree crops, flower gardening, nurseries, greenhouses,         P      P
orchards, bird habitats and bee houses
Animal raising as an incidental use as follows: no animals less
than 1/2 acre and 1/2 acre for each of the following: 1 cow, 2    P      P
horses, 2 goats, 2 sheep, and 100 fowl
Churches                                                          S      S
Commercial power generating and transmission facilities corridors S      S
Dwelling or mobile home                                           P      P
Home occupation                                                   P      P
Poultry, rabbit, fish or frog farms, including the killing and    P      P
dressing of animals raised on premises
Public and quasi-public buildings and uses; parks and recreation  S      S
areas, public utilities facilities
Public utilities and communications buildings/substations         S      S
necessary for public service
Public utilities and communications rights of way necessary for   S      S
public use
Sale of products of the above uses produced on the premises
provided no permanent commercial building is constructed          P      P
primarily for such use
Other uses commission deems to be similar                         S      S
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986; amd. Ord. 647, 6-23-2011)
12-4A-3: MINIMUM LOT AREA, WIDTH, YARD AND MAXIMUM HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 
               R-E-43                          R-E-21
Area           43,560 sq. ft.                  21,780 sq. ft.
Yard, front    20 ft.                          20 ft.
               5 ft. one side                  5 ft. one side
               10 ft. second side. If a corner 10 ft. second side. If a corner
Yard, side     lot is involved, the minimum    lot is involved, the minimum
               setback shall be 15 ft. on the  setback shall be 15 ft. on the
               side of the corner lot          side of the corner lot
Yard, rear     25 ft.                          25 ft.
Maximum height 2 stories or 35 ft.             2 stories or 35 ft.
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986; amd. Ord. 626, 5-8-2008)
12-4A-4: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND PATIOS:
The requirements for "accessory structures" shall be as follows:
If the "accessory structure" is ten feet by twelve feet (10' x 12') or smaller,
there shall be a minimum setback of five feet (5') on sides and rear.
Furthermore, no permit shall be required for a structure this size unless
electrical or plumbing is added to the building.
If the "accessory structure" is located on an interior lot and is larger than
ten feet by twelve feet (10' x 12'), there shall be a minimum setback of five
feet (5') on sides, ten feet (10') at rear of the lot, and twenty feet (20') at
front of the lot.
If the "accessory structure" is located on a corner lot and is larger than ten
feet by twelve feet (10' x 12'), there shall be a minimum setback of five feet
(5') on sides, ten feet (10') on the street side of the lot, ten feet (10') at
the rear of the lot, and twenty feet (20') at the front of the lot.
The requirements for "patios" shall be as follows:
If the "patio" is located on an interior lot, there shall be a minimum setback
of five feet (5') on sides, ten feet (10') at rear of the lot, but twenty feet
(20') at rear of the lot if patio doubles as a balcony.
If the "patio" is located on a corner lot, there shall be a minimum setback of
five feet (5') on interior side, ten feet (10') on street side of the lot, ten
feet (10') at the rear of the lot, but twenty feet (20') at rear of the lot if
patio doubles as a balcony. (Ord. 626, 5-8-2008)
ARTICLE B. R-1-100, R-1-75, R-1-50 DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-4B-1: Purpose
12-4B-2: Uses
12-4B-3: Minimum Lot Area, Width, Yard And Maximum Height Regulations
12-4B-4: Accessory Structures And Patios
12-4B-1: PURPOSE:
To provide appropriate locations where low density residential neighborhoods
may be established, maintained and protected. The regulations also permit the
establishment, with proper controls of public and semipublic uses, such as
churches, schools, libraries, parks and playgrounds, which serve the
requirements of families. The regulations are intended to prohibit those uses
that would be harmful to a single-family neighborhood. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-4B-2: USES:
 
P = Permitted use
S = Special use
N = Not permitted
 
 R-1-100 R-1-75 R-1-50
                                                         R-1-100 R-1-75 R-1-50
Accessory buildings and uses                             P       P      P
Agricultural as follows: gardening berry and tree crops, P       P      P
greenhouse as an incidental use
Church                                                   S       S      S
Commercial power generating and transmission facilities  S       S      S
necessary for public use
Dwelling: one-family                                     P       P      P
Home occupation                                          P       P      P
Nursery school and day nursery                           S       S      S
Public and quasi-public buildings and uses, parks and    S       S      S
recreation areas, public utility facilities
Public utilities and communication buildings/substations S       S      S
necessary for public use
Public utilities and communications rights of way        S       S      S
necessary for public service
Other uses commission deems to be similar                S       S      S
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-4B-3: MINIMUM LOT AREA, WIDTH, YARD AND MAXIMUM HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 R-1-100 R-1-75 R-1-50
               R-1-100             R-1-75                R-1-50
Area           10,000 sq. ft.      7,500 sq. ft.         5,000 sq. ft.
Width          90 ft.              75 ft.                50 ft.
Yard, front    20 ft.              20 ft.                20 ft.
               5 ft. one side      5 ft. one side        5 ft. one side
               10 ft. second side. 10 ft. second side.   10 ft. second side.
               If a corner lot is  If a corner lot is    If a corner lot is
Yard, side     involved, the       involved, the minimum involved, the minimum
               minimum setback     setback shall be 15   setback shall be 15
               shall be 15 ft. on  ft. on the side of    ft. on the side of
               the side of the     the corner lot        the corner lot
               corner lot
Yard, corner   20 ft.              15 ft.                15 ft.
exterior side
Yard, rear     25 ft.              25 ft.                25 ft.
Maximum height 2 stories or 35 ft. 2 stories or 35 ft.   2 stories or 35 ft.
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986; amd. Ord. 626, 5-8-2008)
12-4B-4: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND PATIOS:
The requirements for "accessory structures" shall be as follows:
If the "accessory structure" is ten feet by twelve feet (10' x 12') or smaller,
there shall be a minimum setback of five feet (5') on sides and rear.
Furthermore, no permit shall be required for a structure this size unless
electrical or plumbing is added to the building.
If the "accessory structure" is located on an interior lot and is larger than
ten feet by twelve feet (10' x 12'), there shall be a minimum setback of five
feet (5') on sides, ten feet (10') at rear of the lot, and twenty feet (20') at
front of the lot.
If the "accessory structure" is located on a corner lot and is larger than ten
feet by twelve feet (10' x 12'), there shall be a minimum setback of five feet
(5') on sides, ten feet (10') on the street side of the lot, ten feet (10') at
the rear of the lot, and twenty feet (20') at the front of the lot.
The requirements for "patios" shall be as follows:
If the "patio" is located on an interior lot, there shall be a minimum setback
of five feet (5') on sides, ten feet (10') at rear of the lot, but twenty feet
(20') at rear of the lot if patio doubles as a balcony.
If the "patio" is located on a corner lot, there shall be a minimum setback of
five feet (5') on interior side, ten feet (10') on street side of the lot, ten
feet (10') at the rear of the lot, but twenty feet (20') at rear of the lot if
patio doubles as a balcony. (Ord. 626, 5-8-2008)
ARTICLE C. R-2-75, R-2-50 DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-4C-1: Purpose
12-4C-2: Uses
12-4C-3: Minimum Lot Area, Width, Yard And Maximum Height Regulations
12-4C-4: Accessory Structures And Patios
12-4C-1: PURPOSE:
To provide appropriate locations where medium to high density residential
neighborhoods on lots of not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet may be
established, maintained and protected. The regulations also permit the
establishment of, with proper controls, the public and semipublic uses, such as
churches, schools, libraries, parks and playgrounds, etc., which serve the
requirements of families. The regulations are intended to prohibit those uses
that would be harmful to medium to high density residential neighborhoods. Lots
created prior to August 25, 1986, that are smaller than five thousand (5,000)
square feet shall be deemed to be conforming R-2-50 lots for the purposes of
this section. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986; amd. Ord. 668, 6-12-2014)
12-4C-2: USES:
 
P = Permitted use
S = Special use
N = Not permitted
 
 R-2-75 R-2-50
                                                                  R-2-75 R-2-50
Accessory buildings and uses                                      P      P
Dwelling, one-family                                              P      P
Dwelling, two-family                                              P      P
Church                                                            S      S
Commercial power generating and transmission facilities necessary S      S
for public use
Gardening: berry and tree crops, greenhouse for propagation and   P      P
culture as incidental to residential use only
Home occupation                                                   P      P
Nursery school and day nursery                                    S      S
Public, quasi-public buildings and uses, parks and recreation     S      S
areas; public utility facilities
Public utilities and communications buildings/substations         S      S
necessary for public use
Public utilities and communications rights of way necessary for   S      S
public service
Signs over 25 square feet                                         S      S
Single-family dwellings on individual lots not less than 35 feet
in width and 100 feet in depth, on adjacent side yard on each     S      S
such lot may be eliminated
Other uses commission deems to be similar                         S      S
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986; amd. Ord. 647, 6-23-2011)
12-4C-3: MINIMUM LOT AREA, WIDTH, YARD AND MAXIMUM HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 R-2-75 R-2-50
                           R-2-75              R-2-50
Area                       7,500 sq. ft.       5,000 sq. ft.
Width                      75 ft.              50 ft.
Yard, front                20 ft.              20 ft.
Yard, side                 5 ft. one side      5 ft. one side
                           10 ft. on other     10 ft. second side
Yard, corner exterior side 15 ft.              15 ft.
Yard, rear                 25 ft.              25 ft.
Maximum height             2 stories or 35 ft. 2 stories or 35 ft.
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986; amd. Ord. 626, 5-8-2008)
12-4C-4: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND PATIOS:
The requirements for "accessory structures" shall be as follows:
If the "accessory structure" is ten feet by twelve feet (10' x 12') or smaller,
there shall be a minimum setback of five feet (5') on sides and rear.
Furthermore, no permit shall be required for a structure this size unless
electrical or plumbing is added to the building.
If the "accessory structure" is located on an interior lot and is larger than
ten feet by twelve feet (10' x 12'), there shall be a minimum setback of five
feet (5') on sides, ten feet (10') at rear of the lot, and twenty feet (20') at
front of the lot.
If the "accessory structure" is located on a corner lot and is larger than ten
feet by twelve feet (10' x 12'), there shall be a minimum setback of five feet
(5') on sides, ten feet (10') on the street side of the lot, ten feet (10') at
the rear of the lot, and twenty feet (20') at the front of the lot.
The requirements for "patios" shall be as follows:
If the "patio" is located on an interior lot, there shall be a minimum setback
of five feet (5') on sides, ten feet (10') at rear of the lot, but twenty feet
(20') at rear of the lot if patio doubles as a balcony.
If the "patio" is located on a corner lot, there shall be a minimum setback of
five feet (5') on interior side, ten feet (10') on street side of the lot, ten
feet (10') at the rear of the lot, but twenty feet (20') at rear of the lot if
patio doubles as a balcony. (Ord. 626, 5-8-2008)
ARTICLE D. R-M-75, R-M-50, R-M-T DISTRICTS
SECTION:
12-4D-1: Purpose
12-4D-2: Uses
12-4D-3: Minimum Lot Area, Width, Yard And Maximum Height Regulations
12-4D-4: Accessory Structures And Patios
12-4D-5: Tiny Homes
12-4D-1: PURPOSE:
To provide appropriate locations where medium to high density residential
neighborhoods may be established, maintained and protected. The regulations
also permit the establishment of, with proper controls, the public and
semipublic uses, such as churches, schools, libraries, parks and playgrounds,
etc., which serve the requirements of families. The regulations are intended to
prohibit those uses that would be harmful to medium to high density residential
neighborhoods. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986; amd. Ord. 757, 6-13-2024, eff. 7-11-2024)
12-4D-2: USES:
 
P = Permitted use
S = Special use
N = Not permitted
 
 R-M-75 R-M-50 R-M-T
                                                            R-M-75 R-M-50 R-M-T
Accessory buildings and uses                                P      P      N
Tiny houses                                                 N      N      P
Manufactured homes from 400 - 900 sq. ft.                   N      N      P
Apartment house or apartment hotel                          P      P      N
Buildings and structures 21/2 stories or 35 feet in height  S      S      N
Church                                                      P      P      S
Clinic: medical and dental                                  S      S      S
Commercial power generating and transmission facilities and S      S      N
corridors
Condominium                                                 P      P      N
Convalescent center                                         S      S      N
Dwelling: one-unit per lot                                  P      P      P
Dwelling: two-unit and multiple-unit per lot                P      P      N
Dwelling groups comprised of a single lot                   S      S      N
Dwelling groups comprised of multiple lots                  S      S      S
Home occupation                                             P      P      S
Lodging house                                               P      P      N
Nursery school and daycare nursery                          P      P      N
Office, professional                                        S      S      N
Public and quasi-public buildings and uses, parks and       S      S      S
recreation areas, public parking areas
Public utilities and communications buildings/substations   S      S      S
necessary for public use
Public utilities and communications rights of way necessary S      S      S
for public service
Rest home                                                   S      S      N
Sanitarium                                                  S      S      N
Signs as follows: nameplate, property, public and           S      S      S
identification
Other uses city council deems to be similar                 S      S      S
 
(Ord. 613, 10-12-2006; amd. Ord. 757, 6-13-2024, eff. 7-11-2024)
12-4D-3: MINIMUM LOT AREA, WIDTH, YARD AND MAXIMUM HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 R-M-75 R-M-50 R-M-T
               R-M-75              R-M-50                R-M-T
               7,500 sq. ft. with  5,000 sq. ft. with
Area           1,750 sq. ft.       1,250 sq. ft.         2,000 sq. ft. - max
               additional for each additional for each   4,999 sq. ft.
               unit in excess of 4 unit in excess of 4
Width          75 ft.              50 ft.                No minimum
Yard, front    20 ft.              20 ft.                20 ft.
               5 ft. one side      5 ft. one side        5 ft. one side
               10 ft. second side. 10 ft. second side.   5 ft. second side. If
               If a corner lot is  If a corner lot is    a corner lot is
Yard, side     involved, the       involved, the minimum involved, the minimum
               minimum setback     setback shall be 15   setback shall be 15
               shall be 15 ft. on  ft. on the side of    ft. on the side of
               the side of the     the corner lot        the corner lot
               corner lot
Yard, corner   15 ft.              10 ft.                10 ft.
exterior side
Yard, rear     25 ft.              25 ft.                25 ft.
Maximum height 2 stories or 35 ft. 2 stories or 35 ft.   2 stories or 25 ft.
 
(Ord. 613, 10-12-2006; amd. Ord. 626, 5-8-2008; Ord. 757, 6-13-2024, eff. 7-11-
2024)
12-4D-4: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND PATIOS:
The requirements for "accessory structures" shall be as follows:
   If the "accessory structure" is ten feet by twelve feet (10' x 12') or
smaller, there shall be a minimum setback of five feet (5') on sides and rear.
Furthermore, no permit shall be required for a structure this size unless
electrical or plumbing is added to the building.
   If the "accessory structure" is located on an interior lot and is larger
than ten feet by twelve feet (10' x 12'), there shall be a minimum setback of
five feet (5') on sides, ten feet (10') at rear of the lot, and twenty feet
(20') at front of the lot.
   If the "accessory structure" is located on a corner lot and is larger than
ten feet by twelve feet (10' x 12'), there shall be a minimum setback of five
feet (5') on sides, ten feet (10') on the street side of the lot, ten feet
(10') at the rear of the lot, and twenty feet (20') at the front of the lot.
The requirements for "patios" shall be as follows:
   If the "patio" is located on an interior lot, there shall be a minimum
setback of five feet (5') on sides, ten feet (10') at rear of the lot, but
twenty feet (20') at rear of the lot if patio doubles as a balcony.
   If the "patio" is located on a corner lot, there shall be a minimum setback
of five feet (5') on interior side, ten feet (10') on street side of the lot,
ten feet (10') at the rear of the lot, but twenty feet (20') at rear of the lot
if patio doubles as a balcony. (Ord. 626, 5-8-2008; amd. Ord. 757, 6-13-2024,
eff. 7-11-2024)
12-4D-5: TINY HOMES:
   A.   Tiny House Defined: "Tiny House" shall be defined in accordance with
the definition adopted in the International Residential Code adopted by the
city.
   B.   Zoning:
      1.   Tiny houses may be located in tiny house subdivisions within an R-M-
T zoning district and classified as tiny houses and/or single-family
residential units on any building permit or zoning approval issued within the
zoning district.
      2.   No tiny houses shall be located in an area with a substantially
greater exposure to adverse to human health and environmental effects than
other zoning districts throughout the city.
   C.   Requirements: Tiny houses being built or installed in an R-M-T zoning
district shall:
      1.   Be built on a permanent foundation;
      2.   Have access to community water and wastewater services;
      3.   Have adequate parking for homeowners and guests; and
      4.   Be a minimum of two hundred fifty square feet (250 sq. ft.) with a
maximum of nine hundred square feet (900 sq. ft.) in compliance with the
current international residential code adopted by the city. (Ord. 757, 6-13-
2024, eff. 7-11-2024)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE HOME DISTRICTS (M-H-1, M-H-2, M-H-3)
SECTION:
12-5-1: Uses
12-5-2: Standards For Development Requirements
12-5-3: Manufactured Or Mobile Homes Outside A Mobile Home Park
12-5-1: USES:
 
P =   Permitted use
S =   Special use
N =   Not permitted
   Not required
 
 M-H-1  M-H-2         M-H-3
 (Park) (Subdivision) (Single-Family)
                                           M-H-1  M-H-2         M-H-3
                                           (Park) (Subdivision) (Single-Family)
Accessory buildings and uses               P      P             P
Community recreation buildings and
facilities: laundry, car wash, boat or
storage facilities serving the mobile home
park only, provided, however, that the     S      S             S
architectural design of all nonmobile home
structures shall be subject to approval by
the planning commission prior to the
issuance of a conditional use permit
Home occupation                            P      P             P
One mobile home per space, including       P      P             P
doublewide or extendable mobile home units
One single-family dwelling or mobile home
used exclusively for office and living
quarters by the operator or manager of the
mobile home park. The architectural design S      S             S
of a nonmobile home office shall be
subject to approval by the planning
commission
Public utilities and communications
buildings/substations necessary for public S      S             S
use
Public utilities and communications rights S      S             S
of way necessary for public service
Other uses commission deems to be similar  S      S             S
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-5-2: STANDARDS FOR DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
 M-H-1  M-H-2         M-H-3
 (Park) (Subdivision) (Single-Family)
                    M-H-1               M-H-2               M-H-3
                    (Park)              (Subdivision)       (Single-Family)
Minimum overall     1 acre              5,000 square feet   5,000 square feet
area
Maximum building    2 stories or 35     2 stories or 35     2 stories or 35
height              feet                feet                feet
                    3,200 square feet   5,000 square feet   5,000 square feet
                    (Max 14' wide)      (Max 28' wide)      (Max 28' wide)
Minimum net space   4,000 square feet   1,500 square feet   1,500 square feet
area per mobile     (Max 28' wide)      for each additional for each
home                additional
                    1,500 square feet   14 feet of mobile   14 feet of mobile
                    for each additional home width          home width
                    mobile home width
                    40 feet             50 feet             50 feet
Minimum mobile home (Max 14' wide)      (Max 28' wide)      (Max 28' wide)
space, frontage     50 feet             15 feet for each    15 feet for each
width               (Max 28' wide)      additional mobile   additional mobile
                                        home width          home width
Minimum setback of
any building or
mobile home from a  12 feet             12 feet             12 feet
bordering public
street line
Minimum setback
from internal       10 feet             10 feet             10 feet
street
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-5-3: MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOMES OUTSIDE A MOBILE HOME PARK:
Standards for manufactured or mobile homes placed outside of a mobile home park
or an MH-3 zone:
   A.   The manufactured home or mobile home must be permanently fixed to the
residential lot;
   B.   The manufactured home or mobile home must have been manufactured within
the six (6) years immediately preceding the date on which it is affixed to the
residential lot;
   C.   The manufactured home or mobile home must consist of more than one
section; and
   D.   The manufactured home or mobile home must consist of at least one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of living area unless the owner has
applied for and been approved for a variance to the size of the living area to
conform to the size or configuration of the lot upon which the manufactured or
mobile home is being placed. (Ord. 635, 9-24-2009)
CHAPTER 6
COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS (C-1, C-2, C-3)
SECTION:
12-6-1: Purpose
12-6-2: Uses
12-6-3: Minimum Lot Area, Width, Yard And Maximum Height Regulations
12-6-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District: The purpose of the neighborhood
commercial district is to allow sale of necessary and convenient items on a
small scale for subdivision residents.
   B.   C-2 General Commercial District: The purpose of the general commercial
district is to provide a commercial district intended primarily for business
activities normally associated with sales and distribution of new or used
merchandise, service facilities, and business and professional offices.
   C.   C-3 Highway Commercial District: The purpose of the highway commercial
district is to provide a district wherein business activities catering to the
needs of travelers may be developed. The zone is further designated wherein
businesses needing larger land area may be located. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-6-2: USES:
P = Permitted use
S = Special use
N = Not permitted
 C-1 C-2 C-3
                                                                   C-1 C-2 C-3
Accessory buildings and uses                                        N   P   P
Apartment house                                                     N   S   S
Appliance and furniture sales and service                           N   P   P
Arcade                                                              N   P   P
Art and artist supplies                                             S   P   P
Athletic club                                                       N   P   P
Athletic goods store                                                N   P   P
Attached living quarters                                            N   P   N
Auto car wash                                                       N   P   P
Automobile agency (including RV sales)                              N   P   P
Automobile rental agency                                            N   P   P
Automobile service station                                          P   P   P
Automotive and industrial sales and service                         N   P   P
Automotive machine shop                                             N   P   P
Bakery                                                              N   P   P
Bar                                                                 N   P   P
Barbershop                                                          P   P   P
Beauty shop                                                         P   P   P
Bicycle shop                                                        P   P   P
Bookstore (see definitions)                                         S   P   P
Bowling alley                                                       N   P   P
Buildings in excess of 21/2 stories or 35 feet                      N   S   S
Bus terminal                                                        N   P   P
Cafe                                                                N   P   P
Cafeteria                                                           N   P   P
Candy store                                                         P   P   P
Caretaker's quarters                                                N   S   S
Casino                                                              N   P   P
Catering and lunch services                                         N   P   P
Clothing store                                                      N   P   P
Coal and fuel sales office                                          N   S   P
Convenience store                                                   P   P   P
Corrals                                                             N   N   S
Costume rental                                                      N   P   P
Cutlery services and sales                                          P   P   P
Dance hall                                                          N   P   P
Department store                                                    N   P   P
Delicatessen                                                        P   P   P
Drapery store                                                       N   P   P
Dress making shop                                                   N   P   P
Drive-in and refreshment facility                                   N   P   P
Drug store                                                          N   P   P
Dry goods store                                                     N   P   P
Electrical/heating sales and service                                N   P   P
Electronics sales and services                                      N   P   P
Employment agency                                                   N   P   P
Feed and seed lots                                                  N   S   P
Film shop                                                           S   P   P
Fish shop                                                           N   P   P
Fix-it shop                                                         S   P   P
Floor covering sales                                                N   P   P
Florist                                                             N   P   P
Fountain equipment supplies                                         N   P   P
Frozen food lockers                                                 N   P   P
Fruit and vegetable stand                                           N   P   P
Gift shop                                                           P   P   P
Greenhouse/nursery                                                  N   S   P
Grocery store                                                       N   P   P
Glass sales and installation                                        N   P   P
Golf course (miniature)                                             N   S   S
Gun shop                                                            N   P   P
Gymnasium                                                           N   P   P
Hardware store                                                      N   P   P
Health food store                                                   N   P   P
Hobby and craft shop                                                S   P   P
Horse arena                                                         N   N   S
Hospitals                                                           N   P   N
Hotel                                                               N   P   P
Ice cream store                                                     N   P   P
Ice storage                                                         N   P   P
Insulation sales and services                                       N   P   P
Interior decorating store                                           N   P   P
Janitorial sales and services                                       N   P   P
Jewelry store                                                       N   P   P
Key sales and services                                              N   P   P
Laboratory                                                          N   S   S
Laundromat                                                          N   P   P
Laundry and dry cleaning                                            S   S   P
Leather goods sales                                                 N   P   P
Library                                                             N   P   P
Limited industry use (on a case by                                  N   S   S
case basis)
Liquor store                                                        N   P   P
Lumberyard (fully enclosed)                                         N   P   P
Machinery and equipment sales                                       N   S   P
Manufacturing of goods for retail sale on the premises              N   S   S
Medical facilities                                                  N   P   N
Mini-storage units                                                  N   S   S
Mobile home or one-family dwelling                                  N   S   S
Mobile home park                                                    N   S   S
Mobile home sales                                                   N   S   S
Mobile home used as watchman's quarters                             N   S   S
Modular buildings                                                   S   S   S
Mortuaries                                                          N   P   P
Motel/lodging                                                       N   P   P
Motorcycle and service facilities                                   N   P   P
Movie house (see definitions)                                       N   P   P
Museum                                                              N   P   P
Music store                                                         N   P   P
Newspaper vendors                                                   P   P   P
Nightclub                                                           N   P   P
Novelty shop                                                        P   P   P
Office supply sales and services                                    N   P   P
Offices, business/professional                                      N   P   P
Outside lumber sales                                                N   S   S
Paint store                                                         N   P   P
Paper product sales                                                 N   P   P
Parking lot (commercial)                                            S   S   S
Pawnshop                                                            N   S   S
Pest control shop                                                   N   S   S
Pet shop                                                            N   P   P
Photographic sales                                                  N   P   P
Post office (branch)                                                P   P   P
Printing office                                                     N   P   P
Public buildings                                                    P   P   P
Public parking lot                                                  S   P   P
Public utilities                                                    N   S   S
Public utilities and communications buildings/substations necessary S   S   S
for public use
Public utilities and communications rights of way necessary for     S   S   S
public service
Racetrack                                                           N   N   S
Radio and television stations                                       N   P   P
Reception center                                                    N   S   S
Recreational facilities                                             S   S   S
Recreational vehicle park                                           N   S   S
Recreational vehicle sales and services                             N   S   S
Rental center (small equipment only)                                N   P   P
Repair garage                                                       N   P   P
Restaurant                                                          N   P   P
Retail sales outlet                                                 N   P   P
Roofing sales                                                       N   P   P
Secondhand store                                                    N   P   P
Self-service gas station                                            P   P   P
Service business (small scale)                                      S   P   P
Sewing machine shop                                                 N   P   P
Shoe sales and repair                                               N   P   P
Shopping mall                                                       N   P   P
Signs as follows: business identification property, public
information and advertising (must comply with state and federal     N   P   P
regulations)
Sign sales and services                                             N   P   P
Skating rink                                                        N   P   P
Studios                                                             N   P   P
Substations                                                         N   S   P
Swimming pool                                                       N   P   P
Tailor shop                                                         N   P   P
Tavern                                                              N   P   P
Taxi service                                                        N   P   P
Temporary buildings, uses incidental to construction work           N   S   S
Tire sales                                                          N   P   P
Tobacco shop                                                        N   P   P
Towel and linen service                                             N   P   P
Town homes                                                          N   S   S
Toy store                                                           N   P   P
Trade and vocational school                                         N   P   P
Transfer company                                                    N   S   P
Travel bureau                                                       S   P   P
Truck stop                                                          N   S   S
Trucking service station                                            N   S   S
Trucking yard or terminal                                           N   S   S
Upholstery shop                                                     N   P   P
Utility and communication facilities and corridor rights of way     N   S   S
necessary for public service
Variety store                                                       S   P   P
Video rental and sales (see definitions)                            N   P   P
Warehouse (including miniwarehouse)                                 N   S   S
Wedding chapel                                                      N   S   P
Wholesale outlets                                                   N   S   S
Wholesale storage (and/or warehouses as an incidental use to        N   P   P
permitted wholesale or retail businesses)
Wrecking yard                                                       N   N   S
Other uses commission deems to be similar                           S   S   S
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986; amd. Ord. 660, 7-11-2013; Ord. 680, 9-24-2015; Ord. 762,
6-12-2025)
12-6-3: MINIMUM LOT AREA, WIDTH, YARD AND MAXIMUM HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
 C-1 C-2 C-3
                 C-1          C-2          C-3
Area             -            No minimum   No minimum
Width            -            No minimum   No minimum
Front yard       15 feet      No minimum   No minimum
Side yard        -            No minimum   No minimum
Side corner yard 10 feet      No minimum   No minimum
Rear yard        -            No minimum   No minimum
Maximum height   21/2 stories 21/2 stories 21/2 stories
                 or 35 feet   or 35 feet   or 35 feet
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
CHAPTER 7
RECREATIONAL DISTRICTS (R-D-1, R-D-2)
SECTION:
12-7-1: Purpose
12-7-2: Uses
12-7-3: Parking Requirements
12-7-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   R-D-1, Recreational Development, Low Intensive Use: The development of
structures or areas for human enjoyment, refreshment interaction, diversion or
convenience, where structures are less than eight hundred (800) square feet of
floor area or where vehicular traffic is generally generated in an amount less
than one hundred (100) trips per acre per day.
   B.   R-D-2, Recreational Development, Intensive Use: The development of
structures or areas for human enjoyment, refreshment interaction, diversion or
convenience, where structures exceed eight hundred (800) square feet of floor
area or where vehicular traffic is generated in excess of approximately one
hundred (100) trips per acre per day. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-7-2: USES:
P = Permitted Use
S = Special Use
N = Not Permitted
 R-D-1 R-D-2
                                                                    R-D-1 R-D-2
Amusement centers                                                   P     P
Archery and rifle ranges                                            S     S
Ball parks                                                          P     P
Bars                                                                S     P
Boating                                                             N     P
Community centers                                                   P     P
Condominiums                                                        P     P
Equestrian activities                                               N     P
Fishing                                                             N     P
Golf course                                                         S     P
Gymnasium                                                           P     P
Hiking trails                                                       N     P
Ice skating ponds                                                   P     P
Jogging areas                                                       P     P
Lodges                                                              P     P
Movie theaters (indoor and outdoor)                                 P     P
Playgrounds                                                         P     P
Public utilities and communications buildings/substations necessary S     S
for public use
Public utilities and communications rights of way necessary for     S     S
public service
Racetracks                                                          S     S
Racket ball courts                                                  P     P
Restaurants                                                         P     P
Roller-skating rink (indoor and outdoor)                            P     P
Ski resorts                                                         P     P
Snowmobile trails                                                   N     P
Swimming pools (indoor and outdoor)                                 P     P
Tennis courts                                                       P     P
Water skiing areas                                                  N     P
Winter sports area (tubing, sledding)                               P     P
Other uses commission deems to be similar                           S     S
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-7-3: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Camping Facilities: Most facilities allow for one trailer and one truck
per unit; therefore, two (2) parking spaces per unit.
   B.   Lakes: Establish parking by total number of boat ramps and never allow
more than one boat per four (4) acres (water) surface. (Total number of lake
surface ÷ 4 = parking spaces. Double that number to allow for everyday
fishermen.)
   C.   Picnic Area: Total number of tables = number of parking spaces.
   D.   Group Picnic Area: Same as picnic area. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
CHAPTER 8
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT DISTRICT (A-E-1)
SECTION:
12-8-1: Purpose
12-8-2: Uses
12-8-3: Location Restriction
12-8-4: Signs
12-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the adult entertainment district is to provide an area for
adult-oriented entertainment and activities on a commercial level. (Ord. 410,
8-25-1986)
12-8-2: USES:
This is the only zone in the city/county for listed uses:
P = Permitted Use
S = Special Use
N = Not Permitted
 A-E-1
                                                                       A-E-1
Adult bookstore                                                         P
Adult entertainment cabaret                                             P
Adult mini-motion picture theater                                       P
Adult motion picture theater                                            P
Houses of prostitution                                                  P
Public utilities and communications buildings/substations necessary for S
public use
Public utilities and communications rights of way necessary for public  S
use
Other uses commission deems to be similar                               S
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-8-3: LOCATION RESTRICTION:
Adult uses, including but not limited to adult bookstore, adult motion picture
theater, adult mini-motion picture theater, and adult entertainment cabaret
shall be permitted subject to the following regulation: anything that pertains
to children or to places of worship shall not be allowed to be built within
five hundred feet (500') of an adult entertainment district. (Ord. 410, 8-25-
1986)
12-8-4: SIGNS:
Nothing shall be displayed on the exterior of any building which would be
classed as "pornographic", according to the definitions of this title. (Ord.
410, 8-25-1986)
CHAPTER 9
MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS (M-1, M-2)
SECTION:
12-9-1: Purpose
12-9-2: Uses
12-9-3: Additional Provisions
12-9-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   M-1 Light Manufacturing District: The light manufacturing zone (M-1) is
established to provide areas where light manufacturing firms can engage in
processing, assembling, manufacturing, warehousing and storage, and wholesale
distribution; and for incidental service facilities and public facilities to
serve the manufacturing area.
   B.   M-2 Heavy Manufacturing District: The heavy manufacturing zone is
established to provide areas in the community where heavy industrial,
manufacturing, and extractive uses may be located in an environment which
protects them from the encroachment of commercial and residential uses, and
which reduces the effect of undesirable characteristics such as odor, dust, and
noise. Wholesale distribution of products manufactured in this zone is allowed.
The zone is also intended to provide for the development of incidental service
facilities such as restaurants, service stations, and public facilities
intended primarily to serve the industrial area. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-9-2: USES:
P = Permitted Use
S = Special Use
N = Not Permitted
 M-1 M-2
                                                                        M-1 M-2
Automobile manufacturing                                                P   P
All uses permitted in C-1, C-2, and C-3                                 P   P
Buildings or structures 21/2 stories or 35 feet in height               P   P
Bulk plant (classes I and II flammable liquids and sales)               S   S
Caretaker's dwelling, incidental to the use of the land for industrial  P   P
purposes
Carpenter, electrical, plumbing or heating shops                        P   P
Cesspool cleaning equipment and storage                                 P   P
Concrete mixing and batching plants                                     P   P
Dairy, dairies (processing of milk products)                            P   P
Dry-cleaning plant                                                      P   P
Farm and construction equipment manufacturing                           S   P
Feed, cereal and flour mill                                             P   P
Fertilizer and soil conditioner manufacturing and processing nonanimal  P   P
products
Food processing, excluding fish, meat, vinegar, yeast and fat           P   P
Foundry, light-weight casting, nonferrous without causing noxious odors P   P
or fumes
Furniture upholstery shop                                               P   P
Honey extraction and processing                                         P   P
Ice manufacturing and storage                                           P   P
Insulation manufacturing                                                P   P
Knitting mill                                                           P   P
Livestock feed processing and storage                                   P   P
Machine shop - general                                                  P   P
Manufacturing establishments                                            P   P
Pest control and extermination                                          S   S
Petroleum refinery and plant for crude or refined oil, gasoline or      S   S
other products
Planing mill                                                            P   P
Printing                                                                P   P
Poultry/meat killing and dressing                                       P   P
Public utilities and communications buildings/substations necessary for S   S
public use
Public utilities and communications rights of way necessary for public  S   S
service
Publishing or lithography shops                                         P   P
Rubber welding                                                          P   P
Sand blasting                                                           P   P
Seed and feed sales - retail                                            P   P
Sheet metal fabrication                                                 P   P
Sign manufacture or sign painting                                       P   P
Storage rental units                                                    P   P
Storage, sorting, baling and processing of wood, glass, paper and junk  P   P
(not garbage)
Storage of hides                                                        P   P
Testing laboratory                                                      P   P
Tire recapping or retreading                                            P   P
Tool design (precision), repair and manufacture                         P   P
Truck sales and repair                                                  P   P
Truck terminal                                                          P   P
Warehouse storage                                                       P   P
Welding shop                                                            P   P
Wholesale business                                                      P   P
Other uses commission deems to be similar                               S   S
 
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-9-3: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   M-1 Light Manufacturing District: Representative of the uses within the
zone are light manufacturing, fabrication, processing, storage warehousing, and
wholesale distribution. Uses which generate excessive noise, vibration, smoke,
odor, dust fumes or danger of explosives have been excluded from this zone.
   B.   M-2 Heavy Manufacturing District: The heavy manufacturing zone will be
characterized by the location of open and enclosed manufacturing, processing,
and assembly uses which may potentially create hazards, nuisances, or
disturbances. Some peripheral landscaping will be provided, where appropriate,
to reduce the effects of the detrimental characteristics of permitted uses.
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
CHAPTER 10
AIRPORT ZONES
SECTION:
12-10-1: Height Limits
12-10-2: Use Restrictions
12-10-3: Most Restrictive Limitation Prevails
12-10-4: Airport Master Plan
12-10-1: HEIGHT LIMITS:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this title, no structures or natural
growth shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or maintained in the height-
limiting zones hereinafter described to a height in excess of the height
specified therefor or established for such zone or any point therein by an
approved and adopted airport master plan:
Horizontal surface zone
Approach surface zone
Transitional surface zone
Conical surface zone
Turning zone
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-10-2: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Endangering Characteristics: Notwithstanding any other provisions of
this title, no use shall be made of land within any of the districts listed in
such a manner as to create electrical interference with radio or other
electronic communication between the airport and aircraft; make it difficult
for flyers to distinguish between airport lights and others; result in glare in
the eyes of flyers using the airport; impair visibility in the vicinity of the
airport; or otherwise endanger the landing, taking off or maneuvering of
aircraft.
   B.   Places Of Public Assembly: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
title, no places of public assembly, including, but without limitation,
schools, churches, hospitals, barracks, multiple-dwellings, apartment housing,
trailer camps, and theaters, shall be erected or otherwise located within any
of the areas established as an approach zone by this title for a distance of
eleven thousand feet (11,000') from the end of the runway. (Ord. 410, 8-25-
1986)
12-10-3: MOST RESTRICTIVE LIMITATION PREVAILS:
Where an area is covered by more than one height limitation, the more
restrictive limitation shall prevail. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-10-4: AIRPORT MASTER PLAN:
Airport height provisions for any airport shall be determined by and based on
an airport master plan for such airport approved by the proper airport
officials and/or by the civil aeronautics administration. Any such map so
approved at the time of passage of this title shall be deemed to be as much a
part of this title by this reference as if fully described and detailed herein.
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
CHAPTER 11
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-11-1: Uses
12-11-2: Lot Areas
12-11-3: Height Of Buildings
12-11-4: Yards
12-11-5: Fences, Walls And Hedges
12-11-6: Water Supply And Sewage Disposal Facilities
12-11-7: Curbs And Gutters
12-11-1: USES:
   A.   Definition: When the term "other uses which the commission determines
to be similar" is used, it shall mean those other uses which, in the judgment
of the commission, are similar to and not more objectionable to the health,
safety and general welfare than the uses listed in the same section. In no case
shall a use listed in a less restricted district be permitted in a more
restricted district by interpretation.
   B.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
construct, establish, alter, enlarge, or permit to be erected, constructed,
established, altered or enlarged, or to use or occupy or permit to be used or
occupied, any land, building or premises for any purpose or in any manner
contrary to the provisions of this title. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-11-2: LOT AREAS:
   A.   Existing Lot: The requirements of this title as to minimum lot area
shall not be construed to prevent the use for a single-family dwelling on any
lot or parcel of land other than in the O and M-2 districts in the event that
such lot or parcel of land was held in separate ownership at the time of
adoption on March 7, 1907. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986; amd. 2001 Code)
   B.   Joint Use Of Yard Area: No portion of any lot or parcel of land which
has been designated or used as a part of a lot area or yard as required by this
title shall be included as a portion of an area or yard for another building if
such inclusion will reduce the lot area or yard required for the original lot
or parcel of land to less than the minimum lot area or dimension of yard
required for the zoning district in which such property is located.
   C.   Reduction Below Minimum Standards: No lot or parcel of land held under
separate ownership at the effective date hereof, shall be reduced in any manner
below the minimum lot area, size or dimensions required by this title.
   D.   Location Of Buildings: Every building hereafter erected shall be
located on a "lot" as herein defined. In no case shall there be more than one
main residential building and its accessory building on one lot. Dwelling
groups may be considered as one main residential building.
   E.   Undedicated Street: No building permit shall be issued for a building
or structure on a lot which abuts a street dedicated to a portion of its
required width and located on that side thereof from which no dedication was
secured, unless the yards provided on such lot include both that portion of the
lot lying within the future street and the required yards.
   F.   Parking Area, Space Or Loading Area: No parking area, parking space or
loading space which is provided for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this title, shall thereafter be relinquished or reduced in any
manner below the requirements established in this title, unless equivalent
facilities are provided elsewhere, the location of which is approved by the
commission.
   G.   Residential Buildings And Uses In Commercial Or Manufacturing District:
Residential buildings and uses in a commercial or manufacturing district shall
maintain the area requirements of the R-M-50 district for such building or
uses. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-11-3: HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS:
The permitted height of buildings shall be exclusive of roof structures and
structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or
similar equipment required to operate and maintain the building, and fire or
parapet walls, skylights, towers, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, wireless
masts or similar structures. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-11-4: YARDS:
   A.   Outside Stairways, Fire Escapes And Porches: Outside stairways, fire
escapes or porches if unroofed and unenclosed may extend into a required side
yard for a distance not to exceed three feet (3') or into the required rear
yard for a distance not to exceed four feet (4').
   B.   Cornices, Canopies, Eaves Or Other Architectural Features: Cornices,
canopies, eaves or other similar architectural features may extend into a
required yard not to exceed two feet (2').
   C.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings in a residential district
shall not be permitted to occupy more than one-third (1/3) the total area of
such rear yard.
   D.   M-1 Or C Districts: In any M-1 district or any C district, the
following requirements shall apply:
      1.   Residential buildings and uses shall maintain the yard requirements
of the R-M-50 district for such buildings or uses.
      2.   Where abutting any R district, a minimum side yard of a width not
less than that specified for an R-M district shall be required. (Ord. 410, 8-
25-1986)
12-11-5: FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES:
Fences, walls and hedges may be located in required yards as follows:
   A.   Under Four Feet: If not exceeding four feet (4') in height, such may be
located in any yard or court.
   B.   Under Six Feet: If not exceeding six feet (6') in height, such may be
located in any required rear yard or side yard; provided, that on a corner lot,
the rear of which abuts the front area of another lot in an R district, no such
fence, wall or hedge shall exceed four feet (4') in height in the exterior side
yard.
   C.   Corner Lot In Residential District: On any corner lot in an R district,
there shall be no structure, fences, shrubbery or obstruction to vision more
than three and one-half feet (31/2') high within twenty five feet (25') of the
intersection of any two (2) street curb lines; provided, however, that shade
trees of sufficient height to permit sight distance one street to the other
under the lowest branches of foliage thereof, may be permitted and maintained.
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-11-6: WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful to locate, erect or construct any
building or any lot without provision for approved water supply and sewage
disposal facilities. Wherever an existing water and/or sewer main is
accessible, connections shall be made with such mains, in every other case,
individual water supply and sewage disposal facilities meeting the requirements
of the health department agency, shall be installed under its supervision.
   B.   Certificate Of Approval: A certificate of approval of the proposed
method of water supply and sanitary disposal of wastes shall be obtained from
the health department agency prior to the filing of the application for a
building permit, and such certificate shall accompany each such application.
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-11-7: CURBS AND GUTTERS:
   A.   All new construction as determined by the Ely building inspector shall
be required to install curbs and gutters as required by the applicable building
codes.
   B.   In the event the new construction is being constructed on a street or
roadway that is currently paved, the owner/builder, developer or contractor
shall fill in the pavement from the newly installed curb and gutter to the
existing pavement of the roadway. (Ord. 627, 8-14-2008)
CHAPTER 12
OFF-STREET PARKING
SECTION:
12-12-1: Residential Parking
12-12-2: Nonresidential Parking
12-12-3: Industrial District Parking
12-12-4: Treatment Of Parking Areas And Outdoor Sales Or Display Area
12-12-1: RESIDENTIAL PARKING:
   A.   Residential District: In any R district, there shall be at least one
parking space for every dwelling unit, such space or spaces shall be on the
same lot with the structure which they are intended to serve.
   B.   C Or M District: In any C or M district, when used for dwelling
purposes, there shall be one parking space available for each dwelling unit on
the same or contiguous lots. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-12-2: NONRESIDENTIAL PARKING:
On the same or adjoining premises with any building or structure, there shall
be provided off-street parking in accordance with the following schedules:
   A.   Churches, Theaters, Auditoriums, And Similar Places Of Assembly: At
least one parking space for every five (5) permanent seats. In cases where
temporary or moveable seats are provided for, there shall be one parking space
or every forty (40) square feet of area within the auditorium, or meeting hall.
   B.   Hospitals And Institutions: There shall be at least one parking space
for every two (2) beds provided for in said building, or one parking space for
every one thousand (1,000) square feet of total floor space included within
said building, whichever provides the greater number of spaces.
   C.   Hotels And Clubs: There shall be at least one parking space for every
two (2) guest rooms for the first forty (40) guest rooms, and one space for
every four (4) guest rooms over the initial forty (40).
   D.   Auto Courts And Motels: There shall be one parking space for every
individual sleeping room or living unit.
   E.   Commercial Districts: Commercial districts, except as otherwise
provided in this section:
      1.   Office Buildings: One space for each five hundred (500) square feet
of gross floor area.
      2.   Medical-Dental Clinics: Three (3) spaces for each doctor's office,
plus one space for each two (2) employees.
      3.   Retail Or Service Establishments, But Not Including Food Markets:
Two (2) spaces for each five hundred (500) square feet of floor area.
      4.   Food Stores Or Markets: One parking space for each two hundred (200)
square feet of floor area.
   F.   Reduction Of Requirements: Provided that the commission may reduce
these requirements upon good cause being shown, provided adequate parking is
arranged in the immediate neighborhood. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-12-3: INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT PARKING:
There shall be one off-street parking space, located within three hundred feet
(300') of the property served for each two (2) permanent employees. In
addition, there shall be at least one parking space for each truck operated by
the concern and one parking space for each salesperson permanently employed.
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-12-4: TREATMENT OF PARKING AREAS AND OUTDOOR SALES OR DISPLAY AREA:
   A.   Improvements; Maintenance: Every parcel of land hereafter used for
parking, sales or display purposes shall be improved and maintained as required
in the following subsections:
      1.   Surface: All areas used for parking more than five (5) vehicles
shall be surfaced or paved with asphalt, concrete or other surfacing acceptable
to the commission and shall thereafter be maintained in good condition;
provided, that parking areas in M districts need not be surfaced if located
more than two hundred feet (200') from any R district.
      2.   Wood Or Masonry Wall; Curb: Where such areas adjoin residential
districts they shall be separated therefrom by a wood or masonry wall six feet
(6') in height, provided said wall shall not exceed three feet (3') in height
where it is in the front yard area of an abutting residential use or district.
Where no fence or wall is required along a boundary of a parking area, there
shall be a concrete curb or timber barrier not less than six inches (6") in
height securely installed and maintained as a safeguard to abutting property or
public right of way. The barrier shall be not less than two feet (2') from a
property line.
      3.   Landscaping: Where such area adjoins a residential district, there
shall be a border of appropriate landscaping not less than six feet (6') in
depth, along the residential street frontage, to protect the character of the
adjoining residential property. Such landscaping shall be maintained. Plans for
the development shall be submitted to the commission for approval.
      4.   Lighting: Lighting where provided to illuminate such parking, sales
and/or display areas shall be so arranged as to reflect away from the adjoining
residential areas and not cause a nuisance either to highway or to the living
environment.
   B.   Ingress/Egress: The location and width of all points of ingress and
egress shall be submitted to the commission for approval. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
CHAPTER 13
LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACES
SECTION:
12-13-1: Loading And Unloading Spaces Required
12-13-1: LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACES REQUIRED:
On the premises with every building devoted to retail trade, retail and
wholesale food markets, warehouses, supply houses, wholesale and manufacturing
trade, hospitals, hotels, laundry and dry-cleaning establishments, or other
buildings where goods are received or shipped, there shall be provided loading
and unloading space with adequate ingress and egress as follows:
   A.   Specifications: One loading space of not less than ten feet (10') in
width, twenty five feet (25') in length, and fourteen feet (14') in height.
   B.   Ingress/Egress: The location and width of such points of ingress and
egress shall be submitted to the commission for approval. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
CHAPTER 14
HOME OCCUPATIONS
SECTION:
12-14-1: Criteria For Approval
12-14-2: Home Occupation Agreement
12-14-1: CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL:
Occupations operated entirely within dwellings or accessory buildings 1  by a
person who owns and resides in the dwelling unit as a clearly secondary and
incidental use of such dwelling for residential purposes, which use must not
change the residential character thereof shall meet the following conditions:
   A.   Retail Sales: There shall be no retail sales, except those produced on
the premises used in the completion of the occupation.
   B.   Commercial Industry: There shall be no obvious commercial industry.
   C.   Open Storage: There shall be allowed no open storage of materials or
waste associated with the business.
   D.   Traffic: The home occupation shall not generate vehicular traffic
measurable in excess of that normally associated with single-family residential
use.
   E.   Floor Space: Not more than one room or twenty percent (20%) of the
floor space of the living area, whichever is greater, shall be used for the
home occupation 2 .
   F.   Signs: There may be a non-flashing sign not exceeding two (2) square
feet in area indicating the name and/or occupation of a person residing in or
legally occupying the premises or indicating a home occupation legally existing
on the premises.
   G.   Objectionable Characteristics: There shall be created no objectionable
noise, odor, dust, vibration, fumes, smoke, or electrical interference with the
residential use of adjacent properties.
   H.   Annual Review: Home occupations may be reviewed annually.
   I.   Home Occupation Application Fee: All home occupation applications shall
be accompanied by an initial fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 709, 2-
22-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. Operations allowed in accessory buildings only with approval of
  commission.
2 2. Operations allowed in accessory buildings only with approval of
  commission.
12-14-2: HOME OCCUPATION AGREEMENT:
    RESIDENCE/BUSINESS ADDRESS                   DATE      
   PHONE NUMBER                
IN ORDER FOR AN APPLICATION FOR A HOME OCCUPATION TO BE APPROVED, AN INDIVIDUAL
OPERATING FROM A RESIDENCE MUST AGREE TO COMPLY WITH THE FOLLOWING
REQUIREMENTS:
A. There shall be no retail sales except those produced on the premises used in
completion of the occupation.
B. There shall be no obvious commercial industry.
C. There shall be allowed no open storage of materials or waste associated with
the business.
D. The home occupation shall not generate vehicular traffic measurable in
excess of that normally associated with single-family residential use.
E. Not more than one room or twenty percent (20%) of the floor space of living
area, whichever is greater, shall be used for the home occupation*.
F. There may be a nonflashing sign not exceeding two (2) square feet in area
indicating the name and/or occupation of a person or persons residing in or
legally occupying the premises or indicating a home occupation legally existing
on the premises.
G. There shall be created no objectionable noise, odor, dust, vibration, fumes,
smoke, or electrical interference with the residential use of adjacent
properties.
H. All home occupations may be reviewed annually.
I AGREE TO COMPLY WITH THE ABOVE REQUIREMENTS. IF THERE ARE ANY VIOLATIONS, I
UNDERSTAND MY BUSINESS LICENSE WILL BE REVOKED.
TYPE OF BUSINESS                                       
BUSINESS NAME                                          
OWNER'S/LICENSEE'S SIGNATURE                            
Subscribed and sworn to before me this     day of     ,
       .
NOTARY PUBLIC                                    
   My Commission Expires                            .
APPROVED/DISAPPROVED:                                         Signature of RPC
Chairman or Representative
*Operations allowed in accessory buildings only with approval of commission.
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986; amd. Ord. 709, 2-22-2018)
CHAPTER 15
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
12-15-1: Buildings
12-15-2: Use Of Land
12-15-3: Signs
12-15-4: Recreational Vehicle, Motor Home Or Travel Trailer
12-15-1: BUILDINGS:
Any uses on the land existing at the time this title is adopted, whether housed
in structures or outside the structures, not agreeing with the uses permitted
therein, are hereby declared to be nonconforming uses. Such uses shall be
permitted to continue except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   Allowed To Continue: Nonconforming buildings may be continued if said
building is not added to or structurally altered.
   B.   Removal: Whenever a nonconforming building (including a trailer or
mobile home) is removed from the land for a period of three hundred sixty five
(365) days, any future buildings and uses shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this title.
   C.   Discontinued Use: Any building occupied by a nonconforming use which is
discontinued for a period of three hundred sixty five (365) days or more shall
thereafter be used in conformity with the provisions of the district in which
it is located.
   D.   Damage: The provisions of this title shall not prevent the
reconstruction, repairing or rebuilding and the continuing use of any
nonconforming building or buildings damaged by fire, explosion or act of God or
the enemy subsequent to the effective date hereof, wherein the cost of safe
reconstruction, repairing or rebuilding does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
the reasonable replacement value to the building immediately prior to its
damage.
   E.   Altered Or Changed To Conforming Use: Any portion of a nonconforming
building or use which is altered or changed to a conforming use, may not
thereafter be used for a nonconforming use.
   F.   Extension: The extension of a nonconforming use to any portion of a
building, which portion was arranged or designed for such nonconforming use at
the time of the passage hereof, shall not be deemed the extension of a
nonconforming use. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-15-2: USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land where no structures are involved, may continue
for a period not to exceed five (5) years after the effective date hereof,
subject to the following conditions:
   A.   Expanded Or Extended: No such nonconforming use of land shall be
expanded or extended in any way, either on the same or adjoining property.
   B.   Discontinued Use: Where such nonconforming use or any portion thereof
is discontinued for one hundred eighty (180) days or changed, any future use of
the land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 410,
8-25-1986)
12-15-3: SIGNS:
Any sign, billboard or commercial advertising structure which lawfully existed
and was maintained on the effective date hereof, may be continued, providing no
structural alterations are made thereto and that all such nonconforming signs,
billboards or commercial advertising structures shall have been removed from
the district not later than five (5) years from the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-15-4: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, MOTOR HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER:
   A.   All Zoning: "Recreational vehicle", "motor home", "travel trailer", as
defined by section
12-1-1 of this title, may apply for a special use permit, if the property owner
and/or occupant of the recreational vehicle, motor home or travel trailer can
prove the nonconforming recreational vehicle, motor home or travel trailer was
in place prior to January 1, 2015, and upon the recommendation of the building
official, the planning commission and approved by the city council may be
allowed.
      1.   After January 1, 2015, no "recreational vehicle", "motor home" or
"travel trailer", as defined by section
12-1-1 of this title, will be allowed to be used as a primary residence under
any circumstance except those already provided in this title, specifically as
temporary housing.
      2.   Acceptable proof of habitation prior to January 1, 2015, of a
nonconforming recreational vehicle, motor home or travel trailer, in any zone
includes paid water/sewer and landfill bills from the city of Ely.
      3.   Affected owners of recreational vehicles, motor homes and travel
trailers who had their recreational vehicle in place prior to January 1, 2015,
may apply for a special use permit.
      4.   Any recreational vehicle, motor home or travel trailer issued a
special use permit, must pay for water, sewer and landfill fees to the city of
Ely. In the event a special use permit is granted, and the city is able to
determine that the property owner and/or occupant has failed to pay for city
water, sewer and landfill fees for the recreational vehicle, motor home or
travel trailer, as a condition of issuing the special use permit, the owner of
the property and/or the occupant must pay all provable unpaid water, sewer and
landfill fees to the city of Ely.
      5.   Individuals seeking a special use permit to keep a recreational
vehicle in any zone as a primary living space, must meet the minimum setback
requirements for mobile homes for any zone, and must meet water, sewer, power
and other federal and state regulations for placement of these services to be
the same as a recreational vehicle park within six (6) months of being granted
a special use permit.
      6.   Affected individuals shall have forty five (45) calendar days from
the passing of this section in which to apply for a special use permit. Failure
to apply within the forty five (45) calendar days shall forever revoke the
property owner and/or occupant of the ability to obtain such a special use
permit.
      7.   Applicant for a special use permit must pay the fee set forth for
processing a special use permit as established by the city of Ely building
official. (Ord. 691, 10-22-2015)
CHAPTER 16
PERMITS
SECTION:
12-16-1: Use Permits
12-16-2: Building Permits
12-16-1: USE PERMITS:
   A.   Application: Application for use permits shall be filed in the office
of the commission on forms prescribed by the commission and shall be known as
"Application for Use Permit". Use permits may be issued for any of the uses
listed in the zoning districts as requiring a use permit.
   B.   Investigation: Copies of the use permit shall be submitted to any
governmental or other agency, when the safeguarding of the public health,
safety or welfare requires a study of the use requested by the agency affected.
   C.   Public Hearing: When deemed necessary and in the public interest, the
commission may hold a public hearing upon any application for a use permit and
may establish reasonable conditions which shall assure the intent and purpose
of this title.
   D.   Approval/Denial: If it is the opinion of the commission, after
consideration of the report of such investigation, that the use as proposed in
the application, or under appropriate restrictions or conditions, will not
endanger the public health, safety or general welfare, or be inconsistent with
the general purposes and intent of this title, the commission shall approve the
application, either with or without conditions. If the proposed use will tend,
in the opinion of the commission, to endanger in any way the public health,
safety or general welfare, or to produce results inconsistent with the general
purposes and intent of this title, the commission shall deny the application.
   E.   Written Decision: All decisions shall be in resolution form and state
in detail any conditions or requirements imposed to assure the intent and
purpose of this title. Within forty (40) days after the conclusion of the
hearing, the commission shall render a decision, in writing, to the applicant.
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-16-2: BUILDING PERMITS:
A building permit shall be required for the erection, construction,
establishment, moving, alteration, enlargement, repair, or conversion of any
building or structure and the use of land subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Application: Application for a building permit shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the subject property or his designated
contractor or builder and shall be made on a form furnished by the building
inspector and shall, in addition to any plans for buildings or structures, be
accompanied by a plot plan, drawn on scale, which shall show the size and
location of the lot and existing and proposed buildings or structures on the
lot, the dimensions of all yards and open spaces, and such other information as
may be necessary.
   B.   Submittal To Commission: The building permit application, together with
plans to descriptions of same, shall be submitted to the commission for
approval or disapproval. The commission may designate the building inspector as
its agent to receive and inspect, consider and approve or disapprove said plans
on behalf of such commission.
   C.   Variance Or Use Permit Issued: In all cases where a variance or use
permit has been authorized, the building inspector may issue a building permit
to allow such building or work to be done in accordance with the provisions of
the variance or use permit; provided, that no permit shall be issued pursuant
to any decision until the time for rehearing or appeal therefrom shall have
expired, and then only in the event that no appeal or application for rehearing
shall have been filed within such time.
   D.   Conformance Required: No building permit shall be issued by the
building inspector unless the application for such permit shall conform to all
of the applicable regulations of this title and is to be occupied for a use in
conformity with the provisions of this title. Any permit issued in conflict
with this title shall be null and void. (Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
CHAPTER 17
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
12-17-1: Enforcement
12-17-2: Appeals
12-17-3: Public Hearing
12-17-4: City Council Public Hearing Requirement
12-17-5: Public Nuisance Declared
12-17-6: Issuance Under Building Code Not Approval For Violation
12-17-7: Penalty
12-17-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Building Inspector: It shall be the duty of the building inspector to
enforce the provisions of this title. It shall be the duty of county officials
charged with the issuance of licenses to enforce the provisions of this title
pertaining to the use of land or buildings for which any such license is
required by any other ordinance of the county.
   B.   County Officers: It shall be the duty of all county officers charged
with the enforcement of law to enforce this title and all of its provisions.
(Ord. 410, 8-25-1986)
12-17-2: APPEALS:
   A.   Who May Appeal: Shall be governed by Nevada Revised Statutes 278.310 et
seq.
   B.   Procedure:
      1.   Notice Of Appeal: Appeals of decisions being by filing the
appropriate request for a variance with the planning commission, the final
decision on whether to grant or not grant a variance lies with the sound
discretion of the city council on forms provided by the planning commission.
The request for a variance shall include in detail the reasons for the
requested variance and show thereon how the conditions set forth in this
section are satisfied.
      2.   Criteria For Variance: The planning commission, before it may
recommend to grant a variance, must find, based on the evidence presented, that
each of the following conditions exist in reference to the property being
considered:
         a.   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applicable to the property involved, or to the intended use of the
property which do not apply generally to other properties in the same district.
         b.   The requested variance is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right of the applicant, which right is
possessed by other property owners under like conditions in the same district.
         c.   If granted, the variance will not be materially detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to property and improvements in the district in
which the property is located.
         d.   If granted, the variance will not be contrary to the objectives
of the master plan.
         e.   Evidence of the ability and intention of the applicant to proceed
with the construction work in accordance with the approved plans within six (6)
months after the effective date of the variance.
      3.   Public Hearing: The planning commission shall hold a public hearing
upon each properly submitted application for a variance, as set forth in this
title and may establish reasonable conditions which ensure the intent and
purpose of this title.
      4.   Recommendation: The planning commission, in its discretion, may
submit a written recommendation to the city council following the conclusion of
the public hearing, otherwise, the planning commission may make an oral
proclamation of its recommendation to be provided to the city council for
consideration. If the planning commission wishes to make a written
recommendation to the city council, it shall do so within ten (10) calendar
days, to allow the requester time to provide a response to the written
recommendation which will be provided to the city council prior to the planned
city council meeting when this matter shall be heard and decided upon.
      5.   Application Fee: A uniform fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
shall be paid with each application for the purpose of defraying the costs
incidental to the proceedings.
      6.   Term: Any variance recommended for approval by the planning
commission to the city council shall include a condition that the variance must
be acted upon by the requester within six (6) months after the effective date
of the variance. In the event construction is involved, construction must
actually commence within the stated period and must be diligently prosecuted to
completion; otherwise, the variance is automatically voided. A lapse of work
for a period of three (3) months will be sufficient to cause the invalidity of
the variance (excluding situations outside the control of the recipient of the
variance, such as inclement weather).
         a.   The city's building official may make a recommendation to the
planning commission to invalidate a filed variance for failure to diligently
prosecute the project to completion. If such recommendation is made by the city
building official, the requester shall be notified, in writing at least fifteen
(15) calendar days prior to the meeting at which the recommendation will be
made, to provide the requester an opportunity to appear and explain why, if
there is any reason, he/she believes the variance should not be invalidated.
Failure to appear before the planning commission shall constitute good cause to
invalidate the variance.
         b.   The planning commission may in its discretion affirm, modify or
deny the city building official's recommendation to invalidate a previously
issued variance. Such recommendation shall be provided to the city council for
consideration at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the city council
following the meeting of the planning commission where the recommendation was
considered.
   C.   Decision: The city council may affirm, modify or reverse any decision
or recommendation of the planning commission, the city's building official, or
the city engineer. The requester, under this section, shall be notified in
writing by city staff of the decision of the city council on their application
or on the recommendations of the planning commission pertaining to their
request for a variance.
   D.   Appeal: Any person who has made application to the planning commission
and subsequently to the city council in accordance with this chapter, and is
aggrieved by the decision of the city council, may appeal that decision to the
7th judicial district court, in and for the county of White Pine, state of
Nevada, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.3195(4). (Ord. 690, 10-22-2015)
12-17-3: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Hearing Required: Upon receipt by the planning commission of an
application for which a public hearing is required, a time and place shall be
set therefor and at least fifteen (15) days' notice given. Such hearing shall
be held not later than thirty (30) calendar days following the date of filing
of such application or the next meeting as close to the thirty (30) calendar
days as practicable without the need for holding a special meeting.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   Required: The applicant and each owner of property not signing the
application but within the boundaries of the land proposed for
reclassification, zoning variance or special use permit, or within three
hundred feet (300'), or more as deemed necessary by the building official, of
the boundaries of the land described in such application shall be notified of
the time and place of the hearing, the description of the property involved and
the nature of the hearing.
      2.   Methods: Notification of a public hearing may be given by any of the
following methods:
         a.   Mail: By mailing a notice to each property owner involved, as
shown on the latest assessment rolls of the county or other public records, the
cost of such mailing shall be borne exclusively by the party seeking a hearing
and must be paid in advance to the city building official or designee;
         b.   Posting: By posting the written notice conspicuously at a minimum
of two (2) places within the affected area;
         c.   Publication: By publishing a legal notice in a paper of general
circulation in the county. The cost of such posting shall be borne exclusively
by the party seeking a hearing and must be paid in advance to the city building
official or designee. (Ord. 690, 10-22-2015)
12-17-4: CITY COUNCIL PUBLIC HEARING REQUIREMENT:
   A.   Hearing Required: Upon receipt of the planning commission's
recommendation, for which a public hearing is required, a time and place shall
be set and at least fifteen (15) calendar days' notice given. Such hearing
shall be held not later than sixty (60) calendar days following the date of
filing of such application with the city.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing:
      1.   Required: The applicant and each owner of property not signing the
application but within the boundaries of the land proposed for
reclassification, zoning variance or special use permit or within three hundred
feet (300'), or more as deemed necessary by the building official, of the
boundaries of the land described in such application shall be notified of the
time and place of the hearing, the description of the property involved and the
nature of the hearing.
      2.   Methods: Notification of a public hearing may be given by any of the
following methods:
         a.   Mail: By mailing a notice to each property owner involved, as
shown on the latest assessment rolls of the county or other public records, the
cost of such mailing shall be borne exclusively by the party seeking a hearing
and must be paid in advance to the city building official or designee;
         b.   Posting: By posting the written notice conspicuously at a minimum
of two (2) places within the affected area;
         c.   Publication: By publishing a legal notice in a paper of general
circulation in the county the cost of such publication shall be borne
exclusively by the party seeking a hearing and must be paid in advance to the
city building official or designee. (Ord. 690, 10-22-2015)
12-17-5: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any building or structure hereafter set up, erected, built, moved or maintained
or any use of property hereafter, contrary to the provisions of this title,
shall be and the same is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance
and the city attorney shall, upon order of the governing body, immediately
commence action for the abatement, removal and enjoinment thereof, in the
manner provided by law, and shall take such other steps and shall apply to such
court as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove
such building, structure, or use, and restrain and enjoin any persons from
setting up, erecting, building, moving or maintaining any such building or
structure, or using any property contrary to the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 690, 10-22-2015)
12-17-6: ISSUANCE UNDER BUILDING CODE NOT APPROVAL FOR VIOLATION:
The issuance or granting of a building permit or approval of plans or
specifications under the authority of the building code shall not be deemed or
construed to be a permit for or an approval of any violation of any of the
provisions of this title or any amendment thereto. (Ord. 690, 10-22-2015)
12-17-7: PENALTY:
Any person, whether acting as principal, agent, employee or otherwise,
violating any provision of this title or of any variance or special permit
granted hereunder, or the owner, general agent, lessee or tenant of a building
or premises where a violation of any provision of this title exists, or any
other person who commits, takes part or assists in any violation, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense
for each and every day during any portion of which any violation of this title
is committed or continued by such person and shall be punishable as herein
provided. (Ord. 690, 10-22-2015)
TITLE 13
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
13-1-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact, Purpose And Methods
13-1-1-1: Statutory Authorization
13-1-1-2: Findings Of Fact
13-1-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
13-1-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
13-1-2: Definitions
13-1-3: General Provisions
13-1-3-1: Applicable Lands
13-1-3-2: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
13-1-3-3: Compliance
13-1-3-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
13-1-3-5: Interpretation
13-1-3-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
13-1-3-7: Declaration Of Public Nuisance
13-1-3-8: Abatement Of Violations
13-1-3-9: Unlawful Acts
13-1-4: Administration
13-1-4-1: Designation Of The Local Floodplain Administrator
13-1-4-2: Establishment Of Development Permit
13-1-4-3: Permit Application
13-1-4-4: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Local Floodplain Administrator
13-1-5: Provisions For Flood Hazard Reduction
13-1-5-1: Standards Of Construction
13-1-5-2: Standards For Utilities
13-1-5-3: Standards For Subdivisions
13-1-5-4: Standards For Critical Structures
13-1-5-5: Standards For Manufactured Homes
13-1-5-6: Standards For Recreational Vehicles
13-1-5-7: Floodways
13-1-5-8: Mudslide (Mudflow) Prone Areas
13-1-5-9: Flood Related Erosion Prone Areas
13-1-6: Variance Procedures
13-1-6-1: Nature Of Variances
13-1-6-2: Appeal Board
13-1-6-3: Conditions For Variances
13-1-7: Map Revision/Amendment Procedures
13-1-7-1: Letters Of Map Revision/Amendment
13-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS:
13-1-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Nevada has in Nevada Revised Statutes 278.020,
244A.057, and 543.020 conferred upon local government units authority to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of its citizenry. Therefore, the city of Ely, within White Pine County, state
of Nevada does hereby adopt the following floodplain management regulations.
(Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the city of Ely are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by uses that are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed, or protected from flood damage. The cumulative effects of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards, which increase flood heights
and velocities, also contribute to the flood loss.
   C.   The city of Ely has the authority to adopt regulations to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens. (Ord. 624, 2-14-
2008)
13-1-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, and streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazards;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
   G.   Ensure potential buyers are notified of property located in areas of
special flood hazards;
   H.   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards assume
responsibility for their actions; and
   I.   Maintain qualifying standards for participation in the national flood
insurance program.
   J.   Meet state and federal requirements, thereby allowing residents to
purchase flood insurance, receive disaster relief should the need arise, and
obtain residential and start commercial real estate loans. (Ord. 624, 2-14-
2008)
13-1-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
To accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and provisions to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, alluvial fans, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this chapter its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal use
of the parcel of land on which it is located.
ACT: The national flood insurance act of 1968, and flood disaster protection
act of 1973, both as amended.
ACTUAL CASH VALUE (ACV): The replacement cost of an insured item of property at
the time of loss, less the value of physical depreciation as to the item
damaged.
ALLUVIAL FAN: A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan shaped
deposit of clay, silt, sand, gravel, and boulders that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and deposited on the valley floor.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows, active processes of erosion, sediment transport, deposition,
and unpredictable flow paths.
ANCHOR: A series of methods used to secure a structure to its footings or
foundation wall so that it will not be displaced by flood or wind forces.
APEX: The highest point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the
flow path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and
alluvial fan flooding can occur.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of any provisions of this chapter. Appeal is part of the administrative
procedure specified in subsection 13-1-4-4H of this chapter.
APPURTENANT STRUCTURE: A detached garage or carport servicing a one- to four-
family dwelling.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Designated zones AO and AH on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow. This term is defined in the national flood insurance act.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: See definition of Special Flood Hazard Area
(SFHA).
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD RELATED EROSION HAZARD: The land within a community which
is most likely to be subject to severe flood related erosion losses. The area
may be designated as zone E on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
AREA OF SPECIAL MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW) HAZARD: The area subject to severe mudslides
(i.e., mudflows). The area is designated as zone M on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
ASSIGNMENT: The transfer by a policyholder of his/her legal right or interest
in a policy contract to a third party. In the NFIP, written assignment of a
policy is permissible upon transfer of title without the consent of the
administrator except in the case where a residential (household) contents only
policy is involved or a policy was issued to cover a one- to four-family
residential building in the course of construction.
ASSOCIATION: A group of unit owners that manages the described condominium
building or a designated group of homes.
BACKFILL: The placement of fill material within a specified depression, hole or
excavation pit below the surrounding adjacent ground level as a means of
improving floodwater conveyance or to restore the land to the natural contours
existing prior to excavation.
BACKWATER EFFECT: The rise in water surface elevation caused by some
obstruction such as a narrow bridge opening, buildings or fill material that
limits the area through which the water must flow.
BASE FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called the "100-year flood"). This term is
defined in the national flood insurance act.
BASE FLOOD DEPTH (BFD): The depth shown on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM)
for zone AO that indicates the depth of water above highest adjacent grade
resulting from a flood that has a one percent (1%) chance of equaling or
exceeding that level in any given year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The height in relation to mean sea level expected to be
reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the floodplain
of riverine areas.
BASE FLOODPLAIN: The floodplain that would be inundated by a one percent (1%)
chance flood.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BINDER: A temporary agreement between company, producer, and insured that the
policy is in effect. Binders are not permitted under the NFIP.
BLANKET INSURANCE: A single amount of insurance applying to more than one
building and/or contents. Blanket insurance is not permitted under the NFIP.
BREAKAWAY WALLS: A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system or any buildings to which they
might be carried by floodwaters. A breakaway wall shall have a safe design
loading resistance of not less than ten (10) and no more than twenty (20)
pounds per square foot. Use of breakaway wall must be certified by a registered
engineer or architect and shall meet the following conditions:
   A.   Breakaway wall collapse shall result from a water load less than that
which would occur during the base flood, and
   B.   The elevated portion of the building shall not incur any structural
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously in the
event of the base flood.
This term is defined in the national flood insurance act. They would be used
where a structure is entirely supported by piers or columns and where water is
expected to flow under the structure during a flood.
BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse with definite bed and banks to
confine and conduct flowing water.
CHANNEL CAPACITY: The maximum flow that can pass through a channel without
overflowing the banks.
CLAIMS COORDINATING OFFICE (CCO): A clearinghouse for the various insurers who
are responding to a multiperil catastrophe. Through voluntary participation,
all losses are reported to the coordinating office and are processed to locate
address matches among the reported claims. The interest of each carrier is
protected as the claims coordinator maintains sole control over the policy and
loss information. If a match is found, special care is taken to direct the
assigned adjuster(s) to a mutually agreeable adjustment or to have one adjuster
surrender his/her loss with the assurance that every effort will be made to
replace it.
CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS: Codification of the general and permanent rules
published in the federal regulations (CFR) register by the executive
departments and agencies of the federal government.
COINSURANCE: This provision reduces the loss payment if the insured does not
carry coverage equal to at least eighty percent (80%) of the replacement cost
of the damaged building.
COMMUNITY: Any state or area or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian
tribe or authorized tribal organization, or authorized native organization,
which has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for
the areas within its jurisdiction.
COMMUNITY NUMBER: A six (6) digit designation identifying each NFIP community.
The first two (2) numbers are the state code. The next four (4) are the FIA
assigned community number. An alphabetical suffix is added to a community
number to identify revisions in the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) for that
community.
COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS): A program developed by FIA to provide incentives
for those communities in the regular program that have gone beyond the minimum
floodplain management requirements to develop extra measures to provide
protection from flooding.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (CLOMA): A letter from FEMA stating that a
proposed structure that is not to be elevated by fill would not be inundated by
the base flood if built as proposed.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (BASED ON FILL) (CLOMR-F): A letter from
FEMA stating that a parcel of land or proposed structure that is to be elevated
by fill would not be inundated by the base flood if fill is placed on the
parcel as proposed or the structure is built as proposed.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): Procedures by which contractors,
developers and communities can request review and determination by the federal
insurance administrator of scientific and technical data for a proposed
project, when complete and functioning effectively would modify the elevation
of individual structures and parcels of land, stream channels, and floodplains
on the FIRM.
CONDOMINIUM: A system of individual ownership of units in a multi-unit building
or buildings or in single-unit buildings in which each unit owner has an
undivided interest in the common areas of the building(s) and facilities that
serve the building(s).
CONDOMINIUM ASSOCIATION: A corporation made up of owners of the condominium
buildings. The condominium association is responsible for: a) the operation,
and b) the adoption and enforcement of rules or bylaws that govern the owners
of the condominium buildings.
CONTROL OFFICE: An NFIP claims office similar to a flood insurance claims
office (FICO) with the exception that the control office does not: a) maintain
insured files, b) maintain a claims examiner staff at the site, and c) issue
claim payments.
COUNTYWIDE MAP: A flood insurance rate map (FIRM) that shows flooding
information for the entire geographic area of a county, including the
incorporated communities within the county.
CRITICAL FEATURES: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system (e.g., dams, floodwalls, channel improvements), without which
the flood protection provided by the entire system would be compromised.
CRITICAL STRUCTURES: A structure for which even a slight chance of flooding
would reduce or eliminate its designed function of supporting a community in an
emergency. Fire stations, hospitals, municipal airports, police stations,
communication antennas or towers, eldercare facilities (retirement homes), fuel
storage facilities, schools designated as emergency shelters, and fresh water
and sewage treatment facilities are some examples of critical structures.
CURVILINEAR LINE: The border on either an FHBM or FIRM that delineates the
special flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood related erosion hazard
areas and consists of a curved or contour line that follows the topography.
DATE OF CONSTRUCTION: The date that the building permit was issued, provided
the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date.
DEDUCTIBLE BUYBACK: For an additional premium, policyholders who wish to reduce
their deductibles from the standard deductibles of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for pre-FIRM risks may opt to purchase separate five hundred dollar
($500.00) deductibles for building and content coverage.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel of a stream and the portion of the adjoining
floodplain designated by a regulatory agency to be kept free of further
development to provide for unobstructed passage of flood flows.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials located within the area of special flood hazard. This
term is defined in the national flood insurance act.
DIAGRAM NUMBER: The diagram numbers on the FEMA elevation certificate identify
the various types of buildings.
DIRECT PHYSICAL LOSS BY OR FROM FLOOD: Any loss in the nature of actual loss of
or physical damage, evidenced by physical changes, to the insured property
(building or personal property) which is directly and proximately caused by a
"flood" (as defined in the policy forms).
DOUBLEWIDE MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME: A manufactured (mobile) home that, when
assembled as a nonmovable, permanent building, is at least sixteen feet (16')
wide with an area within its perimeter walls of at least six hundred (600)
square feet. A doublewide is not classified as a manufactured (mobile) home for
insurance rating purposes under the NFIP, but is to be classified under one of
the other building types.
DRY PROOFING: A floodproofing method used to design and construct buildings so
as to prevent the entrance of floodwaters.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building that has its lowest elevated floor
raised above the ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The elevation certificate is required in order to
properly rate post-FIRM buildings, which are buildings constructed after
publication of the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), for flood insurance zones
A1-A30, AE, AH, A (with BFE), VE, V1-V30, V (with BFE), AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-
A30, AR/AH, and AR/AO. The elevation certificate is not required for pre-FIRM
buildings unless the building is being rated under the optional post-FIRM flood
insurance rules. This certificate is used only for building elevations. A
separate certificate is required for floodproofing.
EMERGENCY PROGRAM: Typically the first phase under which a community
participates in the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of
insurance at subsidized rates to all insurable structures in that community
before the effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
ENCLOSURE: That portion of an elevated building below the lowest elevated floor
that is either partially or fully shut in by rigid walls.
ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, excavation,
fill, buildings, permanent structures or development, storage of equipment and
materials, or any other physical object placed in the floodplain, that hinders
the passage of water or otherwise affects flood flows.
EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away of any landmass. This peril is
not per se covered under the program (see definition of Flood Related Erosion).
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the
effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
EXPANSION TO A MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK: The preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA): The federal agency under which the
national flood insurance program (NFIP) is administered.
FEDERAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION (FIA): The government unit, a part of the
federal emergency management agency (FEMA), that administers the national flood
insurance program (NFIP).
FEDERAL REGISTER: A document published daily by the federal government that
provides a uniform system for making available to the public regulations and
legal notices issued by federal agencies.
FLASH FLOOD: A flood that crests in a short length of time and is often
characterized by high velocity flows. It is often the result of heavy rainfall
in a localized area.
FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP: Floodplain management map issued by FEMA that
shows, based on detailed and approximate analyses, the boundaries of the 100-
year and 500-year floodplains and the 100-year floodway.
FLOOD CONTROL: Keeping floodwaters away from specific developments or populated
areas, areas by the construction of flood storage reservoirs, channel
alterations, dikes and levees, bypass channels, or other engineering works.
FLOOD, FLOODING OR FLOODWATERS: A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of
floodwaters; the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source and mudslides (i.e., mudflows) and the condition resulting from
flood related erosion.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A statistical expression of the average time period between
floods equaling or exceeding a given magnitude.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the
administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as zones A,
M, and/or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): Official map on which the federal emergency
management agency or federal insurance administration has delineated both the
areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community.
FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONE DESIGNATIONS: The zone designations indicate the
magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Zone A: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; base flood
elevations are not determined.
Zone AH: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; flood
depths of one to three feet (3') (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
Zone AO: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; with flood
depths of one to three feet (3') (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain);
average depths are determined. For areas of alluvial fan flooding, velocities
are also determined.
Zone AR: Special flood hazard areas that result from the decertification of a
previously accredited flood protection system that is in the process of being
restored to provide a 100-year or greater level of flood protection.
Zone A1-30 And Zone AE: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; base flood elevations are determined.
Zone A99: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood to be
protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection system under
construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
Zone B And Zone X (Shaded): Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject to the 100-
year flood with average depths of less than one foot (1') or with contributing
drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by levees from the
base flood.
Zone C And Zone X (Unshaded): Areas determined to be outside the 500-year
floodplain.
Zone D: Areas in which flood hazards are undetermined.
Zone E: Area of special flood related erosion hazards.
Zone M: Area of special mudslide or mudflow hazards.
Zone V: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood; coastal
floods with velocity hazards (wave action); no base flood elevations are
determined.
Zones AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, And AR/A: Special flood hazard areas that
result from the decertification of a previously accredited flood protection
system that is in the process of being restored to provide a 100-year or
greater level of flood protection. After restoration is complete, these areas
will still experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
Zones V1-30 And Zone VE: Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; coastal floods with velocity hazards (wave action); base flood
elevations are determined.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the federal
insurance administration that includes flood profiles, the flood insurance rate
map, the flood boundary and floodway map and the water surface elevation of the
base flood.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION: The collapse or subsidence of land along a stream or
wash, the shore of a lake or other body of water as a result of undermining
caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or
suddenly caused by an unusually high water level in a natural body of water,
accompanied by a severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as
a flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and
unforeseeable event which results in flooding.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION AREA MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood related erosion damage,
including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood related
erosion control works, and floodplain management regulations.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION PRONE AREA: A land area adjoining the shore of a lake or
other body of water, which, due to the composition of the shoreline or bank and
high water levels or wind driven currents, is likely to suffer flood related
erosion damage.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The city engineer and/or the building inspector are
herewith given specific authority and responsibilities to enforce the
floodplain management regulations. The floodplain administrator must be capable
of interpreting this chapter and have access to necessary technical competence.
FLOODPLAIN AND FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by waters from any source (see definition of Flood, Flooding Or Floodwaters).
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
plans, regulations and ordinances.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: This chapter, and any federal, state or
local regulations plus community zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as grading
and erosion control) and other applications of police power which control
development in flood prone areas to prevent and reduce flood loss and damage.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and
their contents (refer to FEMA technical bulletins TB 1-93, TB 8-93 and TB 7-93
for guidelines on dry and wet floodproofing).
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation. Also referred to as a
"regulatory floodway". This term is defined in the national flood insurance
act.
FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES: The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state and local floodplain maps.
FLOODWAY FRINGE: The area of the floodplain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted.
FOOTING: The enlarged base of a foundation wall, pier, or column, designed to
spread the load of the structure so that it does not exceed the soil bearing
capacity.
FOUNDATION: The underlying structure of a building usually constructed of
concrete that supports the foundation walls, piers, or columns.
FOUNDATION WALLS: A support structure that connects the foundation to the main
portion of the building or superstructure.
FRAUD/VICTIMIZATION: Related to variances of this chapter, the variance granted
must not cause fraud on or victimization to the public. In examining this
requirement, the Ely city council will consider the fact that every newly
constructed building adds to government responsibilities, and remains a part of
the community for fifty (50) to one hundred (100) years. Buildings permitted to
be constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during all those
years to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the
property and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs,
inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages bring.
Additionally, future owners may be unaware of the risk potential to the
property due to flood damage and the extremely high rates for flood insurance.
FREEBOARD: A margin of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only marina facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and boat building and boat repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
GOVERNING BODY: The city of Ely through the Ely city council, that is empowered
to adopt and implement regulations to provide for public health, safety and
general welfare of its citizenry.
HARDSHIP: Related to variances of this chapter. The exceptional hardship would
result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The local governing body
requires the variance be exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the property
involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional.
Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal
preferences, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule,
qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved
through other means without granting a variance, even if the alternative is
more expensive, or requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the
parcel to a different use than originally intended.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of ground surface prior
to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior or
directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
HYDRAULICS: The science that deals with practical applications of water in
motion.
HYDRODYNAMIC LOADS: Forces imposed on structures by floodwaters due to the
impact of moving water on the upstream side of the structure, drag along its
sides, and eddies or negative pressures on its downstream side.
HYDROGRAPH: A graph that charts water movement as a function of time. It shows
flood stages, depicted in feet above mean sea level or gage height, plotted
against stated time intervals.
HYDROLOGY: The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
earth's surface and underground.
HYDROSTATIC LOADS: Forces imposed on a flooded structure due to the weight of
the water.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): The procedure by which any owner or lessee of
property who believes his property has been inadvertently included in a special
flood hazard area can submit scientific and technical information to the
federal insurance administrator for review to remove the property from said
area. The administrator will not consider a LOMA if the information submitted
is based on alteration of topography or new hydrologic or hydraulic conditions
since the effective date of the FIRM.
LETTERS OF MAP REVISION (BASED ON FILL) (LOMR-F): A letter from FEMA stating
that an existing structure or parcel of land that has been elevated by fill
would not be inundated by the base flood.
LETTERS OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): An official revision to a currently effective
FIRM. An LOMR officially changes flood zone, floodplain and floodway
designations, flood elevations and planimetric features. All requests for LOMRs
are made to FEMA through the chief executive officer of the community, since
the community must adopt any changes and revisions to the map.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system, which consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accord with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including basement.
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is
not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that the enclosure does not
violate applicable nonelevation design requirements.
LOWEST FLOOR ELEVATION (LFE): The measured distance of a building's lowest
floor above the national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) or other datum
specified on the FIRM for that location.
MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME): A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term "manufactured home" does not include "recreational vehicles".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MARKET VALUE: For the purposes of determining substantial improvement, market
value pertains only to the structure in question. It does not pertain to the
land, landscaping or detached accessory structures on the property. For
determining improvement, the value of the land must always be subtracted.
Acceptable estimates of market value can be obtained from the following
sources:
   A.   Independent appraisals by a professional appraiser.
   B.   Detailed estimates of the structure's actual cash value (used as a
substitute for market value based on the preference of the community).
   C.   Property appraisals used for tax assessment purposes (adjusted assessed
value: Used as a screening tool).
   D.   The value of buildings taken from NFIP claims data (used as a screening
tool).
   E.   "Qualified estimates" based on sound professional judgment made by
staff of the local building department or local or state tax assessor's office.
As indicated above, some market value estimates should only be used as
screening tools to identify those structures where the substantial improvement
ratios are obviously less than or greater than fifty percent (50%) (e.g., less
than 40 percent or greater than 60 percent). For structures that fall between
the forty percent (40%) and sixty percent (60%) range, more precise market
value estimates should be used.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For the purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
MOBILE HOME: See definition of Manufactured Home (Mobile Home).
MODULAR BUILDING: A building that is usually transported to its site on a steel
frame or special trailer because it does not have a permanent chassis like a
manufactured (mobile) home. A modular building is classified and rated under
one of the other building types.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW): A condition where there is a river, flow or
inundation of liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover, and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide is in progress,
and will be recognized as such by the federal insurance administrator only if
the mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that
occurs.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program
of corrective and preventive measures for reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, mudslide
control works, and floodplain management regulations.
MUDSLIDE PRONE AREA: An area with land surfaces and slopes of unconsolidated
material where the history, geology, and climate indicate a potential for
mudflows.
NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD): As corrected in 1929, a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
floodplain.
NATURAL GRADE: The grade unaffected by construction techniques such as fill,
landscaping, or berming.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Buildings for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974,
whichever is later, including any subsequent improvements.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads is completed on or after the effective
date of these floodplain management regulations adopted by the Ely city
council.
NONRESIDENTIAL: Includes, but is not limited to: small business concerns,
churches, schools, farm buildings (including grain bins and silos), poolhouses,
clubhouses, recreational buildings, mercantile structures, agricultural and
industrial structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room
rentals for less than six (6) months' duration.
OBSTRUCTION: Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, structure,
vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into any
watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, or, due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
100-YEAR FLOOD: See definition of Base Flood.
OTHER RESIDENTIAL: Hotels or motels where the normal occupancy of a guest is
six (6) months or more; a tourist home or rooming house which has more than
four (4) roomers. A residential building (excluding hotels and motels with
normal room rentals for less than 6 months' duration and containing more than 4
dwelling units) is permitted incidental office, professional private school, or
studio occupancy, provided that the total area of such occupancy is limited to
less than twenty five percent (25%) of the total floor area within the
building.
PHYSICAL MAP REVISIONS (PMR): A reprinted NFIP map incorporating changes to
floodplains, floodways, or flood elevations. Because of the time and cost
involved to change, reprint, and redistribute an NFIP map, a PMR is usually
processed when a revision reflects large scope changes.
PONDING HAZARD: A flood hazard that occurs in float areas when there are
depressions in the ground that collect "ponds" of water. The ponding hazard is
represented by the zone designation AH on the FIRM.
POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION: Construction or substantial improvement that started on
or after the effective date of the initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM) of
the community or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later.
PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION: Construction or substantial improvement which started on
or before December 31, 1974, or before the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) of the community, whichever is later.
PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE: A single-family dwelling in which at the time of loss, the
named insured or the named insured's spouse has lived for either: a) eighty
percent (80%) of the calendar year, or b) eighty percent (80%) of the period of
ownership, if less than one year.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: A structure used for the principal use of the property as
distinguished from an accessory use.
PROPER OPENINGS ENCLOSURES (APPLICABLE TO ZONES A, A1-A30, AE, AO, AH, AR, AND
AR DUAL ZONES): All enclosures below the lowest floor must be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of two (2) openings, with
positioning on at least two (2) walls, having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding must
be provided. The bottom of all openings must be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
PUBLIC SAFETY/NUISANCE: Related to variances of this chapter. The granting of a
variance must not result in anything which is injurious to safety or health of
the entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or
unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any
navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle built on a single chassis, four hundred (400)
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REPLACEMENT COST: The cost to replace property with the same kind of material
and construction without deduction for depreciation.
RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM BUILDING: A building owned by the members of a
condominium association containing one or more residential units and in which
at least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area within the building is
residential.
RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM BUILDING POLICY (RCBP): A policy designed to insure,
under one master policy, the entire residential condominium building, including
all units within the building. It is available only to residential condominium
associations.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river including tributaries,
streams, brooks, etc.
SHEET FLOW AREA: See definition of Area Of Shallow Flooding.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Darkly shaded area on a flood hazard boundary
map (FHBM) or a flood insurance rate map (FIRM) that identifies an area that
has a one percent (1%) chance of being flooded in any given year (100-year
floodplain). Over a thirty (30) year period, the life of most mortgages, there
is at least a twenty six percent (26%) chance that this area will be flooded.
The FIRM identifies these shaded areas as FIRM zones A, AO, AH, A1-A30, AE,
A99, AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, AR/AO, V, V1-V30, and VE.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and other proposed new
development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date of the permit. The "actual start" means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include
the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or
sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the "actual start of construction" means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground and
includes gas or liquid storage tank and manufactured homes.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
proposed new development of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of
construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred "substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed.
This term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development in a special
flood hazard area, without an elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, or (other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
ZONE: A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or a flood
insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
(Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
13-1-3-1: APPLICABLE LANDS:
This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city of Ely. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the federal insurance
administration (FIA) of the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) in the
flood insurance study (FIS) dated December 15, 1983, and accompanying flood
insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs), dated
June 15, 1984, and all subsequent amendments and/or revisions, are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The FIS and
attendant mapping is the minimum area of applicability of this chapter and may
be supplemented by studies for other areas which allow implementation of this
chapter and which are recommended to the city of Ely by the floodplain
administrator. The FIS, FIRMs and FBFMs are on file at city hall, 501 Mill
Street. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-3-3: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violations (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor, and maximum penalties are described in this code. The
city may charge the maximum penalty for violation of this chapter, and each day
in violation may be considered as a separate offense. Nothing herein shall
prevent the city of Ely from taking such lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
other ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or
overlap, whichever imposed the more stringent restrictions or that imposing the
higher standards, shall prevail. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-3-5: INTERPRETATION:
The interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions, shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-3-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city of Ely, any officer or
employee thereof, the state of Nevada, or the federal insurance administration,
federal emergency management agency, for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder. The 100-year flood was selected for floodplain management purposes.
Regardless of the standard used, there will be floods that exceed the standard.
The 100-year standard was considered to be the best match for the life
expectancy of the structures it is intended to protect. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-3-7: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Every new structure, building, fill, excavation or development located or
maintained within any area of special flood hazard after June 15, 1984, in
violation of this chapter is a public nuisance per se and may be abated,
prevented or restrained by action of this political subdivision. (Ord. 624, 2-
14-2008)
13-1-3-8: ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS:
Within thirty (30) days of discovery of a violation of this chapter, the
floodplain administrator shall submit a report to the city council which shall
include all information available to the floodplain administrator which is
pertinent to said violation. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of this report,
the city council shall either:
   A.   Take any necessary action to effect the abatement of such violation; or
   B.   Issue a variance to this chapter in accordance with the provisions of
section
13-1-6 of this chapter; or
   C.   Order the owner of the property upon which the violation exists to
provide whatever additional information may be required to the floodplain
administrator for their determination. Such information must be provided to the
floodplain administrator within thirty (30) days of such order. At their next
regularly scheduled public meeting, the city council shall either order the
abatement of said violation or they shall grant a variance in accordance with
the provisions of section
13-1-6 of this chapter; or
   D.   Submit to the administrator of the federal insurance administration a
declaration for denial of insurance, stating that the property is in violation
of a cited statute or local law, regulation or ordinance, pursuant to section
1316 of the national flood insurance act of 1968, as amended. (Ord. 624, 2-14-
2008)
13-1-3-9: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to divert, retard or obstruct the flow of
waters in any watercourse whenever it creates a hazard to life or property
without securing the written authorization of the Ely city council. Where the
watercourse is a delineated floodplain, it is unlawful to excavate or build any
structure affecting the flow of waters without securing written authorization
of the floodplain administrator.
   B.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-4: ADMINISTRATION:
13-1-4-1: DESIGNATION OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The city engineer and/or building official are hereby appointed local
floodplain administrators to administer and implement this chapter by granting
or denying floodplain development permits in accordance with its provisions.
(Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-4-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit is hereby established for all construction and
other development to be undertaken in areas of special flood hazard in the city
of Ely for the purpose of protecting its citizens from increased flood hazards
and ensuring new development is constructed in a manner that minimizes its
exposure to flooding. It shall be unlawful to undertake any development in an
area of special flood hazard, as shown on the flood insurance rate maps
enumerated in section
13-1-3-2 of this chapter, without a valid floodplain development permit.
Applications for a permit shall be made on forms furnished by the local
floodplain administrator and may include, but not be limited to: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevation of the area in question, existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
(Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-4-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
The applicant shall provide at least the following information, where
applicable. Additional information may be required on the permit application
forms.
   A.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all residential and nonresidential structures
whether new or substantially improved to be located in zones A, A1-A30, AE, and
AH, if base flood elevation data is available.
   B.   In zone AO the proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the
lowest floor (including basement) and the elevation of the highest adjacent
grade of all residential and nonresidential structures, whether new or
substantially improved.
   C.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, to which any new
or substantially improved nonresidential structure will be floodproofed.
   D.   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in the
state of Nevada that any utility floodproofing meets the criteria in section
13-1-5-2, "Standards For Utilities", of this chapter.
   E.   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in the
state of Nevada that any nonresidential floodproofed structures meet the
criteria in subsection 13-1-5-1E, "Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements",
of this chapter.
   F.   When a watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, the applicant must submit the maps, computations, and
other materials required by the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) to
process a letter of map revision (LOMR) and pay any fees or other costs
assessed by FEMA for processing the revision.
   G.   Filing an LOMR will require computations prepared by a professional
engineer licensed in the state of Nevada that demonstrate the altered or
relocated watercourse segment will provide equal or greater conveyance than the
original stream segment. The city engineer will not provide this service as the
city must independently review the application. The applicant must also provide
assurances that the conveyance capacity of the altered or relocated stream will
be maintained. Detailed requirements for preparing an LOMR are available in
FEMA forms.
   H.   A technical analysis, by a professional engineer licensed in the state
of Nevada, showing the proposed development located in the special flood hazard
area will not cause physical damage to any other property. This analysis will
not be provided by the city engineer.
   I.   When there is no base flood elevation data available from any source,
the base flood elevation data will be provided by the permit applicant and the
applicant's engineer that is appropriately licensed in the state of Nevada.
Developments equal to or exceeding fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres must have
base flood elevations determined by a Nevada licensed professional engineer or
professional land surveyor. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-4-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the local floodplain administrator shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Permit Application Review: The floodplain development permit will not
be issued by the local floodplain administrator until the following has been
accomplished:
      1.   Review all applications for completeness, particularly with the
requirements of section
13-1-4-3, "Permit Application", of this chapter and for compliance with the
provisions and standards of this chapter.
      2.   Review all subdivision and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home and recreational parks to determine whether the proposed
development site will be reasonably safe from flooding. When the proposed
building site is located in the special flood hazard area, all new construction
and substantial improvements will meet the applicable standards of section
13-1-5-1, "Standards Of Construction", of this chapter.
      3.   Determine whether any proposed development in the special flood
hazard area may result in physical damage to any other property to include
stream bank erosion and any increase in velocities or that it does not
adversely affect the carrying capacity of the areas where base flood elevations
have been determined but a floodway has not been designated. For purposes of
this chapter, "adversely affects" means the cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot
(1') at any point. To assist the local floodplain administrator in making this
determination, the permit applicant may be required to submit additional
technical analyses. The local floodplain administrator may consider the
increase of the water surface elevation of less than one foot (1') rise to be
an "adverse effect" if local conditions warrant.
      4.   Ensure that any development of fifty (50) lots or of a minimum size
of five (5) acres obtain and comply with a base flood elevation (BFE) where
that development or lot is located within an appropriate zone as noted on the
city of Ely's flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
      5.   Ensure all other required state and federal permits have been
received.
   B.   Use Of Other Flood Data:
      1.   When the federal emergency management agency has designated special
flood hazard areas on the community's flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) but has
neither produced water surface elevation data nor identified a floodway, the
local floodplain administrator shall attempt to obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source, including data developed pursuant to subsection F8 of
this section, as criteria for requiring new construction, substantial
improvements or other proposed development meets the requirements of this
chapter.
      2.   When base flood elevations are not available, the local floodplain
administrator may use flood information from any other authoritative source,
such as historical data, to establish flood elevations within the special flood
hazard areas. This information shall be submitted to the city of Ely for
adoption.
   C.   Alteration Of Watercourses: Prior to issuing a permit for any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse the local floodplain administrator
must:
      1.   Have processed letter of map revision (LOMR).
      2.   Notify all adjacent communities, Nevada's national flood insurance
program coordinator, Nevada division of water planning and submittal of
evidence of such notification to the federal insurance administration, and the
federal emergency management agency.
      3.   Determine that the potential permit recipient has provided for
maintenance within the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity is not diminished.
   D.   Inspections: The local floodplain administrator or designee shall make
periodic inspections throughout the period of construction to monitor
compliance with the requirements of the floodplain development permit or any
variance provisions. Floodplain development inspections may be included as part
of the regular building inspections.
   E.   Stop Work Orders: The local floodplain administrator shall issue, or
cause to be issued, a stop work order for any floodplain development found
noncompliant with the provisions of this chapter or conditions of the
development permit and all development found ongoing without a floodplain
development permit. Disregard of a stop work order shall subject the violator
to the penalties described in section
13-1-3-3 of this chapter.
   F.   Retaining Floodplain Development Documentation: The local floodplain
administrator shall obtain and retain for public inspection and have available
for the national flood insurance program or the federal emergency management
agency representative conducting a community assistance visit, the following:
      1.   Floodplain development permits and certificates of compliance.
      2.   Certification required by subsection
13-1-5-1D, "Lowest Floor Certification Requirements", of this chapter. The city
of Ely is required to obtain the elevation of the lowest floor (including
basement) of all new and substantially improved buildings, and maintain a
record of such information. The elevation certificate provides the elevation
information necessary for the city to comply with this chapter. The elevation
certificate also is useful to determine the proper insurance premium rate, and
to support a request for a letter of map amendment or letter of map revision
(LOMA or LOMR).
      3.   Certification required by subsection
13-1-5-1E, "Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements", of this chapter.
      4.   Certification of elevation required by section
13-1-5-3, "Standards For Subdivisions", of this chapter.
      5.   Certification required by section
13-1-5-7, "Floodways", of this chapter.
      6.   Reports required by section
13-1-5-8, "Mudslide (Mudflow) Prone Areas", of this chapter.
      7.   Variances issued pursuant to section
13-1-6, "Variance Procedures", of this chapter.
      8.   Notices required under subsection C, "Alteration Of Watercourses",
of this section.
   G.   Map Determinations: The local floodplain administrator may make map
interpretations where needed, in writing with appropriate documentation, as to
the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard and
where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions. Fees may be charged by the city of Ely to the applicant for the
costs of the interpretations.
   H.   Appeals: The city council of the city of Ely shall hear and decide
appeals when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   I.   Submission Of New Technical Data To FEMA: When city of Ely base flood
elevations either increase or decrease resulting from physical changes
affecting flooding conditions, as soon as practicable, but not later than six
(6) months after the date such information becomes available, the city of Ely
will submit the technical or scientific data to FEMA. Such submissions are
necessary so that upon confirmation of the physical changes affecting flooding
conditions, risk premium rates and floodplain management requirements will be
based upon current data. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-5: PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION:
13-1-5-1: STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazard areas the following standards are
required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the
effects of buoyancy.
      2.   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of section
13-1-5-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods: All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed:
      1.   With materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
      2.   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   Ensure electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities are designed or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
      4.   Within zones AH or AO, so that there are adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed
structures.
   C.   Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor: Residential construction, new
or substantial improvements, shall have the lowest floor, including basement:
      1.   In zone AO, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height
equal to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or
elevated at least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth
number is specified. The state of Nevada recommends that the lowest floor be
elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height exceeding the number
depth specified on the FIRM by at least one foot (1'), or elevated at least
three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified. The city meets requirements for federal flood assistance at the
lower standard, but the insurance benefits to private individuals or businesses
may be impaired if they do not follow the state's recommendations.
      2.   In zone A, elevated to or above the base flood elevation. The state
of Nevada recommends that the lowest floor be elevated above the base flood
elevation by at least two feet (2'). The city meets requirements for federal
flood assistance at the lower standard, but the insurance benefits to private
individuals or businesses may be impaired if they do not follow the state's
recommendations.
      3.   In all other zones, elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
The state of Nevada recommends the lowest floor be elevated at least two feet
(2') above the base flood elevation. The city meets requirements for federal
flood assistance at the lower standard, but the insurance benefits to private
individuals or businesses may be impaired if they do not follow the state's
recommendations.
   D.   Lowest Floor Certification Requirements: Upon completion of the
structure, the elevation of the lowest floor including basement shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor and verified by the
community building inspector to be properly elevated. The certification shall
be provided to the floodplain administrator using the current FEMA elevation
certificate. The certification of the lowest floor including basement shall be
performed after the slab has been poured for slab on grade or when the lowest
floor is complete and prior to the start of framing.
   E.   Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements: Nonresidential construction
shall either be elevated to conform with subsection C of this section or
together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
      1.   Will be floodproofed below the elevation recommended under
subsection C of this section so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      2.   Will have the structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy;
      3.   Will be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of subsection C of this section are satisfied. The
certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator.
   F.   Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor: All new construction and
substantial improvements with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
(excluding basements) that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage, and which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement
shall follow the guidelines in FEMA technical bulletins TB 1-93 and TB 7-93 and
must either be certified by a licensed professional engineer or architect to
meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
      1.   Must have a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of
not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
      2.   The bottom of all such openings will be no higher than one foot (1')
above the lowest adjacent finished grade.
Openings may be equipped with louvers, valves, screens or other coverings or
devices provided they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. (Ord.
624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-5-2: STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES:
   A.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters or discharge from the systems
into floodwaters. Sanitary sewer and storm drainage systems for buildings that
have openings below the base flood elevation shall be provided with automatic
backflow valves or other automatic backflow devices that are installed in each
discharge line passing through a building's exterior wall.
   C.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-5-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood.
   B.   All subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed structures
and pads. If the site is filled above the base flood, the final lowest floor
and pad elevation shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor and provided to the floodplain administrator.
   C.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
   D.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   E.   All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   F.   Additionally all subdivision proposals will demonstrate, by providing a
detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses that the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any
point within the community. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-5-4: STANDARDS FOR CRITICAL STRUCTURES:
Critical structures are not authorized in a special flood hazard area, unless:
   A.   All alternative locations in flood zone X have been considered and
rejected.
   B.   All alternative locations in flood zone shaded X have been considered
and rejected.
If the floodplain manager determines the only practical alternative location
for the development of a new or substantially improved critical structure is in
a special flood hazard area he must give public notice of the decision and
reasons for the elimination of all alternative locations. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-5-5: STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved,
within zones A, AH, AE, and on the community's flood insurance rate map, on
sites located:
      1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site upon
which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a
flood:
Shall be elevated on a permanent foundation so that the lowest floor will be
elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting
wind forces. The state of Nevada recommends at least two feet (2') above the
base flood elevation. The city meets requirements for federal flood assistance
at the lower standard, but the insurance benefits to private individuals or
businesses may be impaired if they do not follow the state's recommendations.
   B.   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A, AH, and AE
on the community's flood insurance rate map that are not subject to the
provisions of subsection A of this section will be elevated so that either:
      1.   The bottom of structural frame or the lowest point of the
manufactured home is at or above the base flood elevation (the state of Nevada
recommends at least 2 feet above the base flood elevation. The city meets
requirements for federal flood assistance at the lower standard, but the
insurance benefits to private individuals or businesses may be impaired if they
do not follow the state's recommendations.); or
      2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   C.   Within zone A, when no base flood elevation data is available, new and
substantially improved manufactured homes shall have the floor elevated at
least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade.
   D.   Within zone AO, the floor for all new and substantially improved
manufactured homes will be elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least
as high as the depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map, or at
least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified. Upon the completion of the
structure, the elevation of the lowest floor including basement shall be
certified by a registered professional. The state of Nevada recommends the
lowest floor be elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height exceeding
the depth number on the FIRM by at least two feet (2'), or elevated at least
three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified. The city meets the requirements for federal flood assistance at the
lower standard, but the insurance benefits to private individuals or businesses
may be impaired if they do not follow the state's recommendations. (Ord. 624,
2-14-2008)
13-1-5-6: STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
All recreational vehicles placed on sites within the floodplain on the
community's flood insurance rate map will either:
   A.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
   B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions, or
   C.   Will meet the permit requirements of section
13-1-4-3 of this chapter and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in section
13-1-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-5-7: FLOODWAYS:
Designated floodways are located within the special flood hazard areas
established in section
13-1-3-2 of this chapter. Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due
to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and
erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
   A.   Encroachment shall be prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, storage of equipment or supplies, and any other
development within the adopted regulatory floodway; unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge, and the federal emergency management
agency has issued a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR).
   B.   If subsection A of this section has been satisfied; all proposed new
development and substantial improvements will comply with all other applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of this section
13-1-5. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-5-8: MUDSLIDE (MUDFLOW) PRONE AREAS:
   A.   All permit applications will be reviewed by the floodplain
administrator to determine if the proposed development will be located within a
mudslide area.
   B.   The reviewing process will determine if the proposed site and
improvements will be reasonably safe from mudslide hazards. Factors to be
considered in making this determination include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Type and quality of soils.
      2.   Evidence of ground water or surface water problems.
      3.   Depth and quality of any fill.
      4.   The overall slope of the site.
      5.   The weight that any proposed structure will impose on the slope.
   C.   When a proposed development is located in an area that may have
mudslide hazards, the following will be the minimum requirements:
      1.   A site investigation and further review be made by persons qualified
in geology and soils engineering.
      2.   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction, and substantial
improvements are adequately designed and protected against mudslide damages.
      3.   The proposed grading, excavations, new construction and substantial
improvements do not aggravate the existing hazard by creating either on site or
off site disturbances.
      4.   Drainage, planting, watering, and maintenance be such as not to
endanger slope stability.
   D.   When a proposed development is determined to be within a mudslide
hazard area, the following requirements will include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Adopting and enforcing a grading ordinance in accordance with data
supplied by the federal emergency management agency.
      2.   Regulate the location of foundation systems and utility systems of
new construction and substantial improvements.
      3.   Regulate the location, drainage and maintenance of all excavations,
cuts and fills and planted slopes.
      4.   Provide special requirements for protective measures including, but
not necessarily limited to, retaining walls, buttress fills, subdrains,
diverted terraces, and benchings.
      5.   Require engineering drawings and specifications to be submitted for
all corrective measures, accompanied by supporting soils engineering and
geology reports. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-5-9: FLOOD RELATED EROSION PRONE AREAS:
   A.   All permit applications will be reviewed by the floodplain
administrator to determine if the proposed development will be located within a
special flood related erosion hazard area.
   B.   The reviewing process will determine if the proposed site alterations
and improvements will be reasonably safe from flood related erosion and will
not cause flood related erosion hazards or otherwise aggravate the existing
flood related erosion hazard.
   C.   When the proposed development is found to be in the path of flood
related erosion or to increase the erosion hazard, require the improvement to
be relocated or adequate protective measures to be taken which will not
aggravate the existing erosion hazard.
   D.   When it has been determined the proposed development is in a special
flood related erosion hazard, as delineated zone E on the community FIRM,
require:
      1.   A setback for all new development from the lake, bay, riverfront or
other body of water, to create a safety buffer consisting of a natural
vegetative or contour strip. This buffer will be designated according to the
flood related erosion hazard and erosion rate, in conjunction with the
anticipated "useful life" of structures, and depending upon the geologic,
hydrologic, topographic and climatic characteristics of the community's land.
The buffer may be used for suitable open spaces purposes, such as for
agricultural, forestry, outdoor recreation and wildlife habitat areas, and for
other activities using temporary and portable structures only. (Ord. 624, 2-14-
2008)
13-1-6: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
13-1-6-1: NATURE OF VARIANCES:
The variance criteria set forth in this section are based on the general
principal of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property and are
not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for a parcel of property with
physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the requirements of
this chapter would create an exceptional hardship to the applicant or the
surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be unique to the property
and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique characteristic must pertain
to the land itself, not to the structure, its inhabitants, or the property
owners.
It is the duty of the city of Ely to help protect its citizens from flooding.
This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of insuring a
structure built below flood level are so serious that variances from the flood
elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite rare. The
long term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can only be met
if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance guidelines provided
in this chapter are more detailed and contain multiple provisions that must be
met before a variance can be properly granted. The criteria are designed to
screen out those situations in which alternatives other than a variance are
more appropriate. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-6-2: APPEAL BOARD:
   A.   In passing upon requests for variances, the city of Ely shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and
      1.   The danger of materials being swept onto other lands and injuring
others;
      2.   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents of
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site;
      11.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
   B.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to
amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. It is recommended that a copy of the notice shall be recorded by
the floodplain administrator in the office of the White Pine County recorder
and shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears as an exception on the
title of the affected parcel of land.
   C.   The floodplain administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in its biennial report submitted to the federal insurance
administration, federal emergency management agency. (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-6-3: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of sections
13-1-4 and
13-1-5 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing
the variance increases.
   B.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of "historic
structures" (as defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter) upon a determination that the proposed repair or
rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the
historic character and design of the structure.
   C.   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   D.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the "minimum necessary" considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
"Minimum necessary" means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this chapter. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the city of Ely need not grant permission for
the applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the applicant
proposed, but only to that elevation which the city of Ely believes will both
provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
   E.   Variances shall only be issued upon a:
      1.   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
      2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional "hardship" (as defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter) to the applicant;
      3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary
public expense, create a nuisance ("public safety/nuisance" as defined in
section
13-1-2 of this chapter), cause fraud or victimization (as defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter) of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use, provided that the provisions of subsections A, B, C, D, and E of
this section are satisfied and that the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does
not result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   G.   Upon consideration of all the factors of this section and the purposes
of this chapter, the city of Ely may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter. (Ord.
624, 2-14-2008)
13-1-7: MAP REVISION/AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
13-1-7-1: LETTERS OF MAP REVISION/AMENDMENT:
National flood insurance program regulations provide procedures to remove
property from the 100-year floodplain or from a special flood hazard area.
Amendments and revisions to community flood insurance rate maps cannot
adversely impact the floodplain or floodway delineations of the level of the
100-year flood.
There are several procedures provided whereby the federal insurance
administrator will review information from the community, an owner, or a lessee
of property where it is believed the property should not be included in a
special flood hazard area.
Submissions to FEMA for revisions to effective flood insurance studies (FISs)
by individual and community requesters will require the signing of application/
certification forms. These forms will provide FEMA with assurance that all
pertinent data relating to the revision is included in the submittal. They will
also assure that: a) the data and methodology are based on current conditions;
b) qualified professionals have assembled data and performed all necessary
computations; and c) all individuals and organizations impacted by proposed
changes are aware of the changes and will have an opportunity to comment on
them. FEMA procedures permit the following types of requests:
A request for a revision to the effective FIS information (FIRM, FBFM, and/or
FIS report) is usually a request that FEMA replace the effective floodplain
boundaries, flood profiles, floodway boundaries, etc., with those determined by
the requester. Before FEMA will replace the effective FIS information with the
revised, the requester must: a) provide all of the data used in determining the
revised floodplain boundaries, flood profiles, floodway boundaries, etc.; b)
provide all data necessary to demonstrate that the physical modifications to
the floodplain have been adequately designed to withstand the impacts of the
one percent (1%) annual chance flood event and will be adequately maintained;
and c) demonstrate that the revised information (e.g., hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses and the resulting floodplain and floodway boundaries) are consistent
with the effective FIS information.
Requests for amendments or revisions to FEMA maps must be reviewed and
submitted to FEMA by the (governing body) of (county or municipality) with the
applicant for a map amendment or revision required to prepare all the
supporting information and appropriate FEMA forms.
The scientific or technical information to be submitted with these requests may
include, but is not limited to, the following:
   A.   An actual copy of the recorded plat map bearing the seal of the
appropriate recordation official (county clerk or recorder of deeds) indicating
the official recordation and proper citation, deed or plat book volume and page
number, or an equivalent identification where annotation of the deed or plat
book is not the practice.
   B.   A topographical map showing:
      1.   Ground elevation contours in relation to the NGVD (national geodetic
vertical datum).
      2.   The total area of the property in question.
      3.   The location of the structure or structures located on the property
in question.
      4.   The elevation of the lowest adjacent grade to a structure or
structures.
      5.   An indication of the curvilinear line which represents the area
subject to inundation by a base flood. The curvilinear line should be based
upon information provided by an appropriate authoritative source, such as a
federal agency, department of water resources, a county water control district,
a county or city engineer, a federal emergency management agency flood
insurance study, or a determination by a registered professional engineer.
   C.   A copy of the FHBM or FIRM indicating the location of the property in
question.
   D.   A certification by a registered professional engineer or licensed land
surveyor that the lowest grade adjacent to the structure is above the base
flood elevation.
   E.   The completion of the appropriate forms in the federal emergency
management agency's packets, amendments and revisions to national flood
insurance program maps (MT-1 FEMA form 81-87 series and MT-2 FEMA form 81-89
series). (Ord. 624, 2-14-2008)
