COUNTY CODE
of
LINCOLN COUNTY, NEVADA
2003
Code current through:
Ord. 2023-04, passed 10-16-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the County of Lincoln County, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2023-04, passed October 16, 2023.
Ordinances of the County adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the County office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2003-01
Summary: An Ordinance enacting a revision and codification of the general
ordinances of Lincoln County
   BILL NO.           
   
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A REVISION AND CODIFICATION
   OF THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF
   LINCOLN COUNTY, NEVADA
   WHEREAS, NRS 244.116 to 244.119 authorizes the Board of Commissioners of
Lincoln County to revise and codify the Lincoln County Code from time to time;
   WHEREAS, the District Attorney's Office has worked with Sterling Codifiers
to revise and update the Lincoln County Code;
   WHEREAS, the Lincoln County Clerk has received multiple copies of the new
Lincoln County Code in both looseleaf and electronic media;
   WHEREAS, the Board of Commissioners of Lincoln County must adopt the new
revised edition of Lincoln County Code by ordinance.
   WHEREAS, the new development code was not available and is not incorporated
herein.
   THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF THE
   COUNTY OF LINCOLN DO ORDAIN:
   The 2003 Lincoln County Code is hereby adopted as the official code of
Lincoln County, Nevada, with all of the Code's titles, divisions, sections, and
subdivisions including all amendments passed by this Board as of the date this
Ordinance is approved. The old development code section #17 dealing with land
use and zoning will be retained until further action by this board.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL COUNTY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Codification Authority
1-1-4: Unincorporated Town Government Law Adopted
1-1-5: Code Amendments
1-1-6: Reference To Specific Ordinances
1-1-7: Construction
1-1-8: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the board of county commissioners, this county code is
hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official county code
of Lincoln County, state of Nevada. This county code of ordinances shall be
known and cited as the LINCOLN COUNTY CODE and is hereby published by authority
of the board of county commissioners and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the county as provided in section
1-1-5 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this county code by title in any legal documents. (2003 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This county code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this state as the ordinances of the county of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2003 Code)
1-1-3: CODIFICATION AUTHORITY:
This code consists of all general ordinances of Lincoln County, Nevada,
codified pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes sections 244.116 through 244.119.
(1983 Code § 1.01.040)
1-1-4: UNINCORPORATED TOWN GOVERNMENT LAW ADOPTED:
The unincorporated town government law is adopted 1 . (1983 Code § 1.08.010)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS § 269.500 et seq.
1-1-5: CODE AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Amending Ordinances: Any ordinance amending the county code shall set
forth the title, chapter and section number of the section or sections to be
amended, and this shall constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory
requirement pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of
this county code. All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be
immediately forwarded to the codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall
be prepared for insertion in its proper place in each copy of this county code.
Each such replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted
in each individual copy of the county code. (2003 Code)
   B.   Reference Applies To Amendments: Whenever a reference is made to this
code as the "Lincoln County Code" or to any portion thereof, or to any
ordinance of the county, the reference shall apply to all amendments,
corrections and additions heretofore, now or hereafter made. (1983 Code §
1.01.030)
1-1-6: REFERENCE TO SPECIFIC ORDINANCES:
The provisions of this county code shall not in any manner affect matters of
record which refer to, or are otherwise connected with, ordinances which are
therein specifically designated by number or otherwise and which are included
within the code, but such reference shall be construed to apply to the
corresponding provisions contained within this code. (1983 Code § 1.01.070)
1-1-7: CONSTRUCTION:
The provisions of the ordinances of the county and all proceedings under them
are to be construed with a view to effect their objects and to promote justice.
(1983 Code § 1.04.080)
1-1-8: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this county code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while
in actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the county and shall be returned to the office of the
county clerk when directed so to do by order of the board of county
commissioners. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer Clause; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the county
passed prior to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as
are included in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the county; and all special ordinances. (2003 Code; amd. Ord. 2004-02,
7-6-2004, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2004)
   B.   Repeal Not To Revive Ordinances: The repeal of an ordinance shall not
repeal the repealing clause of an ordinance or revive any ordinance which has
been repealed thereby. (1983 Code § 1.04.090)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2003 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the county herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the county under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2003 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this county code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference
herein is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any part
thereof, or any portion adopted by reference herein. The board of county
commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; GENERAL RULES
SECTION:
1-3-1: Definitions, General
1-3-2: Title Of Office
1-3-3: Interpretation Of Language
1-3-4: Grammatical Interpretation
1-3-5: Acts By Agents
1-3-6: Prohibited Acts Include Causing And Permitting
1-3-7: Computation Of Time
1-3-8: Catchlines
1-3-1: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in the ordinances of the county,
and this county code, shall be construed as defined in this section unless from
the context a different meaning is intended or unless a different meaning is
specifically defined and more particularly directed to the use of such words or
phrases:
BOARD: The board of county commissioners of the county of Lincoln.
COUNTY: The county of Lincoln, state of Nevada.
LAW: Denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and statutes of the state
of Nevada, the ordinances of the county of Lincoln, and, when appropriate, any
and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
MAY: "May" is permissive.
MONTH: A calendar month.
MUST/SHALL: "Must" and "shall" are each mandatory.
NRS: Nevada Revised Statutes.
OATH: Includes an affirmation or declaration in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words "swear"
and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words "affirm" and "affirmed".
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety, of the whole or a part
of such building or land.
PERSON: Includes a natural person, joint venture, joint stock company,
partnership, association, club, company, corporation, business, trust,
organization, or the manager, lessee, agent, servant, officer or employee of
any of them.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
evidence of debt.
PRECEDING; FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
STATE: The state of Nevada.
STREET: Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts, places,
squares, curbs, or other public ways in this county which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use, or such other public property so
designated in any law of this state.
TENANT; OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
WRITTEN: Includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multigraphed, or
otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.
YEAR: A calendar year. (1983 Code § 1.04.010; amd. 2003 Code)
1-3-2: TITLE OF OFFICE:
Use of the title of any officer, employee, department, board or commission
means that officer, employee, department, board or commission of the county of
Lincoln. (1983 Code § 1.04.020)
1-3-3: INTERPRETATION OF LANGUAGE:
All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may
have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed
and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning. (1983 Code §
1.04.030)
1-3-4: GRAMMATICAL INTERPRETATION:
The following grammatical rules shall apply in the ordinances of Lincoln
County, unless it is apparent from the context that a different construction is
intended:
   A.   Gender: Each gender includes the masculine, feminine and neuter
genders.
   B.   Singular And Plural: The singular number includes the plural and the
plural includes the singular.
   C.   Tenses: Words used in the present tense include the past and the future
tenses and vice versa, unless manifestly inapplicable. (1983 Code § 1.04.040)
1-3-5: ACTS BY AGENTS:
When an act is required by an ordinance, the same being such that it may be
done as well by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts performed by an authorized agent. (1983 Code
§ 1.04.050)
1-3-6: PROHIBITED ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING AND PERMITTING:
Prohibited acts include causing and permitting. Whenever in the ordinances of
the county and this county code any act or omission is made unlawful, it shall
include causing, allowing, permitting, aiding, abetting, suffering, or
concealing the fact of such act or omission. (1983 Code § 1.04.060; amd. 2003
Code)
1-3-7: COMPUTATION OF TIME:
Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last day,
unless the last day is Sunday or a holiday, in which case it shall also be
excluded. (1983 Code § 1.04.070)
1-3-8: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this county code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanors Designated: The commission of any act within the county,
outside the limits of any incorporated city therein, or the failure to perform
any act within the county, which is made a misdemeanor by the laws of the
state, is declared to be and shall constitute a misdemeanor. (1983 Code §
1.12.010)
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person, firm or corporation who shall be convicted
of a misdemeanor shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed six
(6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment 1 . (1983 Code § 1.12.020)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS § 193.150.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code and ordinance of the county the same
as though it were a part of each and every separate section or ordinance. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day such duty or obligation
remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise specifically
provided in this county code.
   B.   Imposition Of Penalty: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this county code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Additional Remedies: Subsection B of this section does not preclude the
county from pursuing criminal penalties in addition to other remedies such as
injunction, action to compel performance or other appropriate action in the
district court to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate violations.
   D.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this county code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2003 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this county code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the board of county commissioners to impose such fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty. (2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
UNINCORPORATED AREAS
SECTION:
1-5-1: General Provisions
1-5-2: Alamo
1-5-3: Panaca
1-5-4: Pioche
1-5-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Definitions: Whenever used in sections
1-5-2,
1-5-3 and
1-5-4 of this chapter, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the
context, the words "board" means the board of county commissioners and "town
advisory board" and "unincorporated town" have that meaning assigned in Nevada
Revised Statutes sections 269.515 and 269.520, respectively.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide for the formation of
various unincorporated towns formed prior to the adoption of Nevada Revised
Statutes section 269.500 into "unincorporated towns," under that section and to
provide for their government under a uniform plan within the framework of
county administration of the unincorporated area of Lincoln County.
   C.   Findings: It is found by the board of county commissioners that the
reasons contained and specified in Nevada Revised Statutes section 269.565 to
provide for and regulate the formation of the unincorporated towns named in
this chapter do exist; therefore the provisions of this chapter are adopted.
(1983 Code § 1.20.010)
1-5-2: ALAMO:
   A.   Creation: Alamo, Lincoln County, Nevada is created as an unincorporated
town. (1983 Code § 1.22.010)
   B.   Boundaries: The boundaries of the town of Alamo are delineated by the
map approved by the board on December 20, 1980, and recorded in the office of
the county recorder on May 20, 1981 as document no. 72312, which map is
incorporated herein by reference as though it were set forth verbatim and
reproduced in this section. Said map is attached to ordinance 1988-4 on file in
the office of the county recorder. (1983 Code § 1.22.020; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Services:
      1.   The town shall provide the following services to its residents:
         a.   Cemetery;
         b.   Flood control and drainage;
         c.   Parks;
         d.   Recreation and public parks;
         e.   Sewage collection;
         f.   Streets;
         g.   Street lights;
         h.   Water distribution; and
         i.   Acquisition, disposal, annexation or deannexation, maintenance
and improvement of town property, provided the town advisory board presents any
proposed acquisition, disposal, annexation or deannexation, maintenance and
improvement of town property to the board of county commissioners for review
and approval.
      2.   The services enumerated in this subsection are to be administered by
a town advisory board. (1983 Code § 1.22.030; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Town Advisory Board:
      1.   The town advisory board may have all those powers set forth in
Nevada Revised Statutes for unincorporated towns in order to properly
administer the services outlined in subsection C of this section. Said powers
include, but are not limited to, the setting of fees to offset the cost of the
services.
      2.   The town advisory board shall be selected and serve as follows:
         a.   The town advisory board shall consist of five (5) members.
         b.   Each member of the town advisory board shall be a resident and
elector in the town.
         c.   The board of county commissioners shall appoint the initial
number of the town advisory board as follows:
            1.   Two (2) members whose terms shall expire on the first Monday
of January of 1989; and
            2.   Three (3) members whose terms shall expire on the first Monday
in January of 1990.
         d.   As the initial terms expire, the board of county commissioners
shall appoint members for terms of two (2) years thereafter.
         e.   The members of the town advisory board shall serve without
compensation.
         f.   A vacancy which may occur during the term of a town board member
will be filled by appointment of a qualified resident by a majority of the
board of county commissioners. An appointed town board member shall serve the
remainder of the term of the departed town board member. (1983 Code § 1.22.040)
   E.   Ratification Of Prior Actions: By the provisions of this section, the
board of county commissioners ratifies, confirms and approves all prior acts of
the existing town board of Alamo prior to the adoption of said provisions.
(1983 Code § 1.24.050; amd. 2003 Code)
1-5-3: PANACA:
   A.   Created:
      1.   The unincorporated town government law, Nevada Revised Statutes
section 269.500 et seq., is adopted.
      2.   Panaca, Lincoln County, Nevada, is created as an unincorporated
town. (1983 Code § 1.24.010; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Boundaries: The boundaries of the town of Panaca are delineated by the
map approved by the board on March 6, 1922, and recorded in the office of the
county recorder on page 583, book O, miscellaneous deeds, which map is
incorporated herein by reference as though it were set forth verbatim and
herein reproduced. Said map is attached to ordinance 1988-4 on file in the
office of the county recorder. Annexation approved February 6, 1998, book "B"
page 90. (1983 Code § 1.24.020; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Services:
      1.   The town shall provide the following services to its residents:
         a.   Cemetery;
         b.   Flood control and drainage;
         c.   Parks;
         d.   Recreation;
         e.   Sewage collection;
         f.   Streets;
         g.   Street lights;
         h.   Volunteer fire protection and one paid firefighter if funds are
available;
         i.   Water distribution; and
         j.   Acquisition, disposal, annexation or deannexation, maintenance
and improvement of town property, provided the town advisory board presents any
proposed acquisition, disposal, annexation or deannexation, maintenance and
improvement of town property to the board of county commissioners for review
and approval.
      2.   The services enumerated in this subsection are to be administered by
a town advisory board. (1983 Code § 1.24.030; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Town Advisory Board:
      1.   The town advisory board may have all those powers set forth in
Nevada Revised Statutes for unincorporated towns in order to properly
administer the services outlined in subsection C of this section. Said powers
include, but are not limited to, the setting of fees to offset the cost of the
services.
      2.   The town advisory board shall be selected and serve as follows:
         a.   The town advisory board shall consist of five (5) members.
         b.   Each member of the town advisory board shall be a resident and
elector in the town.
         c.   The board of county commissioners shall appoint the initial
number of the Panaca town advisory board as follows:
            1.   Two (2) members whose terms shall expire on the first Monday
of January of 1989; and
            2.   Three (3) members whose terms shall expire on the first Monday
in January of 1990.
         d.   As the initial terms expire, the board of county commissioners
shall appoint members for terms of two (2) years thereafter.
         e.   The members of the town advisory board shall serve without
compensation.
         f.   A vacancy which may occur during the term of a town board member
will be filled by appointment of a qualified resident by a majority of the
board of county commissioners. An appointed town board member shall serve the
remainder of the term of the departed town board member. (1983 Code § 1.24.040)
   E.   Ratification Of Prior Actions: By this section, the board of county
commissioners ratifies, confirms and approves all prior acts of the existing
town board of Panaca prior to the adoption of this section. (1983 Code §
1.24.050)
1-5-4: PIOCHE:
   A.   Creation.
      1.   The unincorporated town government law, Nevada Revised Statutes
section 269.500 et seq., is adopted.
      2.   Pioche, Lincoln County, Nevada, is created as an unincorporated
town. (1983 Code § 1.26.010; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Boundaries: The boundaries of the town are delineated by the map
approved by the board on July 20, 1984, and recorded in the office of the
county recorder on September 14, 1984, in book of plats-A of official records
page 236, which map is incorporated herein by reference as though it were set
forth verbatim and reproduced in this section. Said map is attached to
ordinance 1988-4, as exhibit C, on file in the office of the county recorder.
Annexation approved October 15, 1997, book "B" page 68. (1983 Code § 1.26.020;
amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Services:
      1.   The town shall provide the following services to its residents:
         a.   Cemetery;
         b.   Flood control and drainage;
         c.   Parks;
         d.   Recreation;
         e.   Sewage collection;
         f.   Streets;
         g.   Street lights;
         h.   Swimming pools;
         i.   Electric power;
         j.   Water distribution; and
         k.   Acquisition, disposal, annexation or deannexation, maintenance
and improvement of town property, provided the town advisory board presents any
proposed acquisition, disposal, annexation or deannexation, maintenance and
improvement of town property to the board of county commissioners for review
and approval.
      2.   The services enumerated in this subsection are to be administered by
a town advisory board. (1983 Code § 1.26.030; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Town Advisory Board:
      1.   The town advisory board may have all those powers set forth in
Nevada Revised Statutes for unincorporated towns in order to properly
administer the services outlined in subsection C of this section. Said powers
include, but are not limited to, the setting of fees to offset the cost of the
services.
      2.   The town advisory board shall be selected and serve as follows:
         a.   The town advisory board shall consist of five (5) members.
         b.   Each member of the town advisory board shall be a resident and
elector in the town.
         c.   The board of county commissioners shall appoint the initial
number of the Pioche town advisory board as follows:
            1.   Two (2) members whose terms shall expire on the first Monday
of January of 1989; and
            2.   Three (3) members whose terms shall expire on the first Monday
in January of 1990.
         d.   As the initial terms expire, the board of county commissioners
shall appoint members for terms of two (2) years thereafter.
         e.   The members of the town advisory board shall serve without
compensation.
         f.   A vacancy which may occur during the term of a town board member
will be filled by appointment of a qualified resident by a majority of the
board of county commissioners. An appointed town board member shall serve the
remainder of the term of the departed town board member. (1983 Code § 1.26.040)
   E.   Ratification Of Prior Actions: By this section, the board of county
commissioners ratifies, confirms and approves all prior acts of the existing
town board of Pioche prior to the adoption of the provisions of this section.
(1983 Code § 1.26.050; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election; Terms Of Office
1-6-2: Commissioner Districts
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-1: ELECTION; TERMS OF OFFICE:
The board of county commissioners shall consist of five (5) commissioners,
elected for terms of four (4) years. Said terms shall be staggered, as provided
by statute. (2003 Code)
1-6-2: COMMISSIONER DISTRICTS:
   A.   Commissioner District A Caliente, South And East: Beginning at the
Northeast corner at the intersection of the North boundary line of Township 4
South at a point on the Nevada-Utah State line, within Range 71 East boundary;
thence following the Nevada- Utah State line, within Range 71 East, in a
southerly direction to the intersection with the Northeast corner of Clark
County (Southeast corner of Lincoln County) at the South boundary of Township
12 South; thence following the boundary of Lincoln and Clark Counties in a
westerly direction along the Clark County line and the South boundary of
Township 12 South to the intersection within the West boundary of Range 64
East; thence following the West boundary of Range 64 East in a northerly
direction to the intersection of Highway 93; thence following the centerline of
U.S. 93 in an easterly direction into the city of Caliente to the intersection
with Third Street; thence following the centerline of Third Street in a
northerly direction to the intersection with Lincoln Street; thence following
the centerline of Lincoln Street in a northeasterly direction to the
intersection with U.S. 93; thence following the centerline of U.S. 93 in a
northerly direction to the intersection with the South boundary of Township 3
South within Range 67 East; thence following the South boundary of Township 3
South in a westerly direction to the intersection at the Southwest Corner of
Township 3 South, Range 67 East; thence following the West line of Range 67
East in a northerly direction to the Northwest Corner of Township 3 South,
Range 67 East; thence following the North boundary of Township 3 South in an
easterly direction to the Northwest corner of Township 3 South, Range 67 East;
thence following the East boundary of Range 67 East in a southerly direction to
the Southeast corner of Township 3 South, Range 67 East; thence following the
North line of Township 4 South in an easterly direction to the intersection
with the Nevada-Utah State line which is the point of beginning.
   (1983 Code § 2.08.010)
   B.   Commissioner District B Pioche, Caselton, Rural North: Beginning at the
Northeast corner of Lincoln County at the Nevada-Utah State line boundary;
thence following the Nevada-Utah State line, within Range 71 East, in a
southerly direction to the intersection with the First Standard Parallel North
(South Line of Township 6 North); thence following the South Line of Township 6
North in a westerly direction to the intersection with the East boundary of
Range 68 East; thence following the East boundary of Township 68 East in a
southerly direction to the intersection with the Mount Diablo Base Line; thence
following the Mount Diablo Base Line in a westerly direction to the Degree of
Longitude 115 West; thence following Longitude 115 West in a North direction to
the intersection with Nye County; thence continuing North along the Lincoln-Nye
County Line to the intersection between Lincoln, Nye, and White Pine County on
the North boundary of Township 9 North; thence following the Lincoln- White
Pine County Line in an easterly direction to the intersection with the Nevada-
Utah State Line which is the point of beginning.
   (1983 Code § 2.08.020)
   C.   Commissioner District C Alamo, Pahranagat Valley, Logan Road South:
Beginning at the Southwest corner of Lincoln County at the intersection with
the Northwest corner of Clark County and the Nye County line within Range 54
East; thence following the westerly boundary of Lincoln County in a northerly
direction to the intersection with the Groom Lake Road; thence following the
centerline of the Groom Lake Road in a northeasterly direction to the
intersection with Nevada State Route 375 (S.R. 375); thence following the
centerline of S.R. 375 in a northeasterly direction to the intersection with
the northerly boundary of Township 6 South, (Range 59 East); thence following
the northerly boundary of Township 6 South in an easterly direction to the
intersection with the easterly boundary of Range 59 East; thence following the
easterly boundary of Range 59 East in a southerly direction to the intersection
with the Northwest corner of the SW 1/4 SW 1/4 of Section 30, T 6 S, R 60 E;
thence following the northerly line of the South 1/2 of the SW 1/4 of said
Section 30 in an easterly direction of the Logan Road; thence following the
centerline of the Logan Road in an easterly direction and projected East to the
intersection with the easterly boundary of Section 28, Township 6 South, Range
61 East; thence following the easterly boundary of said Section 28 and the
easterly boundary of Section 33, T 6 S, R 61 E, in a southerly direction to the
intersection with the North boundary of Township 7 South; thence following the
North boundary of Township 7 South in an easterly direction to the intersection
with the East boundary of Range 63 East; thence following the East boundary of
Range 63 East in a southerly direction to the intersection with the Lincoln-
Clark County line at the southerly boundary of Township 12 South; thence
following the Lincoln-Clark County line in a westerly direction along the South
boundary of Township 12 South to the Southwest corner of Lincoln County which
is the point of beginning.
   (1983 Code § 2.08.030)
   D.   Commissioner District D Rural Area, Caliente Northwest: Beginning at
the Northeast corner on the Nevada-Utah State line at the northeasterly
boundary of Township 5 North, within Range 71 East; thence following the
Nevada-Utah State line in a southerly direction to the intersection with the
south boundary of Township 1 South; thence following the South boundary of
Township 1 South in a westerly direction to the Southwest corner of Township 1
South, Range 67 East; thence following the easterly boundary of Range 66 in a
southerly direction to the intersection of the South boundary of Township 3
South at the Southeast corner of Township 3 South, Range 66 East; thence
following the North boundary of Township 4 South in an easterly direction to
the intersection with the centerline of Highway U.S. 93; thence following U.S.
93 in a southerly direction into the city of Caliente to the intersection with
Lincoln Street; thence following Lincoln Street in a southwesterly direction to
the intersection with Third Street; thence following the centerline of Third
Street in a southerly direction to the intersection with U.S. 93; thence
following the centerline of U.S. 93 in a westerly direction to the intersection
of U.S. 93 and the easterly boundary of Range 63 East; thence following the
East boundary of Range 63 East in a southerly direction to the intersection
with the South boundary of Township 6 South; thence following the South
boundary line of Township 6 South in a westerly direction to the Southwest
corner of Section 34, Township 6 South, Range 61 East; thence following the
West boundary of Section 27, Township 6 South, Range 61 East, in a northerly
direction to the Northwest corner of the SW 1/4 SW 1/4, Section 27, T 6 S, R 61
E; thence following in a westerly direction along the South line of the South
1/2 SW 1/4, Section 28, T 6 S, R 61 E, to the intersection of the Logan Road;
thence continuing westerly on the centerline of Logan Road and projected
westerly to the intersection with the Northwest corner of the SW 1/4 SW 1/4,
Section 30, T 6 S, R 60 E; thence following the West boundary of Range 60 East
in a northerly direction to the Northeast corner of Township 6 South, Range 59
East; thence following the South line of Township 6 South in a westerly
direction to the intersection of State Highway Route 375; thence following the
centerline of State Route 375 in a southwesterly direction to the intersection
with the Groom Lake Road; thence following the centerline of the Groom Lake
Road in a southwesterly direction to the intersection with the Lincoln-Nye
County line near the South boundary of Township 7 South; thence following the
Lincoln-Nye County line in a northerly direction to an angle point on the
County Line within Township 2 North, Range 54 East, thence following the
Lincoln-Nye County line in an easterly direction to an angle point within
Township 2 North, Range 62 East, at 115 West Longitude (Greenwich); thence
following the line 115 West Longitude South to the intersection with the Mount
Diablo Base Line; thence following the Mount Diablo Base Line in an easterly
direction to the Southeast corner of Township 1 North, Range 68 East; thence
following the East boundary of Range 68 East in a northerly direction to the
Northeast corner of Township 5 North, Range 68 East; thence following the North
boundary of Township 5 North in an easterly direction to the intersection with
the Nevada-Utah State line which is the point of beginning.
   (1983 Code § 2.08.040)
   E.   Commissioner District E Panaca, Rural South: Beginning at the Northeast
corner at the intersection of the North boundary line of Township 2 South at a
point on the Nevada-Utah State line within Range 71 East boundary; thence
following the Nevada-Utah State line, within Range 71 East, in a southerly
direction to the intersection with the South boundary of Township 3 South;
thence following the southerly boundary of Township 3 South in a westerly
direction to the intersection with the West boundary of Range 68 East; thence
following the West boundary of Range 68 East in a northerly direction to the
intersection with the South boundary of Township 2 South at the Northwest
corner of Township 3 South, Range 68 East; thence following the South boundary
of Township 2 South in a westerly direction to the intersection with the West
boundary of Range 67 East; thence following the West boundary of Range 67 East
in a northerly direction to the intersection with the North boundary of
Township 2 South at the Northwest corner of Township 2 South, Range 67 East;
thence following the North boundary of Township 2 South in an easterly
direction to the intersection with the Nevada-Utah State line which is the
point of beginning.
   (1983 Code § 2.08.050)
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Meeting Dates:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The board of county commissioners shall meet on
the first and third Mondays of each calendar month at a time to be set by the
board of county commissioners.
      2.   Holidays: In the event the meeting day falls on a holiday or any
nonjudicial day, such meeting shall be held on the next judicial day. (Ord.
2001-09, 12-20-2001)
   B.   Open Meetings: Meetings of the board of county commissioners shall be
open to the public, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 241.020. (2003
Code)
CHAPTER 7
COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Travel Expense Policy
1-7-2: Justices Of The Peace; Compensation
1-7-3: Elected Officials
1-7-4: Appointed Officials
1-7-1: TRAVEL EXPENSE POLICY:
   A.   Estimates By Departments: Each department of the county shall set forth
in its annual budget the maximum amount of money that it estimates will be
necessary to pay for necessary travel expenses for the fiscal year.
   B.   Travel Claims:
      1.   All travel claims must specifically set forth the location or point,
date and time of departure and return. The county commissioners should be made
aware of any major revisions in travel itinerary. Requests for travel advance
should contain the same information.
      2.   In cases where a travel advance has been received, all claims must
be submitted to the treasurer's office within five (5) days after returning
from the appointed travel.
      3.   Claims from the sheriff's office must be submitted on a monthly
basis.
   C.   Travel Status; Reimbursement For Meals, Lodging And Mileage:
      1.   Within County:
         a.   County Business:
            1.   When a county officer or employee is on travel status (i.e.,
traveling inside the county for the purpose of transacting county business) and
outside the county seat, or other area in the county wherein the person's
principal office is located, for more than a continuous eight (8) hour period,
that employee or officer shall be eligible for reimbursement for meals, lodging
and mileage. (Ord. 1998-01, 1-20-1998)
            2.   A county justice of the peace shall be reimbursed for meal
charges incurred while traveling within the county for any period of time while
outside his/her area of jurisdiction if traveling on official business. (Ord.
1998-01, 1-20-1998; amd. 2003 Code)
         b.   Amount Of Reimbursement: The amount of reimbursement for meals,
lodging and mileage will be as set by the board of county commissioners.
         c.   Lodging With Friends, Relatives: Overnight lodging with friends
or relatives shall not be reimbursable by the county.
      2.   Out Of County, In State, Or Out Of State:
         a.   County Business: When a county officer or employee is on travel
status (i.e., traveling outside the county for the purpose of transacting
county business), that employee or officer shall be eligible for reimbursement
for meals, lodging and mileage on the same schedule as for travel in the county
as set forth by the board of county commissioners.
         b.   Receipts: Receipts are required for commercial parking, bus
fares, air fares, etc.
         c.   Free Meals: When county officers or employees receive free meals
such as in flight as part of air fare or when provided by registration fees, no
reimbursement is allowed.
         d.   Lodging With Friends, Relatives: Overnight lodging with friends
or relatives shall not be reimbursable by the county.
   D.   Money Advanced; Lien Upon Wages: All money advanced to a county officer
or employee to pay for his travel expenses constitutes a lien in favor of the
county upon the accrued wages of the officer or employee to whom the advance
was made. The county may advance more money to an officer or employee than the
amount of his/her currently accrued wages. If travel expenses are not used for
travel as approved and if court proceedings are initiated, the county will be
entitled to court costs for the recovery action. (Ord. 1998-01, 1-20-1998)
1-7-2: JUSTICES OF THE PEACE; COMPENSATION:
The various justices of the peace of Lincoln County are to be compensated for
their services pursuant to the salaries and fees set by the board of county
commissioners. The various justices of the peace are to be reimbursed for
expenses incurred in the transaction of public business pursuant to guidelines
enumerated in Nevada Revised Statutes section 281.160. (Ord. 2001-08, 12-20-
2001, eff. 1-15-2002)
1-7-3: ELECTED OFFICIALS:
   A.   Election; Terms:
      1.   The following county officials shall be elected by the qualified
electors of the county, and shall serve four (4) year terms:
      County clerk
      County recorder/auditor
      County treasurer
      County assessor
      County district attorney
      County sheriff
      2.   Such officials shall enter upon the duties of their respective
offices on the first Monday of January subsequent to their election.
   B.   Oath And Bond: The elected county officials shall take the oath
prescribed by law, and shall execute to the county penal bonds pursuant to
statute, conditioned for the faithful discharge of the duties of their offices.
(2003 Code)
1-7-4: APPOINTED OFFICIALS:
   A.   Appointment: Various officials, as determined necessary by the board of
county commissioners, shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the
board of county commissioners.
   B.   Duties: Such county officials shall exercise those duties ascribed to
them, from time to time, by the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 2001-06,
12-5-2001)
CHAPTER 8
RECORDS MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
1-8-1: Definitions
1-8-2: Records Management Committee
1-8-3: Duties Of County Clerk And Recorder
1-8-4: Public Records Custody And Control
1-8-5: Disposal Of County Records
1-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the words that are used in this chapter
shall have the meanings that are ascribed to them in this section:
DISPOSITION: The final action that has been recommended for a record by the
records retention schedule that has been approved for the office that produces
or generates the record.
OFFICE: Any office, department, board, commission, committee, agency or any
other division of the county.
PUBLIC RECORDS: Any paper, correspondence, form, book, photograph, film, sound
recording, map, drawing or other document, regardless of its physical form or
characteristics, that has been made by any office or official or received by it
in connection with the transaction of public business.
The term does not include published books and pamphlets, books and pamphlets
that have been printed by a government printer, worksheets that are used to
collect or compile data after such data has been included in a record, answer
pads for telephones or other informal notes, stenographer's notes after the
information that is contained therein has been transcribed, unused forms,
except unused ballots, brochures, newsletters, magazines, newspapers, except
those portions of newspapers that are retained as evidence of publication,
scrapbooks and property that have been left or deposited with an office which
would otherwise be defined as a record except that the ownership of such
property does not reside within the county.
RECORD SERIES: Documents, volumes or folders that are arranged under a single
filing system or are kept together as a unit because they relate to a
particular subject, result from the same activity or have a particular form.
RECORDS CENTER: An area for housing inactive or semiactive records which do not
receive sufficient use to warrant their retention in the office in which they
were initially kept.
RECORDS RETENTION SCHEDULE: An itemized list of record series, with the
corresponding time periods for which they must be kept, including the location
and final disposition thereof.
VITAL RECORDS: Those records that would be essential for the reconstruction of
the function and operation of a department in order for it to conduct business
following a disaster. (1983 Code § 2.32.010)
1-8-2: RECORDS MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE:
   A.   Establishment; Composition: A records management committee is
established and shall be composed of:
      1.   County clerk;
      2.   County recorder;
      3.   County grant administrator. (1983 Code § 2.32.020)
   B.   Responsibilities: The records management committee shall:
      1.   Approve or modify all records retention schedules before they are
submitted to the county commission for its approval;
      2.   Provide general guidance and assistance with respect to improvements
of the records management process;
      3.   Ensure that the approved records retention schedule is adhered to by
all county offices and that records to be destroyed each year are destroyed
routinely on schedule. (1983 Code § 2.32.030)
1-8-3: DUTIES OF COUNTY CLERK AND RECORDER:
   A.   County Clerk: The county clerk shall maintain control over the county
clerk's vault ensuring that:
      1.   Unauthorized persons are not allowed into the vault unsupervised;
      2.   No new records are placed into the vault for storage unless:
         a.   They are covered by an approved retention schedule;
         b.   They are properly boxed in the approved type of record box
(dimensions 10 inches x 12 inches x 15 inches) and the box is numbered and
entered into the records storage.
      3.   Exception to subsection A2 of this section are court records which
are interfiled with the criminal and civil cases in the file cabinets, boxes of
evidence required to be kept, maps, or large bound books.
   B.   County Recorder: The county recorder shall maintain control over the
recorder's vault which stores the records of the recorder and auditor, the
treasurer's office and the assessor's office ensuring that:
      1.   Persons mentioned in subsection B of this section and their deputies
are authorized persons and shall have keys in their respective offices for the
vault;
      2.   Unauthorized persons are not allowed into the vault unsupervised;
      3.   No new records are allowed into the vault for storage unless:
         a.   They are covered by an approved retention schedule;
         b.   They are properly boxed in the standard record box (dimensions 10
inches x 12 inches x 15 inches) and the box is numbered and entered into the
records storage list.
      4.   Exceptions to subsection B3b of this section are maps and large
bound books. (1983 Code § 2.32.040)
1-8-4: PUBLIC RECORDS CUSTODY AND CONTROL:
The right to custody and control of the records that have been in the clerk's
and recorder's vaults shall remain with the county official whose department
originated the records. (1983 Code § 2.32.050)
1-8-5: DISPOSAL OF COUNTY RECORDS:
   A.   Manner Of Disposal; Approval: County records shall be disposed of only
in accordance with the records retention schedules approved by the records
retention committee and the county commissioners.
   B.   Certification Of Disposal: Records scheduled to be destroyed shall be
disposed of by burning and a statement of certification of destruction, listing
the records and their dates, must be signed by the county employee overseeing
the destruction.
   C.   Justice Court Records: The disposition of judicial records of the
justice court shall be governed by the retention schedules as set forth in the
state of Nevada Local Courts Records Retention Manual published by the
administrative office of the courts and the Nevada supreme court. (Ord. 1991-
2 §6, 1991)
CHAPTER 9
COUNTY MEDICAL CARE
SECTION:
1-9-1: Definitions
1-9-2: Welfare Board
1-9-3: Welfare Director
1-9-4: Eligibility For Care
1-9-5: Extent Of Care
1-9-6: Reimbursement To County
1-9-7: Fraud
1-9-8: Rules And Regulations
1-9-9: Standards Of Eligibility
1-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
COMMISSIONERS: The Lincoln County board of commissioners.
DIRECTOR: The director of public welfare. (1983 Code § 2.12.020)
1-9-2: WELFARE BOARD:
There is established a county welfare board which shall consist of the board of
county commissioners and a director of public welfare. (1983 Code § 2.12.010)
1-9-3: WELFARE DIRECTOR:
   A.   Appointment; Duties: A welfare director shall be appointed by the
commissioners, who, under the direct supervision of the commissioners, shall
discharge all those duties and administer all such programs as the
commissioners may from time to time delegate to the director. Such duties and
administrative responsibilities shall be restricted to those which, under the
various state laws of Nevada pertaining to welfare matters, are made the
responsibility of the counties and which can be lawfully delegated by the board
of county commissioners to appointed or elected officials of such counties. The
director shall have the authority to make decisions regarding disposition of
funds budgeted for the establishment of indigent medical care.
   B.   Decision Making Authority: The director shall have the authority to act
and make decisions in emergency situations without the prior approval of the
commissioners. (1983 Code § 2.12.030)
1-9-4: ELIGIBILITY FOR CARE:
A person is eligible or partially eligible for county medical care if:
   A.   Determination Of Need: The director determines with proper medical
evidence that the person is in need of medical care;
   B.   Insufficient Funds: He does not have sufficient funds, as determined in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, to pay for all or part of that
person's medical care;
   C.   Adequate Aid Not Available: That person is not receiving adequate aid
or assistance from state or federal medical care programs; and
   D.   Property Owner: Even if that person does not meet other tests for
eligibility, he may be ineligible, or may be only partially eligible, if he
owns property, except that he may:
      1.   Own a personally occupied residence having an assessed valuation not
in excess of the amount to be set forth in the rules and regulations to be
adopted pursuant to section
1-9-8 of this chapter;
      2.   Own personal property with a quick sale or cash value not in excess
of the amount to be set forth in the rules and regulations to be adopted
pursuant to section
1-9-8 of this chapter;
      3.   As provided in this chapter, a lien in favor of the county on real
property so owned by the person may be imposed as a condition to certification
of an applicant for medical care at county expense. (1983 Code § 2.12.040)
1-9-5: EXTENT OF CARE:
   A.   General: Medical care shall be rendered to eligible persons to the
extent and subject to the conditions set forth in this section, as determined
by the director.
   B.   Extent: Medical care as is necessary for the health and safety of an
eligible person shall be provided at facilities within Lincoln County.
   C.   Use Of Facilities Within County: Except for care for an urgent medical
condition which is likely to result in serious and permanent bodily disability
or death of the recipient, medical care furnished at places other than
facilities within the county may be supplied only upon prior written approval
of the director. (1983 Code § 2.12.050)
1-9-6: REIMBURSEMENT TO COUNTY:
As a condition of such care, an eligible person shall reimburse the county in
accordance with the following rules:
   A.   Requirement: The applicant or other responsible party will be required
to reimburse the county for that portion of the medical expenses that fall
within his financial ability.
   B.   Cessation Of Eligibility: If a person who has received care acquires
property or otherwise ceases to be eligible, the cost of care shall be a charge
against him to the extent such costs exceed his eligibility.
   C.   Statement Of Charges: The county shall render to a person who has been
provided care in a county hospital a statement setting forth the charges upon
which its claim for reimbursement is based.
   D.   Interest Or Carrying Charges: No interest or carrying charge shall be
charged in connection with any debt incurred for county hospital care.
   E.   Liens:
      1.   If it is determined by the commissioners to be in the best interest
of the county, a lien against the property of the patient or responsible
relative may be required.
      2.   Sale or foreclosure of such a lien shall not be enforced against the
home of the eligible person or his responsible relative:
         a.   During his lifetime or that of his spouse;
         b.   During the minority of his children if they reside in the home;
         c.   During the lifetime of any dependent adult child who resides in
the home and who is incapable of self-support because of mental or physical
disability.
      3.   Any lien taken by the county for county hospital care shall be
released immediately when the amount owing the county for that care is paid.
      4.   If a person against whose home a lien has been imposed for county
hospital care desires to acquire a different home, and thereby reduce or
consolidate monthly mortgage payments and the security of the county is not
thereby impaired, the county, at the option of the board, may release its lien
on the original home and transfer it to such new or other home.
      5.   If the person desires to borrow money for the purpose of making
necessary improvements for medical reasons, at the option of the board and if
the security of the county is not thereby impaired, the county may subordinate
its lien to the security interest to be incurred for such improvements.
   F.   Responsible Relatives: The cost of care rendered to a person is a
charge against the responsible relative of that person in accordance with the
following rules.
      1.   A responsible relative is a father, mother, child, brother or
sister, of sufficient ability, to reimburse the county, fully or in part, for
its expenses in caring for the indigent relative.
      2.   The cost of such care shall not be a charge against a responsible
relative who is a recipient of public assistance or is eligible for a federal
or state medical care program.
   G.   Installment Payments: If the director deems it appropriate, a person
against whom the cost of care is a charge may pay in installments in such
amounts and at such intervals as approved by the director. (1983 Code §
2.12.060)
1-9-7: FRAUD:
   A.   Conveyance Of Property: In cases where it appears the applicant or
responsible relative has conveyed away property prior to application or any
time thereafter, the commissioners shall determine as soon as possible whether
such transfer was for a fair and adequate consideration, and whether or not the
transfer in effect makes the person a public charge. In such a case, the county
may then proceed against responsible relatives or other parties involved to
recover the expenses incurred by the county.
   B.   False Information: If any applicant should attempt to secure aid or
assistance under this chapter by wilfully giving false information about his
medical or financial condition, such action shall constitute a misdemeanor
offense. (1983 Code § 2.12.070)
1-9-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The board shall have the right to establish such policies, standards, rules and
regulations and amend the same as may be from time to time advisable or
necessary to give this chapter full force and effect. Such policies, standards,
rules and regulations and amendments thereto shall have the full force and
effect of law. The current such policies, rules and regulations will be
effective on the date of passage and approval of this chapter, and any
amendments thereto shall become of full force and effect by adoption of a
resolution of the board and filing with the clerk thereof. (1983 Code §
2.12.080; amd. 2003 Code)
1-9-9: STANDARDS OF ELIGIBILITY:
The allowable income, assets and other resources and potential resources of
persons eligible for assistance shall be as established from time to time by
the board pursuant to section
1-9-8 of this chapter and in no event shall the eligibility be more restrictive
than that established by the then current Nevada state statutes relating
thereto. The policies and standards of medical indigency eligibility have been
adopted by the board by resolution 1988-1, 1988, and become effective on final
passage and approval of this chapter. (1983 Code § 2.12.090)
CHAPTER 10
MARRIAGE LICENSES AND FEES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Issuance And Fee
1-10-2: Fees For Issuance After Regular Hours
1-10-1: ISSUANCE AND FEE:
The office of the county clerk shall issue marriage licenses during regular
office hours. The fee for a marriage license is fifty dollars ($50.00). (1983
Code § 2.16.010; amd. 2003 Code)
1-10-2: FEES FOR ISSUANCE AFTER REGULAR HOURS:
The county clerk shall receive an additional fee of five dollars ($5.00) for
the issuance of a marriage license applied for and issued after regular office
hours over and above the fees provided by state law. (1983 Code § 2.16.020)
CHAPTER 11
COUNTY RECORDER FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
1-11-1: Recording Fees And Requirements
1-11-2: Exceptions To Standard Recording Fees
1-11-1: RECORDING FEES AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Fees Imposed: Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 247.305, the
following recording fees will be charged by the county recorder's office:
 
First legal page or part thereof     $14.00
Each additional page or part thereof 1.00
Additional fee for double documents  3.00
 
   B.   Endorsement Stamp: A three inch (3") square is required at the bottom
of the last page for the recorder's endorsement stamp. If there is not
sufficient room for the endorsement stamp, one dollar ($1.00) will be added to
the recording fee. Maximum acceptable page size is eight and one-half inches by
fifteen inches (81/2" x 15"). (See assembly bill no. 94, section 1 of chapter
603, statutes of Nevada 2001, at page 3208, and Nevada Revised Statutes section
247.305.) (Ord. 2009-02, 2-2-2009)
1-11-2: EXCEPTIONS TO STANDARD RECORDING FEES:
Pursuant to the Nevada Revised Statutes specified below, the following
recording fees will be charged by the Lincoln County recorder's office:
A. Maps:                                    
  Record of survey                        $21.00, plus $10.00 additional page
   (NRS § 625.370)
  Parcel map - tax certificate needed     $21.00, plus $10.00 additional page
   (NRS § 278.468)
  Subdivision plat                        $54.00, plus $10.00 additional page
   (NRS § 278.450)
  Reversionary plat                       $54.00, plus $10.00 additional page
   (NRS § 278.490)
  Planned unit development                $54.00, plus $10.00 additional page
   (NRS § 278A.570)
  Division into large parcel              $54.00, plus $10.00 additional page
   (NRS § 278.4725)
  Information map                         $21.00, plus $10.00 additional page
B. Marriage certificates:                   
  Certified copy of marriage certificate  $10.00
C. Mining documents:                        
  Notice of location                      $14.00
  Certificate of location                 $14.00, plus $8.50 per claim
   (NRS § 517.050)
  Amended certificate of location         $14.00, plus $8.50 per claim
   (NRS § 517.050)
  Certificate of relocation               $14.00, plus $8.50 per claim
   (NRS § 517.050)
  Proof of labor, unpatented              $2.00, plus $8.50 per claim, plus
   (NRS § 247.310)                         $4.00 document
  Amended proof of labor, unpatented      $2.00, plus $8.50 per claim, plus
   (NRS § 247.310)                         $4.00 document
  Proof of labor, patented                No fee
   (NRS § 362.050)
  Amended proof of labor, patented        No fee
   (NRS § 362.050)
  Placer map                              $1.00 per acre, plus $4.00 document
   (NRS § 517.100)
  Lode, mill site or tunnel map           $15.00, plus $4.00 document
   (NRS § 517.040)
  Amended map                             Same as original fee
  Relocation map                          Same as original fee
   (NRS § 517.080)
  Notice of intention to hold             $2.00, plus $8.50 per claim, plus
                                            $4.00 document
D. Uniform commercial code (UCC):           
  UCC 1 national form                     $20.00
   (NRS § 104.9525)
  UCC 3 national form                     $20.00
   (NRS § 104.9525)
                                         $1.00 for each additional debtor or
                                            trade name
                                         $1.00 for each additional debtor
                                            address
                                         $1.00 for each additional page
E. Search fees:                             
  UCC 5-year search                       $20.00 per name
   (NRS § 104.9525)
  IRS lien search                         $20.00 per name
   (NRS § 108.831)
 
(Ord. 2009-02, 2-2-2009)
CHAPTER 12
FINGERPRINT SUBMISSION
SECTION:
1-12-1: Title
1-12-2: Investigations Required
1-12-3: National Background Check Authorized
1-12-4: State Law
1-12-5: License And Permit Applications
1-12-6: Sets Of Prints
1-12-7: Transmission Of Prints
1-12-8: Private And Public Entity Investigations
1-12-9: Fitness Determinations
1-12-10: Subject Copy
1-12-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the FINGERPRINT SUBMISSION
CODE. (Ord. 2008-10, 11-17-2008)
1-12-2: INVESTIGATIONS REQUIRED:
The county board of commissioners shall set forth by its policies in its
employee handbook and/or by separate resolution the positions of employment
which require employment background investigations that include a fingerprint
based background investigation. As to such positions, the fingerprint based
background investigation is a mandatory portion of the background
investigation. The board of commissioners may further set forth in the
appropriate portion of this county code or by resolution any other
nonemployment required fingerprint based background investigation requirements
as may be permissible under applicable law. Wherever such requirements are
found, they are deemed to be mandatory unless specifically waived by the board
of commissioners or, if so authorized, the county manager. (Ord. 2008-10, 11-
17-2008)
1-12-3: NATIONAL BACKGROUND CHECK AUTHORIZED:
In those instances of required fingerprint based investigations authorized by
this chapter, a national criminal fingerprint based background check by the
federal bureau of investigation (FBI) is authorized hereby. In addition, the
subject of the fingerprint based investigation shall comply with any
authorization or release required by the FBI in furtherance of any continued
application for employment with the county or any other grounds for such
investigation. (Ord. 2008-10, 11-17-2008)
1-12-4: STATE LAW:
Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010(1)(a) authorizes Lincoln County to request and
receive from the FBI information on the background and personal history of any
person applying to it for a license as required by any statute or local
ordinance which it has the power to grant or deny. (Ord. 2008-10, 11-17-2008)
1-12-5: LICENSE AND PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
As authorized in Nevada Revised Statutes 239B.010(1)(a), the county may request
personal history and background information, including, without limitation,
fingerprint based investigation, from the FBI from any person applying to it
for the following licenses and permits:
   A.   Business licenses;
   B.   Sexually oriented business licenses;
   C.   Liquor licenses;
   D.   Gaming licenses;
   E.   Food handling permits;
   F.   Work identification cards;
   G.   Children's fingerprint identification cards;
   H.   Contractor's licenses; or
   I.   Concealed weapon permits. (Ord. 2008-10, 11-17-2008)
1-12-6: SETS OF PRINTS:
An applicant, employee, volunteer or other person seeking to engage in an
activity or status requiring a fingerprint based background investigation by
any portion of this county code or resolution of the county board of
commissioners, shall submit, if required, two (2) sets of his/her fingerprints
taken by the Lincoln County sheriff's department to be delivered to the
requesting officer of the county. (Ord. 2008-10, 11-17-2008)
1-12-7: TRANSMISSION OF PRINTS:
Upon receipt of the fingerprints and the appropriate fees, the Lincoln County
sheriff's department will transmit both sets of fingerprints and appropriate
fees to the department of public safety of the state of Nevada. The department
of public safety of the state of Nevada will compare the subject's fingerprints
against its criminal file for disqualifying conduct and, if necessary, submit
the fingerprints to the FBI for a comparison with nationwide records. The
results of the FBI will be returned to the department of public safety of the
state of Nevada, which will disseminate the state and national results to the
police department of the county. (Ord. 2008-10, 11-17-2008)
1-12-8: PRIVATE AND PUBLIC ENTITY INVESTIGATIONS:
If an employer or organization is a private entity and this county code or
board of commissioners permits or requires Lincoln County sheriff
determinations, the Lincoln County sheriff will render a fitness determination
based upon the results of the criminal background check and communicate its
fitness determination to such private employer or organization. If an employer
or organization is a public entity, the sheriff's department will: a) render a
fitness determination based upon the results of the criminal background check
and communicate its fitness determination to such public entity or b)
disseminate the results of the criminal background check to the proper county
department or entity for a fitness determination. (Ord. 2008-10, 11-17-2008)
1-12-9: FITNESS DETERMINATIONS:
In rendering a fitness determination, the Lincoln County sheriff's department
or appropriate county department will decide whether the investigation subject
has been convicted of: a) a crime which bears upon his/her ability or fitness
to serve in that capacity; b) any felony or misdemeanor which involved force or
the threat of force, controlled substances, or was a sex related offense; or c)
enumerated disqualifiers. (Ord. 2008-10, 11-17-2008)
1-12-10: SUBJECT COPY:
A record investigation subject may request and receive a copy of his/her
criminal history record information from the Lincoln County sheriff's
department or appropriate county department. Should the record investigation
subject seek to amend or correct his/her record, he/she must contact the
department of public safety for a Nevada state record or the federal bureau of
investigation for records from other jurisdictions maintained in its file.
(Ord. 2008-10, 11-17-2008)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
HOSPITAL DISTRICT BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Established; Membership
2-1-2: Election Districts
2-1-3: Term Of Office
2-1-4: Time And Manner Of Election
2-1-5: Office Nonpartisan
2-1-6: Vacancies
2-1-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP:
There is established and created a hospital district board of trustees,
consisting of five (5) trustees who shall govern the hospital, pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes section 450.620. (1983 Code §§ 2.10.010, 2.10.020)
2-1-2: ELECTION DISTRICTS:
The hospital district is divided into five (5) single member districts, each
member to be voted upon on an at-large basis. The single member election
districts are as follows:
   A.   District A: Beginning at the point on the Mount Diablo Base and
Meridian which is the southwest corner of Township One North (T1N), Range
Sixty-five East (R65E) and running thence north along the line dividing Range
Sixty-five East (R65E) from Range Sixty-four East (R64E) to the northeast
corner of Township Three North (T3N), Range Sixty-four East (R64E); thence east
along the south boundary of Township Four North (T4N) to the northeast corner
of Township Three North (T3N), Range Sixty-seven East (R67E); thence south on
the line dividing Range Sixty-seven East (R67E) from Range Sixty-eight East
(R68E) to the point where said line intersects the centerline of Nevada Highway
85; thence in an easterly direction along said centerline of Nevada Highway 85
to a point within Section Nine (9), Township One North (T1N), Range Sixty-nine
East (R69E) where said Nevada Highway 85 intersects the road from Rose Valley;
thence in a generally southerly direction along the centerline of said road to
Rose Valley to the point in Rose Valley where said road intersects the road
which comes from Eagle Valley via the "Narrows"; thence southerly along the
centerline of the road from Rose Valley to Delmues to the point where said road
intersects the Mount Diablo Base and Meridian; thence west along said Mount
Diablo Base and Meridian to the point of beginning.
   B.   District B: Beginning at the point where the Mount Diablo Base and
Meridian intersects the boundary line between the State of Nevada and the State
of Utah; thence south along said boundary line to the point where said boundary
line intersects the line dividing Township Two South (T2S) from Township Three
South (T3S); thence west along said line dividing Township Two South (T2S) from
Township Three South (T3S) to the 115° west longitude; thence north along said
115° west longitude to the Mount Diablo Base and Meridian; thence east along
said Mount Diablo Base and Meridian to the point of beginning.
   C.   District C: Beginning at the point on the 115° west longitude where it
intersects the line dividing Township Two South (T2S) from Township Three South
(T3S) and running thence south along said 115° west longitude to the boundary
line between the County of Lincoln and the County of Clark; thence easterly
along the said County boundary line to the point where said boundary line
intersects the centerline of the Rainbow Canyon Road (as said road was aligned
on January 1, 1972); thence generally in a northerly direction along said
centerline of the Rainbow Canyon Road to the point where said centerline
intersects the centerline of U.S. Highway 93; thence easterly along the
centerline of said U.S. Highway 93 into the City of Caliente to the point where
said U.S. Highway 93 intersects Market Street; thence northwesterly along the
centerline of said Market Street to the intersection of Market and Main
Streets; thence southwesterly along the centerline of said Main Street to the
intersection of Main and McKinley Streets; thence northwesterly along the
centerline of said McKinley Street to the City limits of the City of Caliente;
thence north along said City limits of the City of Caliente to the northernmost
northwest corner of said City limits; thence east along the northern boundary
of said City limits of the City of Caliente to the point where said boundary
intersects the centerline of U.S. Highway 93; thence in a northerly direction
along said centerline of U.S. Highway 93 to the point where said centerline
intersects the line dividing Township Two South (T2S) from Township Three South
(T3S); thence west along said dividing line to the 115° west longitude which is
the point of beginning.
   D.   District D: Beginning at the southeast corner of the County of Lincoln;
running thence west along the boundary between the County of Lincoln and the
County of Clark to the point where said boundary line intersects the centerline
of the Rainbow Canyon Road (as said road was aligned on January 1, 1972);
thence generally in a northerly direction along said centerline of the Rainbow
Canyon Road to the point where said centerline intersects the centerline of
U.S. Highway 93; thence easterly along the centerline of said U.S. Highway 93
into the City of Caliente to the point where said U.S. Highway 93 intersects
Market Street; thence northwesterly along the centerline of said Market Street
to the intersection of Market and Main Streets; thence southwesterly along the
centerline of said Main Street to the intersection of Main and McKinley
Streets; thence northwesterly along the centerline of said McKinley Street to
the City limits of the City of Caliente; thence north along said City limits of
the City of Caliente to the northernmost northwest corner of said City limits;
thence east along the northern boundary of said City limits of the City of
Caliente to the point where said boundary intersects the centerline of U.S.
Highway 93; thence in a northerly direction along said centerline of U.S.
Highway 93 to the point where said centerline intersects the line dividing
Township Two South (T2S) from Township Three South (T3S); thence east along
said dividing line to the point where said line intersects the boundary line
between the State of Nevada and the State of Utah; thence south along the
eastern boundary of the State of Nevada to the southeast corner of the County
of Lincoln, which is the point of beginning.
   E.   District E: Beginning at the point on the Mount Diablo Base and
Meridian which is the southwest corner of Township One North (T1N) Range Sixty-
five East (R65E) and running thence north along the line dividing Range Sixty-
five East (R65E) from Range Sixty- four East (R64E) to the northeast corner of
Township Three North (T3N), Range Sixty-four East (R64E); thence east along the
south boundary of Township Four North (T4N) to the northeast corner of Township
Three North (T3N), Range Sixty-seven East (R67E); thence south on the line
dividing Range Sixty-seven East (R67E) from Range Sixty-eight East (R68E) to
the point where said line intersects the centerline of Nevada Highway 85;
thence in an easterly direction along said centerline of Nevada Highway 85 to a
point within Section Nine (9), Township One North (T1N), Range Sixty-nine East
(R69E) where said Nevada Highway 85 intersects the road from Rose Valley;
thence in a generally southerly direction along the centerline of said road to
Rose Valley to the point in Rose Valley where said road intersects the road
which comes from Eagle Valley via the "Narrows"; thence southerly along the
centerline of the road from Rose Valley to Delmues to the point where said road
intersects the Mount Diablo Base and Meridian; thence east along said Mount
Diablo Base and Meridian to the State boundary between the State of Nevada and
the State of Utah; thence north along said State boundary to the point where
said State boundary meets the boundary line between the County of Lincoln and
the County of White Pine (which point is also the northeast corner of the
County of Lincoln); thence west along the said boundary between the County of
Lincoln and the County of White Pine to the point which is common to the County
of Lincoln, the County of White Pine and the County of Nye (which point is also
the northernmost northwest corner of the County of Lincoln); thence following
the boundary of Lincoln County south, thence west, thence south to the
southwest corner of the County of Lincoln; thence easterly along the southern
boundary of the County of Lincoln (which is the boundary between the County of
Lincoln and the County of Clark) to the 115° west longitude; thence north along
said 115° west longitude to the Mount Diablo Base and Meridian; thence east
along the said Mount Diablo Base and Meridian to the point of beginning.
   (1983 Code § 2.10.030)
2-1-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
At the first general election following enactment of this chapter, three (3)
trustees shall be elected to initial four (4) year terms and the other two (2)
trustees shall be elected to initial two (2) year terms. The county clerk
shall, on or before the first Tuesday in June of the year in which the election
is to be held, designate which three (3) positions on the board will consist of
four (4) year terms and which two (2) positions will consist of two (2) year
terms. When the initial terms expire, subsequent terms for each position are
for four (4) years. (1983 Code § 2.10.040; amd. 2003 Code)
2-1-4: TIME AND MANNER OF ELECTION:
Trustees shall be elected at the general election in the same manner as other
county officers are elected. (1983 Code § 2.10.050)
2-1-5: OFFICE NONPARTISAN:
   A.   Primary Election: The office of hospital trustee is to be nonpartisan,
and the names of candidates for such offices shall appear alike upon the
ballots of all parties at the primary election.
   B.   General Election: At the general election, only the names of those
candidates not to exceed twice the number of hospital district trustees to be
elected, who receive the highest numbers of votes at the primary election,
shall appear on the ballot. (1983 Code § 2.10.060)
2-1-6: VACANCIES:
Vacancies in the hospital district board of trustees occasioned by
resignations, removals or otherwise, including vacancies prior to the first
general election following enactment of this chapter, shall be reported to the
board of county commissioners and shall be filled by appointment by the board
of county commissioners. Appointees shall hold office until the next following
general election in the usual manner. (1983 Code § 2.10.070; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Established
2-2-2: Membership; Appointment
2-2-3: Terms Of Office; Removal; Vacancies
2-2-4: Compensation And Expenses
2-2-5: Chairman And Officers
2-2-6: Meetings; Rules And Records
2-2-7: Powers And Duties
2-2-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
There is established and created a regional transportation pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes 277A.170. (1983 Code § 2.30.010; amd. 2019; Ord. 2019-04, 12-
16-2019)
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
The regional transportation commission shall consist of three (3) members who
shall be selected as follows:
   A.   Two (2) members who shall be appointed by the board of county
commissioners;
   B.   One (1) member who shall be appointed by the governing body of the City
of Caliente. (1983 Code § 2.30.010; amd. 2003 Code; Ord. 2019-04, 12-16-2019)
2-2-3: TERMS OF OFFICE; REMOVAL; VACANCIES:
The term of office for the members of the regional transportation commission
shall be two (2) years, and shall expire on December 31 of their respective
years. The first representative shall be selected within thirty (30) days after
passage of the ordinance creating the regional transportation commission, and
shall serve until the next ensuing December 31 of an even number year.
Successors must serve terms of two (2) years, and vacancies must be filled for
any unexpired terms. (1983 Code § 2.30.010; amd. 2019; Ord. 2019-04, 12-16-
2019)
2-2-4: COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES:
Members of the regional transportation commission shall serve without
compensation, except for reasonable travel expenses made necessary in the
fulfillment of their official duties. (1983 Code § 2.30.010; amd. Ord. 2019-04,
12-16-2019)
2-2-5: CHAIRMAN AND OFFICERS:
   A.   Election of Chairman: The regional transportation commission shall
elect its chairman from among the appointed members, and the term of such
elected chairman shall be one (1) year, with eligibility for reelection to
successive terms.
   B.   Other Offices: The regional transportation commission shall create and
fill such other offices as it may deem necessary. (1983 Code § 2.30.010; amd.
2019; Ord. 2019-04, 12-16-2019)
2-2-6: MEETINGS; RULES AND RECORDS:
   A.   Time of Meetings; Quorum: The regional transportation commission shall
hold meetings as circumstances may require or render desirable for the
performance of its functions and the proper discharge of its duties and
responsibilities. A majority of the membership shall constitute a quorum for
the purpose of transacting business. Action by the regional transportation
commission shall be by majority vote.
   B.   Rules and Regulations: The regional transportation commission shall
adopt rules and regulations for the conduct of its business, subject to Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 277A, or any other law of the state, for the
organization of the regional transportation commission and the conduct of its
business.
   C.   Record of Transactions: The regional transportation commission shall
keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations,
which record shall be a public record. (1983 Code § 2.30.010; amd. 2019; Ord.
2019-04, 12-16-2019)
2-2-7: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The regional transportation commission shall exercise and perform only
those powers and duties specifically granted to it and enumerated in Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 277A, and shall exercise or perform the powers and
duties in the mode and manner set forth in said chapter 277A. The powers and
duties shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Receive and disburse federal funds;
      2.   Submit project applications and programs of projects to federal
agencies;
      3.   Enter into formal agreements concerning projects with federal
agencies;
      4.   Conduct public hearings and certify that such hearings were
conducted;
      5.   Establish a fund consisting of contributions from private sources,
the State, or the county, cities, and towns within the jurisdiction of the
regional transportation commission for the purpose of matching federal money
from any federal source;
      6.   Establish a Complete Streets Fund consisting of distributions from
the Department of Motor Vehicles pursuant to paragraph (a) of subsection 1 of
Nevada Revised Statutes section 482.1825, for the purpose of:
         a.   Executing projects as a part of a Complete Streets Program
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 277A.285;
         b.   Matching federal money from any federal source for the execution
of projects as a part of a Complete Streets program pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes section 277A.285.
      7.   Authorized to accept gifts and donations for deposit into the
Complete Streets Fund;
      8.   Review all street and highway construction, surfacing or resurfacing
projects which are to be financed from the county motor vehicle fuel tax
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 373.140;
      9.   Make annual reports to the Department of Motor Vehicles showing the
amount of receipts from the County motor vehicle tax imposed pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 373 and the nature of the expenditures for each
project in accordance with and pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section
277A.360;
      10.   Acquire and own both real and personal property;
      11.   Exercise the power of eminent domain, if the city or county which
has jurisdiction over the property approves, for the acquisition, construction,
repair or maintenance of public roads, or for any other purpose related to
public mass transportation;
      12.   Sell, lease, convey, or otherwise dispose of rights, interests, or
properties; and
      13.   Adopt regulations for:
         a.   Financing eligible activities; and
         b.    The operation of systems or services provided by the regional
transportation commission.
   B.   The regional transportation commission shall comply with any applicable
federal law in relation to providing goods or services related to any project
for which the Board of County Commissioners receives federal funds. (1983 Code
§ 2.30.010; amd. 2003 Code; amd. 2019; Ord. 2019-04, 12-16-2019)
TITLE 3
REVENUE AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 1
SALES AND USE TAXES
ARTICLE A. CITY/COUNTY TAX; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Generally
3-1A-2: Terms Defined
3-1A-1: GENERALLY:
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in section
3-1A-2 of this article govern the construction of this chapter. (1983 Code §
3.04.005)
3-1A-2: TERMS DEFINED:
BUSINESS: Includes any activity engaged in by any person or caused to be
engaged in by him with the object of gain, benefit or advantage, either direct
or indirect.
GROSS RECEIPTS:
   A.   "Gross receipts" means the total amount of the sale or lease or rental
price, as the case may be, of the retail sales of retailers, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, without any deduction on account of any
of the following:
      1. The cost of the property sold. However, in accordance with such rules
and regulations as the tax commission may prescribe, a deduction may be taken
if the retailer has purchased property for some other purpose than resale, has
reimbursed his vendor for tax which the vendor is required to pay to the
county, or has paid the use tax with respect to the property, and has resold
the property prior to making any use of the property other than retention,
demonstration or display while holding it for sale in the regular course of
business. If such a deduction is taken by the retailer, no refund or credit
will be allowed to his vendor with respect to the sale of the property;
      2. The cost of the materials used, labor or service cost, interest paid,
losses or any other expense;
      3. The cost of transportation of the property prior to its sale to the
purchaser.
   B.   The total amount of the sale or lease or rental price includes all of
the following:
      1. Any services that are a part of the sale;
      2. All receipts, cash, credits and property of any kind;
      3. Any amount for which credit is allowed by the seller to the purchaser.
   C.   "Gross receipts" does not include any of the following:
      1. Cash discounts allowed and taken on sale;
      2. Sale price of property returned by customers when the full sale price
is refunded either in cash or credit; but this exclusion shall not apply in any
instance when the customer, in order to obtain the refund, is required to
purchase other property at a price greater than the amount charged for the
property that is returned;
      3. The price received for labor or services used in installing or
applying the property sold;
      4. The amount of any tax (not including, however, any manufacturers' or
importers' excise tax) imposed by the United States upon or with respect to
retail sales, whether imposed upon the retailer or the consumer.
   D.   For purpose of the sales tax, if the retailers establish to the
satisfaction of the tax commission that the sales tax has been added to the
total amount of the sale price and has not been absorbed by them, the total
amount of the sale price shall be deemed to be the amount received exclusive of
the tax imposed.
IN LINCOLN COUNTY, OR IN THE COUNTY: Within the exterior limits of Lincoln
County, and includes all territory within such limits owned by or ceded to the
United States of America.
OCCASIONAL SALE: A. "Occasional sale" includes:
1. A sale of property not held or used by a seller in the course of an activity
for which he is required to hold a seller's permit, provided such sale is not
one of a series of sales sufficient in number, scope and character to
constitute an activity requiring the holding of a seller's permit.
2. Any transfer of all or substantially all of the property held or used by a
person in the course of such an activity when after such transfer the real or
ultimate ownership of such property is substantially similar to that which
existed before such transfer.
   B.   For the purposes of this definition, stockholders, bondholders,
partners or other persons holding an interest in a corporation or other entity
are regarded as having the "real or ultimate ownership" of the property of such
corporation or other entity.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, copartnership, joint venture,
association, social club, fraternal organization, corporation, estate, trust,
business trust, receiver, trustee, syndicate, cooperative, assignee, or any
other group or combination acting as a unit, but shall not include the United
States, the state of Nevada or any agency thereof, or any city, county,
district or other political subdivision of the state of Nevada.
PURCHASE: A. Any transfer, exchange or barter, conditional or otherwise, in any
manner or by any means whatsoever, of tangible personal property for a
consideration.
   B.   A transaction whereby the possession of property is transferred but the
seller retains the title as security for the payment of the price is a
"purchase".
   C.   A transfer for a consideration of tangible personal property which has
been produced, fabricated or printed to the special order of the customer, or
of any publication, is also a "purchase".
RETAIL SALE; SALE AT RETAIL: A. A sale for any purpose other than resale in the
regular course of business of tangible personal property.
   B.   The delivery in Lincoln County of tangible personal property by an
owner or former owner thereof or by a factor, or agent of such owner, former
owner or factor, if the delivery is to a consumer or person for redelivery to a
consumer, pursuant to a retail sale made by a retailer not engaged in business
in the county, is a retail sale in the county by the person making the
delivery. He shall include the retail selling price of the property in his
gross receipts.
RETAILER: A. Includes:
1. Every seller who makes any retail sale or sales of tangible personal
property, and every person engaged in the business of making retail sales at
auction of tangible personal property owned by the person or others;
2. Every person engaged in the business of making sales for storage, use or
other consumption or in the business of making sales at auction of tangible
personal property owned by the person or others for storage, use or other
consumption;
3. Every person making more than two (2) retail sales of tangible personal
property during any twelve (12) month period, including sales made in the
capacity of assignee for the benefit of creditors' or receiver or trustee in
bankruptcy.
   B.   When the tax commission determines that it is necessary for the
efficient administration of this chapter to regard any salesmen,
representatives, peddlers or canvassers as the agents of the dealers,
distributors, supervisors or employers under whom they operate or from whom
they obtain the tangible personal property sold by them, irrespective of
whether they are making sales on their own behalf or on behalf of such dealers,
distributors, supervisors or employers, the tax commission may so regard them
and may regard the dealers, distributors, supervisors or employers as retailers
for the purposes of this chapter.
   C.   A licensed optometrist or physician and surgeon is a consumer of, and
shall not be considered a retailer within the provisions of this chapter with
respect to, the ophthalmic materials used or furnished by him in the
performance of his professional services in the diagnosis, treatment or
correction of conditions of the human eye, including the adaptation of lenses
or frames for the aid thereof.
SALE: A. "Sale" means and includes any transfer of title or possession,
exchange, barter, lease or rental, conditional or otherwise, in any manner or
by any means whatsoever, of tangible personal property for a consideration.
   B.   "Transfer of possession", "lease" or "rental" includes only
transactions found by the tax commission to be in lieu of a transfer of title,
exchange or barter.
   C.   "Sale" includes:
      1. The producing, fabricating, processing, printing or imprinting of
tangible personal property for a consideration for consumers who furnish,
either directly or indirectly, the materials used in the producing,
fabricating, processing, printing or imprinting;
      2. The furnishing and distributing of tangible personal property for a
consideration by social clubs and fraternal organizations to their members or
others;
      3. The furnishing, preparing or serving for a consideration of food,
meals or drinks;
      4. A transaction whereby the possession of property is transferred but
the seller retains the title as security for the payment of the price;
      5. A transfer for a consideration of the title or possession of tangible
personal property which has been produced, fabricated or printed to the special
order of the customer, or of any publication.
SALES PRICE:
   A.   The total amount for which tangible property is sold, valued in money,
whether paid in money or otherwise, without any deduction on account of any of
the following:
      1. The cost of the property sold;
      2. The cost of the materials used, labor or service cost, interest
charged, losses or any other expenses;
      3. The cost of transportation of the property prior to its purchase.
   B.   The total amount for which property is sold includes all of the
following:
      1. Any services that are a part of the sale;
      2. Any amount for which credit is given to the purchaser by the seller.
   C.   "Sales price" does not include any of the following:
      1. Cash discounts allowed and taken on sales;
      2. The amount charged for property returned by customers when the entire
amount charged therefor is refunded either in cash or credit; but this
exclusion shall not apply in any instance when the customer, in order to obtain
the refund, is required to purchase other property at a price greater than the
amount charged for the property that is returned;
      3. The amount charged for labor or services rendered in installing or
applying the property sold;
      4. The amount of any tax (not including, however, any manufacturers' or
importers' excise tax) imposed by the United States upon or with respect to
retail sales, whether imposed upon the retailer or the consumer;
      5. The amount of any tax imposed by the state of Nevada upon or with
respect to the storage, use or other consumption of tangible personal property
purchased from any retailer.
SELLER: Includes every person engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property of a kind, the gross receipt from the retail sale of which is
required to be included in the measure of the sales tax.
STORAGE: Includes any keeping or retention in the county for any purpose except
sale in the regular course of business or subsequent use solely outside the
county of tangible personal property purchased from a retailer.
STORAGE AND USE; EXCLUSION: "Storage" and "use" do not include the keeping,
retaining or exercising any right or power over tangible personal property for
the purpose of subsequently transporting it outside this county for use
thereafter solely outside this county, or for the purpose of being processed,
fabricated or manufactured into, attached to, or incorporated into, other
tangible personal property to be transported outside this county and thereafter
used solely outside this county.
TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY: Personal property which may be seen, weighed,
measured, felt or touched, or which is in any other manner perceptible to the
senses.
TAX COMMISSION: The Nevada tax commission.
TAXPAYER: Any person liable for tax under this chapter.
USE: Includes the exercise of any right or power over tangible personal
property incident to the ownership of that property, except that it does not
include the sale of that property in the regular course of business. (1983 Code
§§ 3.04.010 – 3.04.090)
ARTICLE B. SALES TAX
SECTION:
3-1B-1: Imposition; Tax Rates
3-1B-2: Method Of Collection
3-1B-3: Absorption Of Tax By Retailer; Unlawful Advertising
3-1B-4: Separate Display Of Tax
3-1B-5: Application For Permit; Form And Contents
3-1B-6: Permit Fee
3-1B-7: Issuance And Display Of Permit; Assignability
3-1B-8: Reinstatement Fee For Suspended Or Revoked Permit
3-1B-9: Revocation, Suspension Of Permit; Procedure
3-1B-10: Selling Without Permit Unlawful; Padlocking
3-1B-11: Resale Certificate
3-1B-1: IMPOSITION; TAX RATES:
   A.   Tax Imposed, General: For the privilege of selling tangible personal
property at retail, a tax is imposed upon all retailers at the rate of two
percent (2%) of the gross receipts of any retailer from the sale of all
tangible personal property sold at retail in Lincoln County. (1983 Code §
3.04.095; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Special Tax For Emergency School Construction:
      1.   A one-fourth of one percent (0.25%) sales tax is hereby imposed
within the county, which tax shall be collected by the state department of
taxation, which shall perform all functions incident to the administration or
operation of this tax. This tax shall expire upon repayment of the funds
provided by the state legislature for an emergency situation requiring the
construction of new facilities at the Lincoln County high school, unless
extended in the future.
      2.   This subsection B takes effect on the first day of the first month
of the next calendar quarter that is at least sixty (60) days after the date on
which a two-thirds (2/3) majority of the board of Lincoln County commissioners
approve this subsection B. (Ord. 2000-01, 3-20-2000)
3-1B-2: METHOD OF COLLECTION:
The tax imposed by this article shall be collected by the retailer from the
consumer insofar as it can be done. (1983 Code § 3.04.100)
3-1B-3: ABSORPTION OF TAX BY RETAILER; UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING:
   A.   Prohibited Act: It is unlawful for any retailer to advertise or hold
out or state to the public or to any customer, directly or indirectly, that the
tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the retailer or that it
will not be added to the selling price of the property sold or that if added it
or any part thereof will be refunded.
   B.   Violation; Misdemeanor: Any person violating any provision of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1983 Code § 3.04.105)
3-1B-4: SEPARATE DISPLAY OF TAX:
The tax commission may by regulation provide that the amount collected by the
retailer from the consumer in reimbursement of the tax be displayed separately
from the list price, the price advertised in the premises, the marked price or
other price on the sale check or other proof of sale. (1983 Code § 3.04.110)
3-1B-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FORM AND CONTENTS:
   A.   Filing Of Application: Every person desiring to engage in or conduct
business as a seller within the county shall file with the tax commission an
application for a permit for each place of business.
   B.   Form; Contents: Every application for a permit shall:
      1.   Be made upon a form prescribed by the tax commission;
      2.   Set forth the name under which the applicant transacts or intends to
transact business and the location of his place or places of business;
      3.   Set forth such other information as the tax commission may require.
   C.   Signature; Evidence Of Authority: The application shall be signed by
the owner if he is a natural person; in the case of an association or
partnership, by a member or partner; in the case of a corporation, by an
executive officer or some person specifically authorized by the corporation to
sign the application, to which shall be attached the written evidence of his
authority. (1983 Code § 3.04.115)
3-1B-6: PERMIT FEE:
At the time of making an application, the applicant shall pay to the tax
commission a permit fee of one dollar ($1.00) for each permit. (1983 Code §
3.04.120)
3-1B-7: ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY OF PERMIT; ASSIGNABILITY:
   A.   Issuance: After compliance with sections
3-1B-5 and
3-1B-6 of this article, and
3-1E-22 of this chapter, by the applicant, the tax commission shall grant and
issue to each applicant a separate permit for each place of business within the
county.
   B.   Nonassignable: A permit shall not be assignable, and shall be valid for
only the person in whose name it is issued and for the transaction of business
at the place designated therein.
   C.   Display: Such permit shall at all times be conspicuously displayed at
the place for which issued. (1983 Code § 3.04.125)
3-1B-8: REINSTATEMENT FEE FOR SUSPENDED OR REVOKED PERMIT:
A seller whose permit has been previously suspended or revoked shall pay the
tax commission a fee of one dollar for the renewal or issuance of a permit.
(1983 Code § 3.04.130)
3-1B-9: REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OF PERMIT; PROCEDURE:
   A.   Noncompliance; Hearing: Whenever any person fails to comply with any
provision of this chapter relating to the sales tax or any rule or regulation
of the tax commission relating to the sales tax prescribed and adopted under
this chapter, the tax commission, upon hearing, after giving the person ten
(10) days' notice in writing specifying the time and place of hearing and
requiring him to show cause why his permit or permits should not be revoked,
may revoke or suspend any one or more of the permits held by the person.
   B.   Notice Of Suspension Or Revocation: The tax commission shall give to
the person written notice of the suspension or revocation of any of his
permits.
   C.   Service Of Notice: The notices may be served personally or by mail in
the manner prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency determination.
   D.   Issuance Of New Permit: The tax commission shall not issue a new permit
after the revocation of a permit unless it is satisfied that the former holder
of the permit will comply with the provisions of this chapter relating to the
sales tax and the regulations of the tax commission.
   E.   Closure Of Place Of Business: If a permit is revoked, the tax
commission may seal and padlock the place of business for which the permit was
issued. (1983 Code § 3.04.135)
3-1B-10: SELLING WITHOUT PERMIT UNLAWFUL; PADLOCKING:
   A.   Prohibited Act: A person who engages in business as a seller in this
county without a permit or permits or after a permit has been suspended, and
each officer of any corporation which so engages in business, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   B.   Noncompliance; Closure Of Business: If, after notice to the seller,
served personally or by mail, the seller continues to engage in business
without a permit, or after a permit has been suspended or revoked, the tax
commission may seal and padlock any place of business of the seller. If notice
under this subsection is served by mail, it shall be addressed to the seller at
his address as it appears in the records of the tax commission. (1983 Code §
3.04.140)
3-1B-11: RESALE CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Presumption Of Taxability: For the purpose of the proper administration
of this chapter and to prevent evasion of the sales tax, it shall be presumed
that all gross receipts are subject to the tax until the contrary is
established. The burden of proving that a sale of tangible personal property is
not a sale at retail is upon the person who makes the sale unless he takes from
the purchaser a certificate to the effect that the property is purchased for
resale. (1983 Code § 3.04.145)
   B.   Effect: The certificate relieves the seller from the burden of proof
only if taken in good faith from a person who is engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property and who holds the permit provided for in
sections
3-1B-5 through
3-1B-11 of this article and who, at the time of purchasing the tangible
personal property, intends to sell it in the regular course of business or is
unable to ascertain at the time of purchase whether the property will be sold
or will be used for some other purpose. (1983 Code § 3.04.150)
   C.   Form And Contents:
      1.   Contents: The certificate shall:
         a.   Be signed by and bear the name and address of the purchaser;
         b.   Indicate the number of the permit issued to the purchaser;
         c.   Indicate the general character of the tangible personal property
sold by the purchaser in the regular course of business.
      2.   Form: The certificate shall be substantially in such form as the tax
commission may prescribe. (1983 Code § 3.04.155)
   D.   Liability Of Purchaser: If a purchaser who gives a certificate makes
any use of the property other than retention, demonstration or display while
holding it for sale in the regular course of business, the use shall be taxable
to the purchaser as of the time the property is first used by him, and the
sales price of the property to him shall be deemed the measure of the tax. Only
when there is an unsatisfied use tax liability on this basis shall the seller
be liable for sales tax with respect to the sale of the property to the
purchaser. If the sole use of the property other than retention, demonstration
or display in the regular course of business is the rental of the property
while holding it for sale, the purchaser may elect to include in his gross
receipts the amount of the rental charged rather than the sales price of the
property to him. (1983 Code § 3.04.160)
   E.   Improper Use: Any person who gives a resale certificate for property
which he knows at the time of purchase is not to be resold by him in the
regular course of business for the purpose of evading payment to the seller of
the amount of the tax applicable to the transaction is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1983 Code § 3.04.165)
   F.   Commingled Fungible Goods: If a purchaser gives a certificate with
respect to the purchase of fungible goods and thereafter commingles these goods
with other fungible goods not so purchased but of such similarity that the
identity of the constituent goods in the commingle mass cannot be determined,
sales from the mass of commingled goods shall be deemed to be sales of the
goods so purchased until a quantity of commingled goods equal to the quantity
of purchased goods so commingled has been sold. (1983 Code § 3.04.170)
ARTICLE C. USE TAX
SECTION:
3-1C-1: Imposition; Rate Of Tax
3-1C-2: Liability For Tax
3-1C-3: Collection By Retailer; Receipt
3-1C-4: Tax As Debt To County
3-1C-5: Absorption Of Tax By Retailer; Unlawful Advertising
3-1C-6: Separate Display Of Tax
3-1C-7: Unlawful Acts
3-1C-8: Registration Of Retailers
3-1C-9: Resale Certificate
3-1C-10: Presumption Of Purchase Or Use
3-1C-1: IMPOSITION; RATE OF TAX:
An excise tax is imposed on the storage, use or other consumption in Lincoln
County of tangible personal property purchased from any retailer for storage,
use or other consumption in the county at the rate of two percent (2%) of the
sales price of the property. (1983 Code § 3.04.175; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1C-2: LIABILITY FOR TAX:
Every person storing, using or otherwise consuming in the county tangible
personal property purchased from a retailer is liable for the tax. His
liability is not extinguished until the tax has been paid to the county, except
that a receipt from a retailer maintaining a place of business in the county or
from a retailer who is authorized by the tax commission under such rules and
regulations as it may prescribe, to collect the tax and who is, for the
purposes of this chapter relating to the use tax, regarded as a retailer
maintaining a place of business in the county, given to the purchaser pursuant
to section
3-1C-3 of this article is sufficient to relieve the purchaser from further
liability for the tax to which the receipt refers. (1983 Code § 3.04.180)
3-1C-3: COLLECTION BY RETAILER; RECEIPT:
Every retailer maintaining a place of business in the county and making sales
of tangible personal property for storage, use or other consumption in the
county, not exempted under article D of this chapter shall, at the time of
making the sales or, if the storage, use or other consumption of the tangible
personal property is not then taxable hereunder, at the time the storage, use
or other consumption becomes taxable, collect the tax from the purchaser and
give to the purchaser a receipt therefor in the manner and form prescribed by
the tax commission. (1983 Code § 3.04.185)
3-1C-4: TAX AS DEBT TO COUNTY:
The tax required to be collected by the retailer constitutes a debt owed by the
retailer to the county. (1983 Code § 3.04.190)
3-1C-5: ABSORPTION OF TAX BY RETAILER; UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING:
It is unlawful for any retailer to advertise or hold out or state to the public
or to any customer, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part thereof
will be assumed or absorbed by the retailer or that it will not be added to the
selling price of the property sold or that if added it or any part thereof will
be refunded. (1983 Code § 3.04.195)
3-1C-6: SEPARATE DISPLAY OF TAX:
The tax required to be collected by the retailer from the purchaser shall be
displayed separately from the list price, the price advertised in the premises,
the marked price, or other price on the sales check or other proof of sale.
(1983 Code § 3.04.200)
3-1C-7: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
Any person violating section
3-1C-3,
3-1C-5 or
3-1C-6 of this article is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1983 Code § 3.04.205)
3-1C-8: REGISTRATION OF RETAILERS:
Every retailer selling tangible personal property for storage, use or other
consumption in the county shall register with the tax commission and give:
   A.   The name and address of all agents operating in the county;
   B.   The location of all distribution or sales houses or offices or other
places of business in the county;
   C.   Such other information as the tax commission may require. (1983 Code §
3.04.210)
3-1C-9: RESALE CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Presumption Of Purchase For Use: For the purpose of the proper
administration of this chapter and to prevent evasion of the use tax and the
duty to collect the use tax, it shall be presumed the tangible personal
property sold by any person for delivery in the county is sold for storage, use
or other consumption in the county until the contrary is established. The
burden of proving the contrary is upon the person who makes the sale unless he
takes from the purchaser a certificate to the effect that the property is
purchased for resale. (1983 Code § 3.04.215)
   B.   Effect: The certificate relieves the person selling the property from
the burden of proof only if taken in good faith from a person who is engaged in
the business of selling tangible personal property and who holds the permit
provided for by article B of this chapter and who, at the time of purchasing
the tangible personal property, intends to sell it in the regular course of
business or is unable to ascertain at the time of purchase whether the property
will be sold or will be used for some other purpose. (1983 Code § 3.04.220)
   C.   Form And Contents:
      1.   Contents: The certificate shall:
         a.   Be signed and bear the name and address of the purchaser;
         b.   Indicate the number of the permit issued to the purchaser;
         c.   Indicate the general character of the tangible personal property
sold by the purchaser in the regular course of business.
      2.   Form: The certificate shall be substantially in such form as the tax
commission may prescribe. (1983 Code § 3.04.225)
   D.   Liability Of Purchaser: If a purchaser who gives a certificate makes
any storage or use of the property other than retention, demonstration or
display while holding it for sale in the regular course of business, the
storage or use is taxable as of the time the property is first so stored or
used. If the sole use of the property, other than retention, demonstration or
display in the regular course of business is the rental of the property while
holding it for sale, the purchaser may elect to pay the tax on the use measured
by the amount of the rental charged rather than the sales price of the property
to him. (1983 Code § 3.04.230)
   E.   Commingled Fungible Goods: If a purchaser gives a certificate with
respect to the purchase of fungible goods and thereafter commingles these goods
with other fungible goods not so purchased but of such similarity that the
identity of the constituent goods in the commingled mass cannot be determined,
sales from the mass of commingled goods shall be deemed to be sales of the
goods so purchased until a quantity of commingled goods equal to the quantity
of purchased goods so commingled has been sold. (1983 Code § 3.04.235)
3-1C-10: PRESUMPTION OF PURCHASE OR USE:
   A.   Presumption Of Purchase From Retailer: It shall further be presumed
that tangible personal property shipped or brought into this county by the
purchaser was purchased from a retailer for storage, use or other consumption
in the county. (1983 Code § 3.04.240; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Presumption Of Use; Out Of State Delivery:
      1.   It shall be further presumed that tangible personal property
delivered outside this county to a purchaser known by the retailer to be a
resident of the county was purchased from a retailer for storage, use or other
consumption in the county and stored, used or otherwise consumed in the county.
(1983 Code § 3.04.245; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   This presumption may be controverted by:
         a.   A statement in writing, signed by the purchaser or his authorized
representative, and retained by the vendor, that the property was purchased for
use at a designated point or points outside this county;
         b.   Other evidence satisfactory to the tax commission that the
property was not purchased for storage, use or other consumption in this
county. (1983 Code § 3.04.245)
ARTICLE D. EXEMPTIONS
SECTION:
3-1D-1: Definition
3-1D-2: Constitutional And Statutory Exemptions
3-1D-3: Proceeds Of Mines
3-1D-4: Motor Vehicle Fuels
3-1D-5: Animal Life, Feed, Plants
3-1D-6: Food Products Served By Schools
3-1D-7: Containers
3-1D-8: Gas, Electricity And Water
3-1D-9: Domestic Fuels
3-1D-10: Public Works Contracts
3-1D-11: Certain Written Contracts
3-1D-12: Newspapers And Periodicals
3-1D-13: Occasional Sales
3-1D-14: Sales Tax
3-1D-15: Use Tax; Property On Which Sales Tax Paid
3-1D-16: Exemption Certificates; Liability Of Purchaser
3-1D-1: DEFINITION:
"Exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter", as used in this article
means exempted from the computation of the amount of taxes imposed. (1983 Code
§ 3.04.250)
3-1D-2: CONSTITUTIONAL AND STATUTORY EXEMPTIONS:
There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter the gross receipts
from the sale of, and the storage, use or other consumption in the county of
tangible personal property the gross receipts from the sale of which this
county is prohibited from taxing under the constitution or laws of the United
States or under the constitution of this state. (1983 Code § 3.04.255)
3-1D-3: PROCEEDS OF MINES:
There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter the gross receipts
from the sale of, and the storage, use or other consumption in the county of,
the proceeds of mines which are subject to taxes levied pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 362. (1983 Code § 3.04.260)
3-1D-4: MOTOR VEHICLE FUELS:
There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter the gross receipts
from the sale and distribution of, and the storage, use or other consumption in
the county of any combustible gas, liquid or material of a kind used in an
internal-combustion or diesel engine for the generation of power to propel a
motor vehicle on the highways. (1983 Code § 3.04.265)
3-1D-5: ANIMAL LIFE, FEED, PLANTS:
There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter the gross receipts
from sales of, and the storage, use or other consumption of:
   A.   Any form of animal life of a kind the products of which ordinarily
constitute food for human consumption;
   B.   Feed for any form of animal life of a kind the products of which
ordinarily constitute food for human consumption or are to be sold in the
regular course of business;
   C.   Seeds and annual plants the products of which ordinarily constitute
food for human consumption or are to be sold in the regular course of business;
   D.   Fertilizer to be applied to land the products of which are to be used
as food for human consumption or sold in the regular course of business. (1983
Code § 3.04.270)
3-1D-6: FOOD PRODUCTS SERVED BY SCHOOLS:
There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter the gross receipts
from the sale of, and the storage, use or other consumption in the county of,
meals and food products for human consumption served by public or private
schools, school districts, student organizations and parent-teacher
associations to the students or teachers of a school. (1983 Code § 3.04.275)
3-1D-7: CONTAINERS:
   A.   There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter the gross
receipts from the sales of, and the storage, use or other consumption in the
county of:
      1.   Nonreturnable containers when sold without the contents to persons
who place the contents in the container and sell the contents together with the
container;
      2.   Containers when sold with the contents if the sales price of the
contents is not required to be included in the measure of the taxes imposed by
this chapter;
      3.   Returnable containers when sold with the contents in connection with
a retail sale of the contents or when resold for refilling.
   B.   As used in this section, the term "returnable containers" means
containers of a kind customarily returned by the buyer of the contents for
reuse. All other containers are "nonreturnable containers". (1983 Code §
3.04.280)
3-1D-8: GAS, ELECTRICITY AND WATER:
There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter the gross receipts
from the sales, furnishing or service of and the storage, use or other
consumption in the county of gas, electricity and water when delivered to
consumers through mains, lines or pipes. (1983 Code § 3.04.285)
3-1D-9: DOMESTIC FUELS:
There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter the gross receipts
from the sale, furnishing or service of and the storage, use or other
consumption in the county of any matter used to produce domestic heat by
burning, including without limitation, wood, coal, petroleum and gas. (1983
Code § 3.04.290)
3-1D-10: PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS:
There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter the gross receipts
from the sale of and the storage, use or other consumption in the county of
tangible personal property used for the performance of a contract on public
works executed prior to July 1, 1971. (1983 Code § 3.04.295)
3-1D-11: CERTAIN WRITTEN CONTRACTS:
There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter the gross receipts
from the sale of and the storage, use or other consumption in the county of
tangible personal property used for the performance of a written contract
entered into prior to July 1, 1971. (1983 Code § 3.04.300)
3-1D-12: NEWSPAPERS AND PERIODICALS:
There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter the gross receipts
from the sale of and the storage, use or other consumption in the county of
tangible personal property which becomes an ingredient or component part of any
newspaper or periodical regularly issued at average intervals not exceeding
three (3) months and any such newspaper or periodical. (1983 Code § 3.04.305)
3-1D-13: OCCASIONAL SALES:
There are exempted from the taxes imposed by this chapter the gross receipts
from occasional sales of tangible personal property and the storage, use or
other consumption in the county of tangible personal property, the transfer of
which to the purchaser is an occasional sale. (1983 Code § 3.04.310)
3-1D-14: SALES TAX:
   A.   Political Subdivisions; Charitable Organizations: There are exempted
from the computation of the amount of the sales tax the gross receipts from the
sale of any tangible personal property to:
      1.   The United States, its unincorporated agencies and
instrumentalities;
      2.   Any incorporated agency or instrumentality of the United States
wholly owned by the United States or by a corporation wholly owned by the
United States;
      3.   The state of Nevada, its unincorporated agencies and
instrumentalities;
      4.   Any county, city, district or other political subdivision of the
state of Nevada;
      5.   Any organization created for religious, charitable or eleemosynary
purposes; provided, that no part of the net earnings of any such organization
inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual. (1983 Code §
3.04.315)
   B.   Sales To Common Carriers: There are exempted from the computation of
the amount of the sales tax the gross receipts from sales of tangible personal
property to a common carrier, shipped by the seller via the purchasing carrier
under a bill of lading, whether the freight is paid in advance of the shipment,
is made freight charges collect, to a point outside this county, and the
property is actually transported to the out-of-county destination for use by
the carrier in the conduct of its business as a common carrier. (1983 Code §
3.04.320)
   C.   Property Shipped Outside County: There are exempted from the
computation of the amount of the sales tax the gross receipts from any sale of
tangible personal property which is shipped to a point outside this county
pursuant to the contract of sale by delivery by the vendor to such point by
means of:
      1.   Facilities operated by the vendor;
      2.   Delivery by the vendor to a carrier for shipment to a consignee at
such point; or
      3.   Delivery by the vendor to a customs broker or forwarding agent for
shipment outside this county. (1983 Code § 3.04.325)
   D.   Materials Purchased; Contracts With United States: Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, the tax imposed under this chapter shall apply to the
gross receipts from the sale of any tangible personal property to contractors
purchasing such property either as the agents of the United States or for their
own account and subsequent resale to the United States for use in the
performance of contracts with the United States for the construction of
improvements on or to real property, not including, however, contractors
qualified to issue and who do issue resale certificates to vendors for tangible
personal property for subsequent incorporation into real property outside this
county in the performance of a contract to improve the out- of-county realty.
(1983 Code § 3.04.330)
3-1D-15: USE TAX; PROPERTY ON WHICH SALES TAX PAID:
The storage, use or other consumption in the county of property, the gross
receipts from the sale of which are required to be included in the measure of
the sales tax, is exempted from the use tax. (1983 Code § 3.04.335)
3-1D-16: EXEMPTION CERTIFICATES; LIABILITY OF PURCHASER:
If a purchaser certifies in writing to a seller that the property purchased
will be used in a manner or for a purpose entitling the seller to regard the
gross receipts from the sale as exempted by this chapter from the computation
of the amount of the sales tax, and uses the property in some other manner or
for some other purpose, the purchaser shall be liable for payment of sales tax
as if he were a retailer making a retail sale of the property at the time of
such use, and the cost of the property to him shall be deemed the gross
receipts from such retail sale. (1983 Code § 3.04.340)
ARTICLE E. TAX DETERMINATION AND COLLECTION
SECTION:
3-1E-1: Due Date Of Taxes
3-1E-2: Tax Return Requirements
3-1E-3: Lease And Rental Receipts
3-1E-4: Collection Of Tax; Revenue Stamps
3-1E-5: Extensions For Filing; Payment; Interest
3-1E-6: Recomputation Of Tax
3-1E-7: Interest On Deficiency
3-1E-8: Offsetting Of Overpayments
3-1E-9: Deficiency Determination; Penalty
3-1E-10: Notice Of Determination
3-1E-11: Failure To Make Return; Tax Estimate
3-1E-12: Offsets; Computation, Interest
3-1E-13: Interest On Amount Of Determination
3-1E-14: Penalties For Fraud, Intent To Evade
3-1E-15: Notice Of Estimate; Determination And Penalty
3-1E-16: Jeopardy Determination
3-1E-17: Nonpayment; Finality Of Determination
3-1E-18: Petition For Redetermination
3-1E-19: Due Date Of Determination; Penalties
3-1E-20: Service Of Notice
3-1E-21: Penalty, Interest For Failure To Pay Tax
3-1E-22: Deposit Of Security
3-1E-23: Notice To Persons Holding Credits Or Property Of Delinquent
3-1E-24: Action For Collection Of Tax
3-1E-25: Summary Judgment
3-1E-26: Priority Of Tax Claim Or Lien
3-1E-27: Recordation Of Certificate Of Delinquency; Lien
3-1E-28: Release Property Subject To Lien
3-1E-29: Warrant For Collection Of Tax
3-1E-30: Fees For Services Of Sheriff
3-1E-31: Seizure And Sale Of Delinquent's Property
3-1E-32: Sale Of Business
3-1E-33: Certification Of Excess Amount Collected
3-1E-34: Claims For Refund
3-1E-35: Interest On Overpayments
3-1E-36: Injunction, Other Process To Prevent Tax Collection Prohibited
3-1E-37: Action For Refund
3-1E-38: Recovery Of Erroneous Refunds
3-1E-39: Cancellation Of Illegal Determination
3-1E-1: DUE DATE OF TAXES:
The taxes imposed by this chapter are due and payable to the tax commission
quarterly on or before the last day of the month next succeeding each quarterly
period. (1983 Code § 3.04.345)
3-1E-2: TAX RETURN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Filing; Signatures:
      1.   On or before the last day of the month following each quarterly
period of three (3) months, a return for the preceding quarterly period shall
be filed with the tax commission in such form as the tax commission may
prescribe.
      2.   For purposes of the sales tax, a return shall be filed by every
seller. For purposes of the use tax, a return shall be filed by every retailer
maintaining a place of business in the county and by every person purchasing
tangible personal property, the storage, use or other consumption of which is
subject to the use tax, who has not paid the use tax due to a retailer required
to collect the tax.
      3.   Returns shall be signed by the person required to file the return or
by his duly authorized agent but need not be verified by oath. (1983 Code §
3.04.350)
   B.   Contents:
      1.   For the purposes of the sales tax, the return shall show the gross
receipts of the seller during the preceding reporting period. For purposes of
the use tax, in case of a return filed by a retailer, the return shall show the
total sales price of the property sold by him, the storage, use or consumption
of which property became subject to the use tax during the preceding reporting
period.
      2.   In case of a return filed by a purchaser, the return shall show the
total sales price of the property purchased by him, the storage, use or
consumption of which became subject to the use tax during the preceding
reporting period.
      3.   The return shall also show the amount of the taxes for the period
covered by the return and such other information as the tax commission deems
necessary for the proper administration of this chapter. (1983 Code § 3.04.355)
   C.   Reimbursement To Taxpayer For Tax Collection: The taxpayer shall deduct
and withhold from the taxes otherwise due from him one and one-fourth percent
(1.25%) thereof to reimburse himself for the cost of collecting the tax. (1983
Code § 3.04.360; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Delivery Of Return; Remittance: The person required to file the return
shall deliver the return, together with a remittance of the amount of the tax
due, to the office of the tax commission. (1983 Code § 3.04.365)
   E.   Return Periods: The tax commission, if it deems it necessary in order
to ensure payment to or facilitate the collection by the county of the amount
of taxes, may require returns and payment of the amount of taxes for quarterly
periods other than calendar quarters, depending upon the principal place of
business of the seller, retailer or purchaser, as the case may be, or for other
than quarterly periods. (1983 Code § 3.04.370)
3-1E-3: LEASE AND RENTAL RECEIPTS:
For the purposes of the sales tax, gross receipts from rentals or leases of
tangible personal property shall be reported and the tax paid in accordance
with such rules and regulations as the tax commission may prescribe. (1983 Code
§ 3.04.375)
3-1E-4: COLLECTION OF TAX; REVENUE STAMPS:
The tax commission, if it deems it necessary to ensure the collection of the
taxes, may provide by rule and regulation for the collection of the taxes by
the affixing and canceling of revenue stamps and may prescribe the form and
method of the affixing and canceling. (1983 Code § 3.04.380)
3-1E-5: EXTENSIONS FOR FILING; PAYMENT; INTEREST:
   A.   Extension: The tax commission for good cause may extend for not to
exceed one month the time for making any return or paying any amount required
to be paid under this chapter.
   B.   Interest: Any person to whom an extension is granted and who pays the
tax within the period for which the extension is granted shall pay, in addition
to the tax, interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per year from the date on
which the tax would have been due without the extension until the date of
payment. (1983 Code § 3.04.385; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1E-6: RECOMPUTATION OF TAX:
   A.   Authority Of Tax Commission: If the tax commission is not satisfied
with the return or returns of the tax or the amount of tax required to be paid
to the county by any person, it may compute and determine the amount required
to be paid upon the basis of the facts contained in the return or returns or
upon the basis of any information within its possession or that may come into
its possession. One or more deficiency determinations may be made of the amount
due for one or for more than one period.
   B.   Discontinuance Of Business: When a business is discontinued, a
determination may be made at any time thereafter within the periods specified
in subsection 3-1E-10B of this article as to liability arising out of that
business, irrespective of whether the determination is issued prior to the due
date of the liability or as otherwise specified in this chapter. (1983 Code §
3.04.390)
3-1E-7: INTEREST ON DEFICIENCY:
The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at
the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) per month, or fraction thereof, from
the last day of the month following the quarterly period for which the amount
or any portion thereof should have been returned until the date of payment.
(1983 Code § 3.04.395)
3-1E-8: OFFSETTING OF OVERPAYMENTS:
   A.   Authority Of Tax Commission: In making a determination, the tax
commission may offset overpayments for a period or periods, together with
interest on the overpayments, against underpayments for another period or
periods, against penalties, and against the interest on the underpayments.
   B.   Computation Of Interest: The interest on underpayments and overpayments
shall be computed in the manner set forth in section
3-1E-21 and subsection 3-1E-35A of this article. (1983 Code § 3.04.400)
3-1E-9: DEFICIENCY DETERMINATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Negligence; Disregard Of Law, Regulations: If any part of the
deficiency for which a deficiency determination is made is due to negligence or
intentional disregard of this chapter or authorized rules and regulations, a
penalty of ten percent (10%) of the amount of the determination shall be added
thereto. (1983 Code § 3.04.405)
   B.   Fraud, Intent To Evade: If any part of the deficiency for which a
deficiency determination is made is due to fraud or an intent to evade this
chapter or authorized rules and regulations, a penalty as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes sections 372.755 and 372.760 shall be added to the amount of
the determination. (1983 Code § 3.04.410; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1E-10: NOTICE OF DETERMINATION:
   A.   Serving Of Notice:
      1.   The tax commission shall give to the retailer or person storing,
using or consuming tangible personal property written notice of its
determination.
      2.   The notice may be served personally or by mail; if by mail, the
notice shall be addressed to the retailer or person storing, using or consuming
tangible personal property at his address as it appears in the records of the
tax commission.
      3.   In case of service by mail of any notice required by this chapter,
the service is complete at the time of deposit in the United States post
office. (1983 Code § 3.04.415)
   B.   Time Limitation:
      1.   Except in the case of fraud, intent to evade this chapter or
authorized rules and regulations issued hereunder, failure to make a return, or
claim for additional amount pursuant to subsection 3-1E-18D of this article,
every notice of a deficiency determination shall be personally served or mailed
within three (3) years after the last day of the calendar month following the
quarterly period for which the amount is proposed to be determined or within
three (3) years after the return is filed, whichever period expires the later.
In the case of failure to make a return, or claim for additional amount
pursuant to subsection 3-1E-18D of this article, every notice of determination
shall be mailed or personally served within eight (8) years after the last day
of the calendar month following the quarterly period for which the amount is
proposed to be determined.
      2.   The limitation specified in this subsection does not apply in case
of a sales tax proposed to be determined with respect to sales of property for
the storage, use or other consumption of which notice of a deficiency
determination has been or is given pursuant to subsections A and B1 of this
section, and sections
3-1E-15 and
3-1E-17 of this article. The limitation specified in this subsection does not
apply in case of an amount of use tax proposed to be determined with respect to
storage, use or other consumption of property for the sale of which notice of a
deficiency determination has been or is given pursuant to subsections A and B1
of this section, and sections
3-1E-15 and
3-1E-17 of this article.
      3.   If, before the expiration of the time prescribed in this subsection
for the mailing of a notice of deficiency determination, the taxpayer has
consented in writing to the mailing of the notice after such time, the notice
may be mailed at any time prior to the expiration of the period agreed upon.
The period so agreed upon may be extended by subsequent agreements in writing
made before the expiration of the period previously agreed upon. (1983 Code §
3.04.420)
3-1E-11: FAILURE TO MAKE RETURN; TAX ESTIMATE:
   A.   Estimate By Tax Commission: If any person fails to make a return, the
tax commission shall make an estimate of the amount of the gross receipts of
the person, or, as the case may be, of the amount of the total sales price of
tangible personal property sold or purchased by the person, the storage, use or
other consumption of which in the county is subject to the use tax. The
estimate shall be made for the period or periods in respect to which the person
failed to make a return and shall be based upon any information which is in the
tax commission's possession or may come into its possession. Upon the basis of
this estimate, the tax commission shall compute and determine the amount
required to be paid to the county, adding to the sum thus arrived at a penalty
as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes section 372.755 thereof. One or more
determinations may be made for one or for more than one period.
   B.   Discontinuance Of Business: When a business is discontinued, a
determination may be made at any time thereafter within the periods specified
in subsection 3-1E-10B of this article as to liability arising out of that
business, irrespective of whether the determination is issued prior to the due
date of the liability as otherwise specified in this chapter. (1983 Code §
3.04.425; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1E-12: OFFSETS; COMPUTATION, INTEREST:
   A.   Authority: In making a determination, the tax commission may offset
overpayments for a period or periods, together with interest on the
overpayments, against underpayments for another period or periods, against
penalties, and against the interest on the underpayments.
   B.   Interest: The interest on underpayments and overpayments shall be
computed in the manner set forth in section
3-1E-21 and subsection 3-1E-35A of this article. (1983 Code § 3.04.430)
3-1E-13: INTEREST ON AMOUNT OF DETERMINATION:
The amount of the determination, exclusive of penalties, shall bear interest at
the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) per month, or fraction thereof, from
the last day of the month following the quarterly period for which the amount,
or any portion thereof, should have been returned until the date of payment.
(1983 Code § 3.04.435)
3-1E-14: PENALTIES FOR FRAUD, INTENT TO EVADE:
If the failure of any person to file a return is due to fraud or intent to
evade this chapter or rules and regulations, a penalty as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes section 372.760 shall be added to the amount required to be
paid by the person in addition to the penalty provided in section
3-1E-11 of this article. (1983 Code § 3.04.440; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1E-15: NOTICE OF ESTIMATE, DETERMINATION AND PENALTY:
Promptly after making its determination, the tax commission shall give to the
person written notice of the estimate, determination and penalty, the notice to
be served personally or by mail in the manner prescribed for service of notice
of a deficiency determination. (1983 Code § 3.04.445)
3-1E-16: JEOPARDY DETERMINATION:
If the tax commission believes that the collection of any tax or any amount of
tax required to be collected and paid to the county or of any determination
will be jeopardized by delay, it shall thereupon make a determination of the
tax or amount of tax required to be collected, noting that fact upon the
determination. The amount determined is due and payable immediately. (1983 Code
§ 3.04.450)
3-1E-17: NONPAYMENT; FINALITY OF DETERMINATION:
If the amount specified in the determination is not paid within ten (10) days
after service of notice thereof upon the person against whom the determination
is made, the amount becomes final at the expiration of the ten (10) days,
unless a petition for redetermination is filed within ten (10) days, and the
delinquency penalty and the interest provided in section
3-1E-21 of this article shall attach to the amount of the tax or the amount of
the tax required to be collected. (1983 Code § 3.04.455)
3-1E-18: PETITION FOR REDETERMINATION:
   A.   Deposit Of Security: The person against whom a jeopardy determination
is made may petition for the redetermination thereof pursuant to this section
and sections
3-1E-19 through
3-1E-21 of this article. He shall, however, file the petition for
redetermination with the tax commission within ten (10) days after the service
upon him of notice of determination. The person shall also within the ten (10)
day period deposit with the tax commission such security as it may deem
necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter. The security may be sold by
the tax commission in the manner prescribed by section
3-1E-22 of this article. (1983 Code § 3.04.460)
   B.   Time To File:
      1.   Any person against whom a determination is made, under sections
3-1E-6 through
3-1E-15 of this article, or any person directly interested, may petition for a
redetermination within thirty (30) days after service upon the person of notice
thereof.
      2.   If a petition for redetermination is not filed within the thirty
(30) day period, the determination becomes final at the expiration of the
period. (1983 Code § 3.04.465)
   C.   Oral Hearing; Notice; Continuances:
      1.   If a petition for redetermination is filed within the thirty (30)
day period, the tax commission shall reconsider the determination and, if the
person has so requested in his petition, shall grant the person an oral hearing
and shall give him ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of the hearing.
      2.   The tax commission may continue the hearing from time to time as may
be necessary. (1983 Code § 3.04.470)
   D.   Increase, Decrease Of Amount Of Determination: The tax commission may
decrease or increase the amount of the determination before it becomes final,
but the amount may be increased only if a claim for the increase is asserted by
the tax commission at or before the hearing. (1983 Code § 3.04.475)
   E.   Order Of Tax Commission: The order or decision of the tax commission
upon a petition for redetermination becomes final thirty (30) days after
service upon the petitioner of notice thereof. (1983 Code § 3.04.480)
3-1E-19: DUE DATE OF DETERMINATIONS; PENALTIES:
All determinations made by the tax commission under sections
3-1E-6 through
3-1E-15 of this article are due and payable at the time they become final. If
they are not paid when due and payable, a penalty as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes section 372.755, exclusive of interest and penalties, shall be added
thereto. (1983 Code § 3.04.485)
3-1E-20: SERVICE OF NOTICE:
Any notice required by sections 3-1E-18B and
3-1E-19 of this article shall be served personally or by mail in the manner
prescribed for service of notice of a deficiency determination. (1983 Code §
3.04.490)
3-1E-21: PENALTY, INTEREST FOR FAILURE TO PAY TAX:
Any person who fails to pay any tax to the county or any amount of tax required
to be collected and paid to the county, except amounts of determinations made
by the tax commission under sections
3-1E-6 through
3-1E-15 of this article, within the time required shall pay a penalty as
provided in Nevada Revised Statutes section 376.755, in addition to the tax or
amount of tax, plus interest at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) per
month, or fraction thereof, from the date on which the tax or the amount of tax
required to be collected became due and payable to the county until the date of
payment. (1983 Code § 3.04.495; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1E-22: DEPOSIT OF SECURITY:
   A.   Amount: The tax commission, whenever it deems it necessary to ensure
compliance with this chapter, may require any person subject thereto to place
with it such security as the tax commission may determine. The amount of the
security shall be fixed by the tax commission but, except as noted below, shall
not be greater than twice the estimated average liability of persons filing
returns for quarterly periods or three (3) times the estimated average
liability of persons required to file returns for monthly periods, determined
in such manner as the tax commission deems proper, or five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), whichever amount is the lesser.
   B.   Habitual Delinquency: In case of persons habitually delinquent in their
obligations under this chapter, the amount of the security shall not be greater
than three (3) times the average liability of persons filing returns for
quarterly periods or five (5) times the average liability of persons required
to file returns for monthly periods, or five thousand dollars ($5,000.00),
whichever amount is the lesser.
   C.   Application: The limitations herein provided apply regardless of the
type of security placed with the tax commission.
   D.   Change In Amount: The amount of the security may be increased or
decreased by the tax commission subject to the limitations herein provided.
   E.   Sale Of Security; Notice: The tax commission may sell the security at
public auction if it becomes necessary to do so in order to recover any tax or
any amount required to be collected, interest or penalty due. Notice of the
sale may be served upon the person who placed the security personally or by
mail; if by mail, service shall be made in the manner prescribed for service of
a notice of a deficiency determination and shall be addressed to the person at
his address as it appears in the records of the tax commission. Security in the
form of a bearer bond issued by the United States or the state of Nevada which
has a prevailing market price may, however, be sold by the tax commission at a
private sale at a price not lower than the prevailing market price thereof.
   F.   Disposition Of Proceeds Of Sale: Upon any sale, any surplus above the
amounts due shall be returned to the person who placed the security. (1983 Code
§ 3.04.500)
3-1E-23: NOTICE TO PERSONS HOLDING CREDITS OR PROPERTY OF DELINQUENT:
   A.   Issuance Of Notice: If any person is delinquent in the payment of the
amount required to be paid by him or in the event a determination has been made
against him which remains unpaid, the tax commission may, not later than three
(3) years after the payment became delinquent, or within three (3) years after
the last recording of an abstract under subsection 3-1E-25C of this article, or
of a certificate under section
3-1E-27 of this article, give notice thereof personally or by registered mail
to all persons, including any officer or department of the state or any
political subdivision or agency of the state, having in their possession or
under their control any credits or other personal property belonging to the
delinquent, or owing any debts to the delinquent or person against whom a
determination has been made which remains unpaid, or owing any debts to the
delinquent or such person. In the case of any state officer, department or
agency, the notice shall be given to such officer, department or agency prior
to the time it presents the claim of the delinquent taxpayer to the state
controller.
   B.   Actions Of Persons Notified: After receiving the notice, the persons so
notified shall neither transfer nor make any other disposition of the credits,
other personal property, or debts in their possession or under their control at
the time they received the notice until the tax commission consents to a
transfer or disposition, or until sixty (60) days elapse after the receipt of
the notice, whichever period expires earlier.
   C.   Persons To Advise Tax Commission: All persons so notified shall, within
ten (10) days after receipt of the notice, advise the tax commission of all
such credits, other personal property, or debts in their possession, under
their control, or owing by them.
   D.   Notice To Bank: If such notice seeks to prevent the transfer or other
disposition of a deposit in a bank or other credits or personal property in the
possession or under the control of a bank, the notice to be effective shall be
delivered or mailed to the branch or office of such bank at which such deposit
is carried or at which such credits or personal property is held.
   E.   Liability For Unauthorized Transfer: If, during the effective period of
the notice to withhold, any person so notified makes any transfer or
disposition of the property or debts required to be withheld hereunder, to the
extent of the value of the property or the amount of the debts thus transferred
or paid, he shall be liable to the county for any indebtedness due under this
chapter from the person with respect to whose obligation the notice was given
if solely by reason of such transfer or disposition the county is unable to
recover the indebtedness of the person with respect to whose obligation the
notice was given. (1983 Code § 3.04.505)
3-1E-24: ACTION FOR COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Penalties, Interest; Limitation: At any time within three (3) years
after any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected becomes due and
payable, and at any time within three (3) years after the delinquency of any
tax or any amount of tax required to be collected, or within three (3) years
after the last recording of an abstract under subsection 3-1E-25C of this
article, or of a certificate under section
3-1E-27 of this article, the tax commission may bring an action in the courts
of this state, or any other state, or of the United States, in the name of the
county to which the tax is due and payable to collect the amount delinquent
together with penalties and interest. (1983 Code § 3.04.510)
   B.   Prosecution By District Attorney: The district attorney of the county
to which a part of the tax is due and payable, on behalf of the county, shall
prosecute the action, and the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes and the
Nevada Rules of Civil Procedure, relating to service of summons, pleading,
proofs, trials and appeals are applicable to the proceedings. (1983 Code §
3.04.515)
   C.   Writ Of Attachment: In the action, a writ of attachment may issue, and
no bond or affidavit previous to the issuing of the attachment is required.
(1983 Code § 3.04.520)
   D.   Evidentiary Effect Of Delinquency Certificate: In the action, a
certificate by the tax commission showing the delinquency shall be prima facie
evidence of the determination of the tax or the amount of the tax, of the
delinquency of the amounts set forth, and of the compliance by the tax
commission with all the provisions of this chapter in relation to the
computation and determination of the amount. (1983 Code § 3.04.525)
   E.   Action For Use Tax: In any action relating to the use tax brought under
this chapter, process may be served according to the Nevada Rules of Civil
Procedure or may be served upon any agent or clerk in this state employed by
any retailer in a place of business maintained by the retailer in this state.
In the latter case, a copy of the process shall forthwith be sent by registered
mail to the retailer at his principal or home office. (1983 Code § 3.04.530)
3-1E-25: SUMMARY JUDGMENT:
   A.   Application; Filing Of Certificate Of Delinquency: If any amount
required to be paid to the county under this chapter is not paid when due, the
tax commission may, within three (3) years after the amount is due, file in the
office of the county clerk a certificate specifying the amount required to be
paid, interest and penalty due, the name and address as it appears on the
records of the tax commission of the person liable, the compliance of the tax
commission with this chapter in relation to the determination of the amount
required to be paid, and a request that judgment be entered against the person
in the amount required to be paid together with interest and penalty as set
forth in the certificate. (1983 Code § 3.04.535)
   B.   Entry Of Judgment By County Clerk: The county clerk, immediately upon
the filing of the certificate, shall enter a judgment for the county to which
the tax is due and payable against the person in the amount required to be
paid; together with interest and penalty as set forth in the certificate. (1983
Code § 3.04.540)
   C.   Filing Of Abstract:
      1.   An abstract of the judgment or a copy may be filed for record with
the county recorder of any county.
      2.   From the time of filing, the amount required to be paid, together
with interest and penalty set forth, constitutes a lien upon all the real
property in such county owned by the person liable or afterwards and before the
lien expires acquired by him. The lien has the force, effect and priority of a
judgment lien and shall continue for five (5) years from the date of the
judgment so entered by the county clerk unless sooner released or otherwise
discharged.
      3.   The lien may, within five (5) years from the date of the judgment or
within five (5) years from the date of the last extension of the lien in the
manner herein provided, be extended by filing for record in the office of the
county recorder of any county, an abstract or copy of the judgment, and from
the time of such filing, the lien shall be extended to the real property in
such county for five (5) years, unless sooner released or otherwise discharged.
(1983 Code § 3.04.545)
   D.   Execution; Issuance; Sale: Execution shall issue upon the judgment upon
request of the tax commission in the same manner as execution may issue upon
other judgments, and sales shall be held under such execution as prescribed in
Nevada Revised Statutes. (1983 Code § 3.04.550)
3-1E-26: PRIORITY OF TAX CLAIM OR LIEN:
   A.   Situations Listed: The amounts required to be paid by any person under
this chapter together with interest and penalties shall be satisfied first in
any of the following cases:
      1.   Whenever the person is insolvent;
      2.   Whenever the person makes a voluntary assignment of his assets;
      3.   Whenever the estate of the person in the hands of executors,
administrators or heirs is insufficient to pay all the debts due from the
deceased;
      4.   Whenever the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed or
absent person required to pay any amount under this chapter are levied upon by
process of law.
   B.   Preference Not Given County: This section does not give the county a
preference over any recorded lien which attached prior to the date when the
amounts required to be paid became a lien; or preference over costs of
administration, funeral expenses, expenses of last illness, family allowances,
debts preferred under the laws of the United States or wages as provided in
Nevada Revised Statutes section 150.220. (1983 Code § 3.04.555)
3-1E-27: RECORDATION OF CERTIFICATE OF DELINQUENCY; LIEN:
   A.   Filing Of Certificate: If any amount required to be paid to the county
under this chapter is not paid when due, the tax commission may, within three
(3) years after the amount is due, file for record in the office of the county
recorder of this county or of any other county, a certificate specifying the
amount, interest and penalty due, the name and address as it appears on the
records of the tax commission of the person liable for the same, and the fact
that the tax commission has complied with all the provisions of this chapter in
the determination of the amount required to be paid.
   B.   Lien For Nonpayment: From the time of the filing for record, the amount
required to be paid, together with interest and penalty, constitutes a lien
upon all real property in the county where filed owned by the person or
afterwards and before the lien expires acquired by him. The lien has the force,
effect and priority of a judgment lien and shall continue for five (5) years
from the time of the filing of the certificate unless sooner released or
otherwise discharged.
   C.   Extension: The lien may, within five (5) years from the date of the
filing of the certificate or within five (5) years from the date of the last
extension of the lien in the manner herein provided, be extended by filing for
record a new certificate in the office of the county recorder of any such
county, and from the time of such filing, the lien shall be extended to the
real property in such county for five (5) years, unless sooner released or
otherwise discharged. (1983 Code § 3.04.560)
3-1E-28: RELEASE PROPERTY SUBJECT TO LIEN:
   A.   Authority: The tax commission may at any time release all or any
portion of the property subject to any lien provided for in this chapter from
the lien or subordinate the lien to other liens and encumbrances if it
determines that the amount, interest and penalties are secured sufficiently by
a lien on other property or that the release or subordination of the lien will
not jeopardize the collection of the amount, interest and penalties. (1983 Code
§ 3.04.565)
   B.   Evidentiary Effect Of Certificate Of Release, Subordination: A
certificate by the tax commission to the effect that any property has been
released from the lien, or that the lien has been subordinated to other liens
and encumbrances, shall be conclusive evidence that the property has been
released, or that the lien has been subordinated as provided in the
certificate. (1983 Code § 3.04.570)
3-1E-29: WARRANT FOR COLLECTION OF TAX:
   A.   Issuance Of Warrant: At any time within three (3) years after any
person is delinquent in the payment of any amount herein required to be paid,
or within three (3) years after the last recording of an abstract under
subsection 3-1E-25C of this article, or of a certificate under section
3-1E-27 of this article, the tax commission or its authorized representative
may issue a warrant for the enforcement of any liens and for the collection of
any amount required to be paid to the county under this chapter.
   B.   Effect: The warrant shall be directed to any sheriff or constable and
shall have the same effect as a writ of execution.
   C.   Levy And Sale: The warrant shall be levied and sale made pursuant to it
in the same manner and with the same effect as a levy of and a sale pursuant to
a writ of execution. (1983 Code § 3.04.575)
3-1E-30: FEES FOR SERVICES OF SHERIFF:
   A.   Payment; Approval: The tax commission may pay or advance to the sheriff
or constable the same fees, commissions and expenses for his services as are
provided by law for similar services pursuant to a writ of execution. The tax
commission, and not the court, shall approve the fees for publication in a
newspaper. (1983 Code § 3.04.580)
   B.   Liability: The fees, commissions and expenses are the obligation of the
person required to pay any amount under this chapter and may be collected from
him by virtue of the warrant or in any other manner provided in this chapter
for the collection of the tax. (1983 Code § 3.04.585)
3-1E-31: SEIZURE AND SALE OF DELINQUENT'S PROPERTY:
   A.   Power Of Tax Commission; Exemption:
      1.   At any time within three (3) years after any person is delinquent in
the payment of any amount, the tax commission forthwith may collect the amount
in the following manner: the tax commission shall seize any property, real or
personal, of the person and sell the property, or a sufficient part of it, at
public auction to pay the amount due, together with any interest or penalties
imposed for the delinquency and any costs incurred on account of the seizure
and sale.
      2.   Any seizure made to collect a sales tax due shall be only of the
property of the retailer not exempt from execution under the provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes. (1983 Code § 3.04.590)
   B.   Notice Of Sale:
      1.   Notice of the sale and the time and place thereof shall be given to
the delinquent person in writing at least ten (10) days before the date set for
the sale in the manner following: the notice shall be enclosed in an envelope
addressed to the person, in case of a sale for use taxes due, at his last known
address or place of business, and, in case of a sale for sales taxes due, at
his last known residence or place of business in this state. It shall be
deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid. The notice shall also be
published for at least ten (10) days before the date set for the sale in a
newspaper of general circulation published in the county in which the property
seized is to be sold. If there is no newspaper of general circulation in the
county, notice shall be posted in three (3) public places in the county ten
(10) days prior to the date set for the sale.
      2.   The notice shall contain a description of the property to be sold, a
statement of the amount due, including interest, penalties and costs, the name
of the delinquent, and the further statement that unless the amount due,
interest, penalties and costs are paid on or before the time fixed in the
notice for the sale, the property, or so much of it as may be necessary, will
be sold in accordance with law and the notice. (1983 Code § 3.04.595)
   C.   Bill Of Sale, Deed; Disposition Of Unsold Portion:
      1.   At the sale, the tax commission shall sell the property in
accordance with law and the notice and shall deliver to the purchaser a bill of
sale for the personal property and a deed for any real property sold. The bill
of sale or deed vests the interests or title of the person liable for the
amount in the purchaser.
      2.   The unsold portion of any property seized may be left at the place
of sale at the risk of the person liable for the amount. (1983 Code § 3.04.600)
   D.   Disposition Of Excess Proceeds; Third Party Claims:
      1.   If, upon the sale, the monies received exceed the total of all
amounts, including interest, penalties and costs due the county, the tax
commission shall return the excess to the person liable for the amounts and
obtain his receipt.
      2.   If any person having an interest in or lien upon the property files
with the tax commission, prior to the sale, notice of his interest or lien, the
tax commission shall withhold any excess, pending a determination of the rights
of the respective parties thereto by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      3.   If for any reason the receipt of the person liable for the amount is
not available, the tax commission shall deposit the excess monies with the
county treasurer, as trustee for the owner, subject to the order of the person
liable for the amount, his heirs, successors or assigns. (1983 Code § 3.04.605)
3-1E-32: SALE OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Successor Withhold Tax From Purchase Price: If any retailer liable for
any amount under this chapter sells out his business or stock of goods, or
quits the business, his successors or assigns shall withhold sufficient of the
purchase price to cover such amount until the former owner produces a receipt
from the tax commission showing that it has been paid or a certificate stating
that no amount is due. (1983 Code § 3.04.610)
   B.   Liability Of Purchaser:
      1.   If the purchaser of a business or stock of goods fails to withhold
the purchase price as required, he becomes personally liable for the payment of
the amount required to be withheld by him to the extent of the purchase price,
valued in money. Within sixty (60) days after receiving a written request from
the purchaser for a certificate, or within sixty (60) days from the date the
former owner's records are made available for audit, whichever period expires
the later, but in any event not later than ninety (90) days after receiving the
request, the tax commission shall either issue the certificate or mail notice
to the purchaser at his address as it appears on the records of the tax
commission, of the amount that must be paid as a condition of issuing the
certificate.
      2.   Failure of the tax commission to mail the notice will release the
purchaser from any further obligation to withhold the purchase price as above
provided.
      3.   The time within which the obligation of a successor may be enforced
shall start to run at the time the retailer sells out his business or stock of
goods or at the time that the determination against the retailer becomes final,
whichever event occurs the later. (1983 Code § 3.04.615)
3-1E-33: CERTIFICATION OF EXCESS AMOUNT COLLECTED:
   A.   Certification By Tax Commission: If the tax commission determines that
any amount, penalty or interest has been paid more than once or has been
erroneously or illegally collected or computed, the tax commission shall set
forth that fact in the records of the tax commission and shall certify to the
board of county commissioners the amount collected in excess of the amount
legally due and the person from whom it was collected or by whom paid. If
approved by the board of county commissioners, the excess amount collected or
paid shall be credited on any amounts then due and payable from the person
under this chapter, and the balance shall be refunded to the person, or his
successors, administrators or executors.
   B.   Any overpayment of the use tax by a purchaser to a retailer who is
required to collect the tax and who gives the purchaser a receipt therefor
pursuant to article C of this chapter shall be credited or refunded by the
county. (1983 Code § 3.04.620)
3-1E-34: CLAIMS FOR REFUND:
   A.   Credit; Limitation:
      1.   No refund shall be allowed unless a claim therefor is filed with the
tax commission within three (3) years from the last day of the month following
the close of the quarterly period for which the overpayment was made, or, with
respect to determinations made under sections
3-1E-6 through
3-1E-15 of this article within six (6) months after the determinations become
final, or within six (6) months from the date of overpayment, whichever period
expires the later.
      2.   No credit shall be allowed after the expiration of the period
specified for filing claims for refund unless a claim for credit is filed with
the tax commission within such period, or unless the credit relates to a period
for which a waiver is given pursuant to subsection 3-1E-10B of this article.
(1983 Code § 3.04.625)
   B.   Credit Or Refund For Use Tax; Reimbursements Of Vendor For Sales Tax:
No credit or refund of any amount paid pursuant to article C of this chapter
shall be allowed on the ground that the storage, use or other consumption of
the property is exempted under section
3-1D-15 of this chapter, unless the person who paid the amount reimburses his
vendor for the amount of the sales tax imposed upon his vendor with respect to
the sale of the property and paid by the vendor to the county. (1983 Code §
3.04.630)
   C.   Claim Form; Contents: Every claim shall be in writing and shall state
the specific grounds upon which the claim is founded. (1983 Code § 3.04.635)
   D.   Effect Of Failure To File Claim; Waiver: Failure to file a claim within
the time prescribed in subsection A of this section constitutes a waiver of any
demand against the county on account of overpayment. (1983 Code § 3.04.640)
   E.   Notice Of Disallowance Of Claim; Service: Within thirty (30) days after
disallowing any claim in whole or part, the tax commission shall serve notice
of its action on the claimant in the manner prescribed for service of notice of
a deficiency determination. (1983 Code § 3.04.645)
3-1E-35: INTEREST ON OVERPAYMENTS:
   A.   Rate And Payments:
      1.   Interest shall be paid upon any overpayment of any amount of tax at
the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) per month from the last day of the
calendar month following the quarterly period for which the overpayment was
made; but no refund or credit shall be made of any interest imposed upon the
person making the overpayment with respect to the amount being refunded or
credited.
      2.   The interest shall be paid as follows:
         a.   In the case of a refund, to the last day of the calendar month
following the date upon which the person making the overpayment, if he has not
already filed a claim, is notified by the tax commission that claim may be
filed or the date upon which the claim is certified to the board of county
commissioners, whichever date is the earlier;
         b.   In the case of a credit, to the same date as that to which
interest is computed on the tax or amount against which the credit is applied.
(1983 Code § 3.04.650)
   B.   Disallowance Of Interest; Circumstances: If the tax commission
determines that any overpayment has been made intentionally or by reason of
carelessness, it shall not allow any interest thereon. (1983 Code § 3.04.655)
3-1E-36: INJUNCTION, OTHER PROCESS TO PREVENT TAX COLLECTION PROHIBITED:
No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall
issue in any suit, action or proceeding in any court against the state, a
county, or any officer thereof to prevent or enjoin the collection under this
chapter of any tax or any amount of tax required to be collected. (1983 Code §
3.04.660)
3-1E-37: ACTION FOR REFUND:
   A.   Claim As Condition Precedent: No suit or proceeding shall be maintained
in any court for the recovery of any amount alleged to have been erroneously or
illegally determined or collected unless a claim for refund or credit has been
duly filed. (1983 Code § 3.04.665)
   B.   Time To Sue; Venue Of Action; Waiver:
      1.   Within ninety (90) days after the mailing of the notice of the tax
commission's action upon a claim filed pursuant to this chapter, the claimant
may bring an action against the tax commission on the grounds set forth in the
claim in a court of competent jurisdiction in this county for the recovery of
the whole or any part of the amount with respect to which the claim has been
disallowed.
      2.   Failure to bring action within the time specified constitutes a
waiver of any demand against the county on account of alleged overpayments.
(1983 Code § 3.04.670)
   C.   Right Of Action On Failure Of Tax Commission To Mail Notice: If the tax
commission fails to mail notice of action on a claim within six (6) months
after the claim is filed, the claimant may, prior to the mailing of notice by
the tax commission of its action on the claim, consider the claim disallowed
and bring an action against the tax commission on the grounds set forth in the
claim for the recovery of the whole or any part of the amount claimed as an
overpayment. (1983 Code § 3.04.675)
   D.   Judgment For Plaintiff; Credits; Refund Of Balance:
      1.   If judgment is rendered for the plaintiff, the amount of the
judgment shall first be credited as follows:
         a.   If the judgment is for a refund of sales taxes, it shall be
credited on any sales or use tax or amount of use tax due from the plaintiff.
         b.   If the judgment is for a refund of use taxes, it shall be
credited on any sales or use tax or amount of use tax due from the plaintiff.
      2.   The balance of the judgment shall be refunded to the plaintiff.
(1983 Code § 3.04.680)
   E.   Allowance Of Interest: In any judgment, interest shall be allowed at
the rate of six percent (6%) per year upon the amount found to have been
illegally collected from the date of payment of the amount to the date of
allowance of credit on account of the judgment, or to a date preceding the date
of the refund warrant by not more than thirty (30) days, the date to be
determined by the tax commission. (1983 Code § 3.04.685)
   F.   Judgment Not Rendered For Assignee; Plaintiff: A judgment shall not be
rendered in favor of the plaintiff in any action brought against the tax
commission to recover any amount paid when the action is brought by or in the
name of any assignee of the person paying the amount or by any person other
than the person who paid the amount. (1983 Code § 3.04.690)
3-1E-38: RECOVERY OF ERRONEOUS REFUNDS:
   A.   Action; Jurisdiction And Venue: The tax commission may recover any
refund or part thereof which is erroneously made and any credit or part thereof
which is erroneously allowed in an action brought in a court of competent
jurisdiction in the county, in the name of the county. (1983 Code § 3.04.695)
   B.   Prosecution By District Attorney: The district attorney of the county,
on behalf of the county, shall prosecute the action, and the provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes and the Nevada rules of civil procedure relating to
service of summons, pleading, proofs, trials and appeals are applicable to the
proceedings. (1983 Code § 3.04.700)
3-1E-39: CANCELLATION OF ILLEGAL DETERMINATION:
   A.   If any amount in excess of twenty five dollars ($25.00) has been
illegally determined, either by the person filing the return or by the tax
commission, the tax commission shall certify this fact to the board of county
commissioners, and such board shall authorize the cancellation of the amount
upon the records of the tax commission.
   B.   If an amount not exceeding twenty five dollars ($25.00) has been
illegally determined, either by the person filing a return or by the tax
commission, the tax commission, without certifying this fact to such board,
shall authorize the cancellation of the amount upon the records of the tax
commission. (1983 Code § 3.04.705)
ARTICLE F. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
3-1F-1: Enforcement; Rules And Regulations
3-1F-2: Employment Of Assistants; Delegation Of Authority
3-1F-3: Records Required
3-1F-4: Examination Of Records; Investigation Of Business
3-1F-5: Reports For Administering Use Tax; Contents
3-1F-6: Information Disclosure; Orders By Governor
3-1F-7: Amendments To Statute
3-1F-8: Penalties And Remedies
3-1F-1: ENFORCEMENT; RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Tax Commission: The tax commission shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter and may prescribe, adopt and enforce rules and regulations relating to
the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   B.   Rulings: The tax commission may prescribe the extent to which any
ruling or regulation shall be applied without retroactive effect. (1983 Code §
3.04.710)
3-1F-2: EMPLOYMENT OF ASSISTANTS; DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY:
The tax commission may employ accountants, auditors, investigators, assistants
and clerks necessary for the efficient administration of this chapter, and may
delegate authority to its representatives to conduct hearings, prescribe
regulations or perform any other duties imposed by this chapter. (1983 Code §
3.04.715)
3-1F-3: RECORDS REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirement: Every seller, every retailer and every person storing,
using or otherwise consuming in the county tangible personal property purchased
from a retailer shall keep such records, receipts, invoices and other pertinent
papers in such form as the tax commission may require.
   B.   Time Limit For Keeping Records:
      1.   Every such seller, retailer or person who files the returns required
under this chapter shall keep such records for not less than four (4) years
from the making of such records unless the tax commission in writing sooner
authorizes their destruction.
      2.   Every such seller, retailer or person who fails to file the returns
required under this chapter shall keep such records for not less than eight (8)
years from the making of such records unless the tax commission in writing
sooner authorizes their destruction. (1983 Code § 3.04.720)
3-1F-4: EXAMINATION OF RECORDS; INVESTIGATION OF BUSINESS:
The tax commission, or any person authorized in writing by it, may examine the
books, papers, records and equipment of any person selling tangible personal
property and any person liable for the use tax and may investigate the
character of the business of the person in order to verify the accuracy of any
return made, or, if no return is made by the person, to ascertain and determine
the amount required to be paid. (1983 Code § 3.04.725)
3-1F-5: REPORTS FOR ADMINISTERING USE TAX; CONTENTS:
In administration of the use tax, the tax commission may require the filing of
reports by any person or class of persons having in his or their possession or
custody information relating to sales of tangible personal property, the
storage, use or other consumption of which is subject to the tax. The report
shall:
   A.   Be filed when the tax commission requires;
   B.   Set forth the names and addresses of purchasers of the tangible
personal property, the sales price of the property, the date of sale, and such
other information as the tax commission may require. (1983 Code § 3.04.730)
3-1F-6: INFORMATION DISCLOSURE; ORDERS BY GOVERNOR:
   A.   Disclosure Unlawful: It shall be a misdemeanor for any member or
official or employee of the tax commission to make known in any manner whatever
the business affairs, operations or information obtained by an investigation of
records and equipment of any retailer or any other person visited or examined
in the discharge of official duty, or the amount or source of income, profits,
losses, expenditures or any particular thereof, set forth or disclosed in any
return, or to permit any return or copy thereof, or any book containing any
abstract or particulars thereof to be seen or examined by any person not
connected with the tax commission.
   B.   Orders By Governor: The governor may, however, by general or special
order, authorize examination of the records maintained by the tax commission
under this chapter by other state officers, by tax officers of another state,
by the federal government, if a reciprocal arrangement exists, or by any other
person. The information so obtained pursuant to the order of the governor shall
not be made public except to the extent and in the manner that the order may
authorize that it be made public.
   C.   Information To Successors: Successors, receivers, trustees, executors,
administrators, assignees and guarantors, if directly interested, may be given
information as to the items included in the measure and amounts of any unpaid
tax or amounts of tax required to be collected, interest and penalties. (1983
Code § 3.04.735)
3-1F-7: AMENDMENTS TO STATUTE:
All amendments to the local school support tax law, Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 374 and are not inconsistent with this chapter shall automatically
become a part of this chapter on their respective effective dates. (1983 Code §
3.04.760; amd. 2003 Code)
3-1F-8: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Penalty For Failure To Make Return, Furnish Data: Any retailer or other
person who fails or refuses to furnish any return required to be made, or who
fails or refuses to furnish a supplemental return or other data required by the
tax commission, or who renders a false or fraudulent return, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense. (1983 Code § 3.04.740)
   B.   Penalty For Other Violations: Any violation of this chapter is a
misdemeanor. (1983 Code § 3.04.745)
   C.   Application Of Res Judicata Doctrine: In the determination of any case
arising under this chapter, the rule of res judicata is applicable only if the
liability involved is for the same quarterly period as was involved in another
case previously determined. (1983 Code § 3.04.750)
   D.   Remedies Of County Cumulative: The remedies of the county provided for
in this chapter are cumulative, and no action taken by the tax commission, the
attorney general or the district attorney constitutes an election by the county
to pursue any remedy to the exclusion of any other remedy for which provision
is made in this chapter. (1983 Code § 3.04.755)
ARTICLE G. SCHOOL DISTRICT CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT TAX
SECTION:
3-1G-1: Title
3-1G-2: Tax Imposed; Rate
3-1G-3: Required Use Of Funds
3-1G-4: Amendments
3-1G-5: Delegation Of Administrative Functions
3-1G-6: Exemption
3-1G-7: Effective Date
3-1G-1: TITLE:
This article shall be known as or may be cited as the LINCOLN COUNTY SCHOOL
DISTRICT CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT TAX. (Ord. 2000-03, 11-6-2000)
3-1G-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 377B a tax of one- fourth of one
percent (0.25%) of the gross receipts of all retailers in Lincoln County is
hereby imposed upon the sale of all tangible personal property sold at retail,
stored, used or otherwise consumed in the county. (Ord. 2000-03, 11-6-2000)
3-1G-3: REQUIRED USE OF FUNDS:
The infrastructure tax imposed hereunder shall be applied to pay for
construction and renovation of schools within Lincoln County school district.
(Ord. 2000-03, 11-6-2000)
3-1G-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Effect Of Amendments: Any amendment made to Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 374, local school support tax law or Nevada Revised Statutes chapter
377, city/county relief tax after the effective date hereof, not inconsistent
with this chapter, automatically becomes a part of this article.
   B.   Amending Ordinance: Any ordinance hereafter adopted for the purpose of
amending this article must include a provision in substance that the county
shall amend the contract made in contemplation of delegation of administrative
functions, as set forth by section
3-1G-5 of this article, by contract made between the county and the state
department of taxation before the effective date of the amendatory taxing
ordinance, unless the county determines with the written concurrence of the
department that no such amendment of the contract is necessary or desirable.
(Ord. 2000-03, 11-6-2000)
3-1G-5: DELEGATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS:
The county shall contract with the state department of taxation for the
performance of all functions incident to the administration or operation of the
tax in the county. (Ord. 2000-03, 11-6-2000)
3-1G-6: EXEMPTION:
Exempt from the tax or any increase in the tax are the gross receipts from the
sale, storage, use or other consumption in the county of tangible personal
property used for performance of a written contract:
   A.   Entered into on or before the effective date of the tax or the increase
in the tax.
   B.   For which a binding bid was submitted before the effective date of the
tax or the increase in the tax if the bid was afterwards accepted if under the
terms of the contract or bid, the contract price of bid amount cannot be
adjusted to reflect the imposition of the tax or the increase in tax. (Ord.
2000-03, 11-6-2000)
3-1G-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This article shall take effect from and after passage, approval, and
publication. Collection of the tax authorized pursuant to this article shall
then be made effective as of January 1, 2001. (Ord. 2000-03, 11-6-2000)
CHAPTER 2
MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL TAX
SECTION:
3-2-1: Title
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Administration And Enforcement
3-2-4: Audit, Examination And Inquiry
3-2-5: Filing Of Tax Return; Payment Of Tax
3-2-6: Tax Rate; Effective Date
3-2-7: Exempt Transactions And Sales
3-2-8: Inclusion Of Applicable Statute
3-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the LINCOLN COUNTY MOTOR
VEHICLE FUEL TAX ORDINANCE. (1983 Code § 3.05.010; amd. 2003 Code)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section shall govern the construction of this chapter.
BOARD: The board of county commissioners.
COMMISSION: The regional transportation commission.
DEALER:
   A.   "Dealer" means and includes every person who:
      1. Refines, manufactures, compounds or otherwise produces motor vehicle
fuel and sells or distributes the same in this county;
      2. Imports motor vehicle fuel into this county and sells or distributes
the same therein, whether in the original package or container in which it is
imported or otherwise, or who uses the motor vehicle fuel in this county after
having imported the same;
      3. Having acquired motor vehicle fuel in this county in the original
package or container, distributes or sells the same in such original package or
container, or otherwise, or in any manner uses the same;
      4. Otherwise acquires in this county for sale, use or distribution in
this county motor vehicle fuel with respect to which there has been no prior
taxable sale, use or distribution.
   B.   "Dealer" shall not include any person who imports into this county
motor vehicle fuel in quantities of five hundred (500) gallons or less
purchased from a supplier who is licensed as a dealer under Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 365 and who shall assume liability for the collection and
remittance of the applicable excise tax to this county.
DEPARTMENT: Effective January 1, 2002, "department" means the state department
of motor vehicle and public safety (DMVPS).
DISTRIBUTES OR DISTRIBUTION: All motor vehicle fuel sold, donated, consigned
for sale, bartered, used or in any way voluntarily deposed of so as to
terminate the ownership and possession thereof by the dealer or any other
person who imports such motor vehicle fuel owned by him shall be deemed to be
"distributed" and considered as "distribution" under this chapter.
HIGHWAY: Every way or place of whatever nature open to the use of the public
for purposes of surface traffic, including highways under construction.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Means and includes every self-propelled motor vehicle, including
tractors, operated on a surfaced highway.
MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL: Means and includes gasoline, natural gasoline, casinghead
gasoline and any other inflammable or combustible liquid, by whatever name such
liquid may be known or sold, the chief use of which in this state is for the
propulsion of motor vehicles, motorboats or airplanes. Kerosene, gas oil, fuel
oil, jet aircraft fuel, diesel fuel and liquefied petroleum gas shall not be
considered motor vehicle fuel for the purposes of this chapter.
PERSON: Means and includes every natural person, association, firm or
partnership, corporation, municipal corporation, quasi- municipal corporation,
political subdivision, governmental agency, trustee, receiver and the legal
representative or representatives of the estate of any deceased person and
their agents.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person, other than a "dealer" as defined in
this section engaged in the business of selling motor vehicle fuel. (1983 Code
§ 3.05.020; amd. 2003 Code)
3-2-3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Contract With State:
      1.   Operation Of Chapter: Prior to the effective date hereof, the board
of county commissioners shall contract with the DMVPS to perform all functions
incident to the administration and operation of this chapter. (1983 Code §
3.05.030; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Motor Vehicle Fuel Tax Regulations: Prior to the effective date
hereof, the county will contract with the DMVPS to perform all functions
incident to the administration or operation of the county motor vehicle fuel
tax regulations. (1983 Code § 3.05.110; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Collection Of Taxes: The DMVPS, upon execution of the contract referred
to in subsection A of this section, shall be empowered to administer and
enforce all of the provisions of this chapter pertaining to the collection of
all taxes provided herein. (1983 Code § 3.05.040; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Rules And Regulations: The department shall have power to make all
necessary rules and regulations and prescribe all necessary forms or other
requirements for the purpose of making the administration of this chapter
effective. (1983 Code § 3.05.050; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Enforcement By Sheriffs And Peace Officers: County sheriffs and all
other peace officers and traffic officers of this state shall, without further
compensation, assist in the enforcement of this chapter, and they shall make
arrests for this purpose when requested by the Nevada department of motor
vehicles and public safety or its duly authorized agents. (1983 Code §
3.05.070; amd. 2003 Code)
3-2-4: AUDIT, EXAMINATION AND INQUIRY:
   A.   Investigative Authority: The department, for and on behalf of the
county, shall have power, by itself or by its duly authorized agents, to make
any audit, examination or inquiry of and concerning the records, stocks,
facilities, equipment and transactions of dealers, retailers of petroleum
products and carriers thereof, and such other investigations as it may deem
necessary in carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Disclosure Of Errors: If any investigation discloses that any report or
any payment has been incorrect, the department may make such changes in
subsequent reports and payments as may be necessary to correct the error so
disclosed. (1983 Code § 3.05.060)
3-2-5: FILING OF TAX RETURN; PAYMENT OF TAX:
   A.   Statements Of Fuel Sold, Distributed Or Used: In addition to any other
taxes provided by law, every dealer shall, not later than the twenty fifth day
of each calendar month, render to the department a statement of all motor
vehicle fuel sold, distributed or used by him in the county, as well as any
motor vehicle fuel sold, distributed or used in this county by a purchaser
thereof upon which sale, distribution or use the dealer has assumed liability
for the tax thereon hereunder, during the preceding calendar month; and pay an
excise tax as imposed by this chapter on all motor vehicle fuel so sold,
distributed or used, in the manner and within the time prescribed in this
chapter.
   B.   Extension Of Time: The department, for good cause, may extend for not
to exceed thirty (30) days, the time for making any report or return required
under this chapter. The extension may be granted at any time if:
      1.   A request therefor has been filed with the department within or
before the period for which the extension may be granted; and
      2.   A remittance of the estimated tax is made when due. Any dealer to
whom an extension is granted shall pay, in addition to any delinquent tax due,
interest at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) per month, or fraction
thereof, from the date on which the tax would have been due without the
extension to the date of payment.
   C.   Determination Of Date Filed: Any report, return, remittance to cover a
payment, or claim for credit or refund required by this chapter, which is
transmitted through the United States mail, shall be deemed filed or received
by the department on the date shown by the post office cancellation mark
stamped upon the envelope containing it, or on the date it was mailed, if proof
satisfactory to the department establishes that the document or remittance was
timely deposited in the United States mail properly addressed to the
department.
   D.   Determination Of Point Of Sale: For the purposes of this chapter, motor
vehicle fuel is sold where it is delivered into a vehicle not belonging to the
seller or into a stationary tank on the premises of the buyer. (1983 Code §
3.05.080)
3-2-6: TAX RATE; EFFECTIVE DATE:
The county motor vehicle fuel tax of four cents ($0.04) per gallon shall be
imposed on the first day of the second calendar month following the enactment
of this chapter, pursuant to ordinance 1987-2. (1983 Code § 3.05.120; amd. 2003
Code)
3-2-7: EXEMPT TRANSACTIONS AND SALES:
   A.   Exemptions Pursuant To Statute: The provisions of this chapter
requiring the payment of excise taxes do not apply to any of the exemptions as
set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes section 365.220 et seq.
   B.   Manner Of Presenting Claims: Claims of exemptions, forms and contents
of reports and times to claim such exemptions shall be as the department shall
from time to time determine. (1983 Code § 3.05.090)
3-2-8: INCLUSION OF APPLICABLE STATUTE:
   A.   Inclusion By Reference: All applicable provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 365 not specifically included in this chapter are made part of
this chapter by reference.
   B.   Amendments: All amendments to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 365
subsequent to the date of enactment of this chapter not inconsistent with
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 373, automatically become part of this chapter
as though set forth herein. (1983 Code § 3.05.100; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
LODGING RENTAL TAX
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Tax - Imposition - Rate - Assignment
3-3-3: License Required
3-3-4: Exemptions
3-3-5: Collection Of Tax
3-3-6: Notice Of Tax Required
3-3-7: Administration, Collection And Enforcement
3-3-8: Refunds
3-3-9: Records Kept By Board/Tax Administrator
3-3-10: Records Kept By Operator
3-3-11: Penalty For Audit Deficiencies
3-3-12: Penalty For Violation
3-3-13: Tax Collection On Sale Of Business
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases when used in this chapter shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning. Words used in the present tense include the
future, and words in the singular number include the plural and the plural the
singular. Words not defined in this section shall have their generally accepted
meanings unless otherwise defined in the Lincoln County Code.
ATTRITION:     The use or occupancy of less than an agreed upon number of sleeping rooms/spaces by
               a group of persons.
BOARD:         The Lincoln County Fair and Recreation Board.
BOARD OF
COUNTY         The Lincoln County Board of County Commissioners.
COMMISSIONERS:
CANCELLATION:  Notification of a transient lodging establishment by a person or group of persons
               that they will not use or occupy one or more reserved room(s)/space(s).
               When a transient lodging establishment furnishes transient lodging for the
COMPLIMENTARY  occupancy of a transient guest for which there is no rent paid and no transient
ROOM:          lodging tax applies. The complimentary room must be for a room/space that is
               actually occupied by a transient guest.
COUNTY:        Lincoln County, Nevada, excluding incorporated cities, unless otherwise indicated.
COUNTY TAX     Nevada Revised Statutes section 244.335 et seq.
ACT:
DIRECTOR:      The director of the Lincoln County department of business license.
               When a transient lodging establishment offers a reduction in rent to a transient
               guest and the reduction is applied to the specific room/space occupied by the
               transient guest. A discount may take a number of forms such as an absolute value
DISCOUNT:      (e.g., one hundred dollars ($100.00)), a percentage value (e .g., ten percent) or a
               rebate (e.g., a twenty dollars ($20.00) room voucher received after a three (3)-
               night stay). The discounted rent is subject to the transient lodging tax specified
               in this chapter.
               The total amount of rent received and any forfeited deposits valued in money,
               whether accepted in money or otherwise, received by operators. Gross receipts shall
GROSS          not include refunds, uncollected rent that is written off as bad debt, discounts,
RECEIPTS:      or room allowances. Gross receipts shall include recoveries of rent previously
               written off as bad debt. Gross receipts shall not be reduced unless expressly
               allowed by the provisions of this chapter.
INDIVIDUAL:    A human being.
LICENSE:       A business license to operate a trans
               All license taxes hereby or hereafter appropriated or assigned by the county for
LICENSE TAXES: administration by the county fair and recreation board for the purpose of renting
               transient lodging accommodations.
               The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of any sleeping room/
OCCUPANCY:     space or portion thereof, in a transient lodging establishment for dwelling,
               lodging, or sleeping purposes.
               Any person who, for rent, uses, possesses or has the right to possess any sleeping
OCCUPANT:      room/space in a transient lodging establishment under any lease, permit, right of
               access, license, contract or agreement.
               The person who is the proprietor of a transient lodging establishment, whether in
               the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, mortgagee, licensee, or any other
OPERATOR:      capacity. Where the operator performs his or her functions through a managing agent
               of any type or character other than an employee, the managing agent shall also be
               deemed an operator for the purposes of this chapter and shall have the same duties
               and liabilities as his or her principal.
               Any aggregation of rights to rooms/spaces, food, refreshments, merchandise,
PACKAGE:       entertainment, recreation, services, and/or other items groups as a single unit and
               sold for a single price.
               Any individual who has or shall have the right to occupancy in a sleeping room/
               space at the same transient lodging establishment for thirty-one consecutive days
PERMANENT      or more, and for whom rent is exempt from the transient lodging tax on the thirty-
RESIDENCE:     first day and every consecutive day thereafter, provided the individual continues
               to occupy or continues the right to occupy a sleeping room/space at the same
               transient lodging establishment.
               An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, joint stock company, association,
PERSON:        estate, trust, corporation, or other legal entity in whatever form and character
               acting in a representative capacity.
RECREATION     Nevada Revised Statutes 244A.597-.633, inclusive.
ACT:
RECREATION     A place, structure, area or other facility used for community recreation, such as
FACILITY OR    playgrounds, playing fields or courts, swimming pools, gymnasiums, auditoriums,
RECREATION     camps, parks, golf courses, natural reservoirs, recreation grounds, fairgrounds,
FACILITIES:    exposition buildings, convention halls, field houses, amusement halls, and
               recreation centers.
               The return of money to a transient guest who paid rent for the right to use a
               sleeping room/space in a transient lodging establishment, or a reduction in rent
REFUND:        applied to a specific room/space to allow for issues resulting in the inconvenience
               to transient guests with the transient lodging establishment including, but not
               limited to, air conditioning or heating not working properly.
               A.   The amount charged for a sleeping room/space in a transient lodging
               establishment, valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, and
               including the following, regardless of whether separately stated:
                  1.   Charges that would normally be part of an all-inclusive room rate, such as,
               but not limited to, payment processing fees, check-in fees, accommodation fees,
               facility fees, access fees, charges for additional guests, late check-out fees, and
RENT:          utility surcharges;
                  2.   Charges applicable to cleaning and readying such room/space for occupancy
               including, but not limited to, linen fees, cleaning fees, and non-refundable
               deposits;
                  3.   Charges for rental of furnishings and appliances including, but not limited
               to, cribs, rollaways, refrigerators, televisions, microwaves, and in-room safes;
                  4.   Room charges applicable to pets including, but not limited to, non-
               refundable pet cleaning fees/deposits;
                  5.   Charges associated with attrition, cancellation, late arrival, or failure
               to occupy a room, including, but not limited to, attrition fees, cancellation fees,
               late arrival fees, early departure fees, and no-show fees.
                  6.   Reimbursements received for use of a sleeping room/space under incentive
               programs, such as, but not limited to, frequent guest programs or rewards programs;
                 7.   Any charges for services, amenities, accommodations, or use, not otherwise
               specified above, that are mandatory in nature and charged in connection with rental
               of a sleeping room/space.
               B.   Shall not include the charge for any food served or personal services rendered
               to the transient guest, including, but not limited to, valet service, room service,
               or delivery service.
RENTAL         Synonymous with "transient lodging establishment" for purposes of all taxes imposed
BUSINESS:      by this chapter and the terms are used interchangeably.
ROOM           Either a complimentary room or a discount.
ALLOWANCE:
SHALL:         Means must and is mandatory.
TAX            The resolution of the fair and recreation board as the same may be amended from
ADMINISTRATION time to time.
RESOLUTION:
TAX            The chairman of the fair and recreation board, or other person as designated by the
ADMINISTRATOR: Board.
TRANSIENT      Any individual natural person who has or shall have the right of occupancy to any
GUEST:         sleeping room/space in a transient lodging establishment for thirty (30)
               consecutive days or less.
               Any facility, structure, or portion of any structure which is occupied or intended
               or designed for occupancy to any sleeping room/space by a person or persons who pay
               rent for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes.
               A.   The term includes any:
                  1.   Hotel;
                  2.   Motel;
                  3.   Inn;
                  4.   Bed and breakfast;
                  5.   Lodging house;
TRANSIENT         6.   Time-share project;
LODGING           7.   Vacation home;
ESTABLISHMENT:    8.   Apartment house;
                  9.   Recreational vehicle park;
                  10.   Campground;
                  11.   Short-term rental unit;
                  12.   Other similar structure or facility, or portion thereof.
               B.   The term "transient lodging establishment" does not include any:
                  1.   Hospital;
                  2.   Sanitarium;
                  3.   Medical clinic;
                  4.   Convalescent home:
                  5.   Nursing home;
                  6.   Home for the aged people;
                  7.   Foster home, or other similar facility operated for the car or treatment of
               individuals;
                  8.   Asylum;
                  9.   Jail;
                  10.   Prison;
                  11.   Orphanage;
                  12.   Facility in which individuals are detained or housed under legal
               restraint;
                  13.   Housing owned or controlled by an educational institution and used
              exclusively to house students, faculty or other employees;
                  14.   Housing operated or used exclusively for religious, charitable or
               education purposes by an organization having qualifications for exemption from
               property taxes and under the laws of the state;
                  15.   Housing owned by governmental agency and used to house its employees or
               for governmental purposes;
                  16.   Room within a private dwelling house or other single-family dwelling unit
               that is rented to a person for thirty-one consecutive days or more and the
               permanent or principal owner also resides in and occupies the dwelling; or The
               burden of establishing that the housing or facility is not a transient lodging
               establishment as defined herein shall be on the owner thereof, who shall file with
               the board such information as the board may require to establish and maintain such
               status. (Ord. 2023-03, 10-16-2023)
 
3-3-2: LICENSE TAX - IMPOSITION - RATE - ASSIGNMENT:
   A.   There is fixed and imposed a tax, hereinafter referred to as "transient
lodging tax"for revenue, on every operator of a transient lodging establishment
within the county in the amount of one percent (1%) of the amount of gross
receipts derived from the renting of rooms/spaces within the county, pursuant
to Nevada Revised Statues section 244.3352(1)(b). If a rental of transitory
lodging occurs within the county but outside an incorporated city, there shall
be an additional seven percent (7%) for a total of eight percent (8%), pursuant
to Nevada Revised Statutes section 244.335.
   B.   The eight percent (8%) tax imposed in subsection A of this section
shall be assigned as follows:
      1.   Four percent (4%) to be used by the fair and recreation board as
permitted by Nevada Revised Statutes 244A.597;
      2.   One percent (1%) as mandated by Nevada Revised Statutes 244.3352 and
to be distributed in the manner prescribed by Nevada Revised Statutes 244.3354
with five-eighths (5/8) to be used for advertising and promotion and three-
eighths (3/8) to be distributed to the Nevada Commission on Tourism;
      3.   One percent (1%) to be used by the fair and recreation board for
capital improvement of recreational facilities;
      4.   One percent (1%) to be used for the maintenance of county parks,
with the distribution to the unincorporated areas as follows: Alamo-thirty
percent (30%), Panaca-thirty percent (30%), Pioche-thirty percent (30%), and
Hiko/Rachel-ten percent (10%).
      5.   One percent (1%) to be used for advertising of tourism and events in
Lincoln County. (Ord. 2023-03, 10-16-2023)
3-3-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person, either for himself or for any other person, to
commence or to carry on any transient lodging rental business in the county
without first having procured a license from the director. The carrying on of
any such transient lodging rental constitutes a separate violation of this
chapter for each and every day that such business is so carried on. It shall be
the duty of the director to issue business licenses as provided for in this
chapter and as set forth in
Chapter 11 of Title 4 of the Lincoln County Code. (Ord. 2023-03, 10-16-2023)
3-3-4: EXEMPTIONS:
No transient lodging tax shall be imposed under the provisions of this chapter
upon:
   A.   Rent received for transient lodging, wherein the renter has entered
into a written lease with a rental period greater than thirty days. However, in
the absence of a written lease with a rental period greater than thirty (30)
days, rent received for transient lodging rented for thirty (30) days or less
shall be subject to the transient lodging tax.
   B.   Rent received from permanent residents.
   C.   Rent paid directly by the following exempt organizations: United
States, State of Nevada, federally chartered credit unions, and the American
Red Cross. This exemption does not extend to rent paid by an individual who
receives a cash advance from, or is to be later reimbursed by, the exempt
organization.
   D.   Rent paid by foreign diplomats properly registered with the United
States State Department.
   E.   Complimentary rooms, as defined in Section
3-3-1 of this chapter, wherein there is no rent paid to the operator in
conjunction with the occupancy.
   F.   The cost of or rent paid for a room in a transient lodging
establishment that is not used for sleeping, such as a meeting room. (Ord.
2023-03, 10-16-2023)
3-3-5: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Each operator is required to add the amount of the license tax fixed and
imposed in this chapter to the amount of the transient lodging rent and to
collect said tax and rentals from each transient guest. The amount of the tax
shall be displayed separately from the price of the transient lodging room/
space on the guest registration card. (Ord. 2023-03, 10-16-2023)
3-3-6: NOTICE OF TAX REQUIRED:
Each operator shall prominently display in a conspicuous place a sign that
provides notice to transient guests as the the transient lodging tax imposed by
this chapter. (Ord. 2023-03, 10-16-2023)
3-3-7: ADMINISTRATION, COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Assignment of Tax: The license tax fixed and imposed in this chapter is
appropriated and assigned to the Board for administration in accordance with
the tax administration resolution and Nevada Revised Statutes sections 244.3354
and 244A.599.
   B.   Collection Authority: The Board, and the person or entity it so
authorizes, is empowered to collect the proceeds of the license tax provided
for in this chapter and to receive, control, invest and order the lawful
expenditure of funds pertaining thereto, and to enforce by all appropriate and
lawful means the provisions of this chapter, and Nevada Revised Statutes
chapters 244 and 244A.
   C.   Enforcement Authority: The Board is charged with the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter and is authorized and empowered to prescribe, adopt
and enforce rules and regulations relating to the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. The Board may employ such accountants, auditors,
investigators, assistants, clerks or other employees as may deemed necessary
for the efficient administration of this chapter, and the board shall fix their
compensation and provide for their necessary expenses. Funds for the
administration of this chapter may be deducted from the proceeds of transient
lodging tax herein fixed and imposed in an amount not to exceed ten percent
(10%) of the gross revenues so collected.
   D.   Payment of Tax: The tax imposed in this chapter shall become due and
payable from the operator to the tax administrator, or his/her designee, on the
fifteenth day of each month next succeeding.
      1.   Whenever any operator shall quit or otherwise terminate or dispose
of its business, any amount due under the provisions of this chapter shall be
due and payable immediately upon such occasion, rather than as otherwise
required by this section.
      2.   Transient lodging taxes collected are public monies from the moment
of their collection and shall be held in trust by the operator collecting such
taxes for the use and benefit of the agencies for whom such revenues are
collected.
      3.   The operator shall refund any over-collection of the transient
lodging tax to the transient guest from who it was incorrectly collected.
      4.   Any over-collection that is not refunded, for any reason, within
ninety days after receipt by the operator, must be remitted to the tax
administrator, or his/her designee.
   E.   Registers; Examination of Registers, Books and Records: Every licensee
shall keep a register of all persons occupying transient lodging in their
respective businesses. The tax administrator or his duly authorized agent is
empowered to examine and audit the books, papers, records and registers of any
licensee or person operating a transient lodging rental business and to make
investigations in connection therewith.
   F.   Delinquency, License Suspension, License Revocation, License
Reinstatement, and Collection:
      1.   If the transient lodging tax imposed pursuant to this chapter on
transient lodging establishments located within the unincorporated areas of
Lincoln County is not received within fifteen days of the due date, the
operator shall pay, in addition to the transient lodging tax:
         a,   Interest on said tax due at the rate of one percent (1%) per
month or fraction thereof from the date on which the combined transient lodging
tax became due until the date payment is received; and
         b.   An administrative fee of ten percent (10%) of the transient
lodging tax due, exclusive of interest.
      2.   If the transient lodging tax, interest, and administrative fee is
not received on or before ninety days from the due date, then the operator's
license to operate a transient lodging establishment shall be deemed
automatically suspended and business operations must immediately cease until
such time as the delinquent transient lodging establishment is reinstated or a
new license is obtained. If the business license is suspended, all other
licenses operated with and dependent upon the transient lodging establishment
license shall be simultaneously suspended.
      3.   The suspended license may be reinstated by the director upon payment
of the outstanding transient lodging tax, plus all applicable interest, the ten
percent (10%) administrative fee, and a ten percent (10%) reinstatement fee.
      4.   If the delinquent license is not reinstated within sixty days after
suspension, the suspended license shall be automatically revoked without
further action by the director and may not be reinstated. After revocation due
to delinquency, a new application for licensure must be processed, pursuant to
subsection F(5) and F(6) of this section.
      5.   Upon submission of a new application for licensure, in addition to
payment of an application fee, the transient lodging establishment may be
required to provide evidence that operations were ceased during the period of
license revocation. If operations were not ceased, the transient lodging tax
shall be due on the gross receipts collected during the period of revocations,
plus interest at a rate of one percent (1%) per month, administrative fees of
ten percent (10%) and a fee for operating without a license of twenty-five
percent (25%) of the transient lodging tax due, exclusive of interest and other
fees.
      6.   Whenever any operator shall be delinquent in the payment of the tax
imposed by this chapter, the director or tax administrator may transmit notice
of such delinquency to the Lincoln County District Attorney who shall proceed
to collect all sums due the county from such operator by appropriate legal
action. (Ord. 2023-03, 10-16-2023)
3-3-8: REFUNDS:
Refunds of transient lodging tax collected by operators pursuant to this
chapter must be requested in writing from the Board no later than two (2) years
after the last day of the month following the close of the period for which the
claimed overpayment was made. No transient lodging tax may be refunded to an
operator who collected it unless the operator has refunded the transient
lodging tax to the transient guest who paid it. (Ord. 2023-03, 10-16-2023)
3-3-9: RECORDS KEPT BY BOARD/TAX ADMINISTRATOR:
The Board, Tax Administrator or their designated representative shall keep
proper records of the transient lodging tax herein imposed with becomes due and
which is collected, including, without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, records of delinquent taxes, interest thereon and penalties
therefrom. These records shall be deemed confidential and shall not be revealed
in whole or in part to anyone except in the necessary administration of this
chapter or as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 2023-03, 10-16-2023)
3-3-10: RECORDS KEPT BY OPERATOR.
   A.   Each operator shall maintain daily records and monthly summaries, which
are compiled from daily records and contain monthly totals, that property
reflect the following minimum information:
      1.   Total rooms/spaces available and occupied;
      2.   Total rents received;
      3.   Total rents received that are not subject to the transient lodging
tax and documentation to support such exemptions, maintained in the manner
specified in subsection C and D of this section.
      4.   Guest folios and registration cards, including at a minimum, the
transient guests name, room/space number, dates of occupancy, rent, and
transient lodging tax collected;
      5.   Total transient lodging tax collected as imposed by this chapter;
      6.   The number and dollar value of nonrevenue or complimentary rooms;
and
      7.   The number or rooms included in package or promotional offerings,
the total dollar value of the package, the total dollar value allocated to room
charges, and the total dollar value allocated to package components other than
room charges.
   B.   In addition to the exemption requirements set forth in subsections C
and D of this section, acceptable methods of maintaining the above required
information includes guest folios or registration cards, daily transaction
reports, general ledgers, cash journals, and similarly accepted books of
accounting maintained by a reasonable business person. In addition, operators
will be required to provide copies of bank statements, financial statements
(audited, if available) prepared by their independent accountant, tax returns
and similar documents that can be used to support rents and exemptions.
   C.   Records of exemptions claimed shall be summarized by operators in
monthly reports that include the total amount of rent exempted from the
transient lodging tax. The report shall include, at a minimum, the following
information for each exempt guest:
      1.   Guest name;
      2.   Room/space number;
      3.   Folio and/or registration number;
      4.   Exempt rent claimed for the guest for the month;
      5.   Nature of the exemption; and
      6.   Method of payment used by the guest.
   D.   The operator shall be required to provide documents supporting the
validity of each exemption claimed. Such documentation may include, but is not
limited to, the following:
      1.   Copy of guest folio, containing daily information, that establishes
the guest's continued right of occupancy in a sleeping room/space in the same
transient lodging establishment for thirty-one (31) consecutive days or more;
      2.   Credit card settlement statement or receipt containing information
that establishes that the payment was made directly by one of the exempt
organizations set forth in this chapter;
      3.   Copy of check, wire, direct deposit, or similar documentation
establishing that payment was received by the operator directly from one of the
exempt organizations set forth in this chapter; and/or
      4.   Documents validating the foreign diplomat status of guest.
   E.   Each and every operator shall make their room rental records available
during business hours for inspection by the Board, Tax Administrator or their
representative that they designate for the collection of the transient lodging
tax imposed by this chapter.
   F.   For the purpose of proper administration of this chapter, unless the
operator can provide evidence to the Board that specified receipts should not
be subject to the transient lodging tax, all gross receipts as defined in this
chapter are subject to the transient lodging tax.
   G.   In the event the operator is unable to provide adequate records of
gross receipts, as set forth in subsection A and B of this section, the Board
shall make its best efforts from any information within its possessions or that
may come into its possession to determine a reasonable estimate of the gross
receipts collected by the transient lodging establishment during the period for
which the records are inadequate or incomplete. Failure to provide adequate
records may also result in the assessment of additional penalties by the Board
or Tax Administrator as appropriate. (Ord. 2023-03, 10-16-2023)
3-3-11: PENALTY FOR AUDIT DEFICIENCIES:
   A.   If, during an audit, it is determined that additional transient lodging
tax is due in any license period as a result of negligence, a penalty in the
amount of ten percent (10%) of the audited transient lodging tax due for that
period may be assessed by the auditor and included in the audit bill.
   B.   If, during an audit, it is determined that additional transient lodging
tax is due in any license period as a result of licensee/operator fraud or an
intent to evade the payment of the tax, a penalty in the amount of twenty-five
percent (25%) of the audited transient lodging tax due for that period shall be
assessed by the auditor and included in the audit bill. (Ord. 2023-03, 10-16-
2023)
3-3-12: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Except as otherwise specified, every operator violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
imprisonment of not more than six (6) months in the county jail, or by both
such fine and imprisonment. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs.
   B.   In addition to the penalties above-named, any operator violating any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to having his or her license to
do business in the county revoked. (Ord. 2023-03, 10-16-2023)
3-3-13: TAX COLLECTION ON SALE OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Upon the sale of any transient lodging establishment, all transient
lodging tax, and related fees, interest, and penalties owed by the seller shall
be paid.
   B.   In order to establish the transient lodging tax obligation, upon sale
of a transient lodging establishment, the seller or purchaser of a transient
lodging establishment may request that the Board or Tax Administrator provide a
written statement of any transient lodging tax, fees, interest, and penalties
due from the seller. The Board or Tax Administrator shall provide such
statement within thirty (30) days after receiving the request or within thirty
(30) days after the records of the transient lodging establishment are made
available to the Board or its designee, whichever is later. In any event, the
Board or its designee shall issue its written statement no later than sixty
(60) days after the date it received the request, using the best information
available at that time.
   C.   The purchaser or the purchaser's assignee, at closing, shall withhold,
in an escrow account, an amount from the purchase price sufficient to pay the
transient lodging tax due, as well as all related fees, interest, and penalties
unless or until the seller provides written documentation from the Board or its
designee stating that the transient lodging tax has been paid and that no
amount is due.
   D.   In the event the seller fails to pay the amount due to the Board within
sixty days after sale of the transient lodging establishment, the transient
lodging tax and any related fees, interest, and penalties owed by the seller
shall be paid from the funds withheld by the purchaser in escrow.
   E.   The purchase of a transient lodging establishment who does not withhold
from the purchase price an amount sufficient to satisfy the seller's transient
lodging tax obligation, as required in subsection C, shall be liable for any
unpaid portion of the sellers transient lodging tax and all related fees,
interest and penalties.
   F.   If the Board or its designee fails to provide a written statement with
the period set forth in subsection B, the purchaser shall be relieved of all
liability for the transient lodging tax, and all related fees, interest, and
penalties, due from the seller.
   G.   Failure to pay the outstanding transient lodging tax, as well as the
related fees, interest, and penalties, pursuant to this section shall subject
the amount due to the provisions of delinquency in Section
3-3-7(F).
   H.   The period of limitation during which the Board or its designee may
assess tax fees, interest, and penalties against the purchaser under this
section is three years from the date the transient lodging establishment is
sold or from the date the written statement is issued by the Board or its
designee, whichever event occurs later. (Ord. 2023-03, 10-16-2023)
CHAPTER 4
COUNTY FUNDS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Medical Scholarship Fund
3-4-2: Fund For Medical Assistance To Indigent Persons
3-4-3: Forensic Services Fund
3-4-4: Fund To Assist Victims Of Sexual Assault And Abuse
3-4-5: Genetic Marker Fund
3-4-1: MEDICAL SCHOLARSHIP FUND:
   A.   Created: There is created a perpetual medical scholarship fund within
the general fund of the county to be known as the "Lincoln County medical
scholarship fund" to assist medical students who have completed all
undergraduate work and express a desire to return to the county to practice in
a chosen medical profession. Private donations may be accepted by the county
treasurer and distributed directly to the medical scholarship fund by the
treasurer. (1983 Code § 3.08.010)
   B.   Eligibility: Each applicant must meet the following conditions and in
the event of more than one applicant for one scholarship, the scholarship will
be awarded to the person with the greatest weighted average, said average to be
arrived at as follows:
   1.   Residence and personal ties to Lincoln   51 percent
      County, indicating the likelihood of a
      return to Lincoln County to practice for
      at least 5 years
   2.   Undergraduate scholastic average   13 percent
   3.   Financial need (ability of applicant to   13 percent
      attend without assistance)
   4.   Recommendation of board of hospital trustees   13 percent
   5.   Recommendation of board of county   10 percent
      commissioners
(1983 Code § 3.08.020)
   C.   Contract: Any applicant must be willing to enter into a contract
wherein such applicant shall agree to return to Lincoln County for a number of
years equal to the number of years applicant seeks assistance and said contract
shall contain the following provisions:
      1.   To repay to the county an amount to be agreed upon over a period of
time to be no longer than the number of years assistance was received. The
repayment may be in the form of services.
      2.   To agree to repay all assistance granted in the event the applicant
should fail to practice his or her medical profession within Lincoln County,
such payment to be made within five (5) years after due credit is given for
length of time the profession has in fact been practiced in Lincoln County,
together with interest thereon at the rate of not less than eight percent (8%)
per year to be computed from date assistance was received. Such agreement may
also include a penalty clause for failure to return and/or failure to comply
with length of stay as agreed upon.
      3.   To agree to repay all assistance granted in the event the applicant
should fail to become licensed as required by law, such repayment to be made
within five (5) years from the first known time of such disability.
      4.   To pursue studies diligently and continuously if physically able.
      5.   To secure and maintain a policy of life insurance in an amount equal
to all assistance furnished, naming the county as beneficiary, such policy to
remain in full force and effect until such time as any and all amounts due have
been fully paid, either by money or time of practice in Lincoln County.
      6.   The contract may include such other matters as the board of county
commissioners shall deem to be necessary. (1983 Code § 3.08.030)
   D.   Fields Available: Scholarship assistance will only be granted in the
following fields of medicine:
      1.   Physicians;
      2.   Dentists;
      3.   Nurses. (1983 Code § 3.08.040)
   E.   Applications: Each applicant shall submit a personal resume to the
board of hospital trustees, and, after approval by the board of hospital
trustees, applicant may apply for assistance to the board of county
commissioners by letter setting forth the amount requested, need, personal ties
to Lincoln County, scholastic record, marital status, age, sex and number of
children, evidence of acceptance for school and conditions of repayment, if
assistance is granted. (1983 Code § 3.08.050)
3-4-2: FUND FOR MEDICAL ASSISTANCE TO INDIGENT PERSONS:
   A.   Definitions: Except where the context otherwise requires, the
definitions given in this subsection shall govern the construction of this
section:
    FUND: The fund for medical assistance to indigent persons.
   SUPPLEMENTAL FUND: The supplemental fund for assistance to indigent persons.
(1983 Code § 3.16.010)
   B.   Created: The board of county commissioners creates in the county
treasury a fund designated as the fund for medical assistance to indigent
persons. (1983 Code § 3.16.020)
   C.   Use; Limitation:
      1.   The money in the fund must be used for reimbursement of any unpaid
charges for medical care furnished to an indigent person who falls sick in the
county, other than care furnished on account of an injury suffered in a motor
vehicle accident.
      2.   The money in the fund may be utilized only when, during any fiscal
year, the amount of money expended by the county to provide assistance to those
persons eligible, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 428.090, exceeds
the amount allocated for that purpose in the county general fund for medical
indigency, as determined by the procedure set forth in subsection H of this
section. (1983 Code § 3.16.030)
   D.   Deposits To Fund; Claims Against Fund:
      1.   All monies collected or recovered pursuant to this section, and the
interest earned on the money in the fund, must be deposited for credit to the
fund.
      2.   Claims against the fund must be paid on claims approved by the board
of county commissioners.
      3.   Any money remaining in the fund at the end of any fiscal year does
not revert to the county general fund. (1983 Code § 3.16.040)
   E.   Imposition; Rate:
      1.   Fiscal Year Beginning July 1, 1985: In addition to the levy provided
in Nevada Revised Statutes section 428.050, there is imposed for the fiscal
year beginning July 1, 1985, a tax ad valorem of nine cents ($0.09) on each one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed valuation upon all taxable property in
the county pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section 428.285.
      2.   Fiscal Years Beginning On Or After July 1, 1986: In addition to the
levy provided in Nevada Revised Statutes section 428.050, there is imposed for
each fiscal year beginning on or after July 1, 1986, a tax ad valorem at a rate
necessary to produce revenue in an amount equal to an amount calculated by
multiplying the assessed valuation of all taxable property in the county by the
tax rate prescribed in subsection E1 of this section, and subtracting from the
product the amount of unencumbered money remaining in the fund on May 1 of the
current fiscal year. (1983 Code § 3.16.050; amd. 2003 Code)
   F.   Payments From County To State For Credit To Supplemental Fund: For each
fiscal year beginning on or after July 1, 1985, the board of county
commissioners shall, before the end of the fiscal year, remit to the state
treasurer from the money in the fund, an amount of money equivalent to one cent
($0.01) on each one hundred dollars ($100.00) of assessed valuation of all
taxable property in the county for credit to the supplemental fund. (1983 Code
§ 3.16.060; amd. 2003 Code)
   G.   Exclusion Of Tax From Local Government Revenue Cap: The tax levied by
this section, and its proceeds, must be excluded in computing the maximum
amount of money which the county is permitted to receive from taxes ad valorem
and the highest permissible rate of such taxes. (1983 Code § 3.16.070)
   H.   Allocation: For each fiscal year beginning on or after July 1, 1985,
the board of county commissioners shall, in the preparation of its budget,
allocate money for medical assistance to indigents pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes section 428.090. The amount allocated must be calculated by
multiplying the amount allocated for that purpose for the previous fiscal year
by one hundred four and five-tenths percent (104.5%). (1983 Code § 3.16.080)
   I.   Amendments To State Provisions; Effect: All amendments to Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 428 which become effective subsequent to the effective
date hereof shall automatically become a part of this section. (1983 Code §
3.16.090; amd. 2003 Code)
3-4-3: FORENSIC SERVICES FUND:
   A.   Created: Pursuant to authority of Nevada Revised Statutes sections
453.575 and 454.358, there is created in the county treasury a fund for
forensic services. (1983 Code § 3.20.010; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Collection And Deposit Of Fees: Fees for analysis of controlled
substances and dangerous drugs shall be collected in accordance with Nevada
Revised Statutes sections 453.575 and 454.358 and deposited in the fund for
forensic services. (1983 Code § 3.20.020; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Disbursement Of Funds: Disbursement of money from the fund for forensic
services shall be in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes sections 453.575
and 454.358. (1983 Code § 3.20.030; amd. 2003 Code)
3-4-4: FUND TO ASSIST VICTIMS OF SEXUAL ASSAULT AND ABUSE:
   A.   Created: Funds for sexual assault and abuse victims' assistance are
hereby provided for in the Lincoln County treasury. (1983 Code § 3.24.010)
   B.   Requirements For Receiving Aid: The requirements of Nevada Revised
Statutes sections 217.280 through 217.340 and 217.480 are the requirements for
receiving aid from the sexual assault and abuse victims assistance funds. (1983
Code § 3.24.020)
3-4-5: GENETIC MARKER FUND:
   A.   Created: Pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 176.0915, the board of
county commissioners hereby creates a fund in the county treasury for genetic
marker testing of biologic specimens which are court ordered for certain
criminal defendants.
   B.   Laboratory Designated: The Lincoln County board of county commissioners
designates Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department, Forensic Laboratory, 6767
W. Charleston Blvd., Las Vegas, NV 89146-9004, as the forensic laboratory for
genetic marker testing for the county.
   C.   Collection And Disbursement Of Funds: Any monies from said fund
collected shall be collected by the clerk of the court and county treasurer and
accounted and distributed, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 176.0915. (Ord.
2004-01, 3-1-2004)
ARTICLE A. LAND ACT OF 2000 FUND
SECTION:
3-4A-1: Definitions
3-4A-2: Special Revenue Fund Established
3-4A-3: Deposit Of Monies To Fund Accounts
3-4A-4: General Account
3-4A-5: Capital Projects Account
3-4A-6: Special Projects Account
3-4A-7: Planning And Development Account
3-4A-8: Education Account
3-4A-9: Emergency/Disaster Account
3-4A-10: Grant Match Account
3-4A-11: Special Use Account
3-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CAPITAL OUTLAY: An item having a purchase price of more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) and an estimated useful life of more than two (2) years.
EDUCATION FUND: A fund used to promote student achievement, by offering
scholarship opportunities on a yearly basis.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen circumstance that significantly endangers the health,
safety or welfare of Lincoln County and/or its inhabitants.
EXTRAORDINARY MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR IMPROVEMENT: All expenses ordinarily
incurred not more than once every five (5) years to maintain a governmental
facility or capital project in a fit operating condition.
FUND: A fiscal year and accounting entity having a self-balancing set of
accounts, recording cash and other financial resources together with all
related liabilities and residual equities or balances, or charges therein,
which are segregated for the purpose of carrying on specific activities or
attaining certain objectives in accordance with specific regulations,
restrictions or limitations.
GRANT MATCH: The share of a grant provided by any government entity that must
be matched by a state or local government.
NATURAL DISASTER: A fire, flood, earthquake, drought or any other occurrence
that:
   A.   Results in widespread or severe damage to property or injury to or the
death of persons within the jurisdiction of Lincoln County; and
   B.   As determined by the board, requires immediate action to protect the
health, safety and welfare of persons residing within the jurisdiction of
Lincoln County.
SPECIAL PROJECT: A discrete activity or undertaking for which a comprehensive
project plan has been submitted to and approved by the board as an endeavor
that will substantially benefit the inhabitants of Lincoln County.
SPECIAL REVENUE FUND: A fund used to account for specific revenue sources,
other than special assessments, expendable trusts, or sources for major capital
projects, which are restricted by state law or this article (local law), to
expenditures for specified purposes. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-5-2005)
3-4A-2: SPECIAL REVENUE FUND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There hereby is established a special revenue fund, for the purpose of
accounting for the Lincoln County land act of 2000 disbursements and providing
for restrictions by local law of the expenditure of said monies for specified
purposes only.
   B.   The fund is designated as the "Lincoln County land act of 2000 special
revenue fund" (fund).
   C.   There is hereby established the following accounts within the fund:
      1.   Lincoln County land act of 2000 general account.
      2.   Lincoln County land act of 2000 capital projects account.
      3.   Lincoln County land act of 2000 special projects account.
      4.   Lincoln County land act of 2000 planning and development account.
      5.   Lincoln County land act of 2000 education account.
      6.   Lincoln County land act of 2000 emergency/disaster account.
      7.   Lincoln County land act of 2000 grant match account.
      8.   Lincoln County land act of 2000 special use account. (Ord. 2005-08,
12-5-2005)
3-4A-3: DEPOSIT OF MONIES TO FUND ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The Lincoln County treasurer shall allocate to the Lincoln County land
act of 2000 special revenue fund all monies received as or for Lincoln County
land act of 2000 disbursements in the following manner:
      1.   Four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000.00) of the monies received
shall be deposited in the Lincoln County land act of 2000 general account.
      2.   Three hundred fifty thousand dollars ($350,000.00) of all monies
received shall be deposited in the Lincoln County land act of 2000 capital
projects account.
      3.   Six hundred fifty thousand dollars ($650,000.00) of all monies
received shall be deposited in the planning and development account.
      4.   Two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) of all monies received
shall be deposited in the Lincoln County land act of 2000 education account.
      5.   One hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) of all monies received
shall be deposited in the Lincoln County land act of 2000 emergency/disaster
account.
      6.   Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) of all monies received shall be
deposited in the Lincoln County land act of 2000 grant match account.
      7.   Three million two thousand five hundred dollars ($3,002,500.00) of
all monies received shall be deposited in the Lincoln County land act of 2000
special use account.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the board from depositing monies
from other sources into any of the fund accounts to the extent that the source
of such monies places no additional restrictions on the use of fund money.
   C.   The use of these funds is not limited to use within only the Lincoln
County land act lands, but can be used throughout the general county as deemed
necessary by the board. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-5-2005)
3-4A-4: GENERAL ACCOUNT:
   A.   The principal amount of money deposited in the Lincoln County land act
of 2000 general account shall be used for general operations as deemed proper
by the board.
   B.   The money deposited into the Lincoln County land act of 2000 general
account shall only be transferred to another account for expenditure by a
resolution duly adopted by the Lincoln County commissioners.
   C.   Interest earned on an annual basis may be used for operational and
capital outlay needs as determined by the Lincoln County commission during the
annual budget preparation process.
   D.   Expenditures of money shall be part of an annual comprehensive plan for
the use of the funds as adopted by the Lincoln County commission for the
benefit of the inhabitants of Lincoln County, Nevada. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-5-2005)
3-4A-5: CAPITAL PROJECTS ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Lincoln County
commissioners from the Lincoln County land act of 2000 general fund for
constructing, performing extraordinary maintenance, repair or improvements of
Lincoln County facilities for capital projects and for capital expenditures.
   B.   Any money remaining in the capital projects account at the end of the
fiscal year shall remain in the fund and carry over to the following year.
   C.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit reports must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County land act of 2000 capital
project fund and indicate in detail the facilities and/or capital projects that
have been constructed, maintained, repaired, or improved with money from the
Lincoln County land act of 2000 capital projects account.
      2.   Specify any proposed facilities or capital projects that will be
constructed, maintained, repaired or improved with money from the Lincoln
County land act of 2000 capital projects fund for the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
land act of 2000 capital project account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   D.   Expenditures from the Lincoln County land act of 2000 capital project
account shall be made pursuant to Lincoln County's established and auditor
approved disbursement procedures. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-5-2005)
3-4A-6: SPECIAL PROJECTS ACCOUNT:
   A.   Interest earned on the principal amount may be transferred by
resolution of the Lincoln County commission board from Lincoln County land act
of 2000 general fund to the Lincoln County land act of 2000 special projects
account and only may be used for special projects selected within Lincoln
County by the Lincoln County commission board.
   B.   The board of the Lincoln County commission shall consider and approve
for funding special projects as determined during the annual budget approval
process each year.
   C.   Any interest remaining in the Lincoln County land act of 2000 special
projects account at year end will carry to the following fiscal year, unless
directed otherwise by resolution of the board of the Lincoln County commission.
   D.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit report must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County land act of 2000 special
projects account and indicate in detail the projects that have been funded by
monies from the Lincoln County land act of 2000 special projects account during
the previous fiscal year.
      2.   Specify any proposed projects that will be funded with money from
the Lincoln County land act of 2000 special projects account during the next
fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
land act of 2000 special projects account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   E.   Expenditures from the Lincoln County land act of 2000 special projects
account for special projects shall be made pursuant to Lincoln County's
established and auditor approved disbursement procedure. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-5-
2005)
3-4A-7: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Lincoln County commission
to the Lincoln County land act of 2000 planning and development account, and
only may be used for planning and development purposes selected by the Lincoln
County commission within Lincoln County, the board may establish a planning and
development office, may fund a director position of the same office and any
support staff that the board deems necessary to establish and operate said
office.
   B.   The board shall consider and approve for funding any special projects
for planning and development during the annual budget approval process each
year.
   C.   Any interest remaining in the Lincoln County land act of 2000 planning
and development account at year end will carry to the following fiscal year,
unless directed otherwise by resolution of the Lincoln County commission.
   D.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit reports must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County land act of 2000 planning
and development account and indicate in detail the planning and development
projects that have been started or completed with money from the Lincoln County
land act of 2000 planning and development account.
      2.   Specify any proposed projects that will be funded with money from
the Lincoln County land act of 2000 planning and development account during the
next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
land act of 2000 planning and development account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   E.   Expenditures from the Lincoln County land act of 2000 planning and
development account shall be made pursuant to Lincoln County's established and
auditor approved disbursement procedure for the Lincoln County land act of 2000
county reimbursement account. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-5-2005)
3-4A-8: EDUCATION ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Lincoln County commission
from the Lincoln County land act of 2000 general fund account to the Lincoln
County land act of 2000 education account.
   B.   The monies deposited in the Lincoln County land act of 2000 education
account will be used for scholarship opportunities offered to graduating
seniors of high schools located within the boundaries of Lincoln County.
   C.   The board of Lincoln County commissioners shall create a selection
committee to convene on a yearly basis, to review and select appropriate
applicants for the distribution of scholarship funds.
   D.   An application process will be created to allow graduating seniors of
any high school within the boundaries of Lincoln County to apply for
scholarship funds, along with a minimum and a maximum and quantity of
scholarships that will be offered.
   E.   Any interest remaining in the Lincoln County land act of 2000 education
account at year end will carry to the following fiscal year, unless directed
otherwise by resolution of the board of the county commission.
   F.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit report must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County land act of 2000 education
account and indicate in detail the projects that have been funded by monies
from the Lincoln County land act of 2000 education account during the previous
fiscal year.
      2.   Specify any proposed projects that will be funded with money from
the Lincoln County land act of 2000 education account during the next fiscal
year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
land act of 2000 education account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   G.   Expenditures from the Lincoln County land act of 2000 education account
shall be made pursuant to Lincoln County's established and auditor approved
disbursement procedures. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-5-2005)
3-4A-9: EMERGENCY/DISASTER ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be deposited by resolution of the Lincoln County commission
board into the Lincoln County land act of 2000 emergency/disaster account and
may be expended only to pay expenses incurred by Lincoln County to mitigate the
effects of a natural disaster.
   B.   Any interest remaining in the Lincoln County land act of 2000
emergency/disaster account at year end will carry to the following fiscal year,
unless directed otherwise by resolution of the Lincoln County commission.
   C.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit report must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County land act of 2000 emergency/
disaster account and indicate in detail the projects that have been funded by
monies from the Lincoln County land act of 2000 emergency/disaster account
during the previous fiscal year.
      2.   Specify any proposed projects that will be funded with money from
the emergency/disaster account during the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
land act of 2000 emergency/disaster account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   D.   Expenditures from the Lincoln County land act of 2000 emergency/
disaster account shall be made pursuant to Lincoln County's established and
auditor approved disbursement procedures. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-5-2005)
3-4A-10: GRANT MATCH ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Lincoln County commission
to the Lincoln County land act of 2000 grant match account. The Lincoln County
land act of 2000 grant match account may be used for match requirements on
grants provided by any governmental entity. These projects must be selected by
the board for projects within Lincoln County.
   B.   The board shall consider and approve funding for any required grant
match during the annual budget approval process each year. Grant match
requirements for such grant must be approved by the board prior to application
for the grant.
   C.   Any remaining interest in the Lincoln County land act of 2000 grant
match account at year end will carry to the following fiscal year, unless
directed otherwise by resolution of the Lincoln County commission.
   D.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit report must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County land act of 2000 grant
match account and indicate in detail the projects that have been funded by
monies from the Lincoln County land act of 2000 grant match account during the
previous fiscal year.
      2.   Specify any proposed projects that will be funded with money from
the Lincoln County land act of 2000 grant match account during the next fiscal
year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
land act of 2000 grant match account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   E.   Expenditures from the Lincoln County land act of 2000 grant match
account shall be made pursuant to Lincoln County's established and auditor
approved disbursement procedures. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-5-2005)
3-4A-11: SPECIAL USE ACCOUNT:
   A.   The principal amount of money deposited in the Lincoln County land act
of 2000 special use account shall not be used for expenditure. The interest
earned on an annual basis within the special use account may be available for
expenditure, as determined by the board during the annual budget preparation
process.
   B.   Expenditures of money shall be part of an annual comprehensive plan for
the use of the funds as adopted by the board for the benefit of the inhabitants
of Lincoln County, Nevada.
   C.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit reports must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County land act of 2000 special
use account and indicate in detail the special use projects that have been
started or completed with money from the Lincoln County land act of 2000
special use account.
      2.   Specify any proposed projects that will be funded with money from
the Lincoln County land act of 2000 special use account during the next fiscal
year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
land act of 2000 special use account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section. (Ord. 2005-08, 12-5-2005)
ARTICLE B. WATER RESOURCE COUNTY REIMBURSEMENT FUND
SECTION:
3-4B-1: Definitions
3-4B-2: Special Revenue Fund Established
3-4B-3: Deposit Of Monies To Fund Accounts
3-4B-4: Special Use Account
3-4B-5: Capital Projects Account
3-4B-6: Special Projects Account
3-4B-7: Planning And Development Account
3-4B-8: General Account
3-4B-9: Emergency/Disaster Account
3-4B-10: Grant Match Account
3-4B-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article:
CAPITAL OUTLAY: An item having a purchase price of more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) and an estimated useful life or more than two (2) years.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen circumstance that significantly endangers the health,
safety or welfare of Lincoln County and/or its inhabitants. "Emergency" may
include unforeseen requirements for repair or replacement of existing emergency
response equipment.
EXTRAORDINARY MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR IMPROVEMENT: All expenses ordinarily
incurred not more than once every five (5) years to maintain a governmental
facility or capital project in a fit operating condition.
FUND: A fiscal year and accounting entity having a self-balancing set of
accounts, recording cash and other financial resources together with all
related liabilities and residual equities or balances, or charges therein,
which are segregated for the purposes of carrying on specific activities or
attaining certain objectives in accordance with specific regulations,
restrictions or limitations.
GRANT MATCH: The share of a grant provided by any government entity that must
be matched by a state or local government.
NATURAL DISASTER: A fire, flood, earthquake, drought or any other occurrence
that:
   A.   Results in widespread or severe damage to property or injury to or the
death of persons within the jurisdiction of Lincoln County; and
   B.   As determined by the board, requires immediate action to protect the
health, safety and welfare of persons residing within the jurisdiction of
Lincoln County.
SPECIAL PROJECT: A discrete activity or undertaking for which a comprehensive
project plan has been submitted to and approved by the board as an endeavor
that will substantially benefit the inhabitants of Lincoln County.
SPECIAL REVENUE FUND: A fund used to account for specific revenue sources,
other than special assessments, expendable trusts, or sources for major capital
projects, which are restricted by state law or this article (local law) to
expenditures for specified purposes. (Ord. 2005-11, 11-21-2005, eff. 12-8-2005)
3-4B-2: SPECIAL REVENUE FUND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There hereby is established a special revenue fund, for the purpose of
accounting for Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county
reimbursement county reimbursement account disbursements and providing for
restrictions by local law of the expenditure of said monies for specified
purposes only. These funds are intended to be administered in accordance with
the provisions of the local financial administration provisions of the Nevada
Revised Statutes, chapter 354.
   B.   The fund is designated as the "Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement - county reimbursement account special revenue
fund" (fund).
   C.   There is hereby established the following accounts within the fund:
      1.   Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement
county reimbursement special use account.
      2.   Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement
county reimbursement capital projects account.
      3.   Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement
county reimbursement planning and development account.
      4.   Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement
county reimbursement special projects account.
      5.   Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement
county reimbursement emergency/disaster account.
      6.   Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement
county reimbursement grant match account.
      7.   Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement
county reimbursement general account. (Ord. 2005-11, 11-21-2005, eff. 12-8-
2005)
3-4B-3: DEPOSIT OF MONIES TO FUND ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The Lincoln County treasurer shall allocate to the Lincoln County
Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement special
revenue fund all monies received from Lincoln County water resource county
reimbursement disbursements in the following manner:
      1.   Fifty seven percent (57%) of all monies received shall be deposited
in the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement special use account.
      2.   Nine percent (9%) of all monies received shall be deposited in the
Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement capital projects account.
      3.   Nine percent (9%) of all monies received shall be deposited in the
Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement special projects account.
      4.   Five percent (5%) of all monies received shall be deposited in the
Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement planning and development account.
      5.   Three and one-half percent (3.5%) of all monies received shall be
deposited in the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county
reimbursement county reimbursement grant match account.
      6.   Three and one-half percent (3.5%) of all monies received shall be
deposited in the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county
reimbursement county reimbursement emergency/disaster account.
      7.   Thirteen percent (13%) of all monies received shall be deposited in
the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement general account.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the board from depositing monies
from other sources into any of the fund accounts to the extent that the source
of such monies places no additional restrictions on the use of fund money.
   C.   All interest earned on the money in accounts of the fund must be
credited to the special use account. (Ord. 2005-11, 11-21-2005, eff. 12-8-2005)
3-4B-4: SPECIAL USE ACCOUNT:
   A.   The principal amount of money deposited in the Lincoln County Lincoln
County water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement special use
account shall not be used. Only the interest collected on the principal within
the account will be available for expenditure.
   B.   The money deposited into the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement special use account shall
only be transferred to another account for expenditure by a resolution duly
adopted by the Lincoln County commission board. No expenditures shall be made
directly from the special use account.
   C.   Interest earned on an annual basis may be used for operational and
capital outlay needs as determined by the Lincoln County commission during the
annual budget preparation process.
   D.   Expenditures of money shall be part of an annual comprehensive plan for
the use of the funds as adopted by the Lincoln County commission for the
benefit of the inhabitants of Lincoln County, Nevada. (Ord. 2005-11, 11-21-
2005, eff. 12-8-2005)
3-4B-5: CAPITAL PROJECTS ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Lincoln County
commissioners from the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county
reimbursement county reimbursement special use account for constructing,
performing extraordinary maintenance, repair or improvements of Lincoln County
facilities and for capital projects and for capital expenditures.
   B.   Any money remaining in the capital projects account at the end of the
fiscal year shall remain in the fund and carry over to the following year.
   C.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit reports must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement capital projects account and
indicate in detail the facilities and/or capital projects that have been
constructed, maintained, repaired, or improved with money from the Lincoln
County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement
capital projects account.
      2.   Specify any proposed facilities or capital projects that will be
constructed, maintained, repaired or improved with money from the Lincoln
County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement
capital projects account for the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement capital
projects account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   D.   Expenditures from the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource
county reimbursement county reimbursement capital projects account shall be
made pursuant to Lincoln County's established and auditor approved disbursement
procedures. (Ord. 2005-11, 11-21-2005, eff. 12-8-2005)
3-4B-6: SPECIAL PROJECTS ACCOUNT:
   A.   Interest earned on the principal amount may be transferred by
resolution of the Lincoln County commission from Lincoln County Lincoln County
water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement special use account to
the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement special projects account and only may be used for special
projects selected within Lincoln County by the Lincoln County commission.
   B.   The board of the Lincoln County commission shall consider and approve
for funding special projects as determined during the annual budget approval
process each year.
   C.   Any interest remaining in the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement special projects account at
year end will carry to the following fiscal year, unless directed otherwise by
resolution of the board of the Lincoln County commission.
   D.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit report must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement special projects account and
indicate in detail the projects that have been funded by monies from the
Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement special projects account during the previous fiscal year.
      2.   Specify any proposed projects that will be funded with money from
the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement special projects account during the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement special
projects account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   E.   Expenditures from the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource
county reimbursement county reimbursement special projects account for special
projects shall be made pursuant to Lincoln County's established and auditor
approved disbursement procedure. (Ord. 2005-11, 11-21-2005, eff. 12-8-2005)
3-4B-7: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Lincoln County commission
to the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement planning and development account, and only may be used for
planning and development projects selected by the Lincoln County commission
within Lincoln County.
   B.   The board of the Lincoln County commission shall consider and approve
for funding the special projects for planning and development during the annual
budget approval process each year.
   C.   Any interest remaining in the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement planning and development
account at year end will carry to the following fiscal year, unless directed
otherwise by resolution of the board of the Lincoln County commission.
   D.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit reports must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement planning and development
account and indicate in detail the planning and development projects that have
been started or completed with money from the Lincoln County Lincoln County
water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement planning and
development account.
      2.   Specify any proposed projects that will be funded with money from
the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement planning and development account during the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement
planning and development account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   E.   Expenditures from the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource
county reimbursement county reimbursement planning and development account
shall be made pursuant to Lincoln County's established and auditor approved
disbursement procedure. (Ord. 2005-11, 11-21-2005, eff. 12-8-2005)
3-4B-8: GENERAL ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Lincoln County commission
from Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement special use account to the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement general account and only may
be used for special uses selected within Lincoln County by the Lincoln County
commission.
   B.   The board of Lincoln County commissioners shall consider and approve
funding of these monies to be used for special uses within Lincoln County as
determined during the annual budget approval process each year.
   C.   Any interest remaining in the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement general account at year end
will carry to the following fiscal year, unless directed otherwise by
resolution of the board of the county commission.
   D.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit report must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement general account and indicate
in detail the uses that have been funded by monies from the Lincoln County
Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement general
account during the previous fiscal year.
      2.   Specify any proposed projects that will be funded with money from
the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement general account during the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement general
account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section. (Ord. 2005-11, 11-21-2005, eff. 12-8-2005)
3-4B-9: EMERGENCY/DISASTER ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be deposited by resolution of the Lincoln County commission
board into the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county
reimbursement county reimbursement emergency/disaster account and may be
expended only to pay expenses incurred by Lincoln County to mitigate the
effects of a "natural disaster".
   B.   Any interest remaining in the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement emergency/disaster account
at year end will carry to the following fiscal year, unless directed otherwise
by resolution of the board of the Lincoln County commission.
   C.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit report must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement emergency/disaster account
and indicate in detail the projects that have been funded by monies from the
Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement emergency/disaster account during the previous fiscal year.
      2.   Specify any proposed projects that will be funded with money from
the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement emergency/disaster account during the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement
emergency/disaster account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   D.   Expenditures from the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource
county reimbursement county reimbursement emergency/disaster account shall be
made pursuant to Lincoln County's established and auditor approved disbursement
procedure. (Ord. 2005-11, 11-21-2005, eff. 12-8-2005)
3-4B-10: GRANT MATCH ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Lincoln County commission
board to the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement
county reimbursement grant match account. The Lincoln County Lincoln County
water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement grant match account
may be used for match requirements on grants provided by any governmental
entity. These projects must be selected by the Lincoln County commission for
projects within Lincoln County.
   B.   The board of the Lincoln County commission shall consider and approve
funding for any required grant match during the annual budget approval process
each year. Grant match requirements for such grant must be approved by the
Lincoln County commission prior to application for the grant.
   C.   Any remaining interest in the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement grant match account at year
end will carry to the following fiscal year, unless directed otherwise by
resolution of the board of the Lincoln County commission.
   D.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit report must:
      1.   Specifically identify the Lincoln County Lincoln County water
resource county reimbursement county reimbursement grant match account and
indicate in detail the projects that have been funded by monies from the
Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement grant match account during the previous fiscal year.
      2.   Specify any proposed projects that will be funded with money from
the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county
reimbursement grant match account during the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the Lincoln County
Lincoln County water resource county reimbursement county reimbursement grant
match account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   E.   Expenditures from the Lincoln County Lincoln County water resource
county reimbursement county reimbursement grant match account shall be made
pursuant to Lincoln County's established and auditor approved disbursement
procedures. (Ord. 2005-11, 11-21-2005, eff. 12-8-2005)
CHAPTER 5
OPEN SPACE USE ASSESSMENT
SECTION:
3-5-1: Purpose
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: Criteria For Determining Designation
3-5-4: Application For Assessment
3-5-5: Referral To County Board
3-5-6: Public Hearing
3-5-7: Board Action
3-5-8: Appeal
3-5-9: Complaint Procedure
3-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to enact the legislative intent of Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 361A, and the creation of a special category of real
property for tax purposes to be defined as "open space real property". Persons
whose property fits within the definition of "open space use", and otherwise
meets the requirements of this chapter, may secure reduced property tax
assessments on such land during the period of time that such use is continued.
(1983 Code § 3.12.010)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
OPEN SPACE REAL PROPERTY:
   A.   Land:
      1. Located within an area classified pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
section 278.250 and subject to regulations designed to promote the conservation
of open space and the protection of other natural and scenic resources from
unreasonable impairment;
      2. Devoted exclusively to open space use;
      3. Having a greater value for another use than for open space use.
   B.   The improvements on such land used primarily to support the open space
use and not primarily to increase the value of surrounding developed property
or secure an immediate monetary return.
OPEN SPACE USE: The current employment of land the preservation of which use
would conserve and enhance natural or scenic resources, protect streams and
water supplies, or preserve sites designated as historic by either Nevada
statutes, proclamation by the governor, or a resolution by the board of county
commissioners.
OWNER: Any person having a legal or equitable freehold estate in open space
real property, including a contract vendee of a land sales contract respecting
such property.
PERSON: A natural person or partnership, corporation, association or any form
of business organization.
POTENTIAL USE: Any use of open space real property higher than open space use,
conforming to the use for which other nearby property is used. (1983 Code §
3.12.020)
3-5-3: CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING DESIGNATION:
Real property within the county may be designated for open space use assessment
if such property conforms to the following:
   A.   Prior Designation: Real property which, by Nevada statutes,
proclamation by the governor, or resolution by the board of county
commissioners, has been designated as an historic site. In addition, the
designation of such property for open space use assessment will tend to
preserve the historical nature of such property.
   B.   Requirements: Real property that meets the following provisions:
      1.   The preservation of the current land use for which application is
made would conserve and enhance natural or scenic resources, protect streams
and water supplies.
      2.   The property for which application is made is currently devoted to
open space use and shall remain in open space use for as long as such
designation is in effect.
      3.   The benefit to the general welfare of the public is greater than the
tax revenue lost by such approval.
      4.   The proposed parcel is located in an urbanizing area, open space or
agricultural, mining, housing or land use districts.
      5.   Proposed open space real property must have a greater value for
another use other than for open space use.
      6.   The improvements on any proposed open space real property are used
primarily to support the open space use and not primarily to increase the value
of surrounding developed property or to secure an immediate monetary return,
except for the tax savings to be gained.
      7.   The proposed open space real property would not be used for
commercial purposes by the owner or applicant, as long as the open space
designation is in effect.
      8.   There would be no degradation to the proposed open space real
property nor to any surrounding parcels of property, in terms of a lower
quality of air, water and other resources.
      9.   Access by the general public at least five (5) days a week, each and
every week during the entire year. (1983 Code § 3.12.030)
3-5-4: APPLICATION FOR ASSESSMENT:
   A.   Filing Of Application: An application for open space use assessment
must be filed on or before June 1 of any year with the county assessor. A new
application to continue such assessment is required on or before June 1
following any change in ownership or from approved open space use of any
portion of the property. If the property is divided, an owner who retains a
portion of the property must file a new application in order to continue open
space use assessment on the portion retained. (1983 Code § 3.12.040; amd. 2003
Code)
   B.   Form; Contents: The application for open space use assessment must be
made on forms supplied by the county assessor and shall include a description
of the property, its current use and such other information as may be required
to determine the entitlement of the applicant to open space use assessment.
Each application shall contain an affidavit or affirmation by the applicant
that the statements contained therein are true.
   C.   Signatures Required:
      1.   The application for open space use assessment must be signed by:
         a.   The owner of the open space real property, including tenants- in-
common or joint tenants;
         b.   Any person of lawful age authorized by a duly executed power of
attorney to sign an application on behalf of any person described in
subdivision C1a of this section;
         c.   The guardian or conservator of an owner or the executor or
administrator of an owner's estate.
      2.   The county assessor shall not accept an application unless the
application is signed by each owner of record or his representatives as
specified in subsection C1 of this section.
   D.   Additional Information: The assessor may require such additional
information of the applicant as is necessary to evaluate his application. (1983
Code § 3.12.040)
3-5-5: REFERRAL TO COUNTY BOARD:
The county assessor shall refer each application for open space use assessment
to the board of county commissioners, and if any part of the property is
located within an incorporated city, to the governing body of the city, within
ten (10) days after its filing. (1983 Code § 3.12.050)
3-5-6: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   Procedure: The board of county commissioners shall consider the
application in a public hearing. The board of county commissioners shall use
the applicable procedures and criteria set forth in this section and section
3-5-3 of this chapter, and weigh the benefits to the general welfare of
preserving the current use of the property against the potential loss in
revenue which may result from approving the application. The board may set such
conditions as it reasonably may require upon its approval of the application.
(1983 Code § 3.12.060)
   B.   Notice: At least ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of any
public hearing held pursuant to this chapter shall be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the county. The notice shall require the name of the
applicant, the description and roll number of the property sought to be
qualified for open space use assessment and any other information concerning
the property (the reason open space use assessment is being sought). (1983 Code
§ 3.12.070)
3-5-7: BOARD ACTION:
   A.   Partial Approval: The board may approve the application with respect to
only part of the property, but, if any part of the application is denied, the
applicant may withdraw the entire application.
   B.   Date For Decision: The board shall approve or deny an application no
later than March 31 of each year. An application on which action by the board
is not completed by March 31 is approved.
   C.   Order Of Approval: Within ten (10) days after the board approves an
application for open space use assessment, it shall send copies of the order of
approval to the county assessor and the applicant, and record the order of
approval with the county recorder.
   D.   Order Of Denial: When the board of county commissioners denies an
application, it shall, within ten (10) days after denial, send an order of
denial to the applicant listing its reasons for denial. (1983 Code § 3.12.080)
3-5-8: APPEAL:
The determination of the open space use assessment is final unless appealed.
The applicant for open space assessment is entitled to appeal the determination
made by the board of county commissioners to the seventh judicial district
court in and for the county, or if the property is located in more than Lincoln
County, to the district court in the county in which the major portion of the
property is located, as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes section 278.0235.
(1983 Code § 3.12.090)
3-5-9: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing Of Complaint And Proof: Any person claiming that any open space
real property is no longer in the approved open space use may file a complaint
and proof of his claim with the board of county commissioners. The complaint
and proof shall show the name of each owner of record of the property, its
location, description and the use in which it is claimed to be.
   B.   Hearing; Notice: The board of county commissioners shall hear the
complaint after ten (10) days' notice of the time to the complainant and each
owner of the property.
   C.   Notice Of Determination: The board of county commissioners shall
examine the proof and all data and evidence submitted by the county assessor or
any other person. The board of county commissioners shall notify the
complainant, each owner of the property and the county assessor of its
determination within ten (10) days after the hearing. It shall direct the
county assessor to appraise, value and tax the property in the following
assessment period in a manner consistent with its determination and the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 361A.
   D.   Appeal: The determination of the board of county commissioners may be
appealed to the district court by the complainant or the owner of the property,
as provided in section
3-5-8 of this chapter. (1983 Code § 3.12.100)
CHAPTER 6
FEDERAL IN LIEU DISBURSEMENT MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Special Revenue Fund Established
3-6-3: Deposit Of Monies To Fund Accounts
3-6-4: General Account
3-6-5: Emergency Expenditures Account
3-6-6: Capital Projects Account
3-6-7: Special Projects Account
3-6-8: Capital Outlay Account
3-6-9: Solid Waste Account
3-6-10: Information Technology
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
CAPITAL OUTLAY: Means an item having a purchase price of more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) and an estimated useful life of more than two (2) years.
EMERGENCY: Means an unforeseen circumstance that incurs extraordinary costs. An
emergency may include a natural disaster that endangers the health, safety or
welfare of Lincoln County or its inhabitants. An emergency may also include
extraordinary and unforeseen costs associated with the prosecution of a
category A felony or other extraordinary event that affects the expenditures of
a County department such that the costs to that department could not have been
reasonably accommodated and anticipated in the normal budget process.
EXTRAORDINARY MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR IMPROVEMENT: Means all expenses ordinarily
incurred not more than once every five (5) years to maintain a governmental
facility or capital project in a fit operating condition.
FUND: Means a fiscal year and accounting entity having a self-balancing set of
accounts, recording cash and other financial resources together with all
related liabilities and residual equities or balances, or charges therein,
which are segregated for the purpose of carrying on specific activities or
attaining certain objectives in accordance with specific regulations,
restrictions or limitations.
GRANT MATCH: Means the share of a grant provided by any governmental entity
that must be matched by a State or local government.
NATURAL DISASTER: Means a fire, flood, earthquake, drought or any other
occurrence that:
   A.   Results in widespread or severe damage to property or injury to or the
death of persons within the jurisdiction of Lincoln County; and
   B.   As determined by the Board, requires immediate action to protect the
health, safety and welfare of persons residing within the jurisdiction of
Lincoln County.
SPECIAL PROJECT: Means a discrete activity or undertaking for which a
comprehensive project plan has been submitted to and approved by the Board as
an endeavor that will substantially benefit the inhabitants of Lincoln County.
SPECIAL REVENUE FUND: Means a fund used to account for specific revenue
sources, other than special assessments, expendable trusts, or sources for
major capital projects, which are restricted by State law or this chapter
(local law) to expenditure for specified purposes. (Ord. 2018-02, 4-16-2018)
3-6-2: SPECIAL REVENUE FUND ESTABLISHED:
   A.   There hereby is established one separate and distinct County Special
Revenue Fund, to account for Federal in lieu disbursements and providing for
restrictions by local law of the expenditure of said monies for specified
purposes only. The fund is designated as the "Federal in Lieu Special Revenue
Fund" (fund). There is hereby established the following accounts within the
fund:
      1.   Federal in lieu general account.
      2.   Emergency expenditures account.
      3.   Capital projects account.
      4.   Special projects account.
      5.   Capital outlay account.
      6.   Solid waste account.
      7.   Grant match account.
      8.   Information technology account. (Ord. 2018-02, 4-16-2018)
3-6-3: DEPOSIT OF MONIES TO FUND ACCOUNTS:
   A.   The Lincoln County Treasurer shall allocate to the Federal in Lieu
Special Revenue Fund all monies received as or for Federal in lieu
disbursements, in the following manner:
      1.   Eighty percent (80%) of all monies received shall be deposited in
the Federal in lieu general account.
      2.   Ten percent (10%) of all monies received shall be deposited in the
grant match account.
      3.   Ten percent (10%) of all monies received shall be deposited in the
information technology account.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the Board from depositing monies
from other sources into any of the fund accounts to the extent that the source
of such monies places no additional restrictions on the use of fund money.
   C.   All interest earned on the money in account of the fund must be
credited to the fund general account. (Ord. 2018-02, 4-16-2018)
3-6-4: GENERAL ACCOUNT:
The money deposited in the general account shall only be transferred to another
fund account for expenditure by a resolution duly adopted by the Board of
County Commissioners. No expenditures shall be made directly from the general
account. (Ord. 2018-02, 4-16-2018)
3-6-5: EMERGENCY EXPENDITURES ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners from the fund general account to the fund emergency expenditures
account only to pay expenses incurred by Lincoln County to mitigate the effects
of an emergency.
   B.   Any money remaining in the emergency expenditures account at the end of
the fiscal year shall revert to the fund general account, unless directed
otherwise by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
   C.   The money in the emergency expenditures account may not be used to pay
expenses incurred to mitigate the effects of an emergency until the Board
issues a formal declaration that an emergency exists.
      1.   The Board of County Commissioners shall not make such a declaration
unless an emergency is occurring or has occurred.
      2.   Upon the issuance of such a declaration, and the passage of a
resolution by the Board of County Commissioners transferring money to the
emergency expenditures account, the money in the emergency expenditures account
may be used for the payment of expenses incurred by Lincoln County because of
the emergency.
   D.   The annual budget and audit report for Lincoln County must specifically
identify the emergency expenditures account and:
      1.   Indicate in detail how the money in the emergency expenditures
account was expended during the previous year;
      2.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the emergency
expenditures account;
      3.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   E.   Expenditures from the emergency expenditures account shall be made
pursuant to Lincoln County's established and auditor- approved disbursements
procedures. (Ord. 2018-02, 4-16-2018)
3-6-6: CAPITAL PROJECTS ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners from the fund general account to the fund capital projects
account for expenditure in constructing, performing extraordinary maintenance,
repair or improvements of Lincoln County governmental facilities and for
capital projects and capital expenditures.
   B.   Any money remaining in the capital projects account at the end of the
fiscal year shall revert to the fund general account, unless directed otherwise
by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
   C.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit reports must:
      1.   Specifically identify the capital projects account and indicate in
detail the facilities and/or capital projects that have been constructed,
maintained, repaired or improved with money from the capital projects account.
      2.   Specify any proposed facilities or capital projects that will be
constructed, maintained, repaired or improved with money from the capital
projects account during the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the capital
projects account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   D.   Expenditures from the fund shall be made pursuant to Lincoln County's
established and auditor-approved disbursement procedures. (Ord. 2018-02, 4-16-
2018)
3-6-7: SPECIAL PROJECTS ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners from the fund Federal in lieu general account to the fund special
projects account for expenditure in accomplishing duly approved special
projects.
   B.   The Board of County Commissioners shall consider and approve for
funding special projects during the budget approval process each year.
   C.   Any money remaining in the special projects account at the end of the
fiscal year shall revert to the fund general account, unless directed otherwise
by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
   D.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit report must:
      1.   Specifically identify the special projects account and indicate in
detail the projects that have been funded by monies from the special projects
account during the previous fiscal year.
      2.   Specify any proposed projects that will be funded with money from
the special projects account during the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the special
projects account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   E.   Expenditures from the special projects account for special projects
shall be made pursuant to Lincoln County's established and auditor-approved
disbursement procedures. (Ord. 2018-02, 4-16-2018)
3-6-8: CAPITAL OUTLAY ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners from the fund general account to the fund capital outlay account
for expenditure in purchasing capital outlay items.
   B.   The Board of County Commissioners shall consider and approve for
funding capital outlay item purchases during the budget approval process each
year.
   C.   Any money remaining in the capital outlay account at the end of the
fiscal year shall revert to the fund general account, unless directed otherwise
by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
   D.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit report must:
      1.   Specifically identify the capital outlay account and indicate in
detail the items that have been purchased by monies from the capital outlay
account during the previous fiscal year.
      2.   Specify any proposed capital outlay items that will be funded with
money from the capital outlay account during the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the capital outlay
account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   E.   Expenditures from the capital outlay account for capital outlay items
shall be made pursuant to Lincoln County's established and auditor-approved
purchasing and disbursement procedures. (Ord. 2018-02, 4-16-2018)
3-6-9: SOLID WASTE ACCOUNT:
   A.   Money may be transferred by resolution of the Board of County
Commissioners from the fund general account to the fund solid waste account for
expenditure in supporting the County Solid Waste Program.
   B.   The Board of County Commissioners shall consider and approve for
funding expenditures for support of the Solid Waste Program during the budget
approval process each year.
   C.   Any money remaining in the solid waste account at the end of the fiscal
year shall revert to the fund general account, unless directed otherwise by
resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
   D.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit report must:
      1.   Specifically identify the solid waste account and indicate in detail
the expenditure of monies from the solid waste account during the previous
fiscal year.
      2.   Specify any proposed solid waste account expenditures that will be
funded with money from the solid waste account during the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the solid waste
account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   E.   Expenditures from the solid waste account for support of the Solid
Waste Program shall be made pursuant to Lincoln County's established and
auditor-approved disbursement procedures. (Ord. 2018-02, 4-16-2018)
3-6-10: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY:
   A.   Money may be expended from the information technology account to
provide data processing technology for County use.
   B.   The Board of County Commissioners shall consider and approve data
processing technology requests and funding during the budget approval process
each year.
   C.   Any money remaining in the information technology account at the end of
the fiscal year shall remain in the information technology account, unless
directed otherwise by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners.
   D.   Lincoln County's annual budget and audit report must:
      1.   Specifically identify the information technology account and
indicate in detail the information technology that has been funded by monies
from the information technology account during the previous fiscal year.
      2.   Specify any proposed grant match requests that will be funded with
money from the information technology account during the next fiscal year.
      3.   Identify any planned accumulation of the money in the information
technology account.
      4.   Include a statement by the auditor as to whether Lincoln County has
complied with this section.
   E.   Expenditures from the information technology account shall be made
pursuant to Lincoln County's established and auditor- approved disbursement
procedures. (Ord. 2018-02, 4-16-2018)
CHAPTER 7
COURT FACILITY ASSESSMENT FEE
SECTION:
3-7-1: Imposition Of Additional Fee Authorized
3-7-2: Collection Of Fee
3-7-3: Fee To Be Paid To County Treasurer And Creation Of A Special Revenue
Fund
3-7-4: Uses Of Money
3-7-5: Prospective Application Only
3-7-1: IMPOSITION OF ADDITIONAL FEE AUTHORIZED:
Each justice of the peace of a township located within Lincoln County is
authorized to impose an additional administrative assessment for provision of
court facilities, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 176.0611. If a justice
court decides to impose this additional administrative assessment it must post
a notice of the fee, advise the defendants of it and it must be imposed in
every case applicable.
   A.   The additional administrative assessment shall be imposed for not
longer than fifty (50) years unless the legislature shall extend this time by
statutory amendment.
   B.   The administrative assessment for the provision of court facilities
shall be in addition to any administrative assessment imposed pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes 176.059 and 176.0613.
   C.   Except as provided in subsection D of this section, when a defendant
pleads guilty of nolo contendere or is found guilty of a misdemeanor, including
the violation of any county or municipal ordinance, in a justice court of any
township in Lincoln County, the justice of the peace shall include in the
sentence the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) as an administrative assessment for
the provision of court facilities, for each misdemeanor conviction, and shall
render a judgement against the defendant for the assessment. If future
legislation should change the amount to be assessed this statute authorizes the
court to adopt any future fee amount set by Nevada Revised Statutes 176.0611 as
amended.
   D.   The administrative assessment authorized herein shall not be imposed
when the violation is of an ordinance regulating metered parking or an
ordinance that is specifically designated as imposing a civil penalty or
liability pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244.3575 or 268.019. (Ord. 2005-
01, 5-2-2005)
3-7-2: COLLECTION OF FEE:
   A.   The money collected for an administrative assessment for the provision
of court facilities must not be deducted from the fine imposed by the justice
of the peace, but must be taxed against the defendant in addition to the fine.
   B.   The money collected for such an administrative assessment must be
stated separately on the court docket and must be included in the amount posted
for bail.
   C.   If the defendant is found not guilty or the charges are dismissed, the
money posted as bail with the court must be returned to the defendant.
   D.   If the justice of the peace cancels a fine because the fine has been
determined to be uncollectible, any balance of the fine and administrative
assessment remaining unpaid shall be deemed to be uncollectible and the
defendant is not entitled to a refund of the fine or administrative assessment
he has paid and the justice of the peace shall not recalculate the
administrative assessment.
   E.   If the justice of the peace permits the fine and administrative
assessment for the provision of court facilities to be paid in installments,
the payments must be applied in the following order:
      1.   To pay the unpaid balance of an administrative assessment imposed
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 176.059;
      2.   To pay the unpaid balance of an administrative assessment for the
provision of court facilities pursuant to this chapter;
      3.   To pay the unpaid balance of an administrative assessment for the
provision of specialty court programs pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes
176.0613; and
      4.   To pay the fine. (Ord. 2005-01, 5-2-2005)
3-7-3: FEE TO BE PAID TO COUNTY TREASURER AND CREATION OF A SPECIAL REVENUE
FUND:
   A.   The money collected for administrative assessment for the provision of
court facilities collected by the justice courts must be paid by the clerk of
the court to the county treasurer on or before the fifth day of each month for
the preceding month.
   B.   The county treasurer shall deposit the money received to a special
revenue fund. (Ord. 2005-01, 5-2-2005)
3-7-4: USES OF MONEY:
   A.   The county may use the money in the special revenue fund only to:
      1.   Acquire land on which to construct additional facilities for the
justice courts or a regional justice center that includes the justice courts.
      2.   Construct or acquire additional facilities for the justice courts or
a regional justice center that includes the justice courts.
      3.   Renovate or remodel existing facilities for the justice courts.
      4.   Acquire furniture, fixtures and equipment necessitated by the
construction or acquisition of additional facilities or the renovation of an
existing facility for the justice courts or a regional justice center that
includes the justice courts. This subsection does not authorize the expenditure
of money from the fund for furniture, fixtures or equipment for judicial
chambers.
      5.   Acquire advanced technology for use in the additional or renovated
facilities.
      6.   Pay debt service on any bonds issued pursuant to subsection 3 of
Nevada Revised Statutes 350.020 for the acquisition of land or facilities or
the construction or renovation of facilities for the justice courts or a
regional justice center that includes the justice courts.
   B.   Any money remaining in the special revenue fund after five (5) fiscal
years must be deposited in the county's general fund for the continued
maintenance of court facilities if it has not been committed for expenditure
pursuant to a plan for the construction or acquisition of court facilities or
improvements to court facilities.
   C.   The county treasurer shall provide, upon request by a justice of the
peace, monthly reports of the revenue credited to and expenditures made from
the special fund.
   D.   If money collected pursuant to this section, to construct a regional
justice center or to pay debt service on bonds issued for these purposes, the
county and the participating cities shall, by interlocal agreement, determine
such issues as the size of the regional justice center, the manner in which the
center will be used and the apportionment of fiscal responsibility for the
center. (Ord. 2005-01, 5-2-2005)
3-7-5: PROSPECTIVE APPLICATION ONLY:
The additional administrative assessment authorized by this chapter shall apply
only to offenses committed on or after the adoption date hereof. (Ord. 2005-01,
5-2-2005)
CHAPTER 8
ACQUISITION AND IMPROVEMENT OF TECHNOLOGY FUND
SECTION:
3-8-1: Creation Of County Fund
3-8-2: Deposit Of Money Into Fund
3-8-3: Use Of Money In Fund
3-8-4: Assessor's Commission
3-8-5: Reporting
3-8-1: CREATION OF COUNTY FUND:
There is hereby created a special revenue fund to be designated as the
acquisition and improvement of technology fund in the office of the Lincoln
County assessor. (Ord. 2006-03, 8-7-2006)
3-8-2: DEPOSIT OF MONEY INTO FUND:
Beginning July 1, 2006, the money in the fund:
   A.   Must be accounted for separately and not as part of any other fund or
account; and
   B.   Must not be used to replace or supplant any money available from other
sources to acquire technology for and improve technology used in the office of
the county assessor. (Ord. 2006-03, 8-7-2006)
3-8-3: USE OF MONEY IN FUND:
The money in the fund must be used to acquire technology for or improve the
technology used in the office of the Lincoln County assessor, including,
without limitation, the payment of costs associated with acquiring or improving
technology for converting and archiving records, purchasing hardware and
software, maintaining the technology, training employees in the operation of
the technology and contracting for professional services relating to the
technology. At the discretion of the Lincoln County assessor, the money may be
used by other Lincoln County offices that do business with the Lincoln County
assessor. (Ord. 2006-03, 8-7-2006)
3-8-4: ASSESSOR'S COMMISSION:
The fund shall receive one-fourth (1/4) of the assessor's commission reserved
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 361.530. (Ord. 2006-03, 8-7-2006)
3-8-5: REPORTING:
On or before July 1 of each year, the Lincoln County assessor shall submit to
the board of county commissioners a report of the projected expenditures of the
money in the fund for the following fiscal year. Any money remaining in the
fund at the end of a fiscal year will remain in the fund, and any interest
earned from money in the fund will revert to the Lincoln County general fund.
(Ord. 2006-03, 8-7-2006)
CHAPTER 9
RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION TAX FOR SCHOOLS
SECTION:
3-9-1: Short Title
3-9-2: Authority
3-9-3: Definitions
3-9-4: School District
3-9-5: Imposition Of Tax
3-9-6: Tax Rate
3-9-7: Procedure For Collecting Tax
3-9-8: Exemption From Tax
3-9-9: Residential Construction Tax Fund
3-9-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the LINCOLN COUNTY RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION TAX
FOR SCHOOLS. (Ord. 2006-06, 10-16-2006)
3-9-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 387.329 to 387.332,
inclusive. (Ord. 2006-06, 10-16-2006)
3-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this
section govern the construction of this chapter.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A building arranged in several suites of connecting rooms,
each suite designed for independent housekeeping, but with certain typical
mechanical conveniences, such as air conditioning, heat, light or elevator
services shared in common by all families occupying the building.
LOT FOR MOBILE HOME: Any area or tract of land designated, designed or used for
the occupancy of a mobile home.
MOBILE HOME: A vehicle without motive power designed or equipped for living
purposes and to carry property or passengers wholly on its own structure and to
be drawn by a motor vehicle.
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT: A building or a portion of a building planned,
designed or used as a residence for one family only, living independently of
other families or persons, and having its own bathroom and housekeeping
facilities included in the unit. (Ord. 2006-06, 10-16-2006)
3-9-4: SCHOOL DISTRICT:
Lincoln County, the boundaries of which are described in Nevada Revised
Statutes 243.210 to 243.225, inclusive, is designated as one school district.
The district is divided into six (6) school attendance areas, namely: Alamo,
Caliente, Coyote Springs, Panaca, Pioche, and Toquop. (Ord. 2006-06, 10-16-
2006)
3-9-5: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
A tax on residential construction is hereby imposed on the privilege of
constructing all apartment houses, and all residential dwelling units, and for
developing lots for mobile homes located within the Coyote Springs and Toquop
school attendance areas within Lincoln County. (Ord. 2006-06, 10-16-2006)
3-9-6: TAX RATE:
Within Coyote Springs and the Toquop school attendance areas, the residential
construction tax rate for schools shall be in the amount of one thousand six
hundred dollars ($1,600.00) and shall be imposed upon each lot for a mobile
home, each residential dwelling unit, and each suite in an apartment building.
(Ord. 2006-06, 10-16-2006)
3-9-7: PROCEDURE FOR COLLECTING TAX:
The total residential construction tax fee must be collected prior to the
issuance of any building permits for construction of any apartment house,
residential dwelling unit, or the remodeling of any nonresidential structure
for purposes of residential use, or lot development permit for the development
of any mobile home lots. This tax may be imposed once per mobile home lot or
residential dwelling unit. The residential construction tax must be paid to the
Lincoln County treasurer, who shall maintain a record of all monies collected.
(Ord. 2006-06, 10-16-2006)
3-9-8: EXEMPTION FROM TAX:
   A.   A residential unit which is totally destroyed and was issued a building
permit before the imposition of the tax or this tax was paid when the county
issued a building permit is exempt from this tax on issuance of a permit for
the unit's reconstruction.
   B.   The board delegates to the Lincoln County building inspector the
responsibility to determine whether a residential dwelling unit has been
totally destroyed and if the reconstruction of the unit is exempt from this
tax. If the owner of a residential dwelling unit is aggrieved by the
determination made by the director, the owner may appeal the determination to
the county planning commission in writing. (Ord. 2006-06, 10-16-2006)
3-9-9: RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION TAX FUND:
   A.   There is established in the office of the county treasurer a special
fund known as the school residential construction tax fund.
   B.   The fund must be divided into separate accounts for each attendance
area affected.
   C.   All taxes collected pursuant to this chapter must be placed in the fund
for credit to the account within the fund for the attendance area from which
the tax was collected.
   D.   All interest derived from money in the fund accrues to the fund and
must be credited to the account from which the interest was derived.
   E.   The school superintendent and the county treasurer shall establish a
record keeping system for each account which will reflect the taxes collected
for each attendance area from which money was collected.
   F.   Money within the fund must be used only to construct, remodel, and/or
make additions to school buildings to accommodate incoming students as a result
of increased development within the attendance area. (Ord. 2006-06, 10-16-2006)
CHAPTER 10
VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FRANCHISE FEE
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: Franchise Fee Required
3-10-3: Yearly Reports
3-10-4: Audits
3-10-5: Attorney Fees And Costs
3-10-6: Payment Of The Franchise Fee
3-10-7: Subscriber Pass Through
3-10-8: Limitations
3-10-9: Additional Fees
3-10-10: Use Of Rights Of Way And Easements
3-10-11: Indemnification And Insurance
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the words and
terms defined in this section, inclusive, have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section.
BOARD: The current Lincoln County board of commissioners and any future board
constituting the legislative body of the county.
COUNTY: Lincoln County, a subdivision of the state of Nevada.
GROSS REVENUE: Any revenue a video service provider receives from its
subscribers for providing video service to those subscribers, as determined in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; and any other
consideration a video service provider receives from its subscribers for
providing video service when it is received in a transaction that would evade
imposition of a franchise fee if such consideration is not included in revenue.
   A.   The term includes, without limitation:
      1. Recurring monthly charges;
      2. Event based charges, including, without limitation, charges for pay
per view and video on demand;
      3. Charges for the rental of set top boxes and other equipment;
       4. Service charges, including, without limitation, charges for
activation, installation, repair and maintenance;
      5. Administrative charges, including, without limitation, charges for
service orders and service termination; and
      6. The amount of any revenue received by a video service provider for
providing video service when such service is a component of a bundle of
services or products sold for a single price, but only to the extent the
revenue received by the video service provider for the bundle of services or
products is proportionately allocated among each of the components.
   B.   The term does not include:
      1. Revenue not actually received, regardless of when it is billed.
      2. Refunds, rebates, or discounts made to subscribers.
      3. Revenue from providing service other than video service, including,
without limitation, revenue from providing telecommunication service; or
information service that is not video service.
      4. Any fee imposed on the video service provider that is passed through
to and paid by subscribers, including, without limitation, a franchise fee.
      5. Revenue from the sale of video service to any person who purchases the
video service for resale and who, upon resale, is required to pay a franchise
fee pursuant to this chapter or the terms of a local franchise.
      6. Any tax of general applicability.
      7. The fair market value of free or reduced cost video service provided
without set off or exchange to any person who is entitled or permitted to
receive such service pursuant to this chapter or federal law.
      8. Late payment fees collected from subscribers.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person in Lincoln County who purchases video service, except
for any person who purchases video service for resale and who, upon resale, is
required to pay a franchise fee pursuant to this chapter.
VIDEO SERVICE: The provision of multichannel video programming generally
considered comparable to video programming delivered by a television broadcast
station, cable service or other digital television service, whether provided as
part of a tier, on demand or on a per channel basis, without regard to the
technology used to deliver the video service, including, without limitation,
internet protocol technology or any successor technology.
   A.   Including, without limitation:
      1. Cable service; and
      2. Video service delivered by a community antenna television system.
   B.   But not including:
      1. Any video content provided solely as part of, and through, a service
that enables users to access content, information, electronic mail or other
services that are offered via the public internet.
      2. Direct broadcast satellite service.
      3. Any wireless multichannel video programming provided by a commercial
mobile service provider.
VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER OR PROVIDER: Any person that provides or offers to
provide video service over a video service network to subscribers in this
state. The term includes, without limitation:
   A.   An incumbent cable operator or other cable operator;
   B.   A community antenna television company; and
   C.   A multichannel video programming distributor. (Ord. 2009-06, 11-2-2009)
3-10-2: FRANCHISE FEE REQUIRED:
Lincoln County requires a video service provider to pay a franchise fee to
Lincoln County based on the gross revenue that the provider receives from its
subscribers within Lincoln County for the privilege of providing video service
through a video service network that occupies or uses, in whole or in part, any
public right of way or highway within the jurisdiction of a local government.
(Ord. 2009-06, 11-2-2009)
3-10-3: YEARLY REPORTS:
All video service providers operating within the jurisdiction of Lincoln County
shall submit to the county, within sixty (60) days after the close of each
accounting year, a report of the video service provided that year, certified as
true and correct by an officer of the company, detailing the company's
subscriber receipts for that year. (Ord. 2009-06, 11-2-2009)
3-10-4: AUDITS:
A Lincoln County representative may, upon reasonable written notice, review and
audit the business records of a video service provider to the extent necessary
to ensure payment of a franchise fee pursuant to this chapter. Lincoln County
shall not request such an audit more than once every three (3) years. If the
results of such a review and audit identify an underpayment of the franchise
fee in an amount that requires corrective action, Lincoln County may perform a
subsequent compliance review and audit to determine whether the video service
provider has corrected the underpayment of the franchise fee. Lincoln County
representatives shall perform the compliance review and audit not later than
twelve (12) months after the date on which the video service provider submitted
the results of the initial review and audit to Lincoln County.
Lincoln County and the video service provider shall each pay their own costs
and fees relating to each review and audit performed pursuant to this chapter,
except that if the video service provider elects to have the local government
review and audit the requested business records of the video service provider
at a location outside the territorial boundaries of Lincoln County, the video
service provider shall pay the per diem allowances and travel expenses incurred
by the Lincoln County representatives to perform the review and audit at that
location.
A person who performs a review and audit pursuant to this chapter may not
receive compensation that is based, in whole or in part, on:
   A.   Finding a particular result; or
   B.   The amount of any underpayment of the franchise fee that is identified
because of the review and audit.
Lincoln County shall submit all actions to recover a disputed underpayment of a
franchise fee from a video service provider to the attorney general for
prosecution.
A video service provider may bring an action against Lincoln County to recover
a disputed overpayment of a franchise fee to the local government.
Any action to recover a disputed underpayment or overpayment of a franchise fee
must be commenced in the seventh judicial district court not later than four
(4) years after the last day of the tax year to which the disputed underpayment
or overpayment relates. (Ord. 2009-06, 11-2-2009)
3-10-5: ATTORNEY FEES AND COSTS:
Each party shall pay its own costs and attorney fees in commencing and
prosecuting any action involving a disputed underpayment or overpayment of a
franchise fee. (Ord. 2009-06, 11-2-2009)
3-10-6: PAYMENT OF THE FRANCHISE FEE:
All video service providers operating within the jurisdiction of Lincoln County
must pay yearly a franchise fee of two percent (2%) of the gross revenue that
the provider received during that year from its subscribers within Lincoln
County. The video service provider must pay the entire amount of the franchise
fee directly to the Lincoln County treasurer in legal tender of the United
States or in a check, draft, or note that is payable in legal tender of the
United States within fifteen (15) days after filing the report required in
section
3-10-3 of this chapter. The board may adjust the rate in this section by
resolution at its discretion; however, the board shall never adjust the rate to
greater than five percent (5%) of gross revenue. (Ord. 2009-06, 11-2-2009)
3-10-7: SUBSCRIBER PASS THROUGH:
A video service provider may pass the franchise fee through to and collect the
franchise fee from its subscribers within Lincoln County based on the gross
revenue received from each such subscriber; and designate the amount of the
franchise fee collected from each subscriber as a separate line item on the
subscriber's bill. (Ord. 2009-06, 11-2-2009)
3-10-8: LIMITATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided in section
3-10-7 of this chapter, the franchise fee authorized by this chapter:
   A.   Is the only fee, tax, assessment or other charge that it will impose on
a video service provider for the privilege of providing video service or
constructing or operating a video service network within Lincoln County; and
   B.   Is in lieu of any other fee, tax, assessment, or charge that Lincoln
County may impose on a video service provider for its occupation or use of any
public right of way or highway. (Ord. 2009-06, 11-2-2009)
3-10-9: ADDITIONAL FEES:
This chapter shall not restrict the right of Lincoln County to impose on a
video service provider:
   A.   The fees authorized by subsection 5 of Nevada Revised Statutes 711.640;
and
   B.   Any generally applicable and nondiscriminatory fees, ad valorem taxes,
sales taxes or other taxes that are lawfully imposed on other businesses within
Lincoln County. (Ord. 2009-06, 11-2-2009)
3-10-10: USE OF RIGHTS OF WAY AND EASEMENTS:
Video service providers may construct their video service over public rights of
way, and through easements within the county which have been dedicated for
compatible uses, except that in using such easements the company shall ensure
that:
   A.   Its installation or construction of facilities for the video service
shall not adversely affect the safety, functioning, and appearance of the
county's property or the convenience and safety of any person.
   B.   It shall bear the cost of the installation, construction, operation, or
removal of such facilities, or pass all or part of such cost to the subscriber;
and
   C.   It shall justly compensate the owner of any property subjected to
damages caused by the installation, operation, or removal of such facilities.
(Ord. 2009-06, 11-2-2009)
3-10-11: INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE:
The company shall, at its sole cost and expense, fully indemnify, defend, and
hold harmless the county, including the board and the county's officers and
employees, against any and all claims, suits, actions, liabilities, and
judgments for damages to persons or property, in any way arising out of or
through the acts or omissions of the company, its servants, agents, or
employees, in connection with the construction, maintenance, repair, and
operation of the cable system. The company shall maintain throughout the term
of the franchise comprehensive general liability insurance insuring the company
with regard to all damages mentioned in this chapter, in the minimum amount of
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) combined single limit, personal injury, and
property damage. (Ord. 2009-06, 11-2-2009)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
LIQUOR LICENSES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Statutory Authority
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Licenses And Permits Required
4-1-4: Applications; Content, Procedures, And Fees
4-1-5: Investigation Requirements And Procedures
4-1-6: Board Action On Application
4-1-7: Qualifications For Licensing Or Finding Of Suitability
4-1-8: Findings Of Suitability
4-1-9: Location Of Liquor Establishments
4-1-10: Nonconforming Locations
4-1-11: License Fees
4-1-12: Renewal Application Procedures
4-1-13: Posting License
4-1-14: Temporary License
4-1-15: Discontinuance Of Operations
4-1-16: Transfers Of Interest
4-1-17: Changes To Licensee; Required Applications
4-1-18: License Nontransferable
4-1-19: Duties Of Licensees
4-1-20: Duties Of Convenience Stores
4-1-21: Drive-Through Window Restrictions
4-1-22: Prohibited Activities
4-1-23: Alcohol Awareness Training
4-1-24: Possession And Sale Restrictions
4-1-25: Grounds For Disciplinary Action
4-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 244, the Lincoln
County board of county commissioners may adopt ordinances governing and
regulating liquor and liquor establishments occurring within the county. (Ord.
2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the words and terms defined in this section have the
meanings ascribed to them, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning.
ALCOHOL: A product of distillation of any fermented liquor, rectified either
once or more often, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic
ethyl alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, beer, wine, spirits, and includes any and all
distilled spirits, potable alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, aromatic
bitters, and every liquid containing one-half of one percent or more of alcohol
by volume and which is used or capable of use for beverage purposes.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR LICENSE OR LIQUOR LICENSE: Any license issued pursuant to this
chapter.
APPLICANT: Any person who has applied for a liquor license, finding of
suitability, or other approval relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor or the
operation of a liquor establishment.
APPLICATION: A written request containing complete and accurate information
required for the issuance of a liquor license, finding of suitability, approval
as a key employee, or for approval of any act or transaction for which approval
is required or permitted by this chapter.
BEER: Any fermented beverage of any name or description manufactured from malt,
barley, or hops, wholly or in part, or from any substitute therefor, and shall
include such liquors as porter, ale, or stout.
BOARD: The Lincoln County liquor and gaming licensing board of Lincoln County
as authorized by Nevada Revised Statutes 244.352 and provided for by chapter 10
of this title.
CASINO: A gaming establishment that holds a nonrestricted gaming license issued
by the Nevada gaming commission and by the board pursuant to chapter 9 of this
title.
CATERER: Any licensed purveyor of food or provisions for entertainment, special
occasions, parties or social gatherings where food is provided for consumption
on the premises or location of the event.
CLUB: An association of persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated, for
the promotion of some common object, but not including associations organized
for any commercial or business purpose. A club must be chartered under, or a
duly recognized affiliate of, a national service association or organization,
or other nonprofit organization having at least fifty (50) members.
CLUB ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSE: The license that permits the sale of alcoholic
beverages by the drink or in an open container for consumption at a clubhouse.
CLUB BEER AND WINE LICENSE: The license that permits the sale of beer, wine, or
spirit based products for which the alcohol content does not exceed ten percent
(10%) by volume and is clearly labeled as such, by the drink or in an open
container for consumption at a clubhouse.
CLUBHOUSE: A building or space in a building of such extent and character as
may be suitable and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and
accommodations of a club's members and their guests.
COMMERCIAL COMPLEX: A building, or group of buildings located on a single
parcel of land or having shared parking facilities, principally used or
designed or intended to be used for business offices and retail sales
establishments.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A business located in a building, or in a portion of a
building, that sells groceries at retail and having not more than six thousand
(6,000) square feet of floor space, exclusive of warehouse and office areas,
devoted to the display of such groceries.
CORKED: Closed with any stub, stopper, or cap, whether made of cork, wood,
glass, plastic, metal, or any other substances, and includes boxes, cans,
cases, or kegs.
CUSTOMER: Any individual, other than an employee, present in or at any licensed
premises at any time the licensed premises is open for business.
DISCIPLINARY ACTION: Action taken by the board pursuant to chapter 10 of this
title to suspend, restrict, limit, condition, revoke, or impose other sanctions
upon a liquor licensee or license.
DRUGSTORE: The business of apothecary or druggist or pharmacy where drugs or
medicines are compounded or dispensed by state licensed pharmacists and may
include retail sales of sundries such as stationery, magazines, and cosmetic
and health items.
EMPLOYEE: An individual who is hired, engaged, or authorized to perform any
service on the licensed premises on a full time, part time, or contract basis,
whether or not the individual is designated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, and whether or not the individual is
compensated by the licensee. An employee does not include an individual
exclusively on the licensed premises for repair or maintenance of the premises
or for delivery of goods to the licensee, nor an attorney, accountant, or other
person whose primary function is to provide advice and assistance to the
licensee.
FINDING OF SUITABILITY: That a person is found to comply with the requirements
of this chapter which are prerequisite to involvement with a liquor license. A
finding of suitability relates only to the specific involvement for which it is
made. If the nature of the involvement changes from that for which the
applicant has been found suitable, or if, in the judgment of the board, new
information concerning the applicant's suitability has become available, he may
be required to submit himself to a new determination of suitability by the
board.
GIFT STORE: A retail store located in a casino or a resort hotel associated
with a casino, which sells souvenirs, magazines, candy, and gifts primarily to
tourists. A gift store must maintain at least fifty one percent (51%) of its
retail floor space dedicated to the sale of souvenirs, magazines, candy, and
gifts not otherwise definable as groceries.
GOLF COURSE: Any links consisting of at least eighteen (18) holes certified by
the United States Golf Association (USGA) or the Professional Golf Association
(PGA) for individual and group play and which provide a variety of golf
facilities, including, but not limited to, a driving range, golf lessons,
professional shop, golf carts, and a clubhouse. A golf course does not include
miniature golf and/or putting course facilities or electronically simulated
golf courses.
GROCERIES: Staple food products meant for human consumption, articles used in
the preparation of food, including meats and produce, dairy products, and
ancillary related household supplies.
GROCERY STORE: A business located in a building or in a portion of a building
that sells groceries at retail and has over six thousand (6,000) square feet of
floor space, exclusive of warehouse and office areas, devoted to the display of
such groceries.
INDIVIDUAL ACCESS: The ability of an adult guest of a resort hotel to access a
secured cabinet or refrigerator in the guestroom that contains alcoholic
beverages.
KEY EMPLOYEE: An individual having the power to exercise a significant
influence over decisions concerning any part of the operation of a liquor
licensee.
LICENSE: Any license issued pursuant to this chapter.
LICENSEE: Any person to whom a valid liquor license has been issued pursuant to
this chapter.
LIQUOR CATERER LICENSE: A license that permits a caterer to serve alcoholic
beverages to customers at a catered event.
LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENT: One business operated under the same management in the
same building or adjoining buildings, connected by open doorways, halls, or
other avenues of ingress or egress, where any alcohol is sold to the consumer
in original packages or by the drink pursuant to a liquor license issued by the
board.
LIQUOR STORE: A retail establishment that sells beers, wines, and liquors, in
original packages, as its principal form of business and related items
including magazines, newspapers, and packaged snack foods as an ancillary form
of business.
MAIN BAR: A bar in a casino, resort hotel, tavern, or restaurant where
alcoholic beverages are sold and dispensed by the drink to customers at such
bar.
MANAGER OR GENERAL MANAGER: The individual designated as a key employee by the
licensee and who is responsible for liquor sales, employee supervision, and
code compliance.
MINOR: A natural person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
MORAL TURPITUDE: Any crime, including conspiracy to commit the crime which: a)
involves an overt act of intentional dishonesty or fraud for the purpose of
personal gain, or b) involves an act of baseness, vileness, or depravity in
private and social duties that a person owes to his fellow man or to society in
general.
ON PREMISES ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSE: A license that permits the sale of
alcoholic beverages by the drink or in an open package for consumption on the
licensed premises only.
ON PREMISES BEER OR WINE LICENSE: The license that permits the sale of beer,
wine, or spirit based products for which the alcohol content does not exceed
ten percent (10%) by volume and is clearly labeled as such, by the drink or in
an open package for consumption on the licensed premises only.
OWNER: Any person with an indirect or direct ownership interest in a liquor
licensee, and includes any person receiving any percentage of profits directly
or indirectly from liquor sales.
PACKAGE: Any immediate container of alcoholic beverage which is filled or
packaged by the manufacturer or bottler for sale by any person.
PACKAGE ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR LICENSE: Permits the sale of alcoholic liquors in
unopened original packages for consumption off premises only.
PACKAGE BEER OR WINE LICENSE: A license that permits the sale of beer, wine, or
spirit based products for which the alcoholic content does not exceed ten
percent (10%) by volume and is clearly labeled as such, in unopened original
packages for consumption off premises only.
PACKAGE DELIVERY LICENSE: A license that permits the sale of beer kegs in
unopened original packages for off premises consumption only.
PERSON: Includes a natural person, company, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, organization, or other entity, or manager, agent, employee, or
officer thereof.
PLACE OF WORSHIP OR CHURCH: A building or portion of a building that people
regularly attend to participate in or hold religious services, meetings, and
other activities.
PORTABLE BAR: A bar that may be moved at will, or operated intermittently, from
which alcoholic beverages may be served or sold at retail directly or by
waitresses or waiters to customers.
PREMISES: That portion of the building in which the licensee is located and
over which he has control as owner or lessee, and the tract of land on which
the building is located, including the parking lot, over which the licensee has
the right to exercise authority and control pursuant to lease, agreement,
ownership, or franchise.
RESORT HOTEL: Any building or group of buildings that is maintained as and held
out to the public to be a hotel where sleeping accommodations are furnished to
the transient public and may also include residential lodging such as
condominiums, timeshare units, or fractional ownership units providing sleeping
accommodations and that has:
   A.   More than fifty (50) rooms available for sleeping accommodations;
   B.   At least one bar with permanent seating capacity for more than thirty
(30) patrons that serves alcoholic beverages sold by the drink for consumption
on the premises;
   C.   At least one restaurant with permanent seating capacity for more than
sixty (60) patrons; and
   D.   A gaming area within the building or group of buildings.
RESTAURANT: A space in a suitable building that is kept, used, maintained,
advertised, or held out to be a public place where complete meals are prepared
and cooked on the premises, ordered from and served by waiters or waitresses to
tables or booths providing a seating capacity for at least twelve (12) persons
in a room separate from the kitchen. Seating in the bar area or outside dining
area is not included as restaurant seating.
RETAIL SALE OR SALE AT RETAIL: Sale to a consumer or to any person for any
purpose other than resale.
ROOM SERVICE: The sale or complimentary service of alcoholic beverages to
resort hotel guestrooms.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means whatsoever
for any consideration, including solicitation for, or receipt of an order for
alcoholic beverage, or the keeping with intent to sell or exposing for sale any
alcoholic beverage and delivery of any alcoholic beverage.
SCHOOL: Any public, private, or religious educational institution or class
maintained or conducted for the purpose of offering a course of instruction
similar to that customarily offered in the public schools of this state to
students in the first through the twelfth grades.
SERVICE BAR: Any bar where drinks are prepared for service only at tables to
customers by waitresses or waiters.
SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT: The license that permits the sale, by the drink, or other
distribution of alcoholic beverages at such locations and as specified on such
permit for a period of not more than seventy two (72) consecutive hours in
length.
SPIRITS: Any liquor which contains alcohol obtained by distillation or
rectification, mixed with drinking water or other substances in solution,
including rum, brandy, whiskey and gin.
TAVERN: A premises, other than a casino or a resort hotel, where alcoholic
beverages are sold by the drink or in an open container to the public at a bar
and may include a restaurant.
WHOLESALER: Any person in possession of any alcoholic beverage who sells at
wholesale to retail outlets or for the purposes of resale.
WINE: Any alcoholic liquor obtained by the fermentation of natural sugar
contents of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar. (Ord. 2008-
04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-3: LICENSES AND PERMITS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to sell, dispense, serve, allow consumption, give
away, or distribute any alcoholic beverage without first obtaining a license
and paying the fee in advance as prescribed in this chapter for such license.
This chapter does not apply to areas included within the limits of an
incorporated city that has enacted a liquor licensing ordinance requiring
licensing and the payment of license fees. Without limiting the foregoing, the
following licenses and permits are required:
   A.   Club Alcoholic Beverage License: It is unlawful for a club or nonprofit
organization to sell any alcoholic beverage other than beer, wine, or spirit
based products pursuant to a club beer and wine license without first obtaining
a club alcoholic beverage license. A club alcoholic beverage license entitles
the holder to sell alcoholic beverages only for consumption on the premises of
the clubhouse and only to the club's members and their bona fide guests.
   B.   Club Beer And Wine License: It is unlawful for a club or nonprofit
organization to sell beer, wine or spirit based products for which the alcohol
content does not exceed ten percent (10%) by volume and is clearly labeled as
such without first obtaining a club beer and wine license or a club alcoholic
beverage license. A club beer and wine license entitles the holder to sell
beer, wine or spirit based products for which the alcohol content does not
exceed ten percent (10%) by volume and is clearly labeled as such, only for
consumption on the premises of the clubhouse and only to the club's members and
their bona fide guests.
   C.   Liquor Caterer Permits:
      1.   It is unlawful for any caterer to dispense, serve, or sell any
alcoholic liquor unless the caterer first obtains an on premises alcoholic
beverage license and a liquor caterer permit.
      2.   Each liquor caterer permit must state the times or places for which
the liquor caterer is approved to dispense, serve or sell alcoholic beverages.
Any dispensing, service, or sale of alcoholic liquor at any times or places
beyond that stated in the permit is grounds for disciplinary action pursuant to
this chapter.
      3.   Liquor caterer permits shall not allow use at an establishment as a
means of circumventing the liquor licensing laws. A liquor caterer permit shall
not authorize a permanent or semipermanent activity at a particular location or
establishment. Without regard to the number of liquor caterers, the total
number of liquor caterer permits issued for the same location or establishment
may not exceed a total of three (3) days within a seven (7) consecutive day
period or a maximum of twelve (12) days in any calendar month.
      4.   A location or establishment which does not hold an on premises
alcoholic beverage license, but which is zoned for and is otherwise a premises
eligible for an on premises alcoholic beverage license, shall not use a liquor
caterer, except for a grand opening event or with specific authorization by the
board for an activity at the location or establishment for a specific time
period.
      5.   A caterer holding an on premises alcoholic beverage license must
apply for a liquor caterer permit prior to the start of the catered event
unless the caterer is prevented by circumstances out of his or her control from
filing the required application prior to the start of the catered event, the
application is filed no later than the end of the first working day following
the catered event, the caterer submits a full explanation of the circumstances
preventing the timely filing of the application and the caterer submits the
applicable fees and a penalty equal to the fees. Submission of more than three
(3) late filings in any one calendar year by any liquor caterer constitutes
abuse of this provision and is grounds for disciplinary action pursuant to this
chapter.
   D.   On Premises Alcoholic Beverages License:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to sell for consumption on the
premises any alcoholic beverage other than beer, wine or spirit based products
pursuant to an on premises beer and wine license unless that person first
obtains an on premises alcoholic beverage license. An on premises alcoholic
beverage license entitles the holder to sell alcoholic beverages only in
original packages or by the drink for consumption, and only on the premises
where sold.
      2.   An on premises alcoholic beverage license may only be granted to a
casino, a caterer, a golf course, a resort hotel, a restaurant, or a tavern as
deemed appropriate by the board.
      3.   Each on premises alcoholic beverage licensee, with the exception of
a caterer, golf course, or a restaurant, must have at least one main bar from
which alcoholic beverages will be dispensed by the drink to customers at such
bar and must have a separate service bar license for each separate service
area.
      4.   An on premises alcoholic beverage licensee that is a restaurant may
have a separate service bar without a main bar, but may serve alcoholic
beverages only at dining tables or booths from a service bar and only in
conjunction with complete meals ordered by restaurant customers.
      5.   The board may grant a portable bar permit to a golf course, a
casino, a caterer, or a resort hotel that holds an on premises alcoholic
beverage license. A portable bar permit issued to a golf course authorizes
service of on premises alcoholic beverages to golf course patrons from an
approved golf course vehicle.
      6.   The board may grant an individual access license to a resort hotel
that holds an on premises alcoholic beverage license. An individual access
licensee may only stock alcoholic beverages in a locked cabinet or refrigerator
in a guestroom. The locked cabinet or refrigerator must allow adult guests to
control access to the cabinet or refrigerator.
   E.   On Premises Beer And Wine License:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to sell beer, wine, or spirit based
products for which the alcohol content does not exceed ten percent (10%) by
volume and is clearly labeled as such, for consumption on the premises without
first obtaining an on premises beer and wine license or an on premises
alcoholic beverage license. An on premises beer and wine license entitles the
holder to sell beer, wine and spirit based products for which the alcohol
content does not exceed ten percent (10%) by volume and is clearly labeled as
such, only in original packages or by the drink for consumption, and only on
the premises where sold.
      2.   An on premises beer or wine license may be granted to businesses as
deemed appropriate by the board.
   F.   Package Beer And Wine License:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to sell beer, wine, or spirit based
products for which the alcohol content does not exceed ten percent (10%) by
volume and is clearly labeled as such, in packages unless that person first
obtains a package beer and wine license or a package alcoholic beverage
license. A package beer and wine license entitles the holder to sell beer, wine
and spirit based products for which the alcohol content does not exceed ten
percent (10%) by volume and is clearly labeled as such, at retail in its
original packages only, and only for consumption outside the premises where
sold.
      2.   A package beer and wine license may only be granted to a convenience
store, a drugstore, a gift store, a grocery store, or a tavern.
      3.   It is unlawful for a customer to consume packaged beer, wine, or
spirit based products on the premises of the licensee, except that a customer
of a casino or resort hotel licensee may consume the package beer, wine, or
spirit based product in a guestroom.
      4.   A holder of a package beer and wine license shall post a sign in a
conspicuous place in the area of the package store giving notice to the
consumer that drinking alcoholic beverages on the premises or within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the premises on public property is unlawful.
   G.   Package Alcoholic Beverage License:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to sell any alcoholic beverages other
than beer, wine or spirit based products pursuant to a package beer and wine
license unless that person first obtains a package alcoholic beverage license.
A package alcoholic beverage license entitles the holder to sell alcoholic
beverages at retail in its original packages only, and only for consumption
outside the premises where sold.
      2.   A package alcoholic beverage license may be granted, except within a
geographical area developed pursuant to titles 14 and 15 of this code and
within one mile from the boundaries of any such geographical area, only to a
casino, a hotel, a tavern, or to a grocery store, drugstore, convenience store,
gift store or liquor store.
      3.   A package alcoholic beverage license may be granted within a
geographical area developed pursuant to titles 14 and 15 of this code and
within one mile from the boundaries of any such geographical area only to a
casino, a hotel, a tavern, or to a grocery store, drugstore, gift store or
liquor store each having more than two thousand two hundred (2,200) square feet
of floor space, exclusive of warehouse and office space, devoted to the display
of merchandise for sale to the public.
      4.   It is unlawful for a customer to consume packaged alcoholic
beverages on the premises of the licensee, except that a customer of a casino
or resort hotel licensee may consume packaged alcoholic beverages in a
guestroom.
      5.   A holder of a package alcoholic beverage license shall post a sign
in a conspicuous place in the area of the package store giving notice to the
consumer that drinking alcoholic beverages on the premises or within one
thousand feet (1,000') of the premises on public property is unlawful.
   H.   Package Delivery License:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person to deliver alcoholic beverages in
wholesale or to sell beer in kegs unless that person first obtains from the
board a package beer keg delivery license.
      2.   A package beer keg delivery license may only be granted to a
convenience store, tavern, resort hotel, casino, liquor store, grocery store,
drugstore, gift shop, or a location limited to the exclusive sale of beer in
kegs.
      3.   The licensee is allowed to deliver alcoholic beverages in wholesale
or beer in kegs to any location within the county, except within the town
limits of the towns of Alamo and Panaca, provided that: a) the licensee keeps
complete records as to whom purchased the beer in a keg or kegs; the address
where the beer in a keg is delivered; and by whom the beer in a keg is
received; b) the licensee maintains a complete record of the above information
for one year from the date of sale; c) the alcoholic beverages are not
delivered to or received by minors; and d) delivery personnel are at least
twenty one (21) years of age.
   I.   Special Event Permits:
      1.   Any on premises beer and wine licensee, any on premises alcoholic
beverage licensee and any charitable or nonprofit fraternal, service, or
benevolent organization, society, club, or sorority may apply for a special
event permit to authorize the sale or dispensing of alcohol for a special
event. Each charitable or nonprofit organization may not receive more than one
special event permit per calendar month.
      2.   The board may issue a special event permit upon the filing of an
appropriate application by the licensee or charitable or nonprofit organization
that includes the name and social security number of the persons serving,
distributing, or selling the alcoholic beverages.
      3.   A special event permit will not be issued to a charitable or
nonprofit organization unless the organization submits evidence satisfactory to
the board that the proceeds from the sale of alcoholic beverages will be used
for charitable, benevolent, or community purposes.
      4.   Each special event permit will state the times or places for which
the holder is approved to dispense, serve or sell alcoholic beverages which
must not be for more than seventy two (72) consecutive hours in length. Any
dispensing, service, or sale of alcoholic liquor at any times or places beyond
that stated in the permit is grounds for disciplinary action pursuant to this
chapter.
      5.   A special event permit issued to an on premises beer and wine
licensee may not authorize the service of alcoholic beverages that would
require an on premises alcoholic beverage license.
      6.   The holder of a special event permit is responsible for enforcing
strict compliance with all laws pertaining to the sale, service, or
distribution of alcoholic beverages.
      7.   A special event permit will not be issued to conduct business at
locations during the time that the applicant's liquor license is revoked,
terminated, or suspended.
      8.   Any violation of conditions of the special event permit may result
in suspension of the permit, disciplinary action being taken against any liquor
licenses held by the holder of the permit, or misdemeanor citations for any
violations of this Code.
   J.   Work Identification Card: Nothing in this chapter shall relieve an
employer or employee from complying with the "Lincoln County Work
Identification Card Ordinance", defined in chapter 7 of this title. (Ord. 2008-
04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-4: APPLICATIONS; CONTENT, PROCEDURES, AND FEES:
   A.   Each applicant for a license must submit a complete written application
under oath, on forms provided by the board. The application must include, at a
minimum, the following information:
      1.   The name and business address of the applicant and the percentage
ownership of all owners of the applicant;
      2.   The type of license for which application is made;
      3.   The type of business organization the applicant comprises and a
complete description thereof. A copy of the organizational documents must be
included with the application;
      4.   Where the applicant or an owner of the applicant is a natural
person, the name, date of birth, social security number, and address of the
natural person;
      5.   Where the applicant or an owner of the applicant is a corporation,
the names and addresses of the officers, directors, and shareholders of the
corporation must be listed on the application;
      6.   Where the applicant or an owner of the applicant is a limited
liability company or partnership, the names and addresses of the members,
managers, partners, general partners, and limited partners must be listed on
the application;
      7.   A description of the premises to be licensed, giving the street and
number and the portion to be occupied by the establishment for which the
license is sought, the name and address of the owner or owners of such premises
and of any person holding any interest in the premises including interests held
through a mortgage or deed of trust. A copy of all agreements whereby the
applicant is entitled to possession of the premises must be included with the
application;
      8.   A verification of proper zoning use from the Lincoln County Planning
Department for which the department may charge not more than twenty five
dollars ($25.00);
      9.   The names and addresses of any holder of indebtedness, including
holders of bonds, debentures, or other lenders and including whether any of the
applicant's interests have been pledged or are the subject of a voting trust
agreement or other funding device;
      10.   A statement that if the license is granted, the applicant will
conduct the establishment in accordance with the provisions of the laws of the
State, the laws of the United States and the ordinances of the County
applicable to the conduct of the business.
   B.   Each application for a license must be accompanied by the following
individual applications:
      1.   For applications by a corporation, an application for a finding of
suitability for each officer, each director, and each shareholder owning ten
percent (10%) or more of the corporation;
      2.   For applications by a limited liability company, an application for
a finding of suitability for each manager and of each member owning ten percent
(10%) or more of the limited liability company;
      3.   For applications by a general or limited partnership, an application
for a finding of suitability of each general partner and each partner owning
ten percent (10%) or more of the partnership;
      4.   An application for a finding of suitability of an individual having
a direct or indirect interest of ten percent (10%) or more in the applicant. In
its discretion, the board may require owners of an interest in the applicant of
less than ten percent (10%) to apply for a finding of suitability;
      5.   An application for a finding of suitability of the general manager;
      6.   An application for a finding of suitability of any landlord or
lender sharing in a percentage of profits from liquor sales.
   C.   All applicants that are natural persons must complete and file a
personal history questionnaire disclosing information regarding the applicant's
family, residences, employment, education, military service and criminal
history background and must submit triplicate copies of fingerprints and
thumbprints to be submitted to the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) for a
national criminal history record check. All applicants that are natural persons
who have an ownership or financial interest in the licensee must also complete
and file a personal financial questionnaire.
   D.   The applicant may satisfy the requirements of this section by
submitting to the board accurate and complete copies of all application
documents supplied to the Nevada State Gaming Control Board.
   E.   Each application must be accompanied by a fifty dollar ($50.00) license
processing fee which shall be payable to the County. The processing fee is
nonrefundable and is in addition to the other fees collected pursuant to this
chapter.
   F.   Each applicant must pay a nonrefundable investigation fee deposit of
three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for each respective license or finding of
suitability. An applicant who has been licensed or found suitable within one
year of the date of a new application is not required to pay an investigation
fee deposit, but must pay only those costs the Sheriff reasonably incurs to
update his or her investigation.
   G.   The Sheriff may require prepayment of additional investigation fees as
necessary to cover anticipated costs. Any investigation fee paid by the
applicant or other person in excess of those necessary to cover the full cost
of an investigation, other than the nonrefundable deposit, will be refunded to
the applicant upon written request. If the applicant withdraws the application
prior to the beginning of the investigation, posted deposits will be returned
to the applicant or other person.
   H.   Each applicant is deemed to consent to the investigation required
herein, to make full disclosure of background information to licensing
officials, and agrees that any written or oral statement made or obtained
during the application process to or by the board or any member thereof, or the
Sheriff which is relevant to the purpose of the application process is
absolutely privileged and does not impose thereon liability for defamation or
constitute a ground for recovery in any civil action.
   I.   Each applicant shall also authorize the County to obtain information
from criminal justice agencies, financial institutions, governmental agencies
for use in connection with the license application. The applicant shall also
sign a release of claims and indemnity agreement to the County for the use of
information provided by the applicant or discovered during any investigation
thereof.
   J.   Once an application is complete, the board shall refer the application
to the Sheriff for review and investigation of the suitability of the
applicant.
   K.   Submission of fingerprints by Lincoln County to the FBI for a criminal
history record check is authorized by Nevada Revised Statute section 239B.010
(1)(a). (Ord. 2018-03, 8-20-2018)
4-1-5: INVESTIGATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Sheriff is authorized to fully investigate the applicant and to
enlist the aid of any State and Federal investigation and identification
organizations in such investigation. All personal and financial records and all
other information obtained by reason of the investigation must be maintained by
the Sheriff in a confidential file available only to members of the board, and
authorized Sheriff's Department employees.
   B.   The investigation shall be completed within sixty (60) days; however,
if it is not possible for the Sheriff to complete an investigation within sixty
(60) days, the Sheriff shall report the fact to the board and the board may
extend the period of time for investigation.
   C.   If an applicant or principal of an applicant for a liquor license is
concurrently applying for a gaming license pursuant to chapter 9 of this title,
the Sheriff must defer the background investigation to the investigation
completed by the Nevada State Gaming Control Board, unless the board or Sheriff
determines that a separate investigation is necessary. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-
2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-6: BOARD ACTION ON APPLICATION:
   A.   Upon completion of the investigation, the Sheriff shall immediately
refer the application to the board together with its findings and all facts
upon which the findings are based. The board shall then place this item on its
next regular meeting at which the Sheriff's Department shall report its
findings from the completed investigation. The application may be acted upon by
the board at any regular or recessed regular meeting thereof or at any special
meeting.
   B.   An application for a liquor license, finding of suitability, or other
approval by the board constitutes a waiver of confidentiality and privacy as to
those matters regarding past and present associations, criminal history,
including sealed and expunged records, sources of funds, and other matters
disclosed or revealed during the investigation. Such waiver permits
interrogation of the applicant at any meeting of the board, concerning any
matters contained in the application or information obtained in the course of
an investigation. However, information of a confidential nature or showing the
applicant's finances, net worth, earnings, or revenues that is submitted as
part of the application shall be maintained by the Sheriff in a confidential
file, available only to law enforcement officers involved in the investigation,
and the board, with release permitted pursuant to a subpoena or other order of
a court of competent jurisdiction or to a duly authorized agent of any
governmental agency acting pursuant to the agency's authority and function.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to disclose any item of personal history,
financial records, audits, criminal history, or any other item contained in the
investigation file to any person except in the course of the necessary
administration of this chapter, or upon a lawful order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00), or
up to six (6) months imprisonment, or by both fine and imprisonment.
   D.   The board may, in its discretion, and if it is satisfied that the
applicant is eligible as provided herein, approve a license, make a finding of
suitability, or take such other action the board deems appropriate by a
majority vote of the members present. Each applicant must, if required by the
board, be present at the board meeting at the time the application, finding of
suitability, or other requested approval or action is presented to the board.
   E.   In its discretion, the board may deny, limit, restrict, or condition a
license, deem an applicant unsuitable, or reject a request for approval or
other action. Grounds for denial of a license or determination of unsuitability
include, but are not limited to, grounds for disciplinary action as set forth
in this chapter. Any person whose license or approval for suitability or
request for action by the board has been denied, canceled, or revoked may not
reapply for the license, finding of suitability, or other request for approval
for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days following the date of such
action.
   F.   All licenses issued and renewed pursuant to this chapter are subject to
the condition that the liquor establishment may be inspected by investigators
of the board or Sheriff for the purpose of investigation, inspection, or audit,
and licensees shall not refuse such right to enter, investigate, inspect, or
audit. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-7: QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSING OR FINDING OF SUITABILITY:
   A.   A liquor license or finding of suitability is a privilege and shall not
be issued unless the applicant proves his suitability to receive such license.
The following persons may be found unsuitable to hold a license under the
provisions of this chapter:
      1.   A person who does not possess, or who does not have a reputation for
possessing a good moral character;
      2.   A person who is under the age of twenty one (21) years. A person
under the age of twenty one (21) may hold an ownership interest in a licensee
if the interest is placed in a trust with the minor named as a beneficiary and
if the trustee is found suitable;
      3.   A person who has been convicted of a crime involving moral
turpitude, unless the board finds that upon examination of the circumstances of
the crime, the applicant's criminal history, and the written recommendations of
three (3) or more residents of the State with reputations of integrity and one
of whom is a current qualified elector of the County, that the applicant does
not present, and is not likely to present in the future, a threat to county
safety, morals, and welfare, and will likely operate a liquor establishment in
compliance with all laws;
      4.   A person who the board determines is not a suitable person to
receive or hold a license, after due consideration for the protection of the
public health, safety, morals, good order, and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the County;
      5.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause within the past five (5) years;
      6.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued under this chapter would not be eligible for such license upon first
application;
      7.   A partnership, if any of the partners required, under this chapter,
to file an application are not qualified to obtain a license or are determined
by the board to be unsuitable to hold a license;
      8.   A corporation, if any officers, directors, or shareholders required,
under this chapter, to file an application are not qualified to obtain a
license or are determined by the board to be unsuitable to hold a license;
      9.   A limited liability company, if any members or managers required,
under this chapter, to file an application are not qualified to obtain a
license or are determined by the board to be unsuitable to hold a license;
      10.   A trust, if any trust, or trustees, or beneficiaries required,
under this chapter, to file an application are not qualified to obtain a
license or are determined by the board to be unsuitable to hold a license;
      11.   A corporation, partnership, or limited liability company, unless it
is formed under the laws of Nevada or unless it is a foreign business entity
which is qualified under the laws of Nevada to transact business in Nevada;
      12.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought or does not have a lease or other evidence of property rights
for the premises for which the license is sought;
      13.   A person whose funds or source of funds invested in the business
are not from a suitable source.
   B.   Without limiting the foregoing, the board may also deny a license upon
its discretion if it determines:
      1.   In its judgment, that the granting of such license may tend to
create or constitute a public nuisance;
      2.   By the granting of such license, a disorderly house or place may be
maintained;
      3.   The granting of such license may seriously and adversely affect the
valuation of adjoining and contiguous property;
      4.   For any other and sufficient reason. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff.
7-1-2009)
4-1-8: FINDINGS OF SUITABILITY:
   A.   Key Employees:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection 4-1-4B5 of this chapter,
whenever it is the judgment of the board that the public interest will be
served by requiring a key employee to obtain a finding of suitability to hold
key employee status, the sheriff will serve upon the licensee notice to make
application for such a finding.
      2.   The licensee shall, within thirty (30) days after receipt of the
notice requiring a finding of suitability of any key employee, present the key
employee application to the board or provide documentary evidence that such key
employee is no longer employed by the licensee. An application for a finding of
suitability, an investigation, and payment of fees shall be made in accordance
with this chapter.
      3.   Any liquor licensee employing a person in a key employee position
after that person's disapproval by the board, or upon the employee's refusal to
make application for key employee status after receiving notification to do so,
shall be subject to disciplinary action as set out in this chapter.
   B.   Landlord Or Lender:
      1.   Whenever it is the judgment of the board that the public interest
will be served by requiring a landlord, lender, or third party by reason of the
extent of his holdings or his inherent control financially, to obtain a finding
of suitability as a landlord or a lender, the sheriff will serve upon the
licensee notice for the landlord, lender, or third person to make application
for such a finding. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such a
situation may be deemed to exist in any instance where the agreement governing
the lease or financing is not in accordance with usual and accepted business
practices.
      2.   If the landlord, lender, or third party refuses to submit an
application or is found not suitable as a landlord, lender, or third party the
licensee shall, upon the terms and conditions agreed to by the board,
renegotiate its agreement with the landlord, lender, or third party. (Ord.
2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-9: LOCATION OF LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Schools And Places Of Worship:
      1.   A liquor license will not be granted to any establishment located
within a geographical area developed pursuant to titles 14 and 15 of this code
and within one mile from the boundaries of any such geographical area that is
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of any school or any place of
worship, unless the establishment is located within a CS-H-1 or CS-M-U land use
zone, is part of a commercial complex, or the establishment obtained a valid
liquor license prior to July 1, 2008, and the board determines at a public
hearing that the public health, safety, welfare, and morals of the county
inhabitants will not be impaired by the granting of such license.
      2.   The one thousand five hundred foot (1,500') limitation shall be
determined by measurement in a direct line from any place of entry to the
school or the entry door of the building used for the place of worship to the
customer entry door of the building wherein alcoholic liquors are sold.
      3.   This section does not apply to special events authorized by a
special events permit or events operated by a licensed liquor caterer.
   B.   Package Liquor License Distance Restrictions:
      1.   A package liquor license shall not be granted to any establishment
located within a geographical area developed pursuant to titles 14 and 15 of
this code and within one mile from the boundaries of any such geographical area
unless the prospective package liquor establishment is more than one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') from the nearest existing package liquor license
establishment or unless the proposed package liquor establishment is located
within a CS-H-1 or CS-M-U land use zone or is part of a commercial complex.
      2.   The one thousand five hundred foot (1,500') limitation shall be
determined by measurement in a direct line from the main entry door of the
existing package liquor license establishment to the main entry door of the
proposed package liquor license establishment.
   C.   Ownership Of Premises: The board may deem that premises are unsuitable
as a liquor establishment by reason of ownership of any interest whatsoever in
the premises by a person who is unsuitable to hold a license regardless of the
qualifications of the person who seeks or holds a license to sell liquor in or
upon such premises.
   D.   Town of Alamo: It is unlawful for any licensee under the provisions of
this chapter, to sell alcoholic beverages in the town limits of the town of
Alamo; provided however, this restriction shall not apply to licensees or
places of business selling alcoholic liquors in an approved location prior to
November 25, 1985, or to licensees engaged in the business of selling alcoholic
liquors in an approved location which would become a prohibited location by
reason of expansion of the town limits of Alamo.
   E.   Town Of Panaca: It is unlawful for any licensee under the provisions of
this chapter, to sell alcoholic beverages in the town limits of the town of
Panaca, or within one-half (1/2) mile of the town limits of the town of Panaca;
provided however, this restriction shall not apply to licensees or places of
business selling alcoholic liquors in an approved location prior to December
12, 1986, or to licensees engaged in the business of selling alcoholic liquors
in an approved location which would become a prohibited location by reason of
the expansion of the town limits of Panaca. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-
1-2009; Ord. 2023-01, 2-21-2023)
4-1-10: NONCONFORMING LOCATIONS:
Except as otherwise prohibited pursuant to section
4-1-9 of this chapter, licensed liquor locations that hold a valid liquor
license issued prior to July 1, 2008, are exempt from any location or distance
restrictions imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-11: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to sell, serve, give away, allow
consumption, distribute, or dispense alcoholic beverages without first having
paid the applicable annual license fees in advance on July 1 of each year.
      1.   For licensed establishments, catered or special events located
within a geographical area developed pursuant to titles 14 and 15 of this code
and within one mile from the boundaries of any such geographical area:
         a.   For an on premises alcoholic beverage license, except an on
premises alcoholic beverage license issued to a liquor caterer, a fee of two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00);
         b.   For each main bar in excess of one main bar, a fee of two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00);
         c.   For each and every service bar and portable bar, a fee of one
thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250.00);
         d.   For each and every individual access license, a fee of four
thousand dollars ($4,000.00);
         e.   For each on premises beer and wine license, except an on premises
beer and wine license issued to a liquor caterer, a fee of six hundred dollars
($600.00);
         f.   For a club beer and wine license, a fee of six hundred dollars
($600.00);
         g.   For a club alcoholic beverage license, a fee of eight hundred
dollars ($800.00);
         h.   For a liquor caterer license, a fee of eight hundred dollars
($800.00), with a nonrefundable permit fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for each
liquor distribution point operated per day at each event;
         i.   For a package beer and wine license, a fee of seven hundred
dollars ($700.00);
         j.   For a package alcoholic beverage license, a fee of one thousand
eight hundred dollars ($1,800.00), unless operated in conjunction with an on
premises beer and wine license or on premises alcoholic beverage license by the
same licensee at the same location, in which case the fee shall be six hundred
dollars ($600.00);
         k.   For a package delivery license, a fee of one thousand four
hundred dollars ($1,400.00) in addition to any other liquor fee required at the
licensed location;
         l.   For a special event permit, a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
event for the dispensing or sale of beer, wine, or spirit based products for
which the alcohol content does not exceed ten percent (10%) by volume and is
clearly labeled as such, and one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per event for
all other types of alcohol beverage service, except that charitable or
nonprofit organizations which meet the requirements for issuance of special
event permits shall not be required to pay any fee.
      2.   For all establishments in other areas within the unincorporated area
of the county:
         a.   For each on premises alcoholic beverage license, a fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00);
         b.   For each on premises beer and wine license, a fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00);
         c.   For a club beer and wine license, a fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00);
         d.   For a club alcoholic beverage license, a fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00);
         e.   For a package alcoholic beverage license, a fee of seventy five
dollars ($75.00);
         f.   For a package delivery license, a fee of one hundred twenty five
dollars ($125.00) in addition to any other liquor fee required at the licensed
location.
   B.   The board of county commissioners, from time to time, shall modify the
preceding license fees by resolution. A licensee, who receives a license during
the fiscal year, must pay the fee, prorated monthly after July 31, in advance.
   C.   The fees due pursuant to this section are not refundable.
   D.   The licensee fees collected pursuant to this chapter shall be paid to
the Lincoln County treasurer and shall be kept in the general fund for the sole
use and benefit of the county, and shall be paid out by order of and under the
direction of the board of Lincoln County commissioners in the same manner as
other general fund disbursements are made. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-
2009)
4-1-12: RENEWAL APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   All licenses provided for in this chapter shall be issued for one year.
All liquor licensees are required to apply annually for a renewal and to pay
the license fee and penalties, if applicable, as set out in this chapter.
   B.   Each licensee shall be notified prior to the due date of the amount due
for his license; provided, that the actual receipt by the licensee of such
notice is in no case required. The failure of the county to notify any licensee
shall in no event be construed or held to be a waiver of the payment of such
licensee fee.
   C.   A licensee may terminate its license by voluntary surrender of the
license so long as a disciplinary complaint has not been filed against the
licensee. Upon the license surrender, all sales of alcoholic beverages must
cease.
   D.   All license fees are due on July 1 of each year. All license fees due
become delinquent if not paid on the date when due. If payment is made after
the date when the fee is due and before thirty (30) days after the due date,
fifty percent (50%) of the license fee shall be assessed as a penalty charge.
All licenses for which the license fees have not been paid within thirty (30)
days after the due date shall be deemed revoked. Any such license may not be
reinstated by the board until the fifty percent (50%) penalty fee and fifteen
percent (15%) reinstatement fee have been paid in addition to the regular
license fee.
   E.   Any fee imposed pursuant to this chapter is a debt due the county from
and against any person who commences, carries on, engages in or conducts the
sale of alcoholic beverages for which a license is required, and the person
shall be liable in a civil action in the name of the county as plaintiff in any
court of competent jurisdiction, for the recovery of the amount of the license
fee, penalties, and for the cost of the suit. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff.
7-1-2009)
4-1-13: POSTING LICENSE:
All liquor licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the liquor
establishment where liquor sales and/or consumption occur. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-
15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-14: TEMPORARY LICENSE:
   A.   In order to protect the goodwill, clientele, and assets of a licensee
or licensed establishment during investigation of a new or proposed owner
through sale, foreclosure, inheritance, death, insolvency, or other transfer of
ownership, the board may, upon the filing of a complete application, payment of
all fees, and a preliminary determination of suitability by the sheriff, issue
a temporary license.
   B.   The board may extend the temporary license for a period of not to
exceed sixty (60) days, but shall not extend the temporary license for a period
exceeding one year from the initial approval of the temporary license.
   C.   A temporary license granted pursuant to this section is subject to all
conditions and restrictions of the original license. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008,
eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-15: DISCONTINUANCE OF OPERATIONS:
   A.   If a licensee discontinues business for a period of sixty (60) days
without specific approval of the board, such license shall be revoked
automatically without action by the board.
   B.   If a licensee discontinues operations for reasons beyond his control,
such as natural disaster or accidental destruction, the board may, for good
cause shown, grant additional sixty (60) day extensions not to exceed, however,
a total period of two (2) years.
   C.   If a licensee discontinues business for longer than the time period
approved by the board, the license shall be revoked automatically without
action by the board. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-16: TRANSFERS OF INTEREST:
   A.   If a person who has been found suitable as an owner of an interest in a
license under this chapter proposes to transfer any portion of his interest to
a person who has also been licensed or found suitable as an owner of an
interest in such license, both parties shall give written notification to the
board setting forth the extent of the interest to be transferred and the
consideration therefor. The transferee shall furnish a statement disclosing the
source of funds to be used in acquiring such interest and such other documents
and information as the board may require. The board may also require the party
acquiring the interest to be found suitable to hold the additional interest
prior to the completion of the transaction.
   B.   If a person who has been found suitable as an owner of an interest in a
licensee proposes to transfer any portion of his interest to a person who has
not been licensed or found suitable as an owner of an interest in the licensee,
the transferee shall submit an application for a finding of suitability as an
owner and the transfer is not effective until the board has approved the
transfer. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-17: CHANGES TO LICENSEE; REQUIRED APPLICATIONS:
   A.   Each licensee must report to the board within thirty (30) days of such
change, the following:
      1.   Any change in the officers, directors, managers of limited liability
companies, and other similarly situated managerial positions. The report must
be made in conjunction with the appropriate application for a finding of
suitability for any individual holding the position;
      2.   Any change in the general manager or other key employee. The report
must be made in conjunction with the appropriate application for a finding of
suitability for any individual holding the position;
      3.   Any change in persons receiving any portion of the profits of the
licensed establishment. The report must be made in conjunction with the
appropriate application for a finding of suitability for any person receiving
any portion of the profits;
      4.   Any change in the ownership of the premises of the liquor
establishment, unless the licensee is not a party to the transaction effecting
such change of ownership. A licensee not a party to the transaction must report
the change to the board immediately upon acquiring knowledge of such change of
ownership.
   B.   Each licensee must request and receive the approval of the board to:
      1.   Change the location of a liquor establishment.
      2.   Change the name of the business operating under a license. (Ord.
2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-18: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
Nothing herein shall be construed to authorize the sale, transfer, or
assignment of a license, and no such license shall in any event be sold,
assigned, or transferred. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-19: DUTIES OF LICENSEES:
Each licensee must strictly enforce all the provisions of this code and state
statutes in the licensed establishment and without limiting the generality of
the foregoing, each licensee must:
   A.   Maintain and conduct all activities upon the premises in a decent,
orderly, and respectful manner and shall not knowingly permit within or upon
the licensed premises any lewd activity, nudity, or topless activity, or any
disorder, disturbances, or other activities which endanger the health or safety
of the customers or disrupt the peace or order of the neighborhood.
   B.   Ensure in the absence of the licensee, that a key employee be on the
premises or available for immediate contact on a twenty four (24) hour per day
basis and be authorized to make decisions on behalf of the licensee.
   C.   Refuse admittance to minors to any area wherein minors are restricted
from access. Without limiting the foregoing, minors must be refused access,
entry or service to:
      1.   Liquor stores;
      2.   The alcoholic beverage supply and display area in any gift store,
grocery store or drugstore;
      3.   Locked cabinets or refrigerators in resort hotel rooms occupied by
minors;
      4.   Taverns and the area in immediate proximity to a main bar, portable
bar, or service bar. For a main bar, service bar, or tavern located within or
operated in conjunction with a restaurant at which minors are admitted, liquor
may be served in an area divided and separated by a structural barrier
sufficient to exclude minors from the bar area and in conjunction with meals
served to persons twenty one (21) years of age or older. If a restaurant does
not allow minors access to the premises, a physical separation of the
restaurant from the bar area is not required, but a sign must be posted at the
entrance to the establishment which states that the entrance of minors is
prohibited;
      5.   Liquor establishments holding an on premises beer and wine or an on
premises alcoholic beverage license must exclude minors from any area where
alcoholic beverages are prepared, served, sold or distributed and must provide
a sign or signs sufficient to give notice that minors are excluded from the
area.
   D.   Maintain adequate security to ensure compliance with requirements of
this section.
   E.   Remain qualified to hold a liquor license as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-20: DUTIES OF CONVENIENCE STORES:
   A.   If a convenience store holds a package beer and wine license and is
located in the same building as a restaurant or other dining room and does not
have a common wall separating it from the restaurant or dining room so as to
prevent internal access from one to the other, it must post signage in
conspicuous places at the entrance to the premises providing notice that the
code prohibits the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises.
   B.   If a convenience store and a restaurant or dining room that has a
drive-through or walk-up window operated in conjunction with one another, it
must post signage in conspicuous places outside the premises, where customers
place orders for service and at the pick up window, providing notice that the
code prohibits the sale of alcoholic beverages through such window.
   C.   A convenience store that holds a package beer and wine license must
post signage in conspicuous places at the entrance of the premises providing
notice that the code prohibits the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the
premises. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-21: DRIVE-THROUGH WINDOW RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   A licensee shall not sell, serve, dispense, or distribute any alcoholic
beverage through any drive-through window without the board's approval. A
person who is not a minor shall supervise board approved, drive-through windows
at all times the window is open to the public. Drive-through windows in
establishments that hold licenses must not be located at or near the main bar
or any service bar. A licensee shall not open, prepare, or serve any alcoholic
drink or package from a kitchen or food preparation area with a drive-through
window.
   B.   Licensees who operate drive-through windows shall post signs in
conspicuous places inside the building, in the area where employees operate the
window and outside the building, where customers place orders for service, and
at the pick up window that provide notice that the code prohibits the sale,
service, dispensing, and distribution of alcoholic beverages through such
windows.
   C.   The board may require a licensee permanently to close its drive-through
window if it violates the provisions of this section. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-
2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-22: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   A.   A licensee shall not sell, serve, give away, dispense, otherwise
distribute, or allow consumption of any alcoholic beverages at any location
other than the location designated in the license without first obtaining
written authorization from the board.
   B.   A liquor establishment must not be closed to the general public when
alcoholic beverages are served, consumed, distributed, or allowed to be sold,
served, consumed, or distributed, unless the license is issued to a club or in
conjunction with a golf course.
   C.   A licensee, or any of his agents or employees, shall not sell, serve,
give away, or otherwise distribute alcoholic beverages to any intoxicated
person.
   D.   A licensee shall not sell, serve, give away, or otherwise distribute
any alcoholic beverages outside the liquor establishment for which a license
was issued; provided, however, that the board may, for good cause shown,
authorize the sale of alcoholic beverages in specified enclosed areas or
premises under the supervision, management, and operations of a licensee.
   E.   A licensee shall not permit any employee who is a minor to sell, mix,
or otherwise handle any alcoholic beverage.
   F.   A licensee shall not sell, serve, give away, or dispense alcoholic
liquor to any minor. Proof that the licensee or his agent or employee demanded
and was shown, immediately prior to furnishing any alcoholic liquor to a minor,
bona fide documentary evidence of majority and identity of such person issued
by a federal, state, county, or municipal government, or subdivision or agency
thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's license, a
registered certificate issued under the federal selective service act, or an
identification card issued to a member of the armed forces, is a defense to any
criminal prosecution or proceeding for the suspension or revocation of any
license pursuant to this section.
   G.   A licensee and any of his agents or employees shall not be in an
intoxicated condition in or about a liquor establishment while such licensee,
agent, or employee is engaged in the performance of his employment duties at
the licensed establishment. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-23: ALCOHOL AWARENESS TRAINING:
   A.   Every licensee whose premises are within a geographical area developed
pursuant to titles 14 and 15 of this code and within one mile from the
boundaries of any such geographical area must have an employee on the premises
at all hours liquor is distributed or consumed, who has completed a
comprehensive training course of instruction consisting of not less than four
(4) hours.
   B.   Each employee who serves alcoholic beverages or who performs security
guard functions, or participates directly in the control of liquor service or
distribution must complete a comprehensive training course of instructions
consisting of not less than four (4) hours and must complete a refresher course
every five (5) years.
   C.   The comprehensive training course will include, but not be limited to,
teaching the clinical effects of alcohol on the human body; methods of
identifying intoxicated persons; the liquor laws of the state and county;
methods of preventing fights and disruptions of the peace; methods of
restraining entry of minors into locations for which entry is prohibited; and
preventing sales to and drinking of alcoholic liquor by minors. A score of
seventy five percent (75%) correct is required for passing the course.
   D.   The training course must be a liquor server awareness training program
approved by the board or its designee, which may include the program offered by
TAM (techniques in alcohol management) or TIPS (training for intervention
procedures). Any person teaching or offering such course must be certified
every two (2) years from the date of their most recent certification by the
board or its designee of their competence to administer such a course. Such
certification of course competency shall be accomplished by the board's
designee by a complete review of the course material, lesson presentation, and
testing the instructors every two (2) years from the date of their most recent
certification.
   E.   The person teaching such course must supply the board or its designee
with a list of all persons completing the course within five (5) days thereof
excluding holidays and weekends. Such list shall state the name and social
security number of the person, place of employment, and date of certification.
   F.   The person teaching the liquor awareness course must supply all persons
successfully completing the initial and each refresher course with a wallet
size certification card with photograph (laminated in clear plastic) that
states the name of the training course, the name of the person passing the
course and their social security number, and the date the course was taken. The
certification card or a copy of the certification card must be available during
the work shift on the premises where the employee is serving, selling, or
distributing alcoholic liquors for inspection by the sheriff, county or other
government personnel. The certification card issued pursuant to this section
shall not be defaced or modified by the employer or the holder of the
certification card.
   G.   The license of any licensee other than a casino that does not comply
with the requirements of this section within the time limits set are
automatically suspended until compliance is shown. The board shall determine
and charge a fee required to reimburse the designee department for the expense
of certifying the competence of the program and its instructors.
   H.   The licensee must keep an updated list of the employees who have
completed the course or passed the test required herein, and the date thereof.
Failure to have a trained or tested employee with a valid certification on the
premises as required herein, for the service, sale, or distribution of
alcoholic liquor or failure to keep said list, or falsification thereof, shall
be grounds for disciplinary action including, but not limited to, license
revocation.
   I.   Any person selling, serving, distributing or giving away alcoholic
liquors, or allowing or permitting the sale, service, distribution or
consumption of alcoholic liquor on any premises under the control of any
person, business, association, or organization without current certification
pursuant to this chapter, or without having a manager, general manager, or
employee who has filed with the sheriff proof of current certification by
having passed the test or completed the course, or has failed to have a valid
certification is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a term of not more than six (6) months, or
by any such combination of such fine or imprisonment. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-
2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-24: POSSESSION AND SALE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
be in possession of any alcoholic beverage.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any open
or uncorked container, bottle, or can of beer, wine, or liquor on any public
street, public road, or public sidewalk within the county.
   C.   It is unlawful to sell, serve, give away, or dispense alcoholic liquor
to any minor. Proof that the licensee or his agent or employee demanded and was
shown, immediately prior to furnishing any alcoholic liquor to a minor, bona
fide documentary evidence of majority and identity of such person issued by a
federal, state, county, or municipal government, or subdivision or agency
thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's license, a
registered certificate issued under the federal selective service act, or an
identification card issued to a member of the armed forces, is a defense to any
criminal prosecution or proceeding for the suspension or revocation of any
license pursuant to this section. (Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-1-25: GROUNDS FOR DISCIPLINARY ACTION:
   A.   Any activity by a licensee or his agents or employees or a person
previously found suitable, which is inimical to the public health, safety,
morals, good order, or general welfare of the inhabitants of the county which
would reflect or tend to reflect discredit upon the county or any violation of
any ordinance, law or statute, is grounds for disciplinary action in accordance
with chapter 10 of this title. Without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, all licensees are subject to disciplinary action for any of the
following violations done either personally or through an agent or employee:
      1.   Any violation of this chapter;
      2.   The sale, purchase or lease of a liquor license or a portion or
percentage thereof without the prior approval of the board;
      3.   Knowing failure to report or intentional concealment from the board
the names of all persons having an interest in the ownership of or having an
equitable or beneficial right to the profits under a license;
      4.   Knowing failure to report or intentional concealment from proper
authorities any information which it is his duty to supply under any statute or
ordinance;
      5.   Knowingly allowing the licensed premises to be frequented by or to
become the meeting place, hangout, or rendezvous for prostitutes, known
hoodlums, persons described as undesirables in liquor operations or those who
are known to engage in the use or distribution of illegal narcotics or in any
other illegal occupation or business. Any licensee knowingly permitting such
conditions on the licensed premises may be subject to all forms of disciplinary
action, including, but not limited to, suspension of the liquor license pending
elimination of the indicated violation. Disciplinary action for permitting any
such violation may be initiated against the licensee for failure to eliminate
the same by affirmative corrective action for a period of ten (10) days from
the date of written notice of the existence of any such condition or violation;
      6.   Knowingly misrepresenting a material fact in his application to
obtain a license; or
      7.   The revocation for cause of any liquor license in any place in the
state.
   B.   "Disciplinary action" is defined as the procedure which may be taken by
the board to conduct hearings regarding a liquor licensee in violation of
applicable law, and the action which may be taken by the board pursuant to the
hearings, which may consist of suspending, limiting, conditioning, or revoking
the license.
   C.   Disciplinary action for all liquor licensees shall be conducted
pursuant to the regulations codified in chapter 10 of this title, which is
hereby adopted as regulating all disciplinary action of a liquor licensee.
(Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
CHAPTER 2
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Purpose And Intent
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: License Required; Locational Requirements
4-2-4: Application For License; Contents
4-2-5: Exemptions
4-2-6: Fees; License Term
4-2-7: Corporate License; Changes In Membership
4-2-8: License Denial
4-2-9: Issuance Of License
4-2-10: Registration Card Required
4-2-11: Building Specifications; Security
4-2-12: Licensee Responsible For Acts Of Employees
4-2-13: Licensee Agreement, Conformance With Regulations
4-2-14: Existing Businesses, Conformity
4-2-15: Application Of Other Ordinances
4-2-16: Adult Nightclubs
4-2-17: Prohibited Acts
4-2-18: License Denial, Suspension Or Revocation; Limitation
4-2-19: Appeal; Judicial Review
4-2-20: Violation; Penalty
4-2-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   In the development and adoption of this chapter, it is recognized that
there are some adult business uses which have serious objectionable operational
characteristics particularly when located in close proximity to residential
neighborhoods, public parks, churches, public buildings, schools and other
facilities, thereby having a deleterious impact upon property values and that
such businesses frequently become places of criminality.
   B.   It has been acknowledged by communities across the nation that state
and local governmental entities have a special concern in regulating the
operation of such businesses under their jurisdiction to ensure those controls
and regulations necessary to preserve the integrity and character of
residential neighborhoods, the stability of property values, and impose
restrictions and regulations upon those activities that would adversely affect
property values, increase crime and violence, and prevent adverse secondary
effects that will contribute to the blighting or downgrading of adjacent
neighborhoods. It is the further purpose of this chapter to protect the well-
being of the youth of the community from objectionable operational
characteristics of these adult uses by regulating and restricting their close
proximity to certain established facilities such as, but not limited to,
churches, parks, schools and residential areas.
   C.   In recognition of the protections afforded to the citizens under the
first and fourteenth amendments, it is not the intent of this chapter to
inhibit freedom of speech or the press. It is further the belief that just as
advertising is designed to stimulate one's appetite for desiring goods or
services, an overabundance or preoccupation with sexual displays or materials
arouses the appetites of those so preoccupied and encourages violations of the
criminal statutes involving sexual offenses and is contrary to the health and
safety of the community.
   D.   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the first amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. This chapter represents a balancing of the legitimate ends of
the community by imposing an incidental, content neutral place, time and manner
regulation of sexually oriented businesses, without limiting alternative
avenues of communication, and at the same time, requiring the business to carry
its share of financing law enforcement activities. The special regulations
deemed necessary to control the undesirable externalities arising from these
enterprises are set forth herein. (1983 Code § 5.24.020)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, inclusive, and unless the context otherwise requires,
the words and terms defined in this chapter have the meanings ascribed to them
in those sections, or as otherwise defined below:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having as a significant portion of its stock
in trade in books, film, videotape or other media, magazines and other
periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing sexual conduct or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT MOTEL: A motel wherein material is presented as part of the motel
services, at no charge, or for an additional fee, via film, videotape or other
media viewing device, to adult patrons, and which is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting of specified anatomical areas.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building, or a portion thereof, used
for presenting material by film, videotape or other media viewing device, to
more than ten (10) persons, distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing sexual conduct or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT NIGHTCLUB: An establishment which operates as a place where adult patrons
assemble for recreation, entertainment or any other purpose; and, which
generally operates in the manner of a tavern, with the exception that no
alcoholic beverages are served or permitted.
ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS: An establishment having as a significant portion of its
stock and trade those products known generally as, but not limited to, adult
novelties and gifts, bedroom accessories, party favors, lotions, creams, body
paint, condoms and aromatic products which are characterized by an emphasis for
use during sexual conduct or with specified anatomical areas; and, which may,
or may not, have a portion of its stock in trade in books, film, videotape, or
the media, magazines and other periodicals which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing sexual conduct or
specified anatomical areas.
CHILDCARE FACILITY: A building used as a day nursery, children's boarding home,
child placing agency or other place for the care and custody of children under
eighteen (18) years of age.
CHURCH OR PLACE OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP: A building in which persons regularly
assemble for worship, intended primarily for purposes connected with faith, or,
for propagating a particular belief form.
COMMISSION: The board of county commissioners of Lincoln County, Nevada.
DATING OR ESCORT SERVICE: An operation which, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, or for no fee, holds itself out as an establishment, the intent of
which is to bring together, for dating or companionship, or introduce in any
manner, two (2) or more persons, in response to a telephone request, or any
other means of request, for said dating or companionship.
DWELLING: A house, duplex, apartment, townhouse, condominium, mobile home or
any other building used for residential purposes.
FILM, VIDEOTAPE OR OTHER MEDIA VIEWING DEVICE: Means, but is not limited to,
any electric, electronic, mechanical, magnetic, optical, laser, holographic,
virtual reality or other technology which, through a controlled viewing or
projection device, produces a controlled visible image which is contingent upon
the payment of some consideration and which use is to occur upon the premises.
HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof used for the accommodation and
medical care of sick, injured or infirm persons. This would include, but not be
limited to, sanitariums, institutions for the aged and alcoholic sanitariums.
NUDE MODELING STUDIO: Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, figure models, who display specified anatomical areas, are provided
to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly
depicted by persons paying such consideration or gratuity.
NUDE SHOW: Any establishment which provides or permits conduct, or the display
of specified anatomical areas upon its premises as entertainment or an
attraction for business.
OPERATION: The conduct of any business regulated or licensed by this chapter.
PERSONAL INTRODUCTION BUSINESSES: A. An establishment which, for a fee, holds
itself out as an operation where persons previously unknown to each other, and
neither of whom are employees, agents or servants of the business, enter into a
written agreement with said business to provide a personal introduction to
another based on specific criteria rather than random chance, or generalities,
and which does not result in an immediate introduction by a single act of a
telephone call or other form of communication; and
   B.   Such specific criteria and business procedures involve, but are not
limited to, an in-person meeting at the licensed business location of the
patron and an agent of the licensed business, a systemized method of screening
and evaluation, psychological profiles, common interests, personal preference
evaluations, video media previews, and medical screening; and
   C.   The business patron may, or may not, after the business has performed
the operations of which the fee was paid, lead to a meeting with another patron
of the business.
PROSTITUTION: Engaging in sexual intercourse, oral-genital, oral- anal or anal-
genital contact, or any touching of the sexual organs, pubic region or male or
female breast of a person with the intent of arousing or gratifying the sexual
desire of either person for monetary consideration, whether by credit, cash,
check, charge or barter.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by federal, state or local government, and
open to the general public.
PUBLIC PARK: A tract of land maintained by federal, state or local government
for the recreation and enjoyment of the general public.
SCHOOL: A licensed childcare facility, grades preschool through grade twelve
(12), together with the playgrounds, dormitories, stadiums and other structures
or grounds used in conjunction therewith.
SEXUAL CONDUCT AND SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: As used in this chapter, means:
   A.   "Sexual conduct" includes the following:
      1. The fondling or other touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or male or female breasts;
      2. Ultimate sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation and sodomy;
      3. Masturbation; and
      4. Excretory functions, alone, as part of, or in connection with, any of
the activities set forth in subsections A1 through A3 in this definition.
   B.   "Specified anatomical areas" include the following:
      1. Human genitals, pubic region, buttocks and female breasts below a
point immediately above the top of the areola;
      2. Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
covered.
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER BUSINESS: Any establishment which, for its purpose, provides
the performance of any lawful service, or any other lawful business activity,
profession or calling, to include, but not limited to, car washes, cosmetology
or barber services, maid services, food services, and which promotes to the
public through advertising, either, written, oral or otherwise, that their
services, professions or callings are to be performed in clothing such as, but
not limited to, nude, topless, lingerie, G-strings, halters or other such
attire.
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: Any establishment which contains, or is used for,
lawful commercial entertainment where the patron directly, or indirectly, is
charged a fee to engage in personal contact with, or to allow personal contact,
by employees, devices or equipment, or by personnel provided by the
establishment, which appeals to the prurient interest of the patron, to
include, but not limited to, bathhouses, lap dancing, group or individual
therapy not operated by a licensed physician or licensed psychologist, or other
similar activities.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES: Means, but is not limited to, nude modeling
studio, nude modeling agency, nude shows, adult book stores, adult motion
picture theaters, adult video centers, adult motels, sexual encounter
businesses, adult novelty businesses, sexual encounter centers, dating and
escort services and adult nightclubs not serving alcoholic liquors.
VIDEO CENTER: Any establishment, or any portion thereof, in which any film,
videotape or other media viewing or projection device, produces a visible image
which is made available to the public.
VIEWING AREA: Each area in which a patron or customer of the video center would
ordinarily be positioned in order to view a controlled visible image generated
by film, videotape or other media viewing device. (1983 Code § 5.24.010; amd.
2003 Code)
4-2-3: LICENSE REQUIRED; LOCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to operate, conduct,
carry on or maintain a sexually oriented business in the county without first
having obtained a license as herein provided. A separate license must be
applied for, and issued, for each location, place or premises used, prior to
the conduct of such business.
   B.   Location Restricted: Prior to consideration for licensing, the
applicant must comply with the appropriate county zoning requirements and
certify that the proposed sexually oriented business will be located a minimum
of one thousand feet (1,000') from the following, which the commission finds to
be consistent with the operation of a regulated establishment: (1983 Code §
5.24.030; amd. 2003 Code)
      1.   A childcare facility;
      2.   A church or place of religious worship;
      3.   A dwelling;
      4.   A hospital;
      5.   A school;
      6.   A public building;
      7.   A public park;
      8.   A building where any alcoholic liquor is distributed;
      9.   A building where any licensed gambling is conducted;
      10.   Another sexually oriented business.
Note: The one thousand feet (1,000') referred to (excepting subsections B5 and
B7 of this subsection), must be determined by a direct line measurement from
the primary entrance of the structure noted in subsection B of this section,
without regard to intervening structures, to the proposed primary entrance of
the sexually oriented business. Items listed in said subsections B5 and B7 of
this section must be measured in a direct line measurement from the proposed
primary entrance of the sexually oriented business to the nearest point on the
property line of the land use.
   C.   Application For Exemption; Nonconforming Uses:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by this section may make application to the
commission for an exemption to the locational requirement.
      2.   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on March 15, 1994,
that is in violation of this section is deemed a nonconforming use. The
nonconforming use will be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed six
(6) months, unless sooner terminated for any reason, or voluntarily
discontinued for a period of thirty (30) days or more. Such nonconforming use
must not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except that it may be
changed to a conforming use.
      3.   If two (2) or more sexually oriented businesses are within one
thousand feet (1,000') of one another and otherwise in a permissible location,
the sexually oriented business which was first established and continually
operating at a particular location is the conforming use and the later
established business is nonconforming. (1983 Code § 5.24.030)
   D.   Request For Inspections: Prior to the issuance of any business license
by the commission, the applicant must submit a request for required department
signature inspections, pursuant to subsection 4-2-9B of this chapter. (2003
Code)
4-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS:
   A.   Business Premises Requirement:
      1.   The commission must not issue any license to any person unless the
applicant has an established place of business. Sexually oriented businesses,
as licensed under this chapter must comply with the appropriate zoning
requirements. (1983 Code § 5.24.040; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   It is unlawful for any business required to be licensed, to be
operated or conducted, either in full or part time, from a residential
premises. (1983 Code § 5.24.040)
   B.   Contents, General: Whenever a person desires to conduct any sexually
oriented business in the county, or engage in the business thereof, such person
must make application in writing, on a form provided by the commission, to
obtain a license therefor, and such application must contain and set forth the
following:
      1.   The name and residence address of the applicant.
      2.   The kind of license desired, the particular place for which the
license is desired, and the name of the owner of the premises where such
business is to be operated, along with a copy of the lease or rental agreement
for the same.
      3.   The names and residential addresses of all persons owning an
interest in the business, including the name and residential address of the key
employee of the business, and where there is more than one owner of such an
establishment, the names and residential addresses of all such persons owning
an interest in the business must be listed on the application, together with a
statement as to the percentage of the business owned by each individual.
      4.   A consent to sheriff's department and business license division
investigation of the applicant's background, including, but not limited to,
financial background, employment history and criminal record.
      5.   A list of convictions for all pandering, prostitution, soliciting,
thefts, fraud, obtaining money under false pretenses, use, sale or distribution
of a controlled substance, embezzlement or any criminal conviction involving
the use of force or violence upon the person of another, or adverse civil
action judgments involving fraudulent or deceptive advertising, sales or trade
practices, and a detailed explanation of the circumstances.
      6.   Applicant's business and employment history, stating whether or not
the applicant, or applicant's manager, director, officer, partner or any
stockholders have had any business license revoked or suspended and stating the
details, including the reasons why.
      7.   Any other pertinent documents or information which the commission
may require. (1983 Code § 5.24.050)
   C.   Corporations: In all cases where the applicant for a sexually oriented
business license is a corporation, the names and residential addresses of the
officers or directors of the corporation must be listed on the application. In
all such cases, the sheriff must determine who of the principal officers and
directors of such corporation must be required to undergo background
investigations. (1983 Code § 5.24.060)
   D.   Additional Information:
      1.   All applications must contain such information as the commission or
its authorized agents, by rule or regulation not inconsistent with law,
prescribes. Each licensee must designate on the application the name of a
resident agent or key employee residing within the county who is responsible
for the conduct of the business and authorized to immediately answer to the
commission, or its agents, should inquiry or action be deemed necessary in the
absence of the licensee.
      2.   The applicant must supplement the application by submitting a
written plan setting forth the method of operation of the business to ensure
compliance with the rules and regulations enumerated in this chapter.
      3.   Every application to operate a video center, whether as the sole
business, or as a part of a larger sexually oriented business licensed at the
same location, must include:
         a.   The number of film, videotape or other media viewing devices that
will be located upon the premises, the name of the manufacturer, serial number
or identification number, if any, and type of each, together with a floor plan
of the premises that shows the size and type of each room in which any device
will be located, and the size and type of each device, and the number thereof,
in each such room.
         b.   Each video center license must specify the specific number of
film, videotape or other media viewing devices for which it is issued, and the
number of devices upon the premises must not exceed the number that is
permitted under that license. An increase in the number of devices that is
permitted upon the premises requires a new video center business license
application. (1983 Code § 5.24.070)
   E.   Personal Information Required: All applicants for a sexually oriented
business license must state, for each person interested in the business, his
name and place of residence, whether or not he is a legal resident of the
United States, whether or not he has been convicted of a crime which would be
considered a gross misdemeanor or a felony under the laws of the state of
Nevada, or any misdemeanor crime, other than minor traffic offense, any
aliases, past and present, used, and any other information the commission may
require, all to be set forth in the application. (1983 Code § 5.24.080)
4-2-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter do not apply to those businesses which:
   A.   Operate a manufacturing or wholesale business;
   B.   Are prohibited from conducting retail sales; and
   C.   Prohibit public access to the premises; and
   D.   Meet all zoning requirements; or
   E.   Personal introduction businesses. (1983 Code § 5.24.090)
4-2-6: FEES; LICENSE TERM:
   A.   Application Fee: No investigation will be made of any applicant for a
sexually oriented business license prior to the payment by the applicant, and
receipt of such fees by the commission, and a license must not be issued until
all appropriate fees are paid. (1983 Code § 5.24.100)
   B.   Investigation Fees:
      1.   Requirement: Any person applying for a sexually oriented business
license is required to deposit with the commission an investigation fee, per
person required to be licensed.
      2.   Fingerprinting By Sheriff: After the filing of a completed
application and payment of all fees, the applicant must be referred to the
sheriff for fingerprinting, photographs, investigation and reporting. The
result of the investigation shall be given to the sheriff within sixty (60)
days, or as soon thereafter as possible, but in no event in excess of ninety
(90) days, who must then place the application along with his recommendation
for approval or denial before the commission at its next regularly scheduled
meeting for consideration. (1983 Code § 5.24.110)
      3.   No Refunds: Even though an applicant is denied a license after
investigation, no part of the investigation fees deposited will be returned to
the applicant. (1983 Code § 5.24.120)
   C.   Withdrawal Of Application; Refund: If any applicant withdraws his
application after fingerprinting and photographs, but prior to the beginning of
an investigation, all fees, excluding the costs incurred by the sheriff's
department for fingerprints and photographs of the applicant, deposited shall
be returned to the applicant. (1983 Code § 5.24.130; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   License Fee; Term Of License:
      1.   Fee: The license fee for a sexually oriented business license is one
percent (1%) of the gross revenue. (1983 Code § 5.24.230)
      2.   Term: All licenses provided for in this chapter must be issued for
semiannual periods. (1983 Code § 5.24.240)
4-2-7: CORPORATE LICENSE; CHANGES IN MEMBERSHIP:
In the case of a corporate licensee, any and all changes in the officers or
directors of such corporation must be reported to the sheriff within thirty
(30) days of the appointment or election of such officers and directors. Such
officers or directors are required to qualify for a license as required in this
chapter. In the case of a partnership or association, all changes must be
reported to the sheriff within thirty (30) days of the change; and all new
partners or associates must qualify for a license as required in this chapter.
Failure to notify the sheriff of such changes, or failure to submit for
licensing, is grounds for revocation of any existing license. (1983 Code §
5.24.140)
4-2-8: LICENSE DENIAL:
   A.   Reasons For Denial: The sheriff must deny the license application for
one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   The license application is incomplete so as to not contain all
information required by this chapter.
      2.   All investigation fees are not paid at the time the application is
filed.
      3.   The applicant, or any of its principals, has been convicted of a
crime, or has a criminal charge pending, in the local, state or federal court
systems, or has been permanently enjoined in an adjudicated civil action from
engaging in fraudulent advertising, sales or trade practices.
      4.   The applicant, or any of its principals, has made false or
fraudulent statements in the application, evidence of which is disclosed by a
sheriff's background investigation or by any other lawful means.
      5.   The applicant, or any of its principals, has been convicted of a
crime involving moral turpitude.
      6.   The applicant, or any of its principals, does not qualify for, or
has not obtained, a work identification card.
      7.   The applicant, or any of its principals, employees, agents or
servants, has been convicted under this chapter.
   B.   Notify Applicant: If the applicant's business license application is
denied, the sheriff must notify the applicant of the denial in writing directed
to the address listed on the application. (1983 Code § 5.24.150)
4-2-9: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Commission Consideration: Upon completion of the background
investigation by the sheriff, the sheriff must place the application before the
commission for consideration for licensing.
   B.   Request For Inspections: Prior to the issuance of any business license
by the sheriff, the applicant must submit, on a form provided by the sheriff, a
request for required department signature inspections, to determine if the
proposed business operation will be in conformity with the requirements of the
building, planning, public works, water, wastewater, fire and code enforcement
departments and divisions.
      1.   Upon submission of the request for required department signature
inspections, the premises must be inspected by all designated departments and
divisions within thirty (30) days of the date of the application.
      2.   Written reports of the inspections performed by the departments and
divisions in the first paragraph of subsection B of this section must be given
to the applicant, or his authorized representative, and also submitted to the
sheriff within five (5) days of the date of inspection.
      3.   If the inspection reveals any deficiencies, the applicant must make
the required corrections, and reschedule a second inspection, or inspections,
with the department or division noting the deficiency.
      4.   After the receipt of all approval from the departments and divisions
performing the required department signature inspections, and upon payment of
the business license fees to the sheriff by the applicant, the business license
must then be issued. (1983 Code § 5.24.170)
4-2-10: REGISTRATION CARD REQUIRED:
   A.   Requirement: All employees of any establishment licensed under this
chapter must secure a registration card from the sheriff. The registration must
be carried upon the person at all times while conducting business, and is
nontransferable.
   B.   Issuance Restricted: In addition to the requirements imposed, a
registration card must not be issued by the sheriff to any individual who has
been convicted of any crime of moral turpitude.
   C.   Employment Termination; Surrender Of Card: When an employee is
terminated, or resigns, from employment with a sexually oriented business, it
is unlawful for the employee to fail to immediately surrender his registration
card to his employer; and, it is unlawful for the employer to fail to
immediately deliver in person or mail by registered or certified mail, such
surrendered registration card to the sheriff. (1983 Code § 5.24.160)
4-2-11: BUILDING SPECIFICATIONS; SECURITY:
In addition to the regulations imposed by this or any other chapter of this
code, sexually oriented businesses operating one or more of the types of
businesses designated in this chapter must conform to the following:
   A.   View From Exterior Of Building: It is unlawful to display any product,
or offer any service or other business activity, for a fee, or which may be
offered to the public at no fee, in an area of the establishment which can be
viewed from the exterior of the building.
   B.   Viewing Aids Or Privacy Devices: With the exception of adult movie
theaters with seating for more than ten (10) patrons at a time, it is unlawful
for any viewing area, or area reserved for the performance of a service or
other business activity, of the establishment to have any door, curtain or
other viewing aid or privacy device.
   C.   Security Guard Required: It is unlawful for any theater and video
center not to have a uniformed security guard physically on duty in the viewing
area at all times the establishment is open to ensure compliance with all
federal, state and county statutes and ordinances. If the establishment has an
adult theater and a video center, or multiples thereof, which are maintained in
separate areas of the establishment, each area must have its own uniformed
security guard on duty.
   D.   Visibility Of Entrance: It is unlawful for the entrance to a sexually
oriented business not be visible from the cash register, or reception area, of
the establishment.
   E.   Lighting: It is unlawful for any video center area of the establishment
not dedicated to the viewing of film, videotape or other media viewing device,
not to have lighting which has a minimum of thirty (30) foot-candle power light
when measured at a point sixty inches (60") from the floor.
   F.   Notify Sheriff Of Changes:
      1.   It is unlawful for any video center licensee not to notify the
sheriff in writing on a new business license application, any proposed change
in the number of film, videotape or other media viewing or projection devices
upon the premises and any change in the floor plan thereof, including, without
limitation, any change in the size and type of any device that is identified in
the application for the license, any change in the size of any room in which
any device is located in any room of the premises.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person to place in any video center, any
film, videotape or other media viewing or projection device, with respect to
which the information which is required by subsection F1 of this section, has
not been provided to, and approved by, the sheriff.
   G.   Loitering: It is unlawful to allow loitering in the establishment by
persons who are not actually engaged in viewing the products offered for sale,
or offered for no consideration, or receiving the lawful services, or other
business activities provided by a sexually oriented business.
   H.   Minors: It is unlawful for any business governed by this section, to
allow a person under the age of eighteen (18) years in or on the premises.
   I.   Physical Contact:
      1.   Prohibition: For all businesses, except a sexual encounter business
which is exempt from this subsection only, it is unlawful for a licensee, or a
licensee's employee or agent to engage in any physical contact whatsoever
during the transaction of a lawful business activity between the licensed
business and the patron.
      2.   Exception; Sexual Encounter Business:
         a.   In the case of a sexual encounter business, it is unlawful for a
licensee, or a licensee's employee, agent or servant, to engage in any physical
contact whatsoever beyond the inherent nature of the service, profession or
calling performed during the transaction of a lawful business activity between
the licensed business and the patron.
         b.   An example of such lawful contact in subsection I2a above, is the
cutting or styling of hair when performed by a licensed barber or
cosmetologist; and the lawful contact must not extend beyond that accepted by
the industry as necessary to perform the lawful service.
         c.   Conversely, a maid service does not have as part of its service
the necessity to make physical contact with the patron, and is only one example
of an unlawful contact. (1983 Code § 5.24.180)
4-2-12: LICENSEE RESPONSIBLE FOR ACTS OF EMPLOYEES:
Every licensee is responsible for the acts of his employees, agents and
servants committed while on the licensed premises and during the course of
employment away from the licensed premises; and every licensee must accordingly
use adequate care in the selection of his/her employees. In any licensing
suspension, limitation or revocation proceedings, the fact that the licensee
did not have actual knowledge of the events complained of is no defense, and
every licensee hereunder accepts his/her license subject to said condition.
(1983 Code § 5.24.260)
4-2-13: LICENSEE AGREEMENT; CONFORMANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
Acceptance of a county sexually oriented business license by a licensee
constitutes an agreement on the part of such licensee to be bound by all of the
regulations of the county as the same now are, or may hereafter be amended or
promulgated. It is the sole responsibility of the licensee to keep himself
informed of the content of all such rules and regulations, and ignorance
thereof will not excuse violations. (1983 Code § 5.24.350)
4-2-14: EXISTING BUSINESSES, CONFORMITY:
Those licensees not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter at the
date of adoption of this chapter, must conform to the requirements thereof
within a period not to exceed six (6) months. (1983 Code § 5.24.310; amd. 2003
Code)
4-2-15: APPLICATION OF OTHER ORDINANCES:
The terms, conditions and policies of other applicable ordinances are intended
to be applied in conjunction with the enforcement of all other ordinances of
the county designed for the protection of the public health and safety. The
fact that such ordinances are not specifically referred to in this chapter must
in no manner preclude their application to sexually oriented business
licensees. (1983 Code § 5.24.320)
4-2-16: ADULT NIGHTCLUBS:
   A.   Signs Required: In addition to the regulations imposed by this or any
other chapter of this code, adult nightclubs not serving alcoholic liquors must
have signs posted which are:
      1.   At least twenty four (24) square inches in size.
      2.   Which have lettering at least two inches (2") in height.
      3.   Which contain the words:
   NO ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR SERVED HERE
   PROSTITUTION IS ILLEGAL
      4.   The signs described in subsections A1 through A3 of this section
must be placed:
         a.   At eye level, on the outside of all entrances to the
establishment.
         b.   Must be properly illuminated so that anyone approaching the
entrance can, without difficulty, read said sign.
         c.   The same signs as in subsections A1 through A3 of this section
must also be placed within the establishment at eye level at fifteen foot (15')
intervals along all interior walls of the establishment.
   B.   Liquor Prohibited: It is unlawful for alcoholic liquors to be permitted
on the licensee's premises at any time. (1983 Code § 5.24.200)
4-2-17: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Sexual Conduct; Nudity Prohibited: In addition to the regulations
imposed by this or any other chapter of this code, sexually oriented businesses
operating one or more of the types of businesses designated in this chapter
must conform to the following:
      1.   It is unlawful for a licensee, or a licensee's employee or agent, to
engage in any physical contact whatsoever during the transaction of a lawful
business activity between the licensed business and the patron.
      2.   It is unlawful for a licensee or a licensee's employee or agent, to
perform any nude modeling off the premises of the sexually oriented business
establishment.
      3.   It is unlawful for alcoholic liquor to be permitted on the
licensee's premises at any time. (1983 Code § 5.24.190)
   B.   False, Deceptive Or Misleading Advertising:
      1.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for a sexually oriented business
licensee, or any independent contractor, agent or employee thereof, to use,
publish, disseminate, display or cause to be displayed, directly or indirectly,
in any newspaper, magazine or other advertising medium, or by any advertising
device or declaration, or by any other manner or means, any statement which is
known, or through the exercise of reasonable care should be known, to be false,
deceptive or misleading, which would suggest to a reasonably prudent person
that any service other than that specified on the business license and defined
in this chapter is available to the sexually oriented business patron. Such an
act is grounds for revocation of the license. (1983 Code § 5.24.210)
      2.   Actual Deception Unnecessary To Create Liability: It is sufficient
in bringing any disciplinary action against the licensee, that any statement
has a tendency to deceive or mislead the public because of its false, deceptive
or misleading character even though no member of the public is actually
deceived or misled by such statement. (1983 Code § 5.24.220)
   C.   Prostitution: It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business
licensee, employee, agent, servant or a patron, to solicit, commit or be a
party to, an act of prostitution. (1983 Code § 5.24.250)
   D.   Liquor: The sheriff must not issue any liquor license to any business
licensed pursuant to this chapter. (1983 Code § 5.24.280)
   E.   Gambling: The sheriff must not issue any gambling license to any
business licensed pursuant to this chapter. (1983 Code § 5.24.290)
   F.   Outcall Promoters And Entertainers: It is unlawful for a sexually
oriented business, required to be licensed in accordance with this chapter, to
conduct the business of outcall promoter and outcall entertainer. (1983 Code §
5.24.300)
4-2-18: LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; LIMITATION:
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all licensees under this
chapter are declared to be subject to disciplinary action:
   A.   Violate County Code: Each licensee who violates any provision of the
Lincoln County code.
   B.   Sale Or Lease Of Business: Each licensee who knowingly, and without
taking immediate and affirmative steps to obtain sanction, does any act to
sell, purchase or lease with any person in connection with a sexually oriented
business licensed by the commission, or with respect to any portion of such
business operation.
   C.   Disclosure Of Persons Having Ownership Interest: Each licensee who
knowingly fails to report or conceals from the commission a full disclosure of
the names of all persons having an interest in the ownership of, or having an
equitable or beneficial right to the profits under a license in which he has an
interest.
   D.   Concealing Necessary Information: Each licensee who knowingly fails to
report or conceals from proper authority any information which it is his duty
to supply under any statute, ordinance or regulation of the state or county.
   E.   Allowing Illegal Business; Provisional Suspension:
      1.   Each licensee who permits his licensed premises to be frequented by,
or become the meeting place, hangout or rendezvous for prostitutes, or those
who engage in sexual conduct on the premises, vagrants, intoxicated persons or
those who engage in the use or distribution of controlled substances, or in any
other illegal occupation or business. Any licensee permitting such conditions
on the licensed premises is subject to provisional suspension of his license
and possible disciplinary action as prescribed herein. The provisional
suspension must be in writing describing the violations present, or committed,
and must not be rescinded until the violations are corrected, or by order of
the commission.
      2.   Any inaction, or correction, by the licensee of any violations or
conditions in accordance with subsection E1 of this section, which resulted in
a correction notice, or a provisional suspension of a license, does not
preclude further disciplinary action by the commission in accordance with this
chapter.
   F.   Misrepresentation Of Material Fact: Each licensee who made a
misrepresentation of a material fact in his application to obtain a license.
   G.   Previous License Revocation: Each licensee whose business license in
this, or any other state, has been revoked for cause.
   H.   Minors Loitering: Each licensee who allows a minor under the age of
eighteen (18) years to loiter in or around the premises.
   I.   Liquor: Each licensee who allows alcoholic liquor to be present on the
business premises.
   J.   Employment Of Minors: Each licensee who employees a person under the
age of eighteen (18) years. (1983 Code § 5.24.270)
4-2-19: APPEAL; JUDICIAL REVIEW 1 :
   A.   Right Of Appeal: Appeal rights of applicants are set forth in this
code. (1983 Code § 5.24.330)
   B.   Judicial Review: Procedures for judicial review of final decisions and
orders of the commission are set forth in this code. (1983 Code § 5.24.340)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 4-1-20D of this title.
4-2-20: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as the law allows
for a misdemeanor crime. Whenever in this chapter any act is prohibited, or is
made or declared to be unlawful, or an offense or misdemeanor, the doing of any
such prohibited act, or the failure to do any such required act, shall
constitute a violation of this chapter. Any person being adjudged guilty of
violation of this chapter or any of the provisions or prohibitions thereof may,
in the discretion of the commission, be denied a license thereafter. Every day
of violation of this chapter constitutes a separate offense. (1983 Code §
5.24.360)
CHAPTER 3
LAND SALES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: License Required; Conditions
4-3-3: Application For License
4-3-4: Exemptions
4-3-5: Unfair Practices
4-3-6: Violation; Penalty
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
CUSTOMER: Any person solicited for the purchase of any land, or interest
therein, located in the county of Lincoln.
LAND SALES: The sale of, or offer to sell, more than five (5) separate parcels
of a contiguous unit, if such sales, or offers to sell, are an integral part of
a plan to offer more than five (5), parcels to the general public.
LICENSE: The permit issued by the county clerk.
MATERIAL FACT: Any and all information relating to, but not necessarily limited
to, the following:
   A.   Water and sewage disposal;
   B.   Water supply;
   C.   Electrical supply;
   D.   Roads and streets with the lands being offered and means of ingress and
egress;
   E.   Availability of schools;
   F.   Overall development plan;
   G.   True distance to nearest business and recreational facilities;
   H.   Full disclosure of all liens and encumbrances, whether perfected or not
perfected, if known or suspected.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association or other
legal or commercial entity of every kind and description whatsoever, including
the owner of the real property.
SOLICITATION: Any conduct of any nature, whatsoever, for the procurement of
prospective customers, any offer of sale, option for, or any reservation of any
land, or interest in lands, situate within the county, including, but not
limited to, any of the following methods:
   A.   Advertising;
   B.   Offer of gifts or other benefits;
   C.   Group meetings;
   D.   Use of slides or movies;
   E.   Physical showing of property. (1983 Code § 5.08.010)
4-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; CONDITIONS:
No person shall solicit sales for property situate within Lincoln County
without having first obtained a permit from the board of county commissioners.
No permit shall be issued to any person until such time as the land proposed to
be sold has either been:
   A.   Subdivision: Subdivided in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 278, any local ordinance now or hereafter enacted; or (1983 Code §
5.08.020)
   B.   Record Of Survey Map: Filed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section
278.360 et seq., as said statute may from time to time be amended. (1983 Code §
5.08.020; amd. 2003 Code)
4-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every person seeking a license for land sales shall make an application to the
board of county commissioners, said application to set forth the following
information:
   A.   Name, address, phone number, legal status (individual, partnership,
corporation, joint venture, etc.).
   B.   Location of lands proposed to be sold and a statement of all material
facts as set forth in the definition of "material fact" in section
4-3-1 of this chapter.
   C.   A copy of proposed legal documents between person and customer shall be
attached to the application.
   D.   A copy of the subdivision map or record of survey of the lands to be
sold shall be attached to the application.
   E.   A copy of any offering brochure shall be attached.
   F.   Payment of a nonrefundable applicant's fee in the sum of one hundred
dollars ($100.00);
   G.   Upon full compliance herewith and after investigation by and consent of
the board of county commissioners, the clerk shall issue a license which shall
be prominently displayed upon the lands being sold. (1983 Code § 5.08.030)
4-3-4: EXEMPTIONS:
If an application for exemption is applied for, this chapter shall not apply
to:
   A.   A purchaser of any subdivision lot, parcel or unit thereof for his own
account in a single or isolated transaction.
   B.   Any person who is engaged in the business of the construction of
residential, commercial or industrial buildings for disposition.
   C.   Any person licensed in the state to construct residential buildings and
where such land being offered or disposed of is to include a residential
building when disposition is completed.
   D.   Any government or government agency.
   E.   Any offer or disposition of any evidence of indebtedness secured by way
of any mortgage or deed of trust of real estate.
   F.   Securities or units of interest issued by an investment trust regulated
under the laws of the state. (1983 Code § 5.08.040)
4-3-5: UNFAIR PRACTICES:
In the solicitation of any customer, it shall be deemed an unfair practice if
any of the following acts are committed:
   A.   To misrepresent any material fact.
   B.   To conceal any material fact.
   C.   To make any false or deceptive statement.
   D.   To fail to disclose any conditions or obligations connected with any
gift or other free benefit offered to such customer.
   E.   To contact anyone for the purpose of soliciting such person to attend a
land sales presentation without first disclosing such purpose.
   F.   To fail to first secure and display a license as provided in this
chapter. (1983 Code § 5.08.050)
4-3-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Each separate unfair practice shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense
and any person committing any such unfair practice is guilty of a misdemeanor,
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code § 5.08.060; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Permit Required
4-4-3: Application For Permit
4-4-4: Special Event Fees
4-4-5: Transmittal Of Application; Issuance Of Permit
4-4-6: Grounds For And Notice Of Denial
4-4-7: Conditions And Requirements
4-4-8: Revocation Of Permit
4-4-9: Violation; Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ADMINISTRATOR: The Administrator of the Lincoln County Planning and Building Department.
APPLICANT:     The person(s) or entity promoting and conducting a special event.
BOARD:         The board of Lincoln County Commissioners.
COMMUNITY      Special Events which are promoted or sponsored by Lincoln County, unincorporated
EVENT:         towns, chambers of commerce, non-profit entities, or similar affiliations.
DEPARTMENT:    The Lincoln County Planning and Building Department.
LARGE EVENT:   A Special Event, in its entirety, consisting of more than 1000 patrons,
               participants and support personnel.
LOCAL EVENT:   A Special Event consisting of less than 1000 patrons, participants and support
               personnel.
               Any activity or series of activities, specific to an identifiable time and place,
               held on public property, or held on private property with any significant effect
               on public property, such as county roadways. Examples include, but are not
               limited to:
               A.   Any activity open to the public which involves the use of public facilities,
               or
               B.   Any activity open to the public that substantially increases or disrupts the
SPECIAL EVENT: normal flow of traffic on any street or highway, or
               C.   Any activity involving entertainment and/or amplified sound, food, beverage,
               merchandise sales or any activity promoted as a festival, celebration, trade show
               open to the public, craft show, public dance, concert or performance, or
               D.   Any activity relating to organized recreational events, including OHV races,
               trail rides, rodeos, mountain bike races, or similar activities, or
               E.   Commercial motion picture filming or large scale productions. (Ord. 2011-02,
               3-7-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 5-18-2020)
 
4-4-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any person wishing to operate, maintain or conduct a “Special Event”, as
defined in this chapter, within the confines of the County, must first obtain a
permit to do so. No permit shall be issued, however, until all conditions
required pursuant to this chapter have been met and fulfilled.
   EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Activities that are determined exempt upon review of nature and scope,
impacts, and public safety;
   B.   Activities that are family or community oriented, in which no alcohol
is served, and there are less than 50 participants;
   C.   Community sponsored events utilizing public facilities that are
considered a normal and intended use of the facility. (Ord. 2011-02, 3-7-2011;
amd. Ord. 2020-01, 5-18-2020)
4-4-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person desiring to conduct a special event shall file a written application
(consisting of an original and 5 copies) with the Department, at least sixty
(60) days prior to the start of such event, which shall contain the following
facts and information:
   A.   The name of the proposed special event, name of the Applicant,
telephone number, residence, and mailing address of the person making said
application. If the application is made by a partnership, the names and
addresses of the partners must appear. Where the Applicant is a corporation,
the application must be signed by the president, vice president, and secretary
thereof and must contain the addresses of the corporate officers, and a
certified copy of the articles of incorporation shall be submitted with the
application.
   B.   A detailed statement of the kind, character, or type of event, which
the Applicant proposes to conduct or carry on.
   C.   The address, detailed map, or legal description of the place or
premises where the proposed event is to be conducted or carried on.
Additionally, the Applicant must submit proof of ownership of the place where
the event is to be conducted, or a statement signed by the owner of the
premises indicating his consent that the site be used for the proposed event.
   D.   The number of days for which the permit is sought.
   E.   An estimate of the number of customers, spectators, participants,
support personnel and other persons expected to attend the event in its
entirety.
   F.   An indemnification or hold harmless agreement between the Applicant and
the County. (Ord. 2011-02, 3-7-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 5-18-2020)
4-4-4: SPECIAL EVENT FEES:
   A.   Special Event fees shall be assessed. Said fees may be adjusted from
time to time by resolution of the Board.
   B.   The Department shall collect from the Applicant a non-refundable
application fee.
   C.   Other fees will vary depending on nature and scope of the event and
reflect administrative review time, cost recovery, and other necessary resource
expenditures relative to the special event.
   D.   Upon review of the Application and as a condition of approval of the
Application, other County departments may charge additional fees to address
costs incurred as a result of the event. Nonprofit applicants or applicants
proposing a community sponsored event may, upon review of the application, be
exempted from certain fees.
   E.   Depending on scope of event, additional fees may be assessed as a
condition of approval. Those fees include:
      1.   Solid waste services fees in conjunction with Section
4-4-7.
      2.   Public Safety fees in conjunction with Section
4-4-7.
      3.   Fire protection fees in conjunction with Section
4-4-7.
      4   Administration fees in conjunction with
4-4-7.
      5.   Traffic and road related fees in conjunction with
4-4-7.
      6.   Emergency management fees in conjunction with
4-4-7. (Ord. 2020-01, 5-18-2020)
4-4-5: TRANSMITTAL OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Filing Application; Investigation: Upon receipt of the application, the
Department shall file the original application and distribute one copy thereof
to the Sheriff, District Attorney, Emergency Manager, and other affected County
entities or stakeholders for review.
   B.   Hearing; Notice: The Administrator shall set the matter for public
hearing at a regular meeting of the Board, which shall be not less than fifteen
(15) days or more than thirty (30) days after filing of the application. Ten
(10) days’ written notice of the date of such hearing shall be given to the
Applicant and to the County departments receiving a copy of the application.
   C.   Action On Application: The Board may, based upon the reports of the
interested County departments and on the testimony of witnesses and evidence
presented at the hearing, grant the application, deny the application, or set
conditions, which must be met before a permit may be granted.
   D.   Conditions: Where conditions are imposed pursuant to this chapter, the
Administrator shall require written notice from County departments charged with
responsibility under this chapter that conditions have been met before issuing
the permit.
   E.   Issuance Of Permit; Posting Of Permit: When the Administrator
determines that conditions have been met, he/she shall immediately issue a
permit specifying the name and address of the permittee, the kind of special
event permitted, and the number of days’ operation authorized. The permittee
shall keep the permit posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises at which
the special event is conducted. (Ord. 2011-02, 3-7-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 5-
18-2020)
4-4-6: GROUNDS FOR AND NOTICE OF DENIAL:
   A.   Reasons For Denial: After holding the required public hearing, the
board may deny issuance of a permit if it finds any of the following:
      1.    Failure To Meet Conditions: That the applicant fails to meet the
conditions imposed pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   Hazardous To Health And Safety: That the proposed special event will
be conducted in a manner and/or location which will be hazardous to the health
and safety of any persons within Lincoln County, or to the quiet and peaceful
enjoyment of any privately owned property in the near vicinity of the proposed
special event.
      3.   False Statements: That the Applicant has knowingly made a false,
misleading, or fraudulent statement of material fact in the application for
permit, or in any other document, required pursuant to this chapter.
      4.   Prior History Of Applicant: That the Applicant, his employee, agent
or any person connected with or associated with the applicant as partner,
director, officer, stockholder, associate, or manager, has previously conducted
the type of special event being applied for which resulted in the creation of a
public or private nuisance.
      5.   Prior Convictions: That the Applicant, his employee, agent, or any
person associated with the applicant as partner, director, officer,
stockholder, associate or manager has been convicted in a court of competent
jurisdiction, by final judgment of:
         a.   An offense involving the presentation, exhibition or performance
of an obscene production, motion picture or play, or of selling obscene matter;
or
         b.   An offense involving lewd conduct; or
         c.   An offense involving the use of force and violence upon the
person of another; or
         d.   An offense involving misconduct with children.
      B.   Notice To Applicant: Where the application is denied, the
Administrator shall mail to the Applicant written notice of denial within
fourteen (14) days of the action, which notice shall include a statement of the
reasons the application was denied. (Ord. 2011-02, 3-7-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-01,
5-18-2020)
4-4-7: CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Establishment Of Conditions:
      1.   Established At Hearing: At the hearing required under this chapter,
the Board may establish conditions, which must be met prior to the issuance of
any permit under this chapter, except that the Board may take a matter under
submission before determining which conditions shall be imposed.
      2.   Notice Of Conditions: Where the Board takes a matter under
submission, written notice of any conditions imposed as prerequisite to the
issuance of a permit must be mailed to the Applicant within fifteen (15) days
of the original hearing.
      3.   Conditions Listed: The conditions, which may be imposed by the Board
pursuant to the County’s general police power for the protection of health,
safety, and property of local residents and persons attending special events in
the County, are as follows in this section.
      4.   Fees: Certain fees, as referenced in Section
4-4-4, may be assessed as a condition of approval. Fees will reflect additional
administrative costs, cost recovery for services, quality control and assurance
or other necessary costs which are incurred as a result of the special event.
   B.   Police Protection:
      1.   Requirement: Applicants may be required to employ private security
personnel whose duty shall be the preservation of order and protection of
property in and around the place of the special event. Security personnel shall
be approved by the Sheriff.
      2.   Large Events: Additional Security: Special events expected to
attract large numbers of persons shall detail in a security plan provisions for
additional private patrol officers and security guards The plan shall be
approved by the Sheriff.
      3.   Fingerprinting; Uniforms: The patrolmen may be required to be
fingerprinted and processed by the Sheriff of the County and to be in
attendance, wearing uniforms, at all times the special event is in operation.
      4.   Off Duty Police Officers: Where the Sheriff authorizes the
employment of off duty peace officers to meet the requirements of this chapter,
the peace officers shall be under the direction and control of the County
Sheriff.
      5.   Condition For Permit Issuance: The Sheriff must be satisfied that
the requisite number of private patrol officers or guards will be provided at
all times of operation before a permit is issued.
      6.   Written Agreement: Submittal by the Applicant of a written agreement
between the Applicant and a licensed private patrol agency may be required.
   C.   Emergency Management: Applicant may be required to meet conditions
relative to emergency management protocol. Applicant may be required to provide
a detailed emergency management plan, which shall be approved by the County
Emergency Manager.
   D.   Water Facilities:
      1.   Ample Supply: Every permittee shall provide an ample supply of water
for drinking and sanitation purposes on the premises of the special event.
      2.   Standards: All water shall meet U.S. public health service
standards.
      3.   Lavatories And Drinking Facilities: Public and/or private lavatories
and drinking facilities may be required at the discretion of the administrator.
      4.   Drainage And Sewage Systems: Drainage and sewage systems relating to
such facilities shall meet the requirements of the state public health service.
   E.   Vendors/Food Concessions/Sales:
      1.   Vendors and Concessionaires providing services for special events
must be licensed pursuant to local regulation and state laws.
      2.   Special Event Applicants shall be responsible for proper licensing
of vendors and concessionaires within their respective event through the
Department and as part of the special event permitting process. Applicants
shall be responsible for providing proof of said licensing as a condition of
special event approval.
   F.   Sanitation Facilities:
      1.   Toilet facilities may be required and shall be of an approved
design. Two (2) toilets for each 100 participants shall be provided by the
Applicant.
      2.   Portable Chemical Toilets: Where flush type toilets cannot be made
available, the Board may consent to the use of portable chemical toilets. Such
chemical toilets must meet the approval of or must be of a type approved by the
public health service of the state before any permit may be issued. Chemical
toilets must be emptied at permittee’s expense, as necessary, and pursuant to
procedures established by the state public health service.
      3.   Solid Waste Services: Applicants may be required to incur costs for,
or provide, solid waste services. Scope and manner of services shall be
reviewed and approved by the Department as a part of the special event
permitting process.
   G.   Medical Facilities: Where a proposed special event is expected to
attract large numbers of persons and is planned for a site that is located a
substantial distance from existing medical treatment facilities, the Applicant
may be required to provide emergency medical treatment facilities and/or
approved EMS personnel on the premises of the special event.
   H.   Access, Parking and Traffic Control:
      1.   Every Applicant shall provide on-site adequate parking space for
persons attending a special event by motor vehicle in accordance with
applicable requirements of the zoning ordinance of the County. The Sheriff must
approve an applicant’s parking plan before a permit shall be issued.
      2.   Ingress And Egress: Every Applicant shall provide adequate ingress
and egress to his special event premises and parking areas therefor. Necessary
roads, driveways and entranceways shall exist to ensure orderly flow of traffic
into the premises from a highway or road which is part of the County system of
roads or which is a highway maintained by the State.
      3.   Plan Approval By Sheriff: The County Sheriff must approve the
Applicant’s plan for ingress and egress before a permit shall be issued.
      4.   Traffic Guards: Additionally, any Applicant may be required to show
that traffic guards are under his employ to ensure orderly traffic movement and
relieve traffic congestion near the special event area.
   I.   Hours Of Operation: Events may be limited to certain hours of
operation.
   J.   Illumination: Every Applicant planning to conduct a special event after
dark, or planning to allow persons who attend the special event to remain on
the premises after dark, shall provide electrical illumination to ensure that
those areas which are occupied are lighted at all times.
   K.   Overnight Camping Facilities:
      1.   Requirement: Every Applicant authorized to allow persons who attend
the special event to remain on the premises overnight shall provide camping
facilities and overnight areas.
      2.   Approval By County: Such areas and facilities must be approved by
the Sheriff and District Attorney of the County prior to the issuance of any
permit.
   L.   Bonds:
      1.   Bonds May Be Required: Any Applicant may be called upon to post an
indemnity bond and/or a performance bond in favor of the County in connection
with the operation of a special event.
      2.   Approval By County: Bonds required by this chapter must be approved
by the District Attorney prior to issuance of a permit.
      3.   Damage To Person Or Property; Cleanup: An Applicant may be required
to submit a surety bond written by a corporate bonding company authorized to do
business in the State by the department of insurance, in a penal amount
determined by the board. The bond shall indemnify the County, its agents,
officers, servants and employees and the Board against all loss, injury and
damage of any nature whatsoever arising out of, or in any way connected with,
the special event and shall indemnify against loss, injury, and damage to both
person and property. Additionally, the County may demand that Applicant provide
a corporate surety bond written by a corporate bonding company authorized to do
business in the State, indemnifying the County and the owners of property
adjoining the special event site for any costs necessitated for cleaning up
and/or removing debris, trash or other waste from, in and around the premises.
The bond shall be in an amount determined by the Board.
   M.   Fire Protection: Applicants are required to provide adequate fire
protection, at such applicant’s expense, during such special event. Lincoln
County Fire District shall review the scope of the event to determine extent of
necessary fire protection.
   N.   Miscellaneous Conditions or Requirements: Any Applicant may be required
to meet any other condition prior to receiving a permit to conduct a special
event which is reasonably calculated as necessary to protect the health,
welfare and property of local residents and persons attending a special event.
(Ord. 2011-02, 3-7-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 5-18-2020)
4-4-8: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Causes For Revocation: The Board shall have the power to revoke any
permit, or to revoke and reinstate any permit upon suitable conditions, when
the following causes exist:
      1.   The permittee, his employee or agent fails, neglects, or refuses to
fulfill any or all of the conditions imposed pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   The special event violates any law or regulation established by the
ordinances of the County or the laws of the state.
      3.   The permittee allows the special event to be conducted in a
disorderly manner or knowingly allows any person to remain on the premises of
the special event while unlawfully under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
or any narcotic or dangerous drugs.
      4.   The permittee, his employee, or agent is convicted of any of the
offenses enumerated in this chapter.
   B.   Complaints: Any person may file a complaint with the Administrator or
may petition the Board to conduct a hearing concerning the revocation of the
permit of any permittee. The Administrator shall notice the petition for
hearing in accordance with the provisions of subsection C of this section.
   C.   Notice Of Intent To Revoke; Hearing: Notice of intent to revoke any
permit shall be given and the permittee shall be entitled to a hearing. The
Administrator shall give notice, setting forth the causes for revocation and
shall state the time and place at which the matter of revocation will be heard
before the Board. The notice shall be mailed not later than ten (10) days prior
to the date set for hearing. The Board shall hear all interested parties and
may revoke a permit only for one or more causes enumerated by subsection A of
this section. (Ord. 2011-02, 3-7-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 5-18-2020)
4-4-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violations Designated: It shall be unlawful for any permittee,
employee, agent, or person associated with the permittee, to do any of the
following:
      1.   Operation Without Permit: Conduct a special event without first
procuring a permit to do so.
      2.   Sell Tickets Without Permit: Sell tickets to a special event without
a permit first having been obtained.
      3.   Creation Of Nuisance: Operate, conduct, or carry on any special
event in such a manner as to create a public or private nuisance.
      4.   Obscene Entertainment: Exhibit, show or conduct within said place of
a special event any obscene, indecent, vulgar or lewd exhibition, show, play,
entertainment or exhibit, no matter by what name designated.
      5.   Creation Of Disturbance: Allow any person on the premises of the
special event to cause or create a disturbance in, around, or near the place of
the special event, by offensive or by disorderly conduct.
      6.   Liquor And Gaming: Knowingly allow any person to consume, sell, or
be in possession of intoxicating liquor or conduct any gambling game or game
for money while on the site of the special event, unless the permittee holds
applicable liquor and gaming licenses or permits pursuant to this title and the
laws of Nevada.
      7.   Drugs: Knowingly allow any person on the site of the special event
to use, sell or be in possession of any narcotic or dangerous drug while in,
around or near the site of the special event.
   B.   Penalty; Civil Remedies: Any of the above enumerated violations shall
constitute a criminal act and shall be punishable pursuant to ordinances of the
county and the laws of the state. It is provided, however, that the county
retains all civil remedies, including the right of civil injunction for the
prevention of said violations and for the recovery of monetary damages
therefor. (Ord. 2011-02, 3-7-2011; amd. Ord. 2020-01, 5-18-2020)
CHAPTER 5
FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS; FOOD PROCESSING; FOOD HANDLERS 1
SECTION:
4-5-1: Findings
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Enforcement
4-5-4: Examination Of Food Handlers
4-5-5: Responsibility Of Owner Or Manager
4-5-6: Violation; Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 7 of this title.
4-5-1: FINDINGS:
It is found and declared that the public health, safety, morals and welfare of
the inhabitants of the county require the control of all persons engaged as
food handlers and pursuant to the general welfare and to Nevada Revised
Statutes section 244.369 that this chapter relating to food handlers is
adopted. (1983 Code § 5.18.010)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions as set forth in Nevada Revised Statutes sections 446.050 through
446.069 are adopted. As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
FOOD: Those items and commodities as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes section
446.017.
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT: That which is so defined in Nevada Revised Statutes section
446.020. The exceptions contained in Nevada Revised Statutes section 446.020,
subsection 2, are specifically adopted herein.
FOOD HANDLER: Those persons identified and delineated in Nevada Revised
Statutes section 446.030.
FOOD PROCESSING ESTABLISHMENT: A commercial establishment as defined in Nevada
Revised Statutes section 446.035 are adopted. (1983 Code § 5.18.020; amd. 2000
Code)
4-5-3: ENFORCEMENT:
Any state or county health authority or county, city, or township peace officer
may take such action as reasonably necessary to assure compliance with this
chapter, including, but not limited to, inspections of health certificates.
(1983 Code § 5.18.051)
4-5-4: EXAMINATION OF FOOD HANDLERS:
   A.   Requirement: No person may be employed as a food handler in the county,
both within and without the unincorporated and incorporated cities and towns,
unless such person submits to a physical examination by a licensed physician or
a person designated by the state or county board of health to the end of
preventing the spread of contagious disease; and resubmits to such examination
every two (2) years while so employed. A valid food handler employment card or
health certificate issued by the state or any county board of health may be
accepted as compliance with the provisions of this chapter. (1983 Code §
5.18.031)
   B.   Health Certificate: No person may be employed as a food handler without
having a valid health certificate showing compliance with this chapter. (1983
Code § 5.18.032; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Cost Of Examination: No food handler shall be required to pay more than
twenty dollars ($20.00) for any required physical examination in any two (2)
year period. (1983 Code § 5.18.033; amd. 2003 Code)
4-5-5: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR MANAGER:
No person shall hire or keep the services of a food handler to work in a food
establishment or a food processing establishment without determining that said
food handler has complied with the provisions of subsections 4-5-4A and B of
this chapter. (1983 Code § 5.18.040)
4-5-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day the violation occurs or exists shall be
considered a separate offense. (1983 Code § 5.18.052; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CIRCUSES AND TENT SHOWS
SECTION:
4-6-1: License Required; Fee
4-6-2: Application For License
4-6-3: Issuance By Sheriff
4-6-4: Application Forms; Collection Of Monies
4-6-5: Exemption From Fee Payment
4-6-6: Violation; Penalty
4-6-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
Every person, firm, association or corporation who shall engage in the
operation or exhibition of any tent show or circus within any unincorporated
city or town, or elsewhere, in the county, shall first secure a license
therefor as provided in this chapter and shall pay a license fee in the sum of
two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day. (1983 Code § 5.04.010)
4-6-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every person, firm, association or corporation, prior to engaging in the
operation or exhibition of such tent show or circus, shall, previous to such
engagement or exhibition, make proper application to the county sheriff on
forms to be provided by the sheriff for a license permitting the operation or
exhibition of such tent show or circus and accompany such application with the
required license fee. (1983 Code § 5.04.020)
4-6-3: ISSUANCE BY SHERIFF:
It shall be the duty of the county sheriff to issue the licenses and to collect
the fee therefor as provided in this chapter. (1983 Code § 5.04.030)
4-6-4: APPLICATION FORMS; COLLECTION OF MONIES:
The sheriff shall prepare suitable printed blank application for license forms
and suitable blank licenses in sufficient quantities duly numbered, beginning
with the number "1" and bound together in convenient form. All monies collected
for such licenses shall, on or before the fifth day of each month following the
collection thereof, be paid by the sheriff as license collector to the county
treasurer. (1983 Code § 5.04.040)
4-6-5: EXEMPTION FROM FEE PAYMENT:
Upon written application of any executive officer of any local post or unit of
any national organization of ex-servicemen, acting in his official capacity,
such license shall be issued without charge for not to exceed two (2) weeks in
any calendar year, where the local post or unit is to participate in such show
or the proceeds thereof. (1983 Code § 5.04.050)
4-6-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, association or corporation who shall operate or exhibit any
tent show or circus within the county without having first obtained the license
and paid the license fee therefor as provided in this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's operation or exhibition of any such tent show or
circus without the license provided in this chapter shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense. (1983 Code § 5.04.060; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 7
WORK IDENTIFICATION CARDS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Title
4-7-2: Purpose
4-7-3: Definitions
4-7-4: Work Identification Card Required
4-7-5: Application And Renewal
4-7-6: Fees
4-7-7: Expiration Of Card
4-7-8: Employee Responsibility
4-7-9: Employer Records
4-7-10: Confidential Records
4-7-11: Grounds For Refusal To Issue; Revocation Of Card
4-7-12: Revoked Or Suspended Cards
4-7-13: Appeal Of Denial Or Revocation
4-7-14: Penalty
4-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the LINCOLN COUNTY WORK IDENTIFICATION CARD
ORDINANCE. (Amended Ord. 2001-01, 5-21-2001, eff. 7-30-2001)
4-7-2: PURPOSE:
Pursuant to the policy declared by the state in Nevada Revised Statutes section
463.0129, and in order to promote the safety, morals, good order, and general
welfare of the residents of the county, all employees of gambling houses and
establishments where alcoholic beverages are sold at retail and/or served on
the premises are required to register with the county sheriff's department by
completing a work identification card application, being fingerprinted and
photographed. (Amended Ord. 2001-01, 5-21-2001, eff. 7-30-2001)
4-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, beer, wine, spirits, and includes any and all
distilled spirits, potable alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, aromatic
bitters, and every liquid containing one-half of one percent or more of alcohol
by volume and which is used or capable of use for beverage purposes.
APPLICANT: Any person who has requested or is about to request the issuance or
renewal of a work identification card.
EMPLOYEES: Includes all persons employed on a contractual basis as well as
those on a payroll basis as hereinafter described below:
   A.   All persons employed by an establishment or business dispensing
alcoholic beverages. This includes bartenders, waitresses, supervisors,
security guards, managers, or their functional equivalent.
   B.   All persons employed by an establishment or business having gaming
activities within or upon the premises. This includes boxmen, cashiers, change
personnel, counting room personnel, dealers, employees of manufacturers or
distributors of gaming equipment within this state whose duties are directly
involved with the manufacture, repair or distribution of gaming equipment,
employees or operators of slot routes who have keys for slot machines or who
accept and transport revenue from the slot drop, floormen, hosts or other
persons empowered to extend credit or complimentary services, keno runners,
keno writers, machine mechanics, odds makers and line setters, security
personnel, shift or pit bosses, shills, supervisors or managers, and ticket
writers.
   C.   All persons employed by an establishment or business which does not
dispense alcoholic beverages nor have gaming but which is completely or
partially owned and/or operated by a county gaming or liquor licensee.
   D.   All persons employed upon the grounds of a gaming establishment for the
purpose of providing other room services. This includes maids, bellhops, desk
clerks, security guards, room service personnel, supervisors and managers or
their functional equivalent who have access or keys to rooms that are held out
for rent to guests.
GAMING, GAMBLING: To deal, operate, carry on, conduct, maintain or expose for
play any game or gambling game where any banking or percentage game played with
cards, dice or any mechanical, electromechanical or electronic device or
machines for money, property, checks, credit or any representative of value,
including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, faro, monte,
roulette, keno, bingo, fan-tan, twenty-one, blackjack, seven-and-a-half, big
injun, klondike, craps, poker, chuck-a-luck, Chinese chuck-a-luck (dai shu),
wheel of fortune, chemin de fer, baccarat, pai gow, beat the banker,
panguingui, slot machine, or any other game or device approved by the state
gaming commission, but does not include social games played solely for drinks,
or cigars or cigarettes served individually, or games played in private homes
or residences for prizes, or games operated by charitable or educational
organizations which are approved by the state gaming board pursuant to the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes section 463.409.
WORK IDENTIFICATION CARD: A card issued by the Lincoln County sheriff's
department authorizing the employment of the holder as an "employee" as defined
in this section, in the county of Lincoln. (Amended Ord. 2001-01, 5-21-2001,
eff. 7-30-2001; amd. Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-7-4: WORK IDENTIFICATION CARD REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any employer engaging in any business of which the
code requires work identification cards to employ any person unless such person
has a valid work identification card issued in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. Additionally, it shall be unlawful for any employee engaged in
any business of which the code requires a work identification card to work in
such business unless such person has a valid work identification card issued in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter. (Amended Ord. 2001-01, 5-21-
2001, eff. 7-30-2001)
4-7-5: APPLICATION AND RENEWAL:
   A.   Requirements; Contents Of Application: Prior to the issuance of any
work identification card for commencement of employment, renewal, or
replacement of a lost card, an applicant shall obtain a work identification
card application from the county sheriff's department. The applicant shall
complete the application and then report to the county sheriff's department for
the issuance of a work identification card during normal business hours. A
person who desires a work identification card shall provide the appropriate
authorization and release to the county sheriff's department so that the
sheriff, or his designee, can obtain all necessary background information on
the applicant. Each applicant for a work identification card shall be
fingerprinted and photographed by the county sheriff's department. Each work
identification card shall have a photograph affixed thereto. The photograph
shall be issued by the county sheriff's department. As part of the application
or renewal process, the applicant shall provide the following information:
      1.   The applicant's name and other names, nicknames, and aliases by
which the applicant has been known and the applicant's current address.
      2.   The applicant's date of birth, place of birth, marital status,
height, weight, color of eyes and hair, and fingerprints.
      3.   When deemed appropriate by the county sheriff's department in order
to verify name, age, place of birth or legal residence in the United States,
the applicant's birth certificate, alien registration card, citizenship papers
or other recognized documents of identification.
      4.   Any crimes, excepting misdemeanor traffic offenses, for which the
applicant has been arrested or convicted, plus the date, place and disposition
of such charges.
      5.   Any information from a regulatory authority including, but not
limited to, any previous revocation, suspension, denial or disciplinary action
taken against the applicant in connection with a business license, work permit
or other regulatory matter in Nevada or any other jurisdiction.
      6.   The names and addresses of all places of employment of the applicant
for five (5) years prior to the date of the application.
      7.   Such other information that may be required by the county sheriff's
department which reasonably relates to the applicant's fitness to hold a work
card.
   B.   Action On Application: When the investigation of the employee has been
completed, the employee's registration file will be reviewed by the sheriff or
his designee. If the employee's work permit application is denied by the
sheriff or his designee, the work permit will be revoked immediately by the
sheriff or his designee. (Amended Ord. 2001-01, 5-21-2001, eff. 7-30-2001)
4-7-6: FEES:
   A.   Service Fee: Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the
contrary, each applicant for the issuance or renewal of a work identification
card shall pay a nonrefundable service fee of seventy dollars ($70.00), to
Lincoln County prior to the card issuance.
   B.   Duplicate Copy Of Card; Fee: In the event of the loss of work
identification card, an additional service fee of five dollars ($5.00), shall
be charged. (Amended Ord. 2001-01, 5-21-2001, eff. 7-30-2001)
4-7-7: EXPIRATION OF CARD:
A work identification card expires:
   A.   Unless renewed within ten (10) days after the employee's change of
place of employment;
   B.   If the holder thereof is not employed as an "employee" within Lincoln
County for a period of more than ninety (90) consecutive days; or
   C.   Five (5) years from the date of issuance. (Amended Ord. 2001-01, 5-21-
2001, eff. 7-30-2001)
4-7-8: EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITY:
Every employee required to obtain a work identification card shall keep and
maintain said card on the premises for which the card was issued, and while on
duty shall be able to produce and display the same when requested to do so by
an authorized person. (Amended Ord. 2001-01, 5-21-2001, eff. 7-30-2001)
4-7-9: EMPLOYER RECORDS:
The employers of employees required to hold work identification cards shall
keep an up-to-date master list of all such employees disclosing name and
identification numbers at the licensed location. This list shall be available
at all times for the inspection by officers of the county sheriff's department.
(Amended Ord. 2001-01, 5-21-2001, eff. 7-30-2001)
4-7-10: CONFIDENTIAL RECORDS:
   A.   Confidentiality: All records acquired or compiled by the county
sheriff's department relating to any work identification card application, all
lists of applicants, licensees and persons to whom work permits have been
issued or denied and all records of the names or identity of persons engaged in
the gaming industry in this county are confidential and must not be disclosed
except to the county board of commissioners, the employer, law enforcement
officers, or to an authorized agency of criminal justice.
   B.   Disclosure Of Conviction: Any record of the county sheriff's department
which shows that the applicant has been convicted of a crime in another state
must show whether the crime was a misdemeanor, gross misdemeanor, felony or
other class of crime as classified by the state in which the crime was
committed. In a disclosure of the conviction, reference to the classification
of the crime must be based on the classification in the state where it was
committed. (Amended Ord. 2001-01, 5-21-2001, eff. 7-30-2001)
4-7-11: GROUNDS FOR REFUSAL TO ISSUE; REVOCATION OF CARD:
The sheriff may refuse to issue a work identification card and may revoke a
card if the applicant or holder thereof has:
   A.   Failed to disclose, misstated, or otherwise attempted to mislead the
sheriff with respect to any material fact contained in the application for the
issuance or renewal of a work permit.
   B.   Knowingly failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter, the
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes chapters 463, 463B, 464 or 465, or the
regulations of the Nevada gaming commission at a place of previous employment.
   C.   Committed, attempted or conspired to commit any crime of moral
turpitude, embezzlement or larceny against his employer or any gaming licensee,
or any violation of any law pertaining to gaming, or any other crime which is
inimical to the declared policy of this state concerning gaming.
   D.   Been identified as being a member or associate of organized crime, or
as being of notorious and unsavory reputation.
   E.   Been placed and remains in the constructive custody of any federal,
state, county or city law enforcement authority.
   F.   Had a work identification card revoked, or committed any act which is a
ground for the revocation of a work identification card, or would have been a
ground for revoking his work identification card if he had then held such a
card.
   G.   Knowingly possessed or permitted to remain in or upon the premises of a
licensed gaming establishment any cards, dice, mechanical device or any other
cheating device whatever, the use of which is prohibited by statute or
ordinance.
   H.   Concealed or refused to disclose any material fact in any investigation
by the sheriff.
   I.   Committed, attempted or conspired to commit larceny or embezzlement
upon the premises of a licensed gaming establishment.
   J.   Been convicted in any jurisdiction other than Nevada of any offense
involving or relating to gambling.
   K.   Accepted employment without prior approval of the Nevada gaming
commission in a position for which he could be required to be licensed under
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 463 after having been denied a license for a
reason involving personal unsuitability or after failing to apply for licensing
when requested to do so by the Nevada gaming commission.
   L.   Been refused the issuance of any license, permit or approval to engage
in or be involved with gaming or pari-mutuel wagering in any jurisdiction other
than Nevada, or had any such license, permit or approval revoked or suspended.
   M.   Been prohibited under color of governmental authority from being
present upon the premises of any gaming establishment or any establishment
where pari-mutuel wagering is conducted for any reason relating to improper
gambling activities or any illegal act.
   N.   Been convicted of any felony or gross misdemeanor. (Amended Ord. 2001-
01, 5-21-2001, eff. 7-30-2001)
4-7-12: REVOKED OR SUSPENDED CARDS:
   A.   Surrender Card: Whenever a work card has been revoked, canceled or
suspended, the holder thereof shall immediately surrender the card to the
county sheriff's department.
   B.   Possession Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to have in his
possession a work card that has been revoked, canceled or that is subject to an
order of suspension.
   C.   Use Of Another's Card: It is unlawful for any person to use for the
purpose of identification or obtaining employment a work card that has been
issued to another or that has expired. (Amended Ord. 2001-01, 5-21-2001, eff.
7-30-2001)
4-7-13: APPEAL OF DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
   A.   Notice; Right To Appeal: If a work permit is denied or revoked by the
sheriff, the applicant or holder thereof shall be advised of the reason or
reasons therefor and may appeal that decision in writing to the county board of
commissioners not later than fourteen (14) days after receiving the reasons for
the denial. A failure to appeal the decision of the sheriff within fourteen
(14) days constitutes an admission that the decision is well founded and
precludes further administrative or judicial review.
   B.   Hearing: Upon an appeal being filed, the county board of commissioners
shall, within thirty (30) days, hold a hearing in accordance with procedures
established by the sheriff.
   C.   Proceedings: The county board of commissioners may take any testimony
and evidence it deems necessary. All proceedings shall be conducted according
to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 241.
   D.   County Decision: The county board of commissioners shall, upon
completion of its review, announce its decision sustaining, reversing or
reversing with conditions the decision of the sheriff.
   E.   Notify Applicant Of Decision: The decision of the county board of
commissioners shall be transmitted in writing within five (5) working days to
the applicant and, in the event of a denial of the appeal, set forth the
reasons for the denial.
   F.   Appeal To State Gaming Board: If a work identification card appeal is
denied by the county board of commissioners or if an applicant disagrees with
any condition imposed by the county board of commissioners on a decision to
issue a work permit, the applicant may appeal the decision or condition in
writing to the state gaming board within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the
written decision of the county board of commissioners. (Amended Ord. 2001-01,
5-21-2001, eff. 7-30-2001)
4-7-14: PENALTY:
Any person who engages in any occupation as an "employee" without a valid work
identification card authorizing him to do so is guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Amended Ord. 2001-01, 5-21-2001, eff. 7-30-2001; amd. 2003
Code)
CHAPTER 8
FICTITIOUS BUSINESS CERTIFICATES
SECTION:
4-8-1: Fictitious Business Names; Requirement For Filing Of Certificate
4-8-2: Expiration Of Certificates
4-8-3: Renewal Of Certificate
4-8-4: Fee
4-8-5: Publication
4-8-6: Repealer
4-8-7: Severability
4-8-1: FICTITIOUS BUSINESS NAMES; REQUIREMENT FOR FILING OF CERTIFICATE:
Every person or entity desiring to conduct business in Lincoln County under an
assumed or fictitious name, or any name other than the official name filed with
the secretary of state, which does not indicate the real name of each person
who owns or has an interest in the business, must file with the county clerk a
certificate containing the information required by Nevada Revised Statutes
602.020. Any person or entity filing a certificate of fictitious name shall
provide a copy of the certificate upon submission of an application for a
county business license. (Ord. 2002-06, 12-16-2002, eff. 1-21-2003)
4-8-2: EXPIRATION OF CERTIFICATES:
A certificate of a business filed pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 602.010
expires five (5) years after the date it was filed with the Lincoln County
clerk. The certificate must contain a statement that it expires after five (5)
years. (Ord. 2002-06, 12-16-2002, eff. 1-21-2003)
4-8-3: RENEWAL OF CERTIFICATE:
On or before the expiration of a certificate of renewal, the person or entity
doing business in Lincoln County under an assumed or fictitious name must file
with the county clerk a renewal certificate containing the information required
by Nevada Revised Statutes 602.020. The renewal certificate must contain a
statement that it expires after five (5) years. (Ord. 2002-06, 12-16-2002, eff.
1-21-2003)
4-8-4: FEE:
Every initial or renewal of such certificate shall be accompanied by a filing
fee, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 19.013. (Ord. 2002-06, 12-16-2002,
eff. 1-21-2003)
4-8-5: PUBLICATION:
Within sixty (60) days of the effective date hereof, the county clerk shall
cause notice to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
county that persons who have filed certificates pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 602.020 for doing business under an assumed or fictitious name must
renew the certificate within five (5) years after it was filed or within one
year of the effective date hereof, whichever is later. (Ord. 2002-06, 12-16-
2002, eff. 1-21-2003)
4-8-6: REPEALER:
Any and all ordinances or parts of ordinances heretofore adopted by the Lincoln
County board of county commissioners which are in conflict with this chapter
are hereby repealed. (Ord. 2002-06, 12-16-2002, eff. 1-21-2003)
4-8-7: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter is held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions and each provision is hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2002-06, 12-16-2002, eff. 1-21-2003)
CHAPTER 9
GAMING CONTROL
SECTION:
4-9-1: Statutory Authority
4-9-2: Definitions
4-9-3: License Required
4-9-4: Application; Content, Procedures, And Fees
4-9-5: Investigation Requirements And Procedures
4-9-6: Board Action On Application
4-9-7: Qualifications For License Or Finding Of Suitability
4-9-8: Location Of Gaming Establishments
4-9-9: Nonconforming Locations
4-9-10: Refund Of License Fees
4-9-11: License Fees
4-9-12: Renewal Application Procedures
4-9-13: License Nontransferable
4-9-14: License Classification; Requirements And Restrictions
4-9-15: Posting License
4-9-16: Temporary License
4-9-17: Discontinuance Of Operations
4-9-18: Addition Or Deletion Of Games, Slot Machines, Or Gaming Devices
4-9-19: Changes To Licensee Or Operations
4-9-20: Special Event Permit
4-9-21: Grounds For Disciplinary Action
4-9-22: Application Of Other Ordinances
4-9-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes chapters 244 and 463, the
Lincoln County board of county commissioners may adopt ordinances governing and
regulating gaming and gaming establishments occurring within the county. (Ord.
2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the words and terms defined in this section have the
meanings ascribed to them, unless the context clearly indicates a different
meaning. Any word or term not defined in this section which appears in this
chapter shall have the definition ascribed by the Nevada gaming control act and
statutes ancillary thereto, and as defined by the regulations of the Nevada
gaming commission unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
APPLICANT: Any person who has applied for a county gaming license, finding of
suitability, or other approval relating to gaming or gaming establishments.
APPLICATION: A written request containing complete and accurate information
required for the issuance of a county gaming license, finding of suitability,
approval as a key employee, or for approval of any act or transaction for which
board approval is required or permitted by this chapter.
BOARD: The Lincoln County liquor and gaming licensing board as authorized by
Nevada Revised Statutes 244.352 and provided for by chapter 10 of this title.
CASINO: A gaming establishment that holds a nonrestricted gaming license issued
by the Nevada gaming commission and by the board pursuant to this chapter.
COMMERCIAL COMPLEX: A building, or group of buildings located on a single
parcel of land or having shared parking facilities, principally used or
designed or intended to be used for business offices and retail sales
establishments.
CONDITION: The action of the board, relating to the issuance of a license or
resulting from a disciplinary hearing, whereby terms are imposed upon the
licensee with which it must comply in order to avoid a license revocation or
suspension.
CONTROL: The direct or indirect possession of the power to direct or cause the
direction of the management or policies of an entity whether through the
ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.
CONVICTED: A finding of guilt as an adult offender by a jury or trial court,
whether said finding is appealed or not. A person so convicted shall be deemed
convicted until such finding is overturned by a court of competent jurisdiction
or by pardon.
COUNTY: Lincoln County, Nevada.
DISCIPLINARY ACTION: Action taken by the board pursuant to chapter 10 of this
title to suspend, restrict, limit, condition, revoke or impose other sanctions
upon a gaming license or licensee.
FINDING OF SUITABILITY: That a person is found to comply with the requirements
of this chapter which are prerequisite to involvement with a gaming license. A
finding of suitability relates only to the specific involvement for which it is
made. If the nature of the involvement changes from that for which the
applicant has been found suitable, or if, in the judgment of the board, new
information concerning the applicant's suitability has become available, he may
be required to submit himself to a new determination of suitability by the
board.
GAME OR GAMBLING GAME: Any game played with cards, dice, equipment, or any
mechanical, electromechanical or electronic device or machine for money,
property, checks, credit, or any representative of value, including, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, faro, monte, roulette, keno, bingo,
fan-tan, twenty-one, blackjack, seven-and-a-half, big injun, klondike, craps,
poker, chuck-a-luck, Chinese chuck-a-luck (dai shu), wheel of fortune, chemin
de fer, baccarat, pai gow, beat the banker, panguingui, slot machine, any
banking or percentage game, or any other game or device approved by the Nevada
gaming commission, but does not include games played with cards in private
homes or residences or in clubs in which no person makes money for operating
the game, except as a player, or games operated by charitable or educational
organizations which are approved by the Nevada state gaming control board
pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 463.409.
GAMING DEVICE: Any slot machine or other mechanical, electromechanical, or
electronic contrivance, component, or machine used in connection with gaming or
any game which affects the result of a wager by determining win or loss.
GAMING ESTABLISHMENT: One business operated under the same management in the
same building or adjoining buildings, connected by open doorways, halls, or
other avenues of ingress or egress, where any game or slot machine permitted by
law and operated pursuant to a nonrestricted or restricted gaming license.
GAMING LICENSE: The license issued by the board which authorizes the person
named therein to engage in gaming in the county.
GAMING OR GAMBLING: To deal, operate, carry on, conduct, maintain, or expose
for play any game as defined in this section.
KEY EMPLOYEE: An individual having the power to exercise a significant
influence over decisions concerning any part of the operation of a gaming
establishment.
LICENSEE: Any person to whom a valid gaming license has been issued.
MINOR: A natural person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
NONRESTRICTED LICENSE OR NONRESTRICTED GAMING: A gaming license for, or an
operation consisting of, sixteen (16) or more slot machines or gaming devices,
or a license for, or an operation consisting of, any number of slot machines or
gaming devices, together with any other game, race book or sports pool, or
bingo at any one establishment.
OPERATION: The conduct of gaming.
OWNER: Any person with an indirect or direct ownership interest in a gaming
licensee, and includes any person receiving any percentage of profits directly
or indirectly from gaming operations.
PERSON: Any natural person, firm, partnership, corporation, limited liability
company, association and other form of business organization now or hereafter
legally recognized.
PLACE OF WORSHIP OR CHURCH: A building or portion of a building that people
regularly attend to participate in or hold religious services, meetings, and
other activities.
PREMISES: The tract of land on which a gaming establishment is located and all
buildings, restaurants, hotel or motel structures, recreational facilities,
shops, arcades, support and maintenance rooms and parking lots which are
connected and operated in such an integral manner as to form a part of the same
operation or complex as the gaming establishment, whether under separate leases
or not.
QUARTER: A period of three (3) consecutive months commencing on January 1,
April 1, July 1, or October 1, in any year.
RACE BOOK: An operation that accepts wagers on events held at tracks with pari-
mutuel wagering.
RESORT HOTEL: Any building or group of buildings that is maintained as and held
out to the public to be a hotel where sleeping accommodations are furnished to
the transient public and may also include residential lodging such as
condominiums, timeshare units, or fractional ownership units providing sleeping
accommodations and that has:
   A.   More than fifty (50) rooms available for sleeping accommodations;
   B.   At least one bar with permanent seating capacity for more than thirty
(30) patrons that serves alcoholic beverages sold by the drink for consumption
on the premises;
   C.   At least one restaurant with permanent seating capacity for more than
sixty (60) patrons; and
   D.   A gaming area within the building or group of buildings.
RESTRICTED LICENSE OR RESTRICTED GAMING: A gaming license for, or an operation
consisting of, not more than fifteen (15) slot machines which are incidental to
the primary business at the establishment, but not any other game or gaming
device.
SCHOOL: Any public, private, or religious educational institution or class
maintained or conducted for the purpose of offering a course of instruction
similar to that customarily offered in the public schools of this state to
students in the first through the twelfth grades.
SLOT MACHINE: Any electronic, mechanical, electrical, or other device,
contrivance, or machine, approved by the Nevada state gaming commission, which,
upon insertion of a coin, token, or similar object therein, or upon payment of
any consideration, is available for play or operation, the play or operation of
which, whether by reason of the skill of the operator or application of the
element of chance, or both, may deliver or entitle the person playing or
operating the machine to receive cash, premiums, merchandise, tokens, or
anything of value, whether the payoff is made automatically from the machine or
in any other manner.
SLOT OPERATOR: Any person who places slot machines in a licensed location for a
fixed amount or percentage, or for any consideration without being on the
license issued for the location.
SPORTS POOL: The business of accepting wagers on sporting events by any system
or method of wagering. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person who is not the holder of a valid gaming
license issued pursuant to this chapter to:
      1.   Deal, operate, carry on, conduct, maintain, or expose for play
within the county any gambling game, gaming device, slot machine, or race book
or sports pool;
      2.   Receive, directly or indirectly, any compensation, reward, or any
percentage or share of the money or property played, for keeping, running, or
carrying on any gambling game, gaming device, slot machine, or race book or
sports pool; or
      3.   Provide or maintain any information service, as defined by Nevada
state gaming law, to aid the playing or making of wagers on sporting events of
any kind.
   B.   Any person required to be licensed or to be found suitable by the
Nevada state gaming commission in connection with any gaming activity taking
place within the county shall apply to the board for licensing or a finding of
suitability, as herein provided, within thirty (30) days after application to
the state gaming control board; except for those persons engaged in the
manufacture or distribution of gaming equipment, and those persons required to
be found suitable pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 463A.
   C.   Whenever it is the judgment of the board that the public interest will
be served by requiring any key employee to obtain a finding of suitability to
hold key employee status, the board shall serve upon the licensee notice to
make application for key employee approval.
      1.   The licensee shall, within thirty (30) days after receipt of the
notice requiring a finding of suitability of any key employee, present the key
employee application to the board or provide documentary evidence that such key
employee is no longer employed by the licensee.
      2.   An application for a finding of suitability, the investigation, and
payment of fees shall be made in accordance with this chapter.
   D.   If a person required by this section to submit an application fails to
do so within the required time and the board makes a finding of unsuitability
for that reason, the gaming licensee with whom the person is associated shall
immediately terminate its association with that person. Failure to terminate
the association is grounds for disciplinary action against the licensee.
   E.   In the exercise of its discretion, the board may limit the number of
licenses issued pursuant to this chapter. The board may impose any condition it
deems appropriate when issuing a license, including, but not limited to, a
limit on the number of gambling games, gaming devices, or slot machines or a
limit on the location of any casino or gaming establishment.
   F.   Nothing in this chapter shall relieve an employer or employee from
complying with the "Lincoln County work identification card ordinance", defined
in chapter 7 of this title. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-4: APPLICATION; CONTENT, PROCEDURES, AND FEES:
   A.   Each applicant for a license must submit a complete written application
under oath, on forms provided by the board. The application must include, at a
minimum, the following information:
      1.   The name and business address of the applicant and the percentage
ownership of all owners of the applicant;
      2.   The type of license for which application is made along with a
description of the games, slot machines or gaming devices to be operated;
      3.   The type of business organization the applicant comprises and a
complete description thereof. A copy of the organizational documents must be
included with the application;
      4.   Where the applicant or an owner of the applicant is a natural
person, the name, date of birth, social security number, and address of the
natural person;
      5.   Where the applicant or an owner of the applicant is a corporation,
the names and addresses of the officers, directors, and shareholders of the
corporation must be listed on the application;
      6.   Where the applicant or an owner of the applicant is a limited
liability company or partnership, the names and addresses of the members,
managers, partners, general partners, and limited partners must be listed on
the application;
      7.   A description of the premises to be licensed, giving the street and
number and the portion to be occupied by the establishment for which the
license is sought, the name and address of the owner or owners of such premises
and of any person holding any interest in the premises including interests held
through a mortgage or deed of trust. A copy of all agreements whereby the
applicant is entitled to possession of the premises must be included with the
application;
      8.   The names and addresses of any holder of indebtedness, including
holders of bonds, debentures, or other lenders and including whether any of the
applicant's interests have been pledged or are the subject of a voting trust
agreement or other funding device;
      9.   A statement that if the license is granted, the applicant will
conduct the establishment in accordance with the provisions of the laws of the
state, the laws of the United States and the ordinances of the county
applicable to the conduct of the business.
   B.   Each application for a license must be accompanied by the following
individual applications:
      1.   For applications by a corporation, an application for a finding of
suitability for each officer, each director, and each shareholder owning ten
percent (10%) or more of the corporation;
      2.   For applications by a limited liability company, an application for
a finding of suitability for each manager and of each member owning ten percent
(10%) or more of the limited liability company;
      3.   For applications by a general or limited partnership, an application
for a finding of suitability of each general partner and each partner owning
ten percent (10%) or more of the partnership;
      4.   An application for a finding of suitability of an owner of a direct
or indirect interest in the applicant of ten percent (10%) or more. In its
discretion, the board may require owners of a direct or indirect interest in
the applicant of less than ten percent (10%) to apply for a finding of
suitability.
      5.   An application for a finding of suitability of any landlord, lender,
or third party sharing in a percentage of profits from gaming operations.
   C.   All applicants that are natural persons must complete and file a
personal history questionnaire disclosing information regarding the applicant's
family, residences, employment, education, military service and criminal
history background, and a personal financial statement that requires the
applicant to disclose information regarding his or her current and previous
business activities and associates covering at least a ten (10) year period
immediately preceding the date of application and must submit triplicate copies
of fingerprint cards taken by the sheriff, another Nevada law enforcement
agency or by a certified fingerprinting agency.
   D.   The applicant may satisfy the requirements of this section by
submitting to the board accurate and complete copies of all application
documents supplied to the Nevada state gaming control board.
   E.   Each application must be accompanied by a fifty dollar ($50.00) license
processing fee which shall be payable to the county. The processing fee is
nonrefundable and is in addition to the other fees collected pursuant to this
chapter.
   F.   Each applicant must pay a nonrefundable investigation fee deposit of
three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) for each respective license or finding of
suitability. An applicant who has been licensed or found suitable within one
year of the date of a new application is not required to pay an investigation
fee deposit, but must pay only those costs the sheriff reasonably incurs to
update his or her investigation.
   G.   The sheriff may require prepayment of additional investigation fees as
necessary to cover anticipated costs. Any investigation fee paid by the
applicant or other person in excess of those necessary to cover the full cost
of an investigation, other than the nonrefundable deposit, will be refunded to
the applicant upon written request. If the applicant withdraws the application
prior to the beginning of the investigation, posted deposits will be returned
to the applicant or other person.
   H.   Each applicant is deemed to consent to the investigation required
herein, to make full disclosure of background information to licensing
officials, and agrees that any written or oral statement made or obtained
during the application process to or by the board or any member thereof, or the
sheriff which is relevant to the purpose of the application process is
absolutely privileged and does not impose thereon liability for defamation or
constitute grounds for recovery in any civil action.
   I.   Each applicant shall also authorize the county to obtain information
from criminal justice agencies, financial institutions, and governmental
agencies for use in connection with the license application. The applicant
shall also sign a release of claims and indemnity agreement to the county for
the use of information provided by the applicant or discovered during any
investigation thereof.
   J.   Once an application is complete, the board shall refer the application
to the sheriff for review and investigation of the suitability of the
applicant. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-5: INVESTIGATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   The sheriff is authorized to fully investigate the applicant and to
enlist the aid of any state and federal investigation and identification
organizations in such investigation. All information obtained by reason of the
investigation must be maintained by the sheriff in a confidential file
available only to members of the board, and authorized sheriff's department
employees.
   B.   The investigation shall be completed in the shortest possible time,
however, the sheriff is required to make a complete investigation and shall be
given a reasonable amount of time to verify any information presented or
discovered. It is the intent that all investigations shall be completed within
sixty (60) days; however, if it is not possible for the sheriff to complete an
investigation within sixty (60) days, the sheriff shall report the fact to the
board and the board may extend the period of time for investigation.
   C.   If an applicant or principal of an applicant for a gaming license is
concurrently applying for a gaming license from the Nevada gaming commission,
the sheriff must defer the background investigation to the investigation
completed by the Nevada state gaming control board, unless the board or sheriff
determines that a separate investigation is necessary.
   D.   No investigation fee shall be required of any applicant who has been
previously investigated by the county, provided the applicant has held a
privileged county license within one year preceding the present application;
however, the board may require the applicant to undergo an additional
background investigation and receive board approval prior to issuance of a new
license. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-6: BOARD ACTION ON APPLICATION:
   A.   Upon completion of the investigation, the sheriff shall immediately
refer the application to the board together with its findings and all facts
upon which the findings are based. The board shall then place this item on its
next regular meeting at which the sheriff's department shall report its
findings from the completed investigation. The application may be acted upon by
the board at any regular or recessed regular meeting thereof or at any special
meeting.
   B.   An application for a gaming license, finding of suitability, or other
approval by the board constitutes a waiver of confidentiality and privacy as to
those matters regarding past and present associations, criminal history,
including sealed and expunged records, sources of funds, and other matters
disclosed or revealed during the investigation. Such waiver permits
interrogation of the applicant at any meeting of the board, concerning any
matters contained in the application or information obtained in the course of
an investigation. However, information of a confidential nature or showing the
applicant's finances, net worth, earnings, or revenues that is submitted as
part of the application shall be maintained by the sheriff in a confidential
file, available only to the law enforcement officers involved in the
investigation and the board, with release permitted pursuant to a subpoena or
other order of a court of competent jurisdiction or to a duly authorized agent
of any governmental agency acting pursuant to the agency's authority and
function.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to disclose any item of personal history,
financial records, audits, criminal history, or any other item contained in the
investigation file to any person except in the course of the necessary
administration of this chapter, or upon a lawful order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00), or
up to six (6) months imprisonment, or by both fine and imprisonment. (Ord.
2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-7: QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSE OR FINDING OF SUITABILITY:
   A.   An application to receive a gaming license or finding of suitability
may be granted if the board is satisfied that the applicant:
      1.   Is a person of good character, honesty and integrity;
      2.   Is a person whose prior activities, criminal record, if any,
reputation, habits and associations do not pose a threat to the public interest
of the county or to the effective regulation and control of gaming, or create
or enhance the dangers of unsuitable, unfair or illegal practices, methods and
activities in the conduct of gaming or the carrying on of the business and
financial arrangements incidental thereto, or give to the gaming industry of
the county a disreputable, unsavory, or dishonest reputation or bring discredit
or dishonor to the gaming industry;
      3.   Proposes to conduct or be involved with gaming at a suitable
location in premises which meet all requirements of county zoning, building,
fire, and health codes.
   B.   A gaming license or finding of suitability shall not be granted unless
the applicant has satisfied the board that:
      1.   He has adequate business probity, competence and experience in
gaming or business experience in general; and
      2.   The proposed financing of the entire operation is adequate for the
nature of the proposed operation and from a suitable source.
   C.   In addition to any other reasons set forth in this chapter or in its
discretion, the board may deny a license when:
      1.   By the granting of such license, a disorderly house or place
disruptive to the peace and welfare of the neighborhood may be maintained;
      2.   The granting of such license may adversely affect the valuation of
adjoining and contiguous property;
      3.   In the judgment of the board, there are ample and sufficient
licensees and establishments in the area or place for which the license is to
be used to properly serve such area or place;
      4.   In the judgment of the board, the applicant is not fit and proper to
operate gaming; or
      5.   In the judgment of the board, the particular business that proposes
to be associated with gaming is not compatible with gaming or will not enhance
the image or welfare of the county;
      6.   In the judgment of the board, there are ample and sufficient
licensees and establishments in the area or place for which the license is to
be used to properly serve such area or place;
      7.   The board, in the exercise of its discretion, decides to limit the
number of any classification of license provided for in this chapter.
   D.   A nonrestricted gaming license may only be issued to: 1) a resort
hotel, or 2) an establishment which is eligible to have a nonrestricted license
transferred to it pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 463.302 if the board
determines at a public hearing that the public health, safety, welfare, and
morals of the county inhabitants will not be impaired by issuing a
nonrestricted gaming license. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-8: LOCATION OF GAMING ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Schools And Places Of Worship:
      1.   A gaming license will not be granted within a geographical area
developed pursuant to titles 14 and 15 of this code or within one mile from the
boundaries of any such geographical area to any establishment located within
one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of any school or place of worship,
unless the school or place of worship is located within a CS-H-1 or CS-M-U land
use zone or is part of a commercial complex, and the board determines at a
public hearing that the public health, safety, welfare, and morals of the
county inhabitants will not be impaired by the granting of such license.
      2.   The one thousand five hundred foot (1,500') limitation shall be
determined by measurement in a direct line from any place of entry to the
school or the entry door of the building used for the place of worship to the
customer entry door of the gaming establishment.
   B.   Distance Restrictions: A restricted gaming license will not be granted
to any establishment within a geographical area developed pursuant to titles 14
and 15 of this code and within one mile from the boundaries of any such
geographical area, unless the prospective restricted gaming establishment is
more than one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') from the nearest existing
restricted gaming establishment or unless the proposed and existing restricted
gaming establishments are located within a CS-H-1 or CS-M-U zoning district or
are part of a commercial complex. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-9: NONCONFORMING LOCATIONS:
Establishments that hold a valid restricted gaming license or upon which a slot
route operator operates pursuant to a valid restricted gaming license issued
prior to July 1, 2008, are exempt from any location or distance restrictions
imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-10: REFUND OF LICENSE FEES:
No license fees paid under this chapter shall be refunded after the start of
the license period whether the operation of any game or slot machine or gaming
device for which any license was issued has been voluntarily terminated, or the
license has been revoked under the provisions of this title, or for any other
reason, except in the case of a clerical error or duplicate payment. (Ord.
2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-11: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to operate a gaming establishment without
first having paid the following applicable quarterly license fees in advance on
January, April, July, and October 1 of each year:
1.    Restricted gaming establishments with 15 or fewer slot machines, per $
machine                                                                       10.00
2.    Nonrestricted gaming establishments with 16 or more slot machines or 35.00
gaming devices, per machine
3.    Bingo                                                                300.00
4.    Race book                                                            400.00
5.    Sports pool                                                          300.00
6.    Keno                                                                 300.00
7.    Slot route operator                                                  300.00
8.    Information service                                                  300.00
9.    All other games, per game                                            200.00
 
   B.   A licensee must pay the fee in advance and the county shall collect no
prorated gaming license fee or tax.
   C.   The fees due pursuant to this section are not refundable.
   D.   All license fees due become delinquent if not paid on the date when
due. If payment is made after the date when the fee is due and before thirty
(30) days after the due date, fifty percent (50%) of the license fee shall be
assessed as a penalty charge. All licenses for which the license fees have not
been paid within thirty (30) days after the due date shall be deemed revoked.
   E.   The license fees authorized in this section are in addition to those
collected by the county pursuant to state statute. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008,
eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-12: RENEWAL APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   The county shall send a written notice to every gaming licensee prior
to the due date of each quarterly license fee required; provided, however, that
the actual receipt of such notice is not required and shall not be held to
waive the payment of a gaming license fee.
   B.   Every gaming licensee shall file, together with the license fees and
taxes required by this chapter, an application for renewal which shall be
certified by the licensee or manager or officer thereof with an acknowledgment
that the ownership and management of the licensee has not changed, that the
licensee holds a current and valid state gaming license, and that the
establishment is in compliance with all state and local gaming license
requirements. The application for renewal shall contain an accurate report of
all games, slot machines, or devices operated by the licensee during the
preceding quarter.
   C.   The licensee shall pay, in addition to all other fees and taxes, a
license renewal fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) quarterly.
   D.   The renewal application form for quarterly renewal of county gaming
licenses, as well as information regarding licensing fees and taxes, renewal
procedures, and certification requirements, shall be provided to the licensee
in a form and manner consistent with requirements of this chapter.
   E.   The required license fee for the applicable period shall accompany each
application for issuance or renewal of a license and shall be paid to the
county and submitted to the Lincoln County treasurer who shall collect,
process, and make receipt for all licenses issued, in accordance with state law
and county ordinances.
   F.   Failure to renew a gaming license when required terminates the license
without further action by the board and all gaming operations must cease unless
and until a new gaming license is issued. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-
2009)
4-9-13: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   A gaming license issued under the provisions of this chapter is not
transferable. Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid only
for the particular establishment described thereon and for the designated
number and type of gambling games, slot machines, or gaming devices for which
it is issued.
   B.   Unless otherwise specifically provided by state law, the license is not
an asset that may be inherited, sold, assigned, maintained, or operated by a
trustee or receiver unless approved by appropriate state and county licensing
agencies.
   C.   A gaming license is personal to the disclosed and investigated owners,
stockholders, and managers. A person may not hold an ownership interest in, or
share in the revenue from a licensed gaming establishment or operation until
licensed or found suitable as provided in this chapter. Any sale or transfer of
ownership of a licensed entity, or granting of any right to all or a portion of
the profits derived from a gaming operation to any person which is not approved
as provided herein, is grounds for suspension, restriction, limitation,
revocation or any other sanction imposed by the board of any and all gaming
licenses which that entity may hold. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-14: LICENSE CLASSIFICATION; REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   An applicant for a gaming license shall provide on the initial or
renewal application a complete description of the games, gaming devices, and
slot machines which the applicant desires to operate and the name and location
of the establishment wherein the gaming will take place. The license issued by
the board shall entitle the licensee and employees thereof to carry on,
conduct, and operate only the specific type and class of games, gaming devices,
or slot machines for which the license is issued for the period of time and at
the location stated thereon.
   B.   A license shall not be required of the owner of a location who rents or
leases out space for fifteen (15) or fewer slot machines or other gaming
devices on a flat fee rental basis and who does not participate in the profits
nor exercise supervision or control over the operation of the slot machines or
other gaming devices. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-15: POSTING LICENSE:
All gaming licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the gaming
establishment and where gambling games, slot machines, or gaming devices are
installed, so that the license may be readily available for inspection by
authorized state and county officials. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-
2009)
4-9-16: TEMPORARY LICENSE:
   A.   In order to protect the goodwill, clientele, and assets of a licensee
or licensed establishment during investigation of a new or proposed owner
through sale, foreclosure, inheritance, death, insolvency, or other transfer of
ownership, the board may, upon the filing of a complete application, payment of
all fees, the issuance of a license, temporary or otherwise, by the Nevada
state gaming commission, issue a temporary license.
   B.   The temporary license is effective for the period established by the
board. The board may extend the temporary license for a period of not to exceed
sixty (60) days, but shall not extend the temporary license for a period
exceeding one year from the initial approval of the temporary license.
   C.   A temporary license granted pursuant to this section is subject to all
conditions and restrictions of the original license. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008,
eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-17: DISCONTINUANCE OF OPERATIONS:
If an establishment with a gaming license discontinues operations for a period
of sixty (60) days without specific approval of the board, such license shall
be revoked automatically, without action by the board. Upon board approval or
if the operations are discontinued due to reasons beyond the licensee's
control, such as natural disaster or accidental destruction, the board may, for
good cause shown, grant a sixty (60) day licensing extension and may, in its
sole discretion, grant additional sixty (60) day licensing extensions not to
exceed, however, a total period of two (2) years including said initial sixty
(60) day discontinuance of operations period. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff.
7-1-2009)
4-9-18: ADDITION OR DELETION OF GAMES, SLOT MACHINES, OR GAMING DEVICES:
   A.   Once the board has granted a license, a gaming establishment may add or
delete games by written notification and in the case of additional games, full
payment of the quarterly licensing fees.
   B.   The written notification shall include the type and location of the
games to be added or deleted. Such license additions or deletions may be
granted by the board upon compliance by the licensee with all of the provisions
of this chapter and verification of the accuracy of information supplied on the
written notification. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-19: CHANGES TO LICENSEE OR OPERATIONS:
   A.   Each licensee must report to the board within thirty (30) days of such
change, the following:
      1.   Any change in the officers, directors, managers of limited liability
companies, and other similarly situated managerial positions. The report must
be made in conjunction with the appropriate application for a finding of
suitability for any individual holding the position;
      2.   Any change in the general manager or other key employee. The report
must be made in conjunction with the appropriate application for a finding of
suitability for any individual holding the position;
      3.   Any change in persons receiving any portion of the profits of the
licensed establishment. The report must be made in conjunction with the
appropriate application for a finding of suitability for any person receiving
any portion of the profits;
      4.   Any change in the ownership of the premises of the gaming
establishment, unless the licensee is not a party to the transaction effecting
such change of ownership. A licensee not a party to the transaction must report
the change to the board immediately upon acquiring knowledge of such change of
ownership;
      5.   Any change in the name of the business operating under a license.
(Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-20: SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT:
   A.   A gaming licensee may apply to the board, on application forms
prescribed by the board, for a special event permit for the purpose of
increasing the licensee's gaming operations during special event periods. The
application must be filed with the board at least two (2) weeks in advance of
the special event.
   B.   A special event permit may only be issued to a licensee that has
obtained a holiday or special event permit from the Nevada state gaming control
board.
   C.   The board may issue a special event permit upon the filing of an
appropriate application by a licensee and the payment of a license fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) per game for each special event.
   D.   The special event permit shall state the period for which it is issued
and the number of table games that are allowed. A special event permit may not
be issued to any licensee for more than forty (40) cumulative days during any
calendar year, nor for a period longer than ten (10) days during any calendar
quarter.
   E.   The board, in its discretion, may after a hearing, grant a special
event permit that permits the operation of any gambling game, slot machine, or
gaming device to be conducted at a nonlicensed location as specified on such
permit for a period not to exceed three (3) days. The applicant shall file an
application stating therein the exact use to which the proceeds of the game
will be put and guaranteeing that all proceeds obtained from the operations of
any gambling game, slot machine, or gaming device will be used only for such
specifically described charitable purposes. Such special event permit may be
issued only to an applicant which has been issued a permit by the Nevada state
gaming control board authorizing the same activity and which is a qualified
charitable organization. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-9-21: GROUNDS FOR DISCIPLINARY ACTION:
The board may deem that any activity on the part of a licensee, his agents or
employees, or a person previously found suitable which is inimical to the
public health, safety, morals, good order, and general welfare of the people of
the county or which would reflect or tend to reflect discredit upon the county
or the gaming industry, or which violates any provision of the Nevada gaming
control act 1  or any regulation of either the Nevada gaming commission, the
provisions of this or any other title of this code, is grounds for disciplinary
action in accordance with chapter 10 of this title. (Ord. 2008-05, 10-20-2008,
eff. 7-1-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS chs. 463, 464, 465, 466.
4-9-22: APPLICATION OF OTHER ORDINANCES:
The county intends to apply the terms, conditions, and policies of all other
ordinances in conjunction with the enforcement of this chapter. The fact that
such ordinances are not specifically referred to in this chapter shall in no
manner preclude their application to gaming licensees or permittees. (Ord.
2008-05, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
CHAPTER 10
LIQUOR AND GAMING LICENSING BOARD
SECTION:
4-10-1: Statutory Authority
4-10-2: Definitions
4-10-3: Investigation And Reporting Of Violations
4-10-4: License Application Determination
4-10-5: Licensing Board To Cooperate With Other Regulatory Agencies
4-10-6: Complaint Against Licensee
4-10-7: Complaint, Citation
4-10-8: Form Of Answer; Filing Deadline
4-10-9: Failure Of Licensee To Answer Charges
4-10-10: Presumptions
4-10-11: Witness; Affidavit; Service
4-10-12: Hearing Procedure; Record
4-10-13: Quasi-Judicial Notice; Evidence Admissible
4-10-14: Amendments; Filing Of Amended Pleadings
4-10-15: Misconduct During Hearing
4-10-16: Written Decision Of The Board
4-10-17: Aggrieved Party; Petition For Rehearing
4-10-18: Judicial Review
4-10-19: Emergency Suspension
4-10-20: Licensing Policy
4-10-21: Record On Review
4-10-22: Hearing Officers
4-10-23: Appeal Of Suspension Or Revocation Imposed By Sheriff
4-10-24: Agent For Receipt Of Service Process
4-10-25: Penalties
4-10-26: License Application Investigation Fees
4-10-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes chapters 244 and 463, the
Lincoln County board of county commissioners may adopt ordinances governing and
regulating liquor businesses, gaming, casinos, and gaming establishments
occurring within the county. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them pursuant to this chapter and chapters 1 and 9 of this title unless a
different meaning clearly appears in the context.
VIOLATION OF THE REGULATIONS OR ORDINANCES: Means and includes violation of any
provision of this code or the ordinance in force as enacted by the board of
commissioners and regulation or ordinance passed or adopted by the Lincoln
County liquor and gaming licensing board. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-
2009)
4-10-3: INVESTIGATION AND REPORTING OF VIOLATIONS:
The sheriff is responsible for the enforcement of gaming regulations and liquor
ordinances and the investigation of violations thereof, and shall report to the
board and district attorney those violations, which he deems appropriate for
disciplinary action. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-4: LICENSE APPLICATION DETERMINATION:
   A.   Licenses Are Revocable Privileges: All liquor and gaming licenses are
revocable privileges and the applicant therefor has no entitlement to any
liberty or property interest and the holder thereof acquires no vested liberty
or property interest. All procedures set forth in this chapter are for the
convenience of the board and do not grant a licensee any additional right.
   B.   All Applications For Licenses Shall Be Submitted, Investigated And
Reported: All applications for licenses shall be submitted, investigated and
reported as required by the specific chapter regulating the license sought.
After the report of the sheriff and administrator has been received by the
board, the board may, at its option:
      1.   Require the applicant to submit all arguments and evidence in
support of such applications in writing to the administrator for consideration
by the board;
      2.   Grant or deny the application upon the documents submitted with the
application and investigation reports submitted by the sheriff, administrator,
or district attorney; or
      3.   Question the applicant regarding the merits of its application, its
suitability and areas of concern disclosed by the investigation; or
      4.   Refer the investigation reports, application and supporting
documents submitted pursuant to subsection B1 of this section to a hearing
officer for hearing of evidence and a preparation of findings of fact which
will be submitted to the board for decision without further comment by
applicant.
The applicant may submit such additional documentary evidence or argument as it
deems advisable with the application.
All applications, history questionnaires, statement of fact and recommendations
of third parties submitted by an applicant shall be made under oath.
All investigation reports submitted to the board shall be made a part of the
record. The application and all documents submitted to the board by the
applicant may be tendered to the clerk as part of the record. If the applicant
desires a transcript of the proceeding, it shall provide a court reporter and
file a copy of the certified transcript with the clerk. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-
2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-5: LICENSING BOARD TO COOPERATE WITH OTHER REGULATORY AGENCIES:
   A.   Board Shall Cooperate With Other Public Agencies: The board shall
cooperate with other public agencies concerned with the regulation and control
of the liquor and gambling industries and to that end may exchange with such
agencies any and all types of confidential information. When dealing with any
gaming matter, the board may immediately inform the state gaming agencies of
any investigation, hearing or other actions that the board, or its members or
agents may take.
   B.   Agreement With State Gaming Agencies: The board may enter into
agreement with the state gaming agencies such that duplication of effort shall
be kept to a minimum; provided, however, that if the apparent violation is of
such a character that action should be taken and if the state gaming agencies
fail, refuse or decline to assume control of the investigation and hearing,
then the board and the sheriff shall promptly investigate and if disciplinary
action is apparently necessary the board shall conduct a hearing as provided.
   C.   Agreement With Liquor And Gaming Boards: The board may enter into
agreement with liquor and gaming boards of any incorporated city or town of
Lincoln County so that overall regulation and control may be more effectively
maintained. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-6: COMPLAINT AGAINST LICENSEE:
Upon the report by the sheriff to the board of a violation charging a liquor or
gaming licensee with the commission of any act which is cause for disciplinary
action the board shall consider the severity of the allegations and may:
   A.   Refer To Sheriff: Refer the same back to the sheriff for further
investigation and administrative reprimand; or
   B.   Show Cause Hearing: Order a show cause hearing, setting the hearing for
not less than ten (10) days from the sheriff's report, providing reasonable
notice to the licensee, and requiring the licensee to appear before the board
to show cause why a formal complaint for disciplinary action should not be
issued; or
   C.   Refer To District Attorney: Refer the report to the district attorney
or his deputy for determination of the legal sufficiency of the evidence. If
such evidence is sufficient for formal disciplinary action, the district
attorney may prepare a complaint for the signature of the sheriff and a
citation for the signature of the chairman of the board. If such evidence is
lacking, the district attorney may request the sheriff to make further
investigation of the alleged violation. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-
2009)
4-10-7: COMPLAINT, CITATION:
Upon a finding by the district attorney that there is sufficient evidence of a
violation of the regulations or ordinances, or of a threat or hazard to the
public health, safety, morals, or welfare, he shall draft a written complaint
which shall set forth in ordinary and concise language the acts, omissions or
the hazard or threat to the public health, safety, morals, welfare or good
order with which the licensee or affected person (respondent) is charged.
The citation shall direct to the respondent/licensee within ten (10) days after
service thereof upon him to appear by filing with the clerk of the board, his
verified answer to the complaint. The answer shall state whether or not the
respondent requests a hearing, and shall admit or deny the facts alleged in the
complaint and raise all legal and factual issues the respondent desires the
board to consider. The citation shall notify the respondent that failure to
file a verified answer shall result in disciplinary action against him by
default.
Service of the citation with a copy of the complaint shall be made upon the
respondent as provided by the Nevada rules of civil procedure for the service
of process in civil actions. Proof of service shall be filed with the clerk of
the board.
The district attorney shall thereafter be in charge of presenting the evidence
to the board.
Upon the filing of the answer, the chairman of the board shall fix a time and
place for hearing and give the respondent not less than fifteen (15) days'
notice. The clerk of the board or director shall give notice of such hearing
date and time to the respondent and the district attorney by depositing in the
United States mail a true copy of the notice enclosed in a sealed envelope with
postage thereon fully paid, addressed to the respondent and his attorney, if
any, and the district attorney at the address shown on the pleadings. (Ord.
2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-8: FORM OF ANSWER; FILING DEADLINE:
The answer to the complaint shall be signed and verified by the licensee,
served upon the district attorney who prepared the complaint and filed with the
clerk of the board within ten (10) days after service upon respondent of the
citation. The complaint, citation and answer shall form the pleadings for the
hearing.
The answer shall read substantially as follows:
BEFORE THE LINCOLN COUNTY LIQUOR AND GAMING LICENSING BOARD, COUNTY OF LINCOLN,
STATE OF NEVADA
In the Matter of      )
               )
Disciplinary Action Against   )
               )
A.B.,            )   ANSWER
               )
To the Members of the Licensing Board:
1. The Respondent does not request a hearing. (Note: If a hearing is desired,
omit word "not".)
2. The Respondent admits the following facts set forth in the complaint:
3. The Respondent denies the following facts set forth in the complaint:
4. The Respondent believes the following defenses and explanations should be
considered by the Board:
5. The Respondent raises the following legal defenses:
      LICENSEE
If the licensee files a verified answer as required herein and requests a
hearing he shall be entitled to a hearing on the merits upon the issues denied
by the answer. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-9: FAILURE OF LICENSEE TO ANSWER CHARGES:
Failure of the licensee to answer as required shall be deemed an admission by
him of the commission of the act or acts charged in the complaint. If an answer
is filed which does not request a hearing, the matter shall be decided upon the
pleadings and documents produced by the sheriff. Thereupon, the board shall
forthwith impose disciplinary action, as the case may be, and shall give notice
of such disciplinary action by mailing a true copy thereof by United States
mail in a sealed envelope with postage thereon fully prepaid, addressed to the
licensee at the licensed address by mail or by service upon his attorney.
Failure to request a hearing, or to file an answer as required within the time
designated shall further constitute a waiver of respondent's right to a hearing
and to judicial review of any decision or order, but the board in its
discretion, may nevertheless order a hearing, limited as it deems appropriate.
All affirmative defenses must be specifically stated and unless objection is
taken in the answer, all objections to the form and content of complaint are
waived. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-10: PRESUMPTIONS:
The following presumptions are disputable, and apply in all disciplinary
proceedings conducted before the board:
   A.   That an unlawful act or violation of the code was done with unlawful
intent;
   B.   That a person intends the ordinary consequences of his voluntary act;
   C.   That evidence wilfully suppressed would be adverse if produced, this
includes, but is not limited to, the production of business records required by
law to be kept;
   D.   That higher evidence would be adverse from inferior being produced,
this includes the failure of the licensee to attend the hearing and subject
himself to examination by the board and prosecutor, or refusal to answer
questions posed by the board or prosecutor;
   E.   That official duty has been regularly performed;
   F.   That a judicial record, or record of proceedings before the board
correctly determines or sets forth the record of events as they actually occur;
   G.   That a letter duly directed and mailed was received in the regular
course of the mail;
   H.   That a proven act of code violation is an indication of the usual
course of business operation;
   I.   That records, reports, statements or data compilations, in any form of
public officials or agencies are authentic, if it is certified as correct by
the custodian or other person authorized to make the certification. "Records"
include, but are not limited to, investigation files of the metropolitan police
department.
   J.   That records, reports, statements or data compilations, in any form, of
public officials or agencies are accurate and truthful reports of the
information contained therein. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-11: WITNESS; AFFIDAVIT; SERVICE:
The testimony of any material witness residing within or without the state of
Nevada may be preserved by deposition in the manner provided by the Nevada
rules of civil procedure upon stipulation of counsel or the consent of the
deponent. Affidavits may be received in evidence at any hearing of the board
provided that the party wishing to use such affidavit shall, not less than five
(5) days prior to the day set for hearing, serve either personally or by
certified mail, upon the opposing party or counsel, a copy of the affidavit
which he proposes to introduce into evidence. Discovery is permissible only
upon stipulation of counsel. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-12: HEARING PROCEDURE; RECORD:
To provide for an orderly meeting the following procedures shall be followed at
the hearing conducted by the board for disciplinary matters:
   A.   Board Presence At Hearing: At least three (3) members of the board
shall be present at every hearing, and they shall exercise all powers relating
to the conduct of the hearing and shall enforce all decisions with respect
thereto.
   B.   Hearing Of Evidence Before Voting: No member of the board who did not
hear the evidence shall vote on the decision.
   C.   Provision Of Certified Court Reporter: The respondent/licensee is
responsible to provide a certified court reporter to transcribe the proceedings
and file a certified transcript thereof with the county clerk, commission
division. Said transcript shall become a part of the official record of the
proceedings.
   D.   Oath Or Affirmation Administered By The Clerk: Oral evidence shall be
taken only upon oath or affirmation administered by the clerk.
   E.   Ability Of Parties: Every party to a hearing shall be able:
      1.   To call and examine witnesses; and
      2.   To introduce exhibits relevant to the issues of the case, including
the transcript of testimony at an investigative hearing conducted by or on
behalf of the board; and
      3.   To cross examine opposing witnesses on matters relevant to the
issues of the case, even though the matter was not covered in a direct
examination; and
      4.   To impeach any witness regardless of which party first called him to
testify; and
      5.   To offer rebuttal evidence.
   F.   Attendance Of Licensee At Hearing Required: The licensee is required to
attend the hearing and may be called as a witness by either party if the
licensee does not testify on his own behalf, he may be called and examined as
if under cross examination after he rests his case, whether the prosecution has
rested or not.
   G.   Conduct Of Hearing: The hearing need not be conducted according to
technical rules relating to evidence and witnesses. Any relevant evidence may
be admitted and shall be sufficient to support a finding if it is the sort of
evidence on which responsible persons are accustomed to rely in the conduct of
serious affairs, regardless of the existence of any common law or statutory
rule which might make improper the admission of such evidence over objection in
a civil action.
   H.   Evidence Stipulation By Agreement: The parties or their counsel may by
stipulation agree that certain specified evidence may be admitted even though
such evidence might otherwise be subject to objection. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-
2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-13: QUASI-JUDICIAL NOTICE; EVIDENCE ADMISSIBLE:
The board may take official notice of any generally accepted or previously
expressed policy, information or technical or scientific matter within the area
of liquor or gaming conduct and control and of any fact which may be judicially
noticed by the courts of this state. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-14: AMENDMENTS; FILING OF AMENDED PLEADINGS:
The board may, in its discretion, before submission of the case for decision,
permit the filing of amended or supplemental pleadings and shall notify all
parties thereof, and provide a reasonable opportunity for objections thereto.
(Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-15: MISCONDUCT DURING HEARING:
If any person in proceedings before the board disobeys or resists any lawful
order or refuses to respond to a subpoena, or refuses to take the oath or
affirmation as a witness or thereafter refuses to be examined, or is guilty of
misconduct during the hearing or near the place thereof so as to obstruct the
proceedings, the board may, in addition to remedies available to it, certify
the facts to the district court. The court shall thereupon issue an order
directing the person to appear before the court and show cause why he should
not be punished for contempt. The court order and a copy of the statement of
the board shall be served on the person cited to appear. Thereafter the court
shall have jurisdiction of the matter; and the same proceedings shall be had,
the same penalties may be imposed, and the person charged may purge himself of
the contempt as in the trial of a civil action before a district court. (Ord.
2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-16: WRITTEN DECISION OF THE BOARD:
After the hearing of a contested matter, the board shall render a written
decision on the merits which shall contain findings of fact, a determination of
the issues presented and the disciplinary action to be imposed, if any, and
shall thereafter make and enter its written order in conformity with such
decision. The affirmative votes of a majority of the board hearing the evidence
shall be required to impose any disciplinary action. Copies of any decision and
order shall be served on the parties or their counsel as provided in the Nevada
rules of civil procedure 5(b). The decision takes effect upon the vote of the
board, whether or not a written decision is prepared. The decision shall become
and remain effective until reversed or modified on judicial review. (Ord. 2008-
06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-17: AGGRIEVED PARTY; PETITION FOR REHEARING:
Within ten (10) days after service of an order of the board, any party
aggrieved may petition for a rehearing. Such petition shall not be granted
except upon a showing that there is additional evidence which is material,
necessary and reasonably calculated to change the decision of the board. The
petition shall be supported by an affidavit of the moving party or his counsel
showing with particularity the materiality and necessity of the additional
evidence and the reason why it was not introduced at the hearing. Upon
rehearing, rebuttal evidence to the additional evidence shall be permitted.
After rehearing, the board may modify its decision and order as the additional
evidence may warrant. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-18: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Exclusive power to regulate the businesses of liquor sales and gaming are
vested by the Nevada legislature in the liquor and gaming licensing board
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 244.335, 244.345, and 244.350. Such
businesses operate pursuant to a license which is a revocable privilege as the
licensees acquire no vested rights by reason of licensure. The licenses and the
decision of the board are subject to judicial review to protect against
arbitrary action. In all disciplinary matters conducted before the board it is
presumed that the board acted lawfully and there shall be no stay of its
decision pending judicial review.
Any person aggrieved by the final decision or order of the board made after
hearing may obtain a judicial review of questions of law thereof in the seventh
judicial district court.
   A.   Judicial Review Instituted: The judicial review shall be instituted by
filing a petition in district court within twenty (20) days after the effective
date of the board's final decision or order. A petition for review may not be
filed while a petition for rehearing is pending before the board. The petition
for review shall set forth the order or decision appealed from, and shall set
forth the specific rulings on questions of law, which the petition contends
constitutes error.
   B.   Copies Of Petition Served: Copies of the petition shall be served upon
the board and all other parties of record, and their counsel of record, as
provided for such service in NRCP.
   C.   Petition Filing Shall Not Stay Enforcement Or Order: The filing of the
petition shall not stay enforcement of the decision or order of the board; and
only the board itself may grant a stay upon such terms and conditions as it
deems proper, upon timely filed motion.
   D.   Written Request Of Petitioner: Upon written request of petitioner and
upon payment of such reasonable costs and fees as the clerk may prescribe,
copies of the filed pleadings and exhibits introduced into evidence, shall be
prepared by the clerk, the original of which shall be certified and filed in
the action, and a copy of which shall be delivered to the petitioner and a copy
to the district attorney. If the petitioner designates the transcript of the
proceeding, he shall file with the clerk a transcript of the hearing proceeding
before the board as reported and transcribed by a certified court reporter. The
clerk shall then include the transcript with the record. Otherwise, only the
minutes of the hearing shall be certified by the clerk and included in the
record.
   E.   Complete Record: The complete record on review shall include copies of
all pleadings in the case, all notices and interim orders issued by the board
in connection with the case, all stipulations, the decision and the order
appealed from, a transcript of all testimony if reported by petitioner's
evidence and proceedings at the hearing, the exhibits admitted and any other
papers in the case.
   F.   Copy Of Document: A copy of any document may be used in lieu of an
original. The record on review may be shortened by stipulation of all parties
to the review proceedings. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-19: EMERGENCY SUSPENSION:
   A.   Order For Immediate Suspension: Notwithstanding any provision of this
chapter, in an emergency the board may issue an order for immediate suspension
or limitation of a liquor or gaming license. Said emergency order shall state
the reason for suspension or limitation and shall afford the licensee a hearing
before the hearing officer in accordance with the procedures of section
4-10-23 of this chapter. The board may, if it desires, take jurisdiction to
hear the matter at the next regular meeting or a special meeting of the board
pursuant to hearing procedures in section
4-10-12 of this chapter. At the hearing either before the hearing officer, or
the board, the license may be suspended for a specific time, or until
compliance with a specific requirement has been accomplished, or it may be
conditioned, restricted or revoked at the option and discretion of the hearing
officer or board.
   B.   Suspension By Sheriff Until Next Regular Monthly Board Meeting: In
addition to the suspension provided in section
4-10-23 of this chapter, the sheriff, in an emergency, for cause, or upon
affidavit of code violation by officers of the sheriff's department of specific
acts which endanger the public welfare; and finding that such suspension is
necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety,
morals, good order or public welfare, may suspend any alcoholic liquor license
and any restricted gaming license, until the next regular monthly meeting of
the board.
Written notice of the suspension shall be given by the sheriff to the licensee
and also to the board. At its next regular monthly meeting, after such license
suspension, the board shall determine whether such suspension shall be
rescinded; but if the board decides that the suspension shall continue, then,
if demanded by verified answer to suspension order, a hearing upon such
suspension order shall be held either by the board, or by reference to the
hearing officer for hearing pursuant to section
4-10-23 of this chapter. By such act of reference, a stay in the suspension is
granted until decision by the hearing officer is rendered. The board or the
hearing officer may revoke, restrict, suspend or condition the license.
   C.   Suspension By Sheriff For A Maximum Of Eight Consecutive Hours: In
addition to the suspension provided in section
4-10-23 of this chapter, the sheriff (or his authorized designee) in an
emergency, for cause, or upon code violation of specific acts which endanger
the public welfare; and finding that such suspension is necessary for the
immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety, morals, good order
or public welfare, may suspend any alcoholic liquor license and any restricted
gaming license for a period not to exceed eight (8) consecutive hours.
Written notice of the suspension shall be given by the sheriff (or his
authorized designee) to the licensee and the board. Nothing in this subsection
shall preclude the sheriff or the board from taking any additional action as
the situation may merit (i.e., additional emergency suspension).
   D.   No Hearing Demanded: If no hearing is demanded, the board may either
discontinue or continue the suspension, and exercise its options as prescribed
in section
4-10-7 of this chapter, relative to license suspension and/or revocation, with
required notice and hearing or refer to the hearing officer pursuant to section
4-10-23 of this chapter but without a stay in the suspension.
   E.   Emergency Order Contents: The emergency order must set forth the
grounds upon which it is issued, including a statement of facts constituting
the alleged emergency necessitating such action.
   F.   Emergency Suspension Order Effective Immediately: The emergency
suspension order is effective immediately upon issuance and service, as is
provided in NRCP, upon the licensee or its resident agent or its key employee
or managing agent at the licensed place of business. The emergency order may
suspend, limit, condition or take other action in relation to the license of
one or more persons in an operation without affecting other individual
licensees or the licensed establishment. The emergency order remains effective
until further order of the commission or final disposition of the case, unless
referred by the board to the hearing officer pursuant to section
4-10-23 of this chapter.
   G.   Licensee Desire For Hearing: If the licensee desires a hearing upon the
facts contained in the emergency order, he must demand such by filing a
verified answer to the allegations in the order as is required in section
4-10-8 of this chapter, in which case the order shall serve as the show cause
order and complaint. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-20: LICENSING POLICY:
All procedures set forth herein are for the convenience of the board and the
sheriff's department and do not grant any substantive right or increase any
property or liberty interest in any license affected hereby. A departure from
any procedure set forth herein is not grounds for reversal on judicial review.
All licenses issued pursuant to this title are privileged and neither the
license nor ownership of the business is transferable without board approval.
Licensees are responsible for the acts of their employees, and are required to
keep business records as may be required by this code. Failure to keep such
records or disclose them to the board or the sheriff upon reasonable notice or
conducting the business in a manner contrary to the peace, health, safety, and
general welfare of the public are additional grounds for license suspension or
revocation. All licensing procedures set forth in this code not specifically
addressed in this title are adopted as policy and procedure for licensing
pursuant to this title. Provisions of this title control in the event of a
conflict. Unless otherwise specifically stated in this title, failure to renew
when required terminates the license without further action by the board and
all business operations must cease unless and until a new license is issued
upon application for a new license. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-21: RECORD ON REVIEW:
It is the responsibility of the applicant for a license, or licensee to provide
a certified court reporter for all proceedings before the board if a transcript
of said proceedings is desired for court review. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008,
eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-22: HEARING OFFICERS:
The board may appoint a hearing officer to act on behalf of the board in
conducting any appeals to the board and in conducting disciplinary hearings as
provided in this chapter. Reference by the board of matters for hearing by the
hearing officer are in lieu of hearing by the board as provided in section
4-10-12 of this chapter, although the procedures set out in subsections 4-10-
12C, E, F and H of this chapter may apply to hearings conducted by the hearing
officer.
   A.   Hearing Officer Qualifications: The hearing officer shall be appointed
with regard to qualifications to conduct administrative or quasi-judicial
hearings and must:
      1.   Be a resident of the state of Nevada; and
      2.   Be a graduate of an accredited law school; or
      3.   a. Be a graduate of an accredited four (4) year college and have at
least five (5) years experience in public administration; and
         b.   Complete at least a four (4) hour course of classroom instruction
in administrative law provided by a Nevada licensed attorney.
   B.   Hearing Officer Relationship With Others: The hearing officer shall not
conduct or participate in any hearing or decision in which he or any of the
following persons has a direct or substantial financial interest: his spouse,
brother, sister, child, parent, in-laws, parents of business associates. The
hearing officer shall not participate in any hearing concerning any business
with which such officer is negotiating or has an arrangement or understanding
concerning possible partnership or employment. Any actual or potential interest
shall be disclosed prior to such hearing.
   C.   Interference With Hearing Officer: No member of the board, county
official, or any other person shall interfere with or attempt to interfere with
the officer in the performance of his duties.
   D.   Conduct Of Hearings; Evidence: When conducting hearings the officer
shall follow this chapter concerning the pleadings, admission, presumptions,
procedure. Technical rules of evidence shall not apply. Any evidence made
relevant by the pleadings may be admitted and shall be sufficient to support a
finding if it is the sort of evidence on which responsible persons are
accustomed to rely in the conduct of serious affairs, regardless of the
existence of any common law or statutory rule which might make improper the
admission of such evidence over objection in a civil action. Business records
which are authenticated by affidavit, and certified copies of official sheriff
reports and investigation reports from the sheriff's department may be received
in evidence if relevant to the pleadings and made a part of the record if
served upon the parties to a hearing as required in section
4-10-11 of this chapter. Such records will also be a part of the record if
certified by testimony of the person preparing the document or having official
custody thereof.
   E.   Hearing Officer To Render Findings And Conclusions In Writing: Except
in the case of hearing an appeal of a notice of suspension or revocation by the
sheriff or as set out in section
4-10-23 of this chapter, the officer shall render in writing, findings of fact,
and conclusions of law to the board within thirty (30) days of the hearing,
unless extended by the chairman. Such findings of fact and conclusions of law
shall be delivered to the licensee or applicant, or his attorney and district
attorney who may file objections thereto within ten (10) days of delivery of
same. Upon receipt of the findings of fact and conclusions of law, the board
may act upon such findings of fact and conclusions of law at the next board
meeting, or at its earliest convenience to impose such sanctions as it deems
appropriate, or it may consider such argument as the licensee/applicant or
district attorney may make in support of or in opposition to the filed
objection to the findings of fact and conclusions of law.
Upon objection to the findings of fact and conclusions of law by the officer,
the board shall base its decision upon a review of the record of the hearing as
presented by the parties in argument and upon the findings of fact and
conclusions of law by the hearing officer. The board may reverse, remand,
sustain, or modify the findings of fact and conclusions of law by the officer
upon hearing of the objection, based upon substantial evidence in the record,
and may in a like manner modify a previously imposed sanction. In cases of
appeal of a notice of suspension by the sheriff as set out in section
4-10-23 of this chapter, the hearing officer shall render a decision in the
matter which shall permanently bind the parties unless appealed as provided in
section
4-10-23 of this chapter.
   F.   Burden Upon Objector: The burden is upon the objector to the findings
of fact and conclusions of law by the hearing officer to convince the board
that an error has been made in the findings of fact and conclusions of law by
specific reference to the record and/or law. The record shall consist of
certified copies of the pleadings, exhibits, and a transcript of the
proceedings if the objecting party deems it advisable. It is the responsibility
of the licensee or applicant or business license department to provide a court
reporter to record all proceedings before the officer if a transcript is
desired for further proceedings before the board or court.
   G.   Hearing Officer Compensation: The hearing officer, unless employed by
the county shall be entitled to compensation from the county for services
rendered on any given hearing at an hourly rate, established from time to time
by resolution of the board of county commissioners, with a maximum chargeable
time of ten (10) hours per hearing. In the event that a hearing officer serves
more than ten (10) hours on any given hearing, the hearing officer may submit
to the board a written statement requesting additional compensation and setting
forth reasons therefor. The board may authorize such additional compensation,
at the hourly rate established by the board of county commissioners, if it is
satisfied that the additional hours of service were justified and necessary.
   H.   Hearing Officer To Set Hearing Date: The hearing officer shall
determine the time and place of the hearing and shall give the sheriff and
applicant/licensee or its attorney, not less than ten (10) days' notice
thereof. Continuances may be granted upon compliance with the grounds and
procedure provided in the seventh judicial district court rules. The hearing
may be bifurcated at the option of the hearing officer. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-
2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-23: APPEAL OF SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION IMPOSED BY SHERIFF:
   A.   Suspension Or Revocation By Sheriff: For any of the reasons listed
below, the sheriff or his designee may suspend or revoke any liquor license or
restricted gaming license, and the sheriff or his designee may suspend or
revoke any liquor server awareness instructor or program certified pursuant to
chapter 1 of this title: 1) for violation of any rule, law or regulation of
this chapter or the chapter under which the license was issued; 2) for
violation of a condition placed on the license when the license was issued; 3)
for a violation of any state or federal law which would be grounds for denial
of the license or work card; or 4) upon conviction (regardless of appeal) of
the licensee of a crime involving moral turpitude.
In construing and applying this section, conviction of a director, officer or
stockholder holding more than ten percent (10%), if the licensee is a
corporation, a partner, including limited partner, if the licensee is a
partnership, and the manager or other individual principally in charge of the
operation of the licensee's establishment shall be deemed to be a conviction of
the licensee. Any such license may be revoked by the sheriff for a violation of
the law or regulations of this chapter or the chapter under which the licensee
received his license or for a violation of a condition placed upon the licensee
by the board by an agent or employee or one listed on the licensee's work
identification card master list while said employee or agent is on the licensed
premises.
Such revocation or suspension shall be effective ten (10) days after written
notice thereof is given to licensee or liquor server awareness instructor or
program certified pursuant to chapter 1 of this title. Such notice shall inform
the licensee or liquor server awareness instructor or program certified
pursuant to chapter 1 of this title of the reason(s) for such revocation, the
commencement date of such revocation, and the right to appeal under the
provisions of these regulations. Such notice may be given by delivering the
same to the licensee, the liquor server awareness instructor or program
certified pursuant to chapter 1 of this title or by depositing the same in the
United States mail, postage prepaid, certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, addressed to the licensee, the liquor server awareness
instructor or program certified pursuant to chapter 1 of this title, at the
address stated on the license or work identification card application or liquor
server awareness certification information and such notice shall be deemed
given upon deposit of the notice in the United States mail as aforesaid.
This section is cumulative of all other rules, regulations and laws. An appeal,
as provided herein, from any revocation hereunder, shall automatically stay
such revocation pending such appeal: 1) after the effective date of revocation
and if an appeal is not made or 2) if an appeal is made and the revocation is
upheld, then and in either of those events, the sheriff shall have the
authority to take possession of the liquor server awareness instructor or
program certification and the sheriff shall have the authority to take
possession of the license wheresoever they may be found.
   B.   Appeal By Aggrieved Person:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by an action or decision of the sheriff or
designee regarding the issuance, suspension or revocation of a license, liquor
server awareness instructor or program certification may, within thirty (30)
days thereafter, appeal on the basis of mistake or error to a hearing officer
appointed by the liquor and gaming licensing board.
      2.   The appeal to the hearing officer shall be initiated by filing a
written objection with the board. The written objection shall be verified by
the licensee or affected person and shall state the appellant's version of each
allegation contained in the notice of suspension or revocation. A copy of the
document containing the notice of the action or decision complained of shall be
attached to said written objection. Upon receipt of said written objection and
the attachment the appointed hearing officer shall set the same down for a
hearing to be held within the next fifteen (15) days and advise all parties of
the date, time and place of hearing. The person aggrieved shall bring to the
hearing all licenses or certificates issued to him pursuant to this title.
      3.   At the hearing before the hearing officer all witnesses will be
sworn. The hearing officer will hear the testimony of the sheriff or his
designee, and any witnesses having knowledge of the grounds for suspension or
revocation. Additionally, the hearing officer will hear the testimony of the
persons aggrieved along with witnesses the person aggrieved may call.
Additionally, the hearing officer will review all documents and exhibits
submitted to him by the parties. The hearing officer will not be bound by
formal rules of evidence and will control the evidence, reserving to himself
the powers to exclude testimony or exhibits he does not consider relevant as is
provided in section
4-10-12 of this chapter. The parties may be represented by an attorney and the
hearing shall proceed as provided in subsection 4-10-12E of this chapter.
      4.   The hearing officer will keep all exhibits introduced at the hearing
available for review by the board, but he is not required to transcribe
testimony. The party interested in a transcript must provide his own court
reporter as provided in subsection 4-10-12C of this chapter.
      5.   Within five (5) working days of the close of hearing, the hearing
officer will notify the sheriff and the person aggrieved of his decision. If
the decision upholds the revocation or suspension, such revocation or
suspension becomes immediately effective. Within three (3) additional working
days the hearing officer will reduce to writing his report, which will consist
of a finding of fact, conclusions of law, and his decision. The hearing officer
will file the original of his report and all original evidence, pleadings and
documents with the county clerk. He will keep a copy of the report for himself,
will send one copy to the person aggrieved and will send one copy to the
sheriff.
      6.   If the sheriff or the aggrieved person is dissatisfied with the
hearing officer's decision, he may, within five (5) days from the date the
hearing officer filed his report, file a written objection with the county
clerk and serve a copy on the other party. When such an objection is filed, the
clerk will refer the matter for placement on the agenda of the liquor and
gaming licensing board for review at the next regular meeting thereof which is
at least five (5) working days after the filing of the objection. Upon notice
of such filing, the chairman of the board may grant a stay in the decision of
the hearing officer upon a showing it is in the best interest of the public
that such stay be granted and notice to the other party. If the objection is
filed by the sheriff, notice that the matter is on the agenda will be sent to
the licensee by mail. When the matter comes before the liquor and gaming
licensing board, it will review the matter, considering such information as is
in the hearing officer's report, the pleadings, the exhibits and transcript of
the hearing, if any, is offered by either party, and such argument as may be
made by the parties. The liquor and gaming licensing board will either affirm,
modify or reverse the decision of the hearing officer. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-
2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-24: AGENT FOR RECEIPT OF SERVICE PROCESS:
The key employee, manager of the licensee or person in charge of business
operations on the licensed premises at the time of service is for the purpose
of service, the managing agent of the licensee and is the person to whom
service of all notices, citations, complaints, orders and other official
documents may be made or issued for the purposes set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-25: PENALTIES:
The board or hearing officer, after finding that disciplinary action is
necessary, may:
   A.   Limit, condition, suspend, or revoke the license of any licensee.
   B.   Fine each licensee:
      1.   For late payment of fees a penalty of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) or twenty five percent (25%) of the amount due, whichever is the
greater, in addition to the license fees, but not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) if the fees are less than ten (10) days late and in no case
more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). The penalty must be collected as
are other charges, license fees and penalties under this chapter; or
      2.   For evading, not paying, or otherwise defeating a license fee, a
penalty not to exceed the amount due in addition to the amount due. The penalty
must be assessed and collected in the same manner as are other charges, license
fees, and penalties under this chapter.
   C.   For the second violation of any single provision or section, the board
shall revoke the license of the licensee.
   D.   Waive all or part of any penalty due pursuant to this section if the
board of county commissioners issues a written finding that the licensee did
not pay the license fees in a timely manner because of circumstances beyond the
licensee's control. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
4-10-26: LICENSE APPLICATION INVESTIGATION FEES:
Every applicant or person for which a separate background investigation is
required shall pay the entire cost incurred to complete such investigation
whether the application is approved or denied. All investigation fees shall be
paid directly to the sheriff prior to issuance of any license or finding of
suitability.
At the time of application for any license which requires investigation,
applicant shall pay a nonrefundable investigation fee deposit, in the amount
established from time to time by the board of county commissioners, as required
for each respective license or finding of suitability.
The sheriff may require prepayment of additional investigation fees as
necessary to cover anticipated costs. In the event additional investigation
costs exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), the sheriff shall request
approval from the board of such additional cost. Any investigation fees paid by
the applicant in excess of those necessary to cover the full cost of such
investigation, other than the nonrefundable deposit, shall be refunded to the
applicant upon written request. If the applicant withdraws the application
prior to the beginning of the investigation posted deposits shall be returned
to the applicant.
The sheriff shall maintain an accounting of all investigative activity for
which the applicant shall be responsible including the date, actual hours
expended, description of activity, and the name of the investigator(s)
performing same. Such investigative records shall be compiled as the activities
are performed and shall be promptly made available to the board and to the
applicant upon written request of the applicant.
In the event any applicant or general partner, officer or major stockholder
owning at least ten percent (10%) of an applicant, has been investigated for
liquor or gaming licensure or finding of suitability within one year of
application, such applicant or other person shall not be required to pay an
investigation fee deposit but shall pay only such cost as the sheriff may
reasonably incur to update his or her investigation. (Ord. 2008-06, 10-20-2008,
eff. 7-1-2009)
CHAPTER 11
BUSINESS LICENSES
SECTION:
4-11-1: Definitions
4-11-2: License Required; Penalties; Exceptions; Other Licenses Required
4-11-3: Standard Business License; Application
4-11-4: Standard Business License; Huckster License; Fees
4-11-5: Special Standard Business License Fees, Conditions, And Waivers For
Certain Businesses
4-11-6: Payment Of Fees; Penalties; Modification By Board
4-11-7: Multiple Businesses Licensed As One
4-11-8: Standard Business License; Issuance; Approval By Board
4-11-9: Conditions Of License
4-11-10: License Renewal; When New Applications Required
4-11-11: Suspension And Revocation Of Standard Business License; Grounds;
Procedure
4-11-12: Investigation; Enforcement
4-11-13: Waiver Of Board
4-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following definitions apply:
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners for Lincoln County, except where
another board, such as the Lincoln County Liquor Board, is granted exclusive
jurisdiction whereby "board" means that body possessing exclusive jurisdiction.
BUSINESS: Any person, partnership, association, firm, entity, or corporation
engaging in enterprise.
COMMERCIAL MOBILE RADIO SERVICE: Any commercial mobile radio service as defined
in 47 CFR section 20.3.
COUNTY: Lincoln County, a political subdivision of the State of Nevada.
DEPARTMENT: The Lincoln County Business License Department.
ENTERPRISE: Any trade, calling, service, profession, or business venture.
GARAGE SALE: All sales opened to the public for disposing of personal property,
including all sales entitled "garage sale", "lawn sale", "attic sale", "rummage
sale", or "yard sale" which do not extend beyond seventy two (72) hours in
duration.
GAS PROVIDER: Any business or special unit of local government that provides
gas service to the public, whether or not the Public Service Commission of
Nevada regulates them, including, but not limited to, natural gas providers.
Gas service does include propane gas providers, or distribution systems.
NONPROFIT SERVICE ORGANIZATION: Any organization, which is registered as a
nonprofit organization by the State of Nevada and which operates on an
occasional and irregular basis.
PUBLIC UTILITIES: All telecommunications companies, electric energy providers,
gas providers, and commercial mobile radio services.
STANDARD BUSINESS LICENSE: License issued pursuant to this title and valid from
the approval date until the following June 30 expiration date.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS COMPANIES: Any business or local government that provides
telecommunications services who holds a certificate of public convenience and
necessity issued by the Public Service Commission of the State of Nevada and
derives intrastate revenue from the provision of that service to retail
customers.
TEMPORARY BUSINESS LICENSE: License issued pursuant to this title and valid for
ninety six (96) hours; commonly referred to as a huckster license. (Ord. 2016-
03, 11-14-2016)
4-11-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; PENALTIES; EXCEPTIONS; OTHER LICENSES REQUIRED:
   A.   License Required: It is unlawful for any business to engage in any
enterprise in Lincoln County without first applying for and obtaining a license
or permit as set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   C.   Exceptions: The provisions contained in this chapter do not apply to:
      1.   Any business which is wholly located within the limits of any
incorporated city or incorporated town within the County.
      2.   Any private individual(s) who has no more than five (5) garage sales
per year.
      3.   Any nonprofit service organization; or Lincoln County School
District sponsored event or operation.
      4.   Anyone providing childcare in private homes to six (6) or fewer
children.
      5.   Anyone telecommuting from home by employees of businesses located
elsewhere.
      6.   Any informal, casual, or seasonal work performed by minors acting as
individuals, including, without limitation, baby sitting, and lawn mowing.
      7.   Any nonretail agricultural business, operating from a ranch or farm
including, without limitation, the husbandry of domesticated crops or
livestock.
      8.   Any business that is specifically regulated under a separate chapter
of this title and that chapter clearly exempts the business from the provisions
of this chapter.
   D.   Other Licenses Required: Any business applying for a license under this
chapter that is required by Federal, State, County or city regulation to hold a
separate and independent license shall produce, exhibit, or otherwise prove to
the department that such license has been issued including Health Department
licenses for food vendors. Upon such proof, submission, and payment of the
appropriate application and licensing fee, the department may issue a temporary
license pending Board action. (Ord. 2016-03, 11-14-2016)
4-11-3: STANDARD BUSINESS LICENSE; APPLICATION:
   A.   Standard Business License: A standard business license may be issued to
any business or enterprise wishing to conduct an enterprise within the County.
   B.   Application:
      1.   All application requests for a license under this chapter shall be
made by affidavit verified application to the department.
      2.   All applications shall be made on forms provided by the department.
      3.   Each business or enterprise must submit its own application.
      4.   Each applicant shall include the following information in the
application:
         a.   The nature of the enterprise;
         b.   The address of the business;
         c.   The date on which the business will open;
         d.   Sufficient information to calculate fees under this chapter; and
         e.   The full name of the applicant:
            1.   If a partnership, the full legal name of each partner;
            2.   If a corporation, the state of incorporation and the full name
of the resident agent or operating officer within the County for the
corporation; and
            3.   If the business operates under a fictitious name, such name.
(Ord. 2016-03, 11-14-2016)
4-11-4: STANDARD BUSINESS LICENSE; HUCKSTER LICENSE; FEES:
Business license fees shall be established and adjusted by resolution or other
discretionary action of the Board pursuant to this chapter.
   A.   Applicants for a standard business license shall pay an established
non-refundable fee.
   B.   Applicants for a temporary business or huckster license shall pay an
established non-refundable fee.
   C.   Prorated fees for standard business licenses shall be calculated
accordingly:
      1.   Businesses established after October 1 but prior to December 31.
      2.   Businesses established after January 1 but prior to June 30. (Ord.
2016-03, 11-14-2016)
4-11-5: SPECIAL STANDARD BUSINESS LICENSE FEES, CONDITIONS, AND WAIVERS FOR
CERTAIN BUSINESSES:
The businesses applying under this chapter and listed herein shall be required
to comply with the following:
   A.   Alcoholic Liquor Licenses: The Board shall regulate alcoholic liquor
licenses pursuant to chapter 1 of this title.
   B.   Sexually Oriented Businesses: The Board shall regulate sexually
oriented businesses and related licenses pursuant to chapter 2 of this title.
   C.   Land Sales: The Board shall regulate land sales and related licenses
pursuant to chapter 3 of this title.
   D.   Outdoor Festivals And Motion Pictures: The Board shall regulate outdoor
festivals and motion pictures and related licenses pursuant to chapter 4 of
this title.
   E.   Food Establishments; Food Processing; Food Handlers: The Board shall
regulate food establishments; food processing; food handlers and related
licenses pursuant to chapter 5 of this title.
   F.   Circuses And Tent Shows: The Board shall regulate circuses, tent shows,
and related licenses pursuant to chapter 6 of this title.
   G.   Work Identification Cards: The Board shall regulate work identification
cards and related licenses pursuant to chapter 7 of this title. (Ord. 2016-03,
11-14-2016)
4-11-6: PAYMENT OF FEES; PENALTIES; MODIFICATION BY BOARD:
   A.   Standard Business License Fees: Unless otherwise provided in this
chapter, business license fees shall be due on July 1. The County will provide
notice of renewal to business license holders annually by June 1.
   B.   Penalties For Late Payment: All business license fees due under this
chapter shall be considered delinquent if not paid in full on or before the
31st day of July. A penalty of forty dollars ($40.00) shall be added to all
payments received by the department after the fees have become delinquent.
   C.   Modified Fees: The Board may modify any fees set forth in section
4-11-4 or
4-11-5 of this chapter or incorporated herein by resolution. (Ord. 2016-03, 11-
14-2016)
4-11-7: MULTIPLE BUSINESSES LICENSED AS ONE:
   A.   Any business licensee who is issued a standard business license may
have endorsed on the license more than one enterprise under the following
conditions:
      1.   All enterprises endorsed on the license must be operated:
         a.   In the same building or physical location and address; and
         b.   Under the same business name.
      2.   All enterprises must be owned or operated by the business licensee.
   B.   If the business licensee complies with the conditions set forth herein,
the Board shall issue one license endorsing each specific enterprise engaged in
by the business licensee.
   C.   Any business licensee issued a license for multiple enterprises shall
pay only one fee. This section does not affect liquor, gaming, or any other
license fees required by the County. (Ord. 2016-03, 11-14-2016)
4-11-8: STANDARD BUSINESS LICENSE; ISSUANCE; APPROVAL BY BOARD:
   A.   Temporary License: The department may issue a temporary license to any
business licensee who has complied with the provisions of this chapter. This
license shall be effective for thirty (30) days pending Board approval of the
standard business license.
   B.   Board Approval: The department shall present to the Board for approval
all applications for the standard business license within thirty (30) days of
the application. Upon presentation to the Board, the Board shall approve,
conditionally approve, or disapprove the application.
   C.   Issuance Of Standard Business License:
      1.   Upon approval of applications for a standard business license, the
Board shall issue a license for the business. Each license shall state:
         a.   The names and addresses of all business licensees connected with
the enterprise;
         b.   The address or location of the business;
         c.   Any restrictions or limitations imposed by the Board as a
condition of approval;
         d.   The date the license was issued; and
         e.   The date the license will expire.
      2.   All standard business licenses shall be issued on a yearly basis
unless otherwise expressed by the Board. (Ord. 2016-03, 11-14-2016)
4-11-9: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
In addition to any other conditions imposed by the Board, business licensees
must comply with the following conditions:
   A.   License Not Transferable: Any standard business license issued under
this chapter shall not be transferred without the consent of the Board.
   B.   Posting Of License: Any standard business license issued under this
chapter shall be posted by the licensee in a conspicuous place within the
business during the entire term for which the license was issued.
   C.   Sign Required: Each business licensee shall post a sign and address on
the outside of the business that is visible from the roadway. (Ord. 2016-03,
11-14-2016)
4-11-10: LICENSE RENEWAL; WHEN NEW APPLICATIONS REQUIRED:
   A.   Valid business license holders shall apply annually for renewal by July
1 on forms provided by the department. If any written complaint regarding the
method of operation of the enterprise has been received during the immediately
preceding license period, including, but not limited to, a notice from the
County Assessor's Office that the licensee is sixty (60) days delinquent in
payment of any personal Property Tax owed by the licensee, the department shall
investigate the complaints and transmit the renewal application along with the
information the department's investigation reveals to the Board. The Board
shall, at its next regular meeting, grant the renewal, renew with conditions,
or deny it. If no such complaints have been received, the department may issue
the renewed license without Board approval. In determining whether to grant a
renewal, the Board may conduct hearings, summon witnesses, interview the
licensee, interview any complainant, require additional investigation by the
department, or do any and all other acts which may be necessary or appropriate
to the Board's determination.
   B.   Failure of any business licensee to apply for a renewal under this
chapter shall result in an automatic revocation of the license on the
expiration date of the license. A licensee whose license has been revoked, and
who wishes to continue in business, shall file a new application and any
existing balances and penalties due the County shall be paid prior to Board
action on the application.
   C.   A business licensee shall file with the department, on forms provided,
an amended application and affidavit for a license when a change of any matter
stated in the business licensee's former application has occurred. No
additional fee shall be charged for filing an amended application under these
provisions. (Ord. 2016-03, 11-14-2016)
4-11-11: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF STANDARD BUSINESS LICENSE; GROUNDS;
PROCEDURE:
   A.   Grounds For Suspension Or Revocation: Any standard business license
issued under this chapter may be suspended, or revoked for good cause. Good
cause shall include, but is not limited to, the following:
      1.   Failure to pay business license fees within thirty (30) days of
their due date;
      2.   Failure to update the business license under the provisions of this
chapter;
      3.   Failure to renew the business license under the provisions of this
chapter;
      4.   Failure to maintain other licenses required by Federal, State,
County or city law which are necessary to conduct the enterprise endorsed on
the license;
      5.   Failure to keep the enterprise free of unsanitary conditions,
excessive noise, disturbances, and other conditions on or about the premises
which cause, or tend to cause, a public nuisance or which injuriously affect
the public health, safety or welfare;
      6.   Any act in the operation of the business that is unlawful or
prohibited by Federal, State, County or city law;
      7.   Any fraudulent practices or misrepresentations in the operation of
the business;
      8.   Any concealment or misrepresentation in procuring a license; and
      9.   Becoming more than sixty (60) days delinquent in the payment of any
personal Property Tax owed by the business licensee.
   B.   Suspension Of Standard Business License: If a business licensee
violates any of the provisions contained in subsections A1 through A9 of this
section, the department may suspend the license, pending Board action on
revocation, under the following conditions:
      1.   The department shall notify the business licensee of the violation.
The notice shall contain:
         a.   The name and address of the business licensee;
         b.   The violation which has occurred;
         c.   That the business licensee has fourteen (14) days, excluding
weekends and holidays, from the receipt of the notice to remedy the violation;
and
         d.   That if the business licensee fails to remedy the violation the
business license will be suspended.
      2.   If the business licensee fails to remedy the violation, the
department shall send a final notice which shall contain:
         a.   The name and address of the business licensee;
         b.   The violation which has occurred;
         c.   The date the suspension will be in effect; and
         d.   A notice of revocation and hearing as provided in subsection C1
of this section.
      3.   The date the business licensee is deemed to receive the notice shall
be determined as follows:
         a.   The department will send the notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, the date of delivery as evidenced by the return receipt.
   C.   Revocation Of The Standard Business License: Unless otherwise specified
in this chapter, the Board may revoke any business license issued under this
chapter, under the following conditions:
      1.   Notice Of Revocation And Hearing: The Board shall serve upon the
business licensee a notice of revocation and hearing. This notice shall be
served upon the business licensee at least fifteen (15) days prior to the time
specified for hearing. The notice shall be deemed received in accord with
subsection B3 of this section.
      2.   Notice Of Revocation: If the Board revokes the license, the business
licensee shall be served notice of revocation following the hearing. The
revocation shall be effective upon receipt of the notice, as specified in
subsection B3 of this section. (Ord. 2016-03, 11-14-2016)
4-11-12: INVESTIGATION; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Investigation: The department may notify the County Sheriff who may
investigate possible violations of this chapter, and, if deemed appropriate,
may issue a citation or initiate a complaint to the District Attorney's Office.
   B.   Evidence: Any exhibited or published sign or advertisement indicating
that any business is engaged in enterprise shall be prima facie evidence that
such business is engaged in enterprise for which a license is required.
   C.   Enforcement:
      1.   Violators of the provisions of this chapter may be charged by
complaint and summons or by citation in the Justice Court with applicable
jurisdiction;
      2.   A show cause hearing may be held before the Board for a
determination of revocation of the business license; and/or
      3.   The County may initiate a civil action, as provided by law,
including a civil injunction and the recovery of money damages. (Ord. 2016-03,
11-14-2016)
4-11-13: WAIVER OF BOARD:
Upon application to the Board, a business licensee may request that the Board
waive any fee or requirement imposed on a business by this chapter. If the
Board finds good cause for the business licensee's request and the waiver would
not impair the public health, safety, or welfare, the Board may waive any
provision of this chapter. (Ord. 2016-03, 11-14-2016)
CHAPTER 12
LOCKSMITHS
SECTION:
4-12-1: Definitions
4-12-2: License Or Permit
4-12-3: Exemption From Licensure Or Permit Requirements
4-12-4: Temporary Permits
4-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
INSTITUTIONAL LOCKSMITH: Any person such as, but not limited to, any of the
following: a licensed contractor, licensed building maintenance company,
governmental agency, licensed property management company, licensed automobile
dealer (new and used), licensed motor vehicle repair service, or licensed tow
truck operators, who performs locksmith duties incidental to his/her primary
occupation.
INSTITUTIONAL LOCKSMITH EMPLOYEE: A person who is employed by an institutional
locksmith and performs locksmith duties.
KEY: A mechanical device used for operating a lock and includes, but is not
limited to:
   A.   A change key or a key designed to operate a specific lock;
   B.   A manipulation key or a key designed so that when variously positioned
in the keyways of locks will operate the locks;
   C.   A master key or a key designed to operate a series of locks which are
individually operated by change keys; and
   D.   A tryout key or a key that will operate a series of locks in a larger
series of locks.
LOCK: A mechanical device furnished with a spring and a bolt or with a similar
contrivance used for fastening a door, strongbox, or other object and opened by
means of a key or combination.
LOCKSMITH: A person whose occupation consists, in whole or in part, of:
   A.   Making, repairing or adjusting locks;
   B.   Operating locks by mechanical means other than those intended by the
manufacturers of the locks; or
   C.   A person whose occupation consists in whole or in part of repairing,
operating, adjusting or changing combinations on safes or vaults. (Ord. 2009-
10, 1-19-2010)
4-12-2: LICENSE OR PERMIT:
   A.   Each locksmith or institutional locksmith shall pay a license fee of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) every five (5) years, which shall be in addition
to the license tax upon any other business operated by him.
   B.   Each institutional locksmith employee or locksmith employee shall pay a
permit fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) every five (5) years, which shall
be in addition to the license tax upon any other business operated by him.
   C.   The application for a locksmith license, institutional locksmith
license, institutional locksmith employee permit, or locksmith employee permit
shall be made to the director of building and safety along with the payment of
all required fees. First time applicants shall pay an investigation fee of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) in addition to the annual license and permit
taxes. The application shall require the applicant to list any and all previous
arrests, convictions or pending litigation, except minor traffic citations, and
the applicant must certify that they are true and complete. The applicant shall
then present himself to the Lincoln County sheriff's office (LCSO) who shall
fingerprint the applicant and require such other information as to the identity
of the applicant to enable the LCSO to investigate properly the applicant's
character and reputation, arrest and conviction and any pending litigation
record.
   D.   Upon the completion of such investigation, the LCSO shall verify the
accuracy and completeness of the application and report its findings to the
director. The director shall complete the processing of the application and
together with the LCSO's report present the findings to the board for approval.
If it appears to the board that the applicant is of such character and
reputation that his exercise of the privileges of the license or permit will
not prejudice or be detrimental to the public's safety or welfare, the board
shall grant the application, and the director thereupon issue a license or
permit upon the payment of the fee provided in this section.
   E.   Each locksmith license or employee permit shall expire five (5) years
after the date it was obtained and must be renewed by paying the applicable
fees and taxes. A locksmith, institutional locksmith, or locksmith employee
shall not pay an investigation fee for a renewal.
   F.   Each license or permit holder shall have the license or permit in his
possession at all times.
   G.   Each license or permit holder shall report any change of address of his
principal place of business to the LCSO within ten (10) days after the change
occurs.
   H.   No such locksmith license shall be issued to:
      1.   Any person other than the real and actual proprietor of the business
for which it is issued, and the application for such license in case of a firm,
copartnership or association shall state the names of the copartners or
associates and in the case of the corporation, the names of the officers,
directors, and managers thereof, and the requirements of this provision
pertaining to the fingerprinting, investigation and fitness of the applicant
shall apply to all such persons;
      2.   Any applicant, unless the applicant:
         a.   Has a physical location of at least three hundred (300) square
feet, including, but not limited to, a home business;
         b.   Has an inventory for retail sale to the public of safes, high
security locks, electronic access control equipment, security hardware and exit
hardware and the ability to provide services for rekeying and master keying; or
         c.   Is a "mobile locksmith" that has a "shared office space" in a
licensed "nonmobile locksmith establishment" that meets the requirements of
subsection H2a or H2b of this section.
   I.   No such locksmith permit shall be issued to any person who is not
employed in a locksmith capacity by a licensed locksmith. (Ord. 2009-10, 1-19-
2010)
4-12-3: EXEMPTION FROM LICENSURE OR PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application fee, license or permit fee to operate as a locksmith or
institutional locksmith, or employee thereof shall be waived as to federal,
state, county, or law enforcement agencies, and their employees.
   B.   Persons who are exempt pursuant to subsection A of this section shall
comply with all other requirements pertaining to locksmiths, institutional
locksmiths and employees thereof.
   C.   Persons who are exempt pursuant to subsection A of this section are
required to make application and pay investigation fees required except law
enforcement agency employees. (Ord. 2009-10, 1-19-2010)
4-12-4: TEMPORARY PERMITS:
The director may issue a temporary permit to locksmith employee or
institutional locksmith employee for a forty five (45) day period or to the
board meeting that will consider the permit application upon the filing of:
   A.   A complete application and payment of all required fees to the
director;
   B.   Application for investigation and payment of required fees to the LCSO.
(Ord. 2009-10, 1-19-2010)
TITLE 5
HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-1-1: Sale And Use Prohibited
5-1-2: Violation; Penalty
5-1-1: SALE AND USE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, firm, company, corporation or association within
the county to sell, or to keep for sale, or on display, or to possess or keep
under his control, or to discharge any rocket, squib, firecracker, Roman
candle, torpedo, sparkler, or other fireworks or explosive substance designed
or intended for pyrotechnic display or other use. (1983 Code § 8.04.010)
5-1-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, company, corporation or association who shall violate any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code § 8.04.020; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING 1
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Burning Prohibited
5-2-3: Exceptions
 
Notes
  1. See also section
1 5-3-5 of this title and section
  10-4-7 of this code.
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
GARBAGE: As used herein, includes swill, refuse, cans, bottles, paper,
vegetable matter, carcass of any dead animal, offal from any slaughter pen or
butcher shop, and accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter, liquid or
otherwise, that attends preparation, use, or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit
or vegetables and all foul, noisome and filthy substances.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, or combination of materials, including
solids, semi-solids, liquids or contained gases, which:
   A.   Is identified as hazardous by the regulating agency as a result of
studies undertaken to identify hazardous materials or wastes; and
   B.   Because of its quantity or concentration or its physical, chemical,
radioactive or infectious characteristics may:
      1. Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
serious irreversible or incapacitating illness; or
      2. Pose a substantial hazard or potential hazard to human health, public
safety or the environment when it is given improper treatment, storage,
transportation, disposal or other management, including toxins, corrosives,
flammable materials, irritants, strong sensitizers and materials which generate
pressure by decomposition, heat or otherwise.
HUMAN WASTE MATTER: Includes feces, excreta, hygienic napkins, diapers,
bandages, bags and containers used to catch or collect said feces and excreta.
TIRES AND PLASTIC MATERIALS: Defined as the meanings of those terms in everyday
usage. (1983 Code § 8.08.010)
5-2-2: BURNING PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person, for the purpose of burning any garbage, human
waste matter, tires, plastic materials, or hazardous materials or wastes
thereof, to kindle or maintain any bonfire or knowingly to furnish any
materials for any such fire, to authorize any such fire to be kindled or
maintained in any garbage, waste or rubbish receptacle, or on any street,
alley, road, land or public grounds or upon any private property within the
immediate limits of developed or inhabited areas of Lincoln County. (1983 Code
§ 8.08.020)
5-2-3: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Any commercial, industrial or manufacturing plant, site or enterprise
operating pursuant to a license or permit from the state which allows burning
or incinerating activity.
   B.   Agricultural activity conducted on farmland consistent with good
agricultural practice, unless it has a substantial adverse effect on public
health and safety.
   C.   The owner of any residential lot or kitchen garden plot cleaning or
clearing or supervising same when involving only stubble, fallen leaves and
twigs, dead vegetable plants and vines and dead or dormant noxious weeds, so
long as the burning is carried out during the days and hours thereof as set
aside by town boards or the county commission by resolution which shall be
published and posted as other legal notices.
   D.   This chapter shall not be interpreted to prohibit the burning of
growing noxious weeds for the purpose of controlling same by or with hand held
weed burners. (1983 Code § 8.08.030)
CHAPTER 3
FIRE PREVENTION (PIOCHE)
SECTION:
5-3-1: Fire Prevention Inspector
5-3-2: Right Of Entry
5-3-3: Obstructions In Or Near Buildings
5-3-4: Explosives
5-3-5: Bonfires; Permit Required
5-3-6: Ashes And Coals
5-3-7: Driving Over Fire Hose
5-3-8: Nuisances
5-3-9: Use Of Water During Fire
5-3-10: Storage Of Combustible Liquids
5-3-11: Investigation Of Dangerous Buildings
5-3-12: Violation; Penalty
5-3-1: FIRE PREVENTION INSPECTOR:
   A.   Designation: The chief of the Pioche fire department shall designate an
officer (or member) of the fire department as fire prevention inspector,
subject to the approval of the board of county commissioners acting as a town
board. The chief of the fire department may also designate such number of
inspectors as shall from time to time be authorized by the town board.
   B.   Compensation: All officers or employees so designated shall serve
without compensation.
   C.   Duties: It is the duty of the fire prevention inspector or inspectors
to cause to be enforced all laws and ordinances covering the following:
      1.   The prevention of fires;
      2.   The storage and use of explosives and inflammables;
      3.   The installation and maintenance of automatic and other fire alarm
systems, and fire extinguishing equipment;
      4.   The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes;
      5.   The means and adequacy of exits in case of fire from factories,
schools, hotels, lodging houses, asylums, hospitals, churches, halls, theaters,
amphitheaters and all other places in which numbers of persons work, live or
congregate, from time to time for any purpose;
      6.   The investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fires.
(1983 Code § 8.48.010)
5-3-2: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The fire prevention inspector or any inspector may, at any and all reasonable
hours, enter in or upon any building or premises within his jurisdiction for
the purpose of making any inspection or investigation which, under the
provisions of this chapter, he or they deem necessary to be made. (1983 Code §
8.48.020)
5-3-3: OBSTRUCTIONS IN OR NEAR BUILDINGS:
   A.   Removal Of Inflammable Material And Obstructions: When any inspector
shall find in any building or upon any premises, combustible or inflammable
matter, or dangerous accumulation of rubbish, or unnecessary accumulations of
wastepaper, boxes, shavings or any highly inflammable materials, which are so
situated as to endanger property; or shall find obstructions to or upon any
fire escape, stairs, passageway, doors or windows, liable to interfere with the
operation of the fire department or egress of occupants in case of fire; such
inspector shall order the same to be removed or remedied, or report the same to
the proper authorities as a violation of this chapter. (1983 Code § 8.48.030)
   B.   Encumbrances On Fire Escapes: No person shall at any time place an
encumbrance of any kind whatsoever before or upon any fire escape. It shall be
the duty of every member of the fire and sheriff departments who shall discover
any fire escape encumbered in any manner to forthwith report to the sheriff who
shall immediately notify the owner and the tenant to remove such encumbrances.
(1983 Code § 8.48.050)
   C.   Storage Around Stairways And Elevators: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, store or keep or permit to be stored, placed or kept under or
at the bottom of any stairways, inside or outside, elevator or other shaft in
any building, any combustible or inflammable material, fluids or compounds, nor
shall any such combustible or inflammable materials be placed or stored or kept
in any other place where ignition or burning would obstruct or render hazardous
egress from a building. (1983 Code § 8.48.060)
   D.   Obstructions In Hallways: No obstructions shall be permitted in
hallways of tenement houses or apartment houses. (1983 Code § 8.48.070)
   E.   Clear Passage At Exits And Aisles:
      1.   All doors, aisles and passageways within and leading into or out of
theaters, churches and all other places of public assemblage shall be kept free
from divans, campstools, sofas, benches and any other articles that might
obstruct or delay the exit of the audience, congregation or assemblage during
the entire time during which any show, performance, service, exhibition,
lecture, concert, ball or any other assemblage may be held, and it shall be
unlawful for any person to sit or stand or remain seated or standing or to
allow any other to sit or stand or remain seated or standing or to allow any
other person to so remain at any such place of public assemblage in any aisles
under any circumstances, or in any exit or passage required for safe passage of
the assemblage.
      2.   Clear passage from all exits and on sidewalks must at all times be
maintained outside.
      3.   Sidewalks must at all times be maintained outside of all theaters
and other places of public assemblage.
      4.   It shall be the duty of the sheriff's department to render
assistance in the enforcement of the provision of this subsection and to
require the sheriff's department to enter all places of public assemblage for
such purpose. (1983 Code § 8.48.080)
5-3-4: EXPLOSIVES:
Blasting caps or detonators of any kind shall not be kept in the same magazine
with other explosives. All magazines must be kept locked except when being
inspected or when explosives are being placed therein or being removed
therefrom. All magazines or places where explosives are stored must be kept
clean and free from grit, rubbish and empty packages. (1983 Code § 8.48.040)
5-3-5: BONFIRES; PERMIT REQUIRED 1 :
No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire nor open outside fire of any
description nor any outside incinerator, or shall knowingly furnish the
material for any such fire or incinerator, or authorize any such fire or
incinerator to be kindled or maintained on or in any street, alley, road, lane
or public ground or upon any public or private ground within the town of Pioche
unless a written permit so to do shall have been secured from the Pioche fire
department. (1983 Code § 8.48.090)
 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 2 of this title and section 10-4-7 of this code.
5-3-6: ASHES AND COALS:
No person shall deposit ashes, smoldering coals or embers or oily substances or
other matter liable to create spontaneous ignition within ten feet (10') of any
plastered wall, partition, fence, floor, sidewalk, lumber, hay, shavings,
rubbish or other combustible material except in metallic or other
noncombustible stands, and in every case must be kept at least two feet (2')
away from any combustible wall or partition. (1983 Code § 8.48.100)
5-3-7: DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any car, truck or vehicle over,
across or upon any fire hose placed upon the ground, floor or sidewalks by the
fire department. (1983 Code § 8.48.110)
5-3-8: NUISANCES:
   A.   Abatement Of Fire Hazards; Liability For Costs:
      1.   The obstructions, fire hazards or conditions mentioned in sections
5-3-3 through
5-3-7 of this chapter are determined to be nuisances and subject to removal or
abated by the governing authorities of the town of Pioche, at the cost and
expense of the owner, occupant, lessee or proprietor of the premises on which
the same may exist. If such owner, occupant, lessee or proprietor shall fail or
neglect to remove or correct the same after notice by the sheriff so to do,
such cost and expense may be recovered by the town from such owner, occupant,
lessee or proprietor by a civil action brought for that purpose.
      2.   Any person maintaining or permitting the existence or accumulation
of any of the fire hazards, obstructions or conditions shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to the penalty provided in this chapter. (1983 Code §
8.48.120)
   B.   Buildings Deemed Nuisance: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
association or corporation to maintain or use any building or structure in any
part of the town of Pioche, which would be a danger to property or to life or
health, or which would be unfit for human habitation or which would be a fire
menace. Any such building or structure shall be deemed a public nuisance. (1983
Code § 8.48.140)
5-3-9: USE OF WATER DURING FIRE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to be drawn from the
town mains for the purpose of watering or irrigating lawns or gardens while a
fire is in progress, and it shall be the duty of all persons to immediately
close all water taps and hydrants at the time the first fire alarm is sounded.
(1983 Code § 8.48.130)
5-3-10: STORAGE OF COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep or store any
petroleum, naphtha, benzine, gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil or any of the
combustible products of petroleum or any combustible liquid or gas of any kind
whatsoever, within the boundaries of the town of Pioche otherwise than in
tanks, barrels or other EPA approved containers buried at least three feet (3')
underground. Provided, that this section shall not apply in the case of crude
oil, distillate or fuel oil in EPA approved containers of five hundred (500)
gallons or less; nor to motor fuel in the process of being used in any motor
vehicle; nor in the case of gasoline and other petroleum products in quantities
of fifty five (55) gallons or less; nor in the case of flamo, propane, butane
and other products of similar nature when used for cooking or for heating in a
residential or business building in EPA approved containers of five hundred
(500) gallons (or the equivalent in cubic feet) or less. It shall be unlawful,
and none of the foregoing provisions shall be interpreted to make it lawful, to
keep or store any combustible liquid, gas or petroleum product whatsoever
inside any residential or business building in quantity in excess of ten (10)
gallons (or its equivalent in cubic feet) excepting this last provision shall
not apply to any duly licensed dealer in petroleum products, commercial garage
or service station. (1983 Code § 8.48.150; amd. 2003 Code)
5-3-11: INVESTIGATION OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
It shall be the duty of the sheriff, with the advice and assistance of the
Pioche fire department, to investigate all buildings, which they might deem
dangerous to property or to life or health, or which would be unfit for human
habitation; and if, in the judgment of the Pioche fire department, said
buildings or structures are dangerous to property or to health or life, or are
a fire menace, to cite the condition existing to the board of trustees of the
town of Pioche, to be abated as a nuisance, by instituting proceedings under
Nevada Revised Statutes section 244.360. (1983 Code § 8.48.160)
5-3-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code § 8.48.170; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
POSTERS (PIOCHE)
SECTION:
5-4-1: Prohibitions
5-4-2: Violation; Penalty
5-4-1: PROHIBITIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to print, paint, write, mark or in any
other manner post up any notice, card, sticker or advertisement or other device
upon any metal pole being a part of what is commonly known as the "Pioche White
Way" situated on the Main Street in the town of Pioche, without the advance
permission of the Pioche town board. (1983 Code § 8.64.010; amd. 2003 Code)
5-4-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter by defacing public
property shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code § 8.64.020; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
NUISANCES (PIOCHE)
SECTION:
5-5-1: Nuisances Designated; Abatement
5-5-2: Enforcement
5-5-3: Violation; Penalty
5-5-1: NUISANCES DESIGNATED; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Nuisances Defined: It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain a
nuisance within the limits of the town of Pioche. A nuisance within the meaning
of this chapter is defined to be as follows:
      1.   Manure Piles; Dead Animals: A manure pile, offal, hog pen, carcasses
of dead animals remaining unremoved beyond the limits of the town, more than
twelve (12) hours after the death of such animal, and any decayed meat, fruit
or vegetables.
      2.   Cesspools, Privies: Any cesspool, privy, water closet or any other
receptacle whatsoever of human excrement, which is in an overflowing, foul or
filthy condition, or any foul or filthy drain or sewer pipe.
      3.   Conditions Or Property Detrimental To Health: Every act or thing
done, or every condition created, permitted or allowed, or any property that is
detrimental to the public health, safety, morals or convenience.
   B.   County Authority: The county commissioners from time to time may
enlarge upon the definition of a nuisance and adopt a hearing and abatement
procedure by resolution. (1983 Code § 8.60.010)
5-5-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice To Abate: It is the duty of the sheriff of Lincoln County,
stationed at Pioche, to notify in writing any person, whether owner, occupant
or agent, or any corporation, and the agents, officers or servant of such
corporation maintaining a "nuisance", as defined in subsection 5-5-1A3 of this
chapter, to immediately abate the same.
   B.   Failure To Abate: If such party shall fail to abate such nuisance
within ten (10) days after being served with such notice, such party thereupon
becomes guilty of a violation of this chapter, and shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day that said nuisance is maintained, suffered or
permitted, after said time is expired, is a new offense.
   C.   Abatement By County; Liability For Costs: Provided, however, that the
sheriff may proceed to abate the nuisance at any time after the expiration of
the ten (10) days, and the cost of such abatement shall become a charge against
the party maintaining, suffering or permitting same, which may be recovered in
any action brought for such purpose before any court of competent jurisdiction.
(1983 Code § 8.60.020; amd. 2003 Code)
5-5-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, whether an owner or occupant, or the agent of an owner or occupant,
and any corporation that shall create, maintain, allow or permit upon any
property, any nuisance enumerated in subsections 5-5-1A1 and A2 of this
chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code § 8.60.030; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PANACA FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
(Rep. by Ord. 2021-01, 5-3-2021)
CHAPTER 7
LINCOLN COUNTY FIRE PROTECTION DISTRICT
SECTION:
5-7-1: Organization
5-7-2: Boundaries Of District
5-7-3: Territory Excepted From District Boundaries
5-7-4: Contracts Between County And District
5-7-1: ORGANIZATION:
Pursuant to the authority of Nevada Revised Statutes 474.460 to 474.540,
Lincoln County hereby organizes the Lincoln County fire protection district to
provide for the prevention and extinguishment of fires within Lincoln County;
section
5-7-2 of this chapter describes its boundaries. (Ord. 2008-12, 12-15-2008)
5-7-2: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICT:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the boundaries of the Lincoln
County Fire Protection District shall include area within the official
boundaries of Lincoln County as set forth in NRS 243. (Ord. 2008-12, 12-15-
2008; amd. Ord. 2021-01, 5-3-2021)
5-7-3: TERRITORY EXCEPTED FROM DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
The following territory is excepted from the territory described in section
5-7-2 of this chapter:
   A.   The incorporated areas of the city of Caliente.
   B.   Any territory of a fire protection district formed and existing in
accordance with the provisions of NRS chapter 473, NRS 474.010 to 474.450,
inclusive, or NRS 474.460, and includes:
      1.   The Pioche Fire District; and
      2.   The Pahranagat Valley Volunteer Fire District. (Ord. 2008-12, 12-15-
2008; amd. Ord. 2021-01, 5-3-2021)
5-7-4: CONTRACTS BETWEEN COUNTY AND DISTRICT:
Pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 474, the board of county
commissioners of Lincoln County, Nevada, hereby authorizes the execution of
contracts between Lincoln County and the Lincoln County fire protection
district for the prevention and control of fires and concerning the exercise of
the powers provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 474.470. (Ord. 2008-12, 12-15-
2008)
CHAPTER 8
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT
SECTION:
5-8-1: Definitions
5-8-2: Prohibitions
5-8-3: Permitted
5-8-4: Penalty
5-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
IMAGE: A photograph, video, or any capturing, recording, or gathering, in
analog, digital, or other form, of sound waves, thermal, infrared, ultraviolet,
visible light, or other electromagnetic waves, radio waves, odor, or other
conditions existing on or about real property in this county or an individual
located on that property.
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT: An airborne device that is operated without an individual in
or on the device. It may be expendable or recoverable. (Ord. 2015-02, 9-8-2015)
5-8-2: PROHIBITIONS:
A person commits an offense if the person:
   A.   Operates an unmanned aircraft with the intent to gather, record, or
transmit a sound or image of another individual in a place or location where
the individual has a reasonable expectation of privacy.
   B.   Operates an unmanned aircraft to photograph, videotape, record,
transmit, or otherwise gather a sound or image of any portion of the Nevada
Test And Training Range that is within Lincoln County.
   C.   Operates an unmanned aircraft unreasonably, unwarrantably, or
unlawfully over real property that causes injury, damage, hurt, inconvenience,
annoyance, or discomfort to any person or entity in that person's or entity's
legitimate use or enjoyment of that property.
   D.   Operates an unmanned aircraft in airspace over Lincoln County that the
federal aviation administration has ordered restricted pursuant to lawfully
promulgated regulation. (Ord. 2015-02, 9-8-2015)
5-8-3: PERMITTED:
Section
5-8-2 of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Unmanned aircraft operations, exercises, or missions authorized by the
armed forces of the United States; or
   B.   A law enforcement agency acting pursuant to a warrant; or
   C.   A local, state, or federal government entity after determining that
under the circumstances, there is an immediate danger of death or serious
injury. (Ord. 2015-02, 9-8-2015)
5-8-4: PENALTY:
A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be punished for a
misdemeanor by imprisonment in the county jail for up to six (6) months and/or
by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 2015-02, 9-
8-2015)
TITLE 6
ANIMALS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definition Of Terms
6-1-2: Rabies Control
6-1-3: Animal Restrictions
6-1-4: Vicious Animals
6-1-5: Reporting Of Found Animals
6-1-6: Animal Waste And Odor
6-1-7: Impoundment And Disposition
6-1-8: Animal Care
6-1-9: Licenses And Permits
6-1-10: Exotic/Special Condition Animals
6-1-11: Enforcement, Authority, And Penalties
 
It is the public policy of Lincoln County to encourage, secure, and enforce
those animal control measures deemed desirable and necessary for the protection
of human health and safety, and to the degree practicable, to prevent injury to
property and cruelty to animal life. To this end, it is the purpose of this
chapter to provide a means of regulating the keeping of animals, impounding
animals, and controlling animal behavior so that it shall not constitute a
nuisance or danger to human or other animal life and safety and to prevent or
curtail cruelty to animals.
6-1-1: DEFINITION OF TERMS:
Except as specifically defined herein or where it is plainly evident from the
context that a different meaning is intended, all words and phrases in this
title shall have their customary dictionary definitions. All words used in the
singular shall include the plural and the plural the singular. Each gender
shall include the other; and tense shall include all other tenses. The word
“shall” is mandatory and the word “may” is permissive.
ANIMAL:                  Every nonhuman species of creature, whether domestic, wild, feral, or exotic,
                         including but not limited to the following as defined:
   CAT:               Any domestic cat (Felis Silvestris Catus);
   DOG:               Any male or female dog (Canis Familiaris);
   EXOTIC ANIMAL:     Any animal which is not a domestic household pet or livestock;
                         Any animal normally domesticated that has returned to the wild state and has not
   FERAL ANIMAL:      been accorded game animal status by the Nevada Department of Wildlife or has been
                         protected by the Wild Free Roaming Horses and Burros Act and amendments thereto;
   FERRET:            Any domestic ferret (Mustela Furo);
                         All cattle or animals of the bovine species; all horses, mules, burros, and asses
   LIVESTOCK:         or animals of the equine species; all goats or animals of the caprine species;
                         all sheep or animals of the ovine species; all poultry or domesticated fowl or
                         birds; and all alternative livestock;
                         Animals that, due to the unique husbandry, handling, recapture, and enclosure
                         requirements, consist of the following: baboons (genus Papaio), chimpanzees
                         (genus Pan), drills and mandrills (genus Mandrillus), gelada baboons (genus
                         Theropithecus), gibbons (genus Hylobates), gorillas (genus Gorilla), macaques
                         (genus Macaca), orangutans (genus Pengo), siamangs (genus Symphalangus), cheetahs
   SPECIAL CONDITIONS (Acinonyx jubatus), clouded leopards (Neofelis nebulosi), cougars, panthers (Puma
ANIMAL:                  leo), snow leopards (Pantera unci), tigers (Panthera tigris), African wild dogs
                         (Lycaon pictus), dingoes (Ganus dingo), jackals (4 species: Ganus aureus,
                         mesomelas, simensis, adustus), maned wolf (Chysocyon brachyurus), wolves (Ganus
                         lupus, Ganus rufus), wolf hybrids, bears (family Ursidae), elephants (family
                         Eliphantidae), hyenas (family Hyanenidae), wolverines (Gulo gulo), wild hybrids
                         of those listed.
                         As defined by the United States Department of Agriculture: Any animal which is
                         now or historically has been found in the wild, or in the wild state, within the
   WILD ANIMAL:       boundaries of the United States, its territories, or possessions. This term
                         includes, but is not limited to, animals such as: deer, skunk, opossum, raccoon,
                         mink, badger, armadillo, coyote, squirrel, fox, wolf, cougar/mountain lion, and
                         lynx/bobcat.
                         Any person employed or contracted with Lincoln County or Lincoln County Sheriff’s
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:  Office and responsible for the enforcement of this title and state statutes
                         pertaining to animals.
ANIMAL CONTROL           The person employed or contracted as the supervisor of animal control for Lincoln
SUPERVISOR:              County or his or her designee.
ANIMAL FACILITY:         A place where animals are kept for profit or nonprofit, for selling, breeding,
                         adoption, boarding, short, or long-term care.
ANIMAL SANCTUARY:        An establishment owned or operated by a licensed profit or nonprofit organization
                         whose primary function is to provide temporary care and comfort to animals.
                         Any facility operated by a humane society, nonprofit organization or municipal
ANIMAL SHELTER:          agency or its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding animals under the
                         authority of this chapter or state law for care, confinement, return to owner,
                         adoption, or euthanasia.
                         Means and includes every instance in which an animal is found to be beyond the
                         custody and control of its owner or other person responsible for the animal. An
AT LARGE:                animal is deemed to be at large when it is found off the premises of its owner or
                         other person responsible for it and not accompanied by a person who has the
                         animal under immediate control by physical restraint or by signal or voice.
BITE:                    A puncture or tear of the skin inflicted by the teeth of an animal.
BOARD:                   Lincoln County Board of County Commissioners.
COMMERCIAL ANIMAL        Means and includes, but is not limited to, pet shop, grooming shop, guard dog
ESTABLISHMENT:           training school, auction, riding school or stable, zoological park, circus,
                         performing animal exhibition, or boarding or breeding kennel.
                         A place where any number of dogs or cats are boarded and kept for commercial
COMMERCIAL KENNEL:       purposes, including breeding, boarding, or training. This term does not include
                         state inspected veterinary hospitals, or the county animal control shelter.
COUNTY:                  Those areas of Lincoln County exclusive of incorporated areas.
                         Without provocation, it behaves menacingly, to a degree that would lead a
DANGEROUS DOG:           reasonable person to defend himself or herself against substantial bodily harm,
                         when the dog is off the premises of its owner or keeper, or not confined in a
                         cage, pen, or vehicle.
GROOMING SHOP:           A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped, or otherwise
                         groomed.
IMMEDIATE DIRECTION AND  Power to immediately restrict or restrain the actions and movement of a dog by
CONTROL:                 the person responsible for the dog.
                         A residential property where a total of eleven (11) dogs and cats or more are
MULTIPET PERMIT:         kept by the owner for personal pleasure; the animals are not kept for commercial
                         purposes. Dogs trained for search and rescue or service animals shall not be
                         counted toward the number of dogs and cats for purposes of a multi-pet permit.
                         Any person, firm, corporation, or organization possessing, harboring, keeping or
                         having control, charge, or custody of an animal, or, if the animal is owned by a
OWNER OR OWN:            person under the age of eighteen (18), that person’s parent or guardian. The
                         terms shall not apply to animals owned by others which are temporarily maintained
                         on the premises of a veterinarian or kennel operator for a period of less than
                         thirty (30) days.
PERSON RESPONSIBLE:      The owner or person who harbors, controls, has custody, or possession of any dog
                         or other animal.
                         Any person, partnership, or corporation, whether operated separately or in
PET SHOP/PET STORE:      connection with another business enterprise (except for a commercial dog kennel),
                         that buys, sells, or boards any species of animals. A veterinary clinic or
                         hospital is excluded from this provision.
                         Any animal or animals that unreasonably annoy humans, endanger the life or health
                         of other animals or persons, or substantially interferes with the rights of
                         citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of life or property. The term
                         “public nuisance animal” shall mean and include, but is not limited to any animal
                         that:
                         a.   Is repeatedly (three (3) or more times) found at large;
                         b.   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner;
                         c.   Molests or intimidates pedestrians or passersby;
                         d.   Chases vehicles;
                         e.   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to:
                         continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances causing
PUBLIC NUISANCE:         unreasonable annoyance, disturbance, or discomfort to neighbors or others in
                         close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
                         f.   Causes fouling of the air by odor and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance
                         or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the premises where the
                         animal is kept or harbored (excludes livestock);
                         g.   Causes unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where the animal
                         is kept or harbored;
                         h.   Is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety, or welfare by virtue
                         of the number and/or types of animals maintained;
                         i.   Attacks other domestic animals; or
                         j.   Has been found by the County Commissioners, after notice to its owner and a
                         hearing, to be a public nuisance animal by virtue of being a menace to the public
                         health, welfare, or safety.
                         Any animal secured by a leash, cable, cord, chain, or similar device under the
RESTRAINT OR RESTRAINED: control of a responsible person and obedient to that person’s command, or
                         confined within the property limits of its owner or keeper by way of a fence,
                         cage, or other device.
                         Any place that has available for hire, boarding and/or riding instruction, any
RIDING SCHOOL OR STABLE: horse, pony, donkey, mule, or burro; or any place that regularly buys, sells, or
                         trains the above animals, including a racetrack, trotting track, or rodeo.
                         An enclosure which is covered at top as well as on all sides with the base
                         secured to the ground in a manner that the dog confined cannot exit by digging
SECURE PEN:              underneath. The side walls and top of the pen must be made of material
                         sufficiently strong and constructed in such a manner that the confined animal
                         cannot exit. There must be an entry which is secure with a metal latch. The
                         fending material must be a minimum of 9-gauge wire.
SERVICE ANIMAL:          An animal that has been trained to assist or accommodate a person with a
                         disability.
SHERIFF:                 The chief law enforcement officer of Lincoln County or his or her designee.
                         Any animal control officer, humane officer, fish and game warden, sheriff or
SPECIAL OFFICER:         deputy sheriff, or other law enforcement or peace offices possessing the powers
                         of a peace officer as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 289.150.
STRAY ANIMAL:            Any animal running at large upon public or private lands in the State of Nevada,
                         and whose owner is unknown in the place where the animal is found.
                         Unless the context otherwise requires, substantial bodily harm means, bodily harm
SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM: which creates a substantial risk of death or which causes serious, permanent
                         disfigurement or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily
                         member or organ; or prolonged physical pain.
TORTURE OR CRUELTY:      Every act or omission whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is
                         caused or permitted to an animal.
VETERINARIAN:            A graduate doctor of veterinary medicine licensed to practice in the State of
                         Nevada.
                         Any establishment operated by a veterinarian or provides veterinarian services on
VETERINARY FACILITY      a contractual basis to provide dental, medical or surgical treatment, boarding,
(Large and Small         care and grooming for large and small animals. A veterinary hospital may have
Animal):                 adjacent to it or in conjunction with it, or as an integral part of it, indoor
                         and outdoor pens, stalls, cages, or kennels for quarantine or observation.
                         Any establishment operated by a veterinarian or provides veterinarian services on
VETERINARY FACILITY      a contractual basis to provide dental, medical or surgical treatment, boarding,
(Small Animals):         care and grooming for small animals. A veterinary clinic may have adjacent to it
                         or in conjunction with it, or as an integral part of it, indoor pens, cages, or
                         kennels for quarantine or observation.
                         Any establishment maintained and operated either directly or on a contract basis
VETERINARY HOSPITAL:     by a licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and
                         injuries of animals.
                         Any animal, except a trained dog assisting a peace officer engaged in law
                         enforcement duties, which demonstrates one or more of the following behaviors:
                         a.   An attack, without provocation, which requires defensive action by any
                         person to prevent bodily injury or property damage or which results in an injury
VICIOUS ANIMAL:          to a person or property;
                         b.   Any behavior, without provocation, which constitutes a physical threat of
                         bodily harm to a person, where such attack, injury, or behavior occurs in a place
                         where such person is conducting himself peaceably and lawfully; or
                         c.   An attack without provocation on another animal which occurs off the
                         property of the owner of the attacking animal. (Ord. 2020-04, 12-21-2020)
 
6-1-2: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Inoculation Against Rabies: The owner of any dog which is kept within
the County outside the limits of any incorporated city, shall, after his dog
has obtained the age of six (6) months and at such intervals as may be
prescribed by the rules and regulations by the State Department of Agriculture,
procure the inoculation of each such dog by a licensed veterinarian, with a
canine anti-rabies vaccine approved by the State Department of Agriculture.
   B.   Impoundment:
      1.   If there is reason to believe that a dog has rabies, such dog may be
confined by a special officer of the County and placed under observation of a
veterinarian or at the animal shelter at the expense of the owner for a period
of ten (10) days. The owner of a dog who believes his dog has rabies shall
notify the special officer of the County of such fact and at his discretion,
the special officer of the county is empowered to have such dog removed from
the owner’s premises to a veterinary hospital or to the animal shelter and
there placed under observation for a period of ten (10) days at the expense of
the owner.
      2.   In the event that a dog bites a human being and which dog has not
had a rabies inoculation as provided by this section, the special officer of
the County shall place such animal under observation of a veterinarian or at
the animal shelter at the expense of the owner for a period of ten (10) days.
In the event the dog bites a human being and the owner can provide proof of a
current rabies inoculation as provided in this section, the special officer may
in his discretion place the animal under the observation of a veterinarian or
at the animal shelter in accordance with the vicious animal provisions herein.
      3.   It shall be the duty and responsibility of any person with knowledge
thereof to report any animal bite to a special officer, animal control officer,
or Sheriff’s office, and to provide all information requested. (Ord. 2020-04,
12-21-2020)
6-1-3: ANIMAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Animals Running at Large, generally:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person who owns, harbors, or keeps or who has
possession, charge, custody, or control of any animal to cause, permit, suffer,
or allow such animal to stray, run or in any other manner to be at large in or
upon any public highway, street, alley, sidewalk, park, place, or schoolground,
or upon any unenclosed lot or land whether public or private, other than that
of the owner.
      2.   Subsection A.1. of this section shall not apply to any animal
working performing, or otherwise under the immediate direction and control of
the person responsible for the animal or under the immediate direction and
control of the agent or employee of such person.
      3.    Nothing in this section shall be construed or used in contradiction
to the open range laws of the State of Nevada.
      4.   A warning notice will be served on the owner of any animal found or
reported to be running at large. If any animal belonging to this owner is found
or reported to be running at large, the owner may be charged with a misdemeanor
and fined. Any animal found running at large by a special officer may be
impounded, regardless of whether or not this is the animal’s first offense. If
an animal is impounded, the owner shall be required to pay Forty Dollars
($40.00) for the first offense, Seventy-Five Dollars ($75.00) for the second
offense, and One Hundred Twenty Dollars ($120.00) for each subsequent offense,
in addition to any required fines that must be paid to animal control for
boarding the animal before the dog can be released. Animal Control may charge
Twenty-Five Dollars ($25.00) for administrative costs in addition to a per day
charge for each day the dog is kept impounded.
   B.   Dogs at Large, Livestock: It is unlawful for any person who owns,
harbors, keeps, or has possession, charge, custody or control of any dog to
cause, permit, suffer or allow such a dog to stray or run at large if such dog,
while straying or running at large, actively pursues, chases, attacks, injures,
or kills, or worries any livestock within Lincoln County.
   C.   Barking or Howling Animal:
      1.   It is unlawful for the owner of any dog within the Towns of Alamo,
Panaca or Pioche to allow the animal to continually or habitually howl, bark,
or make any other loud or aggravating noise or in any other manner disturb the
peace and quietude of the community. Such conduct on the part of any animal is
a public nuisance.
      2.   The special officer will take whatever steps necessary to abate any
such nuisance. The officer will first attempt to notify the animal’s owner of
the problem. If the problem is not abated or the owner cannot be reached, then,
in attempting to abate such a nuisance occurring in the presence of any
officer, the officer may enter upon private property and take any such animal
into custody and impound it, except no animal may be taken from any dwelling
house or other building.
      3.   Any special officer forced to remove and impound an animal to
alleviate a noise nuisance shall make every reasonable attempt to notify the
owners that the animal has been removed and impounded.
   D.   Number of Dogs Allowed:
      1.   Unless otherwise provided herein, it is unlawful for any person
within the Towns of Alamo, Panaca or Pioche to own, keep, harbor, or have in
his possession or charge, custody, or control of a total of more than five (5)
dogs over the age of four (4) months at any one time:
         a.   On the premises of a residence;
         b.   On the premises of a business other than a commercial dog kennel,
veterinary clinic, or veterinary hospital;
      2.   Unless otherwise provided herein, any person having more than five
(5) dogs over the age of four (4) months, must obtain a kennel permit. A kennel
permit will be valid for one year.
      An owner in violation of this Subsection 4, may be charged with a
misdemeanor and punished as provided within this Code.
   E.   Cats: The following controls are hereby established regarding the
keeping of cats:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person within the Towns of Alamo, Panaca or
Pioche to own, keep, harbor, or have in his possession or charge, custody, or
control of a total of more than five (5) cats over the age of six (6) months:
         a.   On the premises of a residence;
         b.   On the premises of a business other than a farm, commercial
kennel, veterinary clinic, or animal hospital;
      An owner in violation of this Subsection 6, may be charged with a
misdemeanor and punished as provided within this Code.
      2.   Any cat which is a “public nuisance,” “stray,” or “feral” as defined
in this Chapter, may be trapped in a humane manner.
      3.   A stray or feral cat may be destroyed, notwithstanding the
provisions of
6-1-5 of this Chapter, by a special officer or any person under the following
conditions:
         a.   The animal does not carry a tag or other clearly identifying
information regarding the owner or where the animal lives; and
         b.   The animal has annoyed or interfered with the enjoyment of public
property or a person’s private property.
      4.   If any person captures a cat which has a tag or other clearly
identifying information in it giving the name and/or address of the owner, that
cat shall be returned to the owner or an animal control officer forthwith.
      5.   A cat which becomes a public nuisance may be impounded as provided
within this title and may be the subject of an abatement hearing as provided in
this title. (Ord. 2020-04, 12-21-2020)
6-1-4: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Determining Vicious Animals:
      1.   After conducting an investigation, the special officer shall
determine if an animal is a “vicious animal” as defined in this chapter.
      2.   If the officer determines that a particular animal is a vicious
animal, the owner or harborer of such animal shall be notified in writing when
the determination is made, and the facts pertaining to the determination.
   B.   Impoundment; Notification to Owner:
      1.   The special officer may, at his discretion, cause any animal to be
impounded and shall, within three (3) days after such impoundment, notify the
owner, if known, that the animal has been impounded under the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   The special officer may tranquilize or use any other reasonable
means necessary to impound the animal.
   C.   Disposition of Animal: The special officer may do any of the following
with regard to a vicious animal:
      1.   Unless the time is otherwise lengthened by agreement between the
special officer and the owner of the animal, retain such animal for purposes of
observation for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
      2.   Release such animal to the control of its owner under such
conditions as may be reasonably required to ensure the public safety;
      3.   Cause such animal to be destroyed if, in his opinion the release of
such animal would create a threat o the public safety. Such destruction must be
accomplished in accordance with the procedures for notice and hearing provided
in this chapter.
      4.   Animals unclaimed upon expiration of the applicable time limits set
forth in Section
6-1-5 of this Chapter may be disposed of in accordance with this chapter.
   D   Conditions: The special officer shall impose such conditions upon the
return of a vicious animal to its owner as may be reasonably necessary to
ensure the public safety. As a prerequisite, to release of the vicious animal,
the owner must, at his own expense, purchase a prepaid, a one-hundred thousand-
dollar ($100,000.00) animal liability insurance policy to reimburse any victim
for any harm that the vicious animal may cause and provide the special control
officer with proof of such purchase of liability insurance. Upon proof of
insurance, conditions such as, but not limited to, the following may be
ordered:
      1.   To keep the animal confined on its premises in an enclosure approved
by the special officer;
      2.   To keep the animal securely muzzled, leashed, and under the control
of a person eighteen (18) years of age and older, and who is physically capable
of restraining the animal when the animal is off his property;
      3.   To post the entrances to the property where the animal is kept with
a legible sign containing letters at least two inches (2") in height warning
persons of the presence of a vicious animal;
      4.   To keep such animal in a manner so as not to create or cause
offensive odors, a danger to public health, or a public nuisance;
      5.   The premises upon which an animal is maintained shall be open at any
reasonable hour for inspection by the special officer;
      A violation of this agreement will result in the animal being impounded
and destroyed. (Ord. 2020-04, 12-21-2020)
6-1-5: REPORTING OF FOUND ANIMALS:
It is unlawful for any person who takes custody of any lost or abandoned
animal, or any animal running at large, to fail to report the animal as such to
a special officer, animal control officer, or Sheriff’s deputy after taking
custody thereof. (Ord. 2020-04, 12-21-2020)
6-1-6: ANIMAL WASTE AND ODOR:
   A.   No person owning or possessing an animal shall permit, either willfully
or through failure to exercise due care, such animal to excrete any solid waste
upon any public or private property unless such private property is under the
ownership or control of said person. No violation of this section shall occur
if the owner or person having custody of the offending animal properly and
voluntarily removes and promptly disposes of the solid waste.
   B.   Every person having, owning, or possessing an animal within the Towns
of Alamo, Panaca or Pioche shall keep said animal’s living area free from
offensive odors. (Ord. 2020-04, 12-21-2020)
6-1-7: IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION:
   A.   Impounding, Redemption, and Destruction of Animals:
      1.   An animal may be impounded by a special officer when such officer
has probable cause to believe that the owner or person possessing such animal
is in violation of this title or is determined to be a public nuisance as
defined in this Chapter.
      2.   Any animal impounded pursuant to this section shall be released to
its owner or person lawfully possessing it upon final disposition of all
criminal charges or citation relating to the impoundment, unless otherwise
ordered by a court of law.
      3.   All animals impounded by a special officer shall be delivered to a
designated area animal shelter. The officers or deputies will make a reasonable
effort to notify the person responsible for any impounded animal as soon as
practical. In the event telephone contact cannot be made, notice must be given
to a known owner by first class mail.
      The person responsible for an impounded animal may reclaim such animal
upon meeting all regulations and paying any fees required by the animal
shelter.
      4.   Any dog, which has no readily available identification (either a tag
or implanted microchip) indicating ownership and which is not reclaimed within
fifteen (15) days after it is impounded, is deemed to be abandoned and may be
destroyed or put up for adoption. The person responsible for the dog will be
liable for the cost of destruction of the dog.
   B.   Emergency Impoundment:
      1.   A special officer may impound a dog or other animal when the person
responsible for the animal is unable to care for it due to emergency
circumstances. The officer impounding the animal must make a record of the
circumstances of impounding including:
         a.   Name, address, and phone number of person responsible for the
animal;
         b.   Current location of the person responsible;
         c.   Name, address, and telephone number of owner if other than the
person responsible;
         d.   Arrangements that have been made for reclaiming the animal; and;
         e.   Circumstances that created the necessity of impoundment.
      2.   The officer impounding the animal must notify the person responsible
for the animal of the following rules which will apply when an animal is
impounded under emergency circumstances:
         a.   That a boarding fee will be charged for all animals not reclaimed
on the first business day after impoundment.
         b.   That the person responsible for the animal will be responsible
for veterinary fees for treatment of the animal;
         c.   That the animal may be considered abandoned if not reclaimed from
animal control within fifteen (15) days after it is impounded;
         d.   That an abandoned animal (i.e., animal not reclaimed within 15
days) may be destroyed or put up for adoption;
         e.   That the person responsible may designate an agent to reclaim the
animal; and
         f.   That the animal may be relinquished to animal control.
   C.   Relinquishment of Animal to Animal Control: A Lincoln County resident
who is the owner of an animal may relinquish ownership of the animal by signing
a statement that he/she is the legal owner of the animal and authorizes animal
control to dispose of the animal. Disposal may occur through destruction or
adoption. The owner of the animal must pay the cost of disposal at the time of
relinquishment. Such cost will be the price charged Lincoln County for the
resources and supplies used for destruction. (Ord. 2020-04, 12-21-2020)
6-1-8: ANIMAL CARE:
The provisions of NRS 574.050-.200, inclusive, are adopted by reference to
govern animal care within Lincoln County. (Ord. 2020-04, 12-21-2020)
6-1-9: LICENSES AND PERMITS:
   A.   Business Licenses: The owner of any commercial animal establishment,
including, but not limited to, dog kennels, pet stores, grooming shops, dog
training centers, or riding stables, shall obtain a business license in
accordance with current Lincoln County requirements and fees for other
businesses located in the County. Such license will be valid for one year and
must be renewed yearly.
   B.   Breeder Permits: Each breeder, as defined in NRS 574.245, who operates
in an unincorporated area of Lincoln County shall obtain an annual permit from
the County. The Board of County Commissioners may establish and adjust from
time to time the requirements of the permit, including but not limited to a
permit fee, by resolution as the Board deems necessary and in accordance with
the provisions of NRS 574.353. (Ord. 2020-04, 12-21-2020)
6-1-10: EXOTIC/SPECIAL CONDITION ANIMALS:
   A.   Permit for Exotic/Special Condition Animals:
      1.   No person shall keep, possess, maintain, sell or trade an exotic
and/or special condition animal within the county without first obtaining an
exotic animal permit from the county, as well as fulfilling all state and
federal regulations. Exotic animal permits may be issued by the Board of County
Commissioners. The application for a permit shall contain the name of the
applicant, applicant’s address, the applicant’s home and business phone
numbers, the address and description of the proposed location where the animal
will be kept, if different from applicant’s, and a complete description of the
animal. A permit obtained under this section is not transferable.
      2.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a permit obtained
under this section is valid for one (1) year and must be renewed on an annual
basis; however, when the permittee’s address or the location where the animal
is kept changes, the permit automatically becomes void and a new application
must be submitted to the Board of County Commissioners. A nonrefundable fee of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) must accompany each application for an exotic
animal permit. Each permit is valid for one animal only.
      3.   This section shall not be applicable to:
         a.   Any zoo, or any university, college, governmental research agency
or other bona fide scientific institution which, in the opinion of the special
officer, is engaged in scientific or public health research. For purposes of
this section, a “zoo” shall be considered any organization which exhibits
animals to the general public at regular specified hours, equaling at least
thirty (30) hours a week for thirty-six (36) weeks per year, and whose animals,
whether maintained for exhibit purposes or not, are not for sale to private
individuals; and
         b.   Any owners of establishments which treat or board animals on the
premises or any owners of pet shops which house animals for the purpose of
sale; provided, that the owner or operator shall keep a permanent record of the
name, address, and phone number of the purchaser of any animal along with the
breed, color, sex, and age of each animal sold or given away and shall forward
such information to the special officer within ten (10) days after the transfer
of the animal. The special officer shall have the right to inspect such records
during normal business hours.
   B.   Issuance of Permit for Exotic/Special Condition Animal:
      1.   Upon receipt of the completed application together with the
application fee and after interviewing adjacent property owners, the special
officer may issue a permit to keep the exotic/special condition animal
conditioned upon the applicant promising to adhere to any reasonable criteria
related to the proper care and use of the animal which the special officer
shall establish.
      2.   Within five (5) working days after the special officer’s decision to
grant or deny the application, an aggrieved applicant or resident of the
neighborhood may appeal the special officer’s decision to the Board of County
Commissioners by filing a written petition with the County Clerk. The Board
shall hold a public hearing to consider whether or not an exotic animal permit
should be issued. In the event the Board determines that a permit should be
issued, a written permit shall be drafted containing such conditions as the
Board deem necessary for the protection of the health and safety of county
residents and of the exotic animal.
   C.   Revocation or Suspension of Permit; Destruction of Animal:
      1.   Any permit issued pursuant to this section may be suspended or
revoked and/or the exotic/special condition animal destroyed if the special
officer determines that any permit condition or law relating to exotic or
vicious animals has not been adhered to.
      2.   If, after investigation, the special officer concludes that grounds
for suspension, revocation, or destruction exists, he shall notify the
permittee in writing. Such notice must specify the grounds for suspension or
revocation of the permit or destruction of the animal, specify the date when
such action shall become effective, and advise the permittee of the right to
appeal the decision of the special control officer to the Lincoln County
Commissioners. The owner or possessor of an exotic animal may appeal to the
Lincoln County Commissioners by filing a written petition with the County Clerk
within five (5) working days after receipt of notice from the special control
officer. The Lincoln County Commissioners shall then hold a public hearing to
consider whether appropriate grounds exist to order the action sought by the
special officer. The County Commissioners may, in their discretion, modify,
suspend, or revoke the exotic animal permit or order the destruction of the
animal. In the event an appellant fails to appear at the hearing, the appellant
shall waive any right to contest the action proposed by the special officer and
any claim against the county or its employees by reason of such action.
      3.   In the event it is reasonably necessary to protect against an
immediate threat or danger to the public or to an animal’s health or safety,
the special officer may suspend any permit and impound the animal without a
hearing for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days unless such period is
extended by reason of a pending appeal to the County Commissioners.
   D.   Inspection: Permits issued pursuant to this section shall provide that,
as a condition for issuance, the premises upon such an animal is maintained
shall be opened at any reasonable hour for inspection by the special officer or
the health officer and that the premises shall be surrendered for inspection by
the permittee upon request of such officers.
   E.   Certain Animals Not Permitted: No permit shall be issued pursuant to
this section for any of the following animals, and possession of sch animals is
unlawful:
      1.   Any animal which, under the laws or regulations of the State of
Nevada or the United States, private individuals have been forbidden from
keeping, possessing, maintaining, importing, or selling.
      2.   The owner or possessor of an exotic animal shall bear the cost of
seizure, impoundment, and destruction of an exotic animal determined to be in
violation of this section. (Ord. 2020-04, 12-21-2020)
6-1-11: ENFORCEMENT, AUTHORITY, AND PENALTIES:
   A.   The county’s special officers have the authority to enforce the
provisions of this title relating to the safety and health of animals and the
public safety of the communities. Pursuant to such authority the officers
designated having authority may:
      1.   Issue citations, tickets, summons, and any other legal notices;
      2.   Investigate suspected or alleged violations thereof;
      3.   Perform such other duties reasonably necessary to the above or as
the county may provide.
   B.   Resisting Authorized Personnel Unlawful: No person shall oppose,
resist, or interfere with any special officer engaged in the performance of any
duties related to the interference of this title.
   C.   False Reporting: It is unlawful for any person to deliberately report
to any Lincoln County special officer which causes any officer to conduct an
investigation knowing such report to be false.
   D.   Special Officer:
      1.   The Lincoln County Special Officer is empowered to investigate
grievances concerning animals in Lincoln County. Prior to conducting an on the
scene investigation based on telephone grievances, the officer may ascertain
what attempts have been made by the complaining party or others to bring the
problem to a satisfactory resolution. Attempts by a citizen to resolve an issue
and the emergency nature of the situation should be considered by the special
officer in determining whether or not immediate on-scene-investigation or
action is necessary.
      2.   The powers and duties of the Lincoln County Special Officer shall be
as follows:
         a.   To keep an accurate record of all animals impounded and to record
all reports received involving the animals, including dog bites and injured or
sick animals, and provide a quarterly report to the county commissioners;
         b.   To impound animals which are in violation of this chapter, or for
the safekeeping of the animal to protect the health and welfare;
         c.   To remove and dispose of the carcass of any animal found on any
public highway, street, alley, or other public place;
         d.   To act under the authorization of the health officer for the
quarantine of potentially diseased animals dangerous to public health;
         e.   To propose to the County Commissioners rules and regulations
necessary to carry out the requirements of this chapter;
         f.   To destroy and dispose of animals after due notice to the owner
and pursuant to the procedures set forth in this chapter;
         g.   To put up for adoption, when appropriate, impounded animals,
after due notice to the owner;
         h.   To enforce all provisions of this chapter.
      3.   It shall be the duty of the Sheriff and Sheriff’s Deputies in the
county while on duty, to assist in carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   The Lincoln County Special Officers are empowered to prepare, sign,
and serve written citations on persons accused of violating the Lincoln County
Animal Ordinance.
   E.   Health Officer: The health officer is empowered to enter upon any
private property, with the consent of the owner, or with a search warrant, for
the purpose of ascertaining whether nay dog or other animal kept or harbored is
infected with rabies or other disease potentially dangerous to public health.
The health officer may quarantine any animal for the protection of public
health.
   F.   Interference with Special Officers or Health Officers: It is unlawful
for any person in any manner to:
      1.   Interfere or attempt to interfere with any special officer in the
performance of any duty imposed by the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   Unlawfully take or attempt to take any animal seized pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter form the custody of a special officer or health
officer;
      3.   Remove or attempt to remove any animal impounded or quarantined
without having first reclaimed the same pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter or without first obtaining permission from the special officer or
health officer.
   G.   Violation of this Title Misdemeanor: Unless otherwise provided herein,
any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, shall upon conviction of any violation, be punished by a fine
not to exceed on thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by imprisonment in the county
jail for a term not to exceed six (6) months or by both such fine and
imprisonment. (Ord. 2020-04, 12-21-2020)
TITLE 7
LAW ENFORCEMENT
CHAPTER 1
CURFEW FOR MINORS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definition
7-1-2: Curfew Hours Designated
7-1-3: Enforcement
7-1-4: Prohibited Acts
7-1-5: Violation; Penalty
7-1-1: DEFINITION:
"Age of majority" means any person who has not yet reached his or her
eighteenth birthday. (1983 Code § 9.04.010)
7-1-2: CURFEW HOURS DESIGNATED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of majority to be present on
the public thoroughfares, streets, highways, alleys, and public domain within
the county between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:
00) A.M. on Sunday through Wednesday and between the hours of eleven thirty
o'clock (11:30) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. on Thursday through Saturday,
unless in the company of his or her parents or engaged in his or her lawful
business, work, or occupation. (Ord. 2011-04, 7-18-2011)
7-1-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The sheriff of Lincoln County is charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
The county sheriff may extend the curfew hours when school or public functions
are held within the county upon the sponsoring group, organization or
institution requesting an extension of the curfew at least seven (7) days prior
to the date of the event. (1983 Code § 9.04.050; amd. 2003 Code)
7-1-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Congregation: It shall be unlawful for two (2) or more persons under
the age of majority to congregate on any thoroughfare, highway, alley, street
and public domain within the county after the hour of ten thirty o'clock (10:
30) P.M. on Sunday through Thursday and after the hour of twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight Friday and Saturday nights unless in the company of his parents.
(1983 Code § 9.04.030)
   B.   Encouraging Violation: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or
encourage a person under the age of majority to violate the provisions of this
chapter. (1983 Code § 9.04.040)
7-1-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code § 9.04.060; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PROSTITUTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Prostitution Prohibited
7-2-2: Sexual Intercourse For Hire And Lewd Acts
7-2-3: Premises Used For Prohibited Acts
7-2-4: Exception
7-2-5: Violation A Misdemeanor
7-2-1: PROSTITUTION PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful, as an act of prostitution, for any person within the
county to engage in sexual intercourse for any money or thing of value with a
person to whom he or she is not married, or to solicit a person to whom he or
she is not married to have sexual intercourse for any money or thing of value
with the person so soliciting. (1983 Code § 9.08.010)
7-2-2: SEXUAL INTERCOURSE FOR HIRE AND LEWD ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Receive money or other thing of value in exchange for another person
committing a lewd act or an act of sexual intercourse.
   B.   Pay or offer or agree to pay another person to commit a lewd act or an
act of sexual intercourse.
   C.   Commit or offer or agree to commit any lewd act.
   D.   Secure or offer another person for the purpose of committing a lewd act
or an act of sexual intercourse for hire.
   E.   Induce, entice or procure, or attempt to induce, entice or procure
another person, in or near any place frequented by the public or any public
place, to commit a lewd act or an act of sexual intercourse for hire.
   F.   Knowingly transport any person to any place for the purpose of
committing a lewd act or any act of sexual intercourse for hire.
   G.   Knowingly transport any person to any place for the purpose of offering
or agreeing to pay another person to commit a lewd act or an act of sexual
intercourse.
   H.   Knowingly receive, or offer or agree to receive, any person into any
place or building for the purpose of performing a lewd act, or an act of sexual
intercourse for hire, or to knowingly permit any person to remain in any place
or building for such purpose.
   I.   Aid, abet, allow, permit or participate in the commission of any of the
acts prohibited in subsections A through H of this section. (1983 Code §
9.08.020)
7-2-3: PREMISES USED FOR PROHIBITED ACTS:
It is unlawful for any person in the county to keep, set up, maintain, operate,
lease or rent any place, structure, building or conveyance for the purpose of
having therein sexual intercourse for any money or thing of value between
persons not married to each other, knowing that said persons are not married to
each other. (1983 Code § 9.08.030; amd. 2003 Code)
7-2-4: EXCEPTION:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to activities conducted in a
licensed house of prostitution, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes section
201.354 et seq. (2003 Code)
7-2-5: VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code § 9.08.040; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Policy
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: Prohibited Acts
7-3-4: Exemptions
7-3-5: Grievance Procedure
7-3-6: Violation; Penalty
7-3-1: POLICY:
It is declared to be the policy of the county, in the exercise of its police
power for the public safety, public health and general welfare, to assure equal
opportunity to all persons to live in decent housing facilities regardless of
race, color, religion, sex, handicap status, familial status or national origin
and, to that end, to prohibit discrimination in housing by any persons. (1983
Code § 9.12.010)
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
DISCRIMINATION OR DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: Any difference in treatment
based upon race, color, religion, sex, handicap status, familial status or
national origin, or any act that is unlawful under this chapter.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Includes any "person", as defined in this section,
engaged in the business of lending money or guaranteeing losses.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION OR DWELLING: Any building, mobile home or trailer,
structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed, or intended
for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and any vacant land
which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of
any such building, mobile home or trailer, structure or portion thereof, or any
"real property", as defined in this section, used or intended to be used for
any of the purposes set forth in this chapter.
MORTGAGE BROKER: An individual who is engaged in or who performs the business
or services of a mortgage broker as the same are defined by law.
OPEN MARKET: The market is informed of the availability for sale, purchase,
rental or lease of any housing accommodation, whether informed through a real
estate broker or by advertising by publication, signs or by any other
advertising methods directed to the public or any portion thereof, indicating
that the property is available for sale, purchase, rental or lease.
OWNER: Includes a lessee, sublessee, cotenant, assignee, managing agent or
other person having the right of ownership or possession, or the right to sell,
rent or lease any housing accommodation.
PERSON: Includes individuals, children, firms, associations, joint adventures,
partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates, fiduciaries,
corporations and all other groups or combinations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER OR REAL ESTATE SALESMAN: Includes any individual, qualified
by law, who for a fee, commission, salary or for other valuable consideration,
or who with the intention or expectation of receiving or collecting the same,
lists, sells, purchases, rents, or leases any housing accommodations, including
options thereon, or who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a loan, secured by
a mortgage or other encumbrance, upon transfer of any housing accommodation; or
who is engaged in the business of charging an advance fee or contracting for
the collection of a fee in connection with a contract whereby he undertakes to
promote the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation
through its listing in a publication issued primarily for such purpose; or an
individual employed by or acting on behalf of any of these.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes buildings, structures, lands, tenements, leaseholds,
cooperatives and condominiums. (1983 Code § 9.12.020)
7-3-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
In connection with any of the transactions set forth in this chapter which
affect any housing accommodation on the open market, or in connection with any
public sale, purchase, rental, or lease of any housing accommodation, it shall
be unlawful within the county for a person, owner, financial institution, real
estate broker or real estate salesman or any representative of the above to:
   A.   Refuse to sell, purchase, rent or lease, or deny to or withhold any
housing accommodation from a person because of his race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex, handicap status, familial status, or place of
birth.
   B.   Discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or privileges of
the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, or in the
furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith.
   C.   Refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase, rent
or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his race,
color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex, handicap status, familial
status, or place of birth.
   D.   Refuse to negotiate for the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any
housing accommodation to a person because of his race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex, handicap status, familial status, or place of
birth.
   E.   Represent to a person that any housing accommodation is not available
for inspection, sale, purchase, rental or lease when it is in fact so
available, or to refuse to permit a person to inspect any housing accommodation
because of his race, color, religion, or national origin, sex, handicap status,
familial status, or place of birth.
   F.   Make, publish, print, circulate, post or mail, or cause to be made,
published, printed, circulated, posted or mailed, any notice, statement or
advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to sign or to use a form of
application for the sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, or to make a record of inquiry in connection with the
prospective sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing
accommodation, which indicates any discrimination or any intent to make a
discrimination.
   G.   Offer, solicit, accept or use a listing of any housing accommodation
for sale, purchase, rental or lease with the understanding that a person may be
subjected to discrimination in connection with such sale, purchase, rental or
lease, or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith.
   H.   Induce directly or indirectly, or attempt to induce directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental, or lease, or the listing for any of the
above, of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex,
handicap status, familial status, or national origin or place of birth in the
area to be affected by such sale, purchase, rental or lease, will or may result
in either:
      1.   The lowering of property values in the area;
      2.   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area;
      3.   A decline in the quality of schools serving the area.
   I.   Make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale, purchase,
rental or lease, or the anticipated listing for any of the above, or the sale,
purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation in any area in the
county for the purpose of including or attempting to induce any such listing or
any of the above transactions.
   J.   Engage in, or hire to be done, or to conspire with others to commit
acts or activities of any nature, the purpose of which is to coerce, cause
panic, incite unrest or create or play upon fear, with the purpose of either
discouraging or inducing, or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental,
or lease or the listing for any of the above, of any housing accommodation.
   K.   Retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because he has
opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter, or because he has filed a
complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any manner in any
investigation, proceeding, hearing or conference under this chapter.
   L.   Aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce any person to engage in any of the
practices prohibited by this chapter; or to obstruct or prevent any person from
complying with the provisions of this chapter, or any order issued thereunder.
   M.   By canvassing, to commit any unlawful practice prohibited by this
chapter.
   N.   Otherwise to deny to, or withhold any housing accommodation from, a
person because of his race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex,
handicap status, familial status, or place of birth.
   O.   For any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or other
corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in whole
or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan or
other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration,
or other terms or conditions of such loans or other financial assistance,
because of the race, color, religion, sex, or national origin of such person or
of any person associated with him in connection with such loan or other
financial assistance or the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance
or of the present or prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the
dwelling or dwellings in relation to which such loan or other financial
assistance is to be made or given.
   P.   Deny any qualified person access to or membership or participation in
any multiple listing service, organization, or other service, organization, or
facility relating to the business of selling or renting dwellings, or to
discriminate against him in the terms or conditions of such access, membership,
or participation, on account of race, color, religion, sex, handicap status,
familial status, or national origin. (1983 Code § 9.12.030; amd. 2003 Code)
7-3-4: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Religious Organizations: A religious organization, association, or
society or any nonprofit institution or organization operating, supervised, or
controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or
society, "which it owns or operates for other than commercial purpose" to
persons of the same religion, or which gives preference to such persons, unless
membership in such a religion or group is restricted on account of race, color,
sex, handicap status, familial status, or national origin.
   B.   Private Clubs: A private club not in fact open to the public, which as
an incident to its primary purpose or purposes, provides lodgings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose, and which limits the rental or
occupancy of such lodgings to its members or gives preference to its members.
   C.   Single-Family Houses: Any single-family house sold or rented by an
owner; provided:
      1.   That such private individual owner does not own more than three (3)
such single-family houses at any one time;
      2.   Provided further, that in the case of the sale of any such single-
family house by a private individual owner not residing in such house at the
time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of such house prior
to such sale, the exemption granted by this section shall apply only with
respect to one such sale within any twenty four (24) month period;
      3.   Provided further, that such bona fide private individual owner does
not own any interest in, nor is there owned or served on his behalf, under any
express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion of
the proceeds from the sale or rental of more than three (3) such single-family
houses at one time;
      4.   Provided further, the sale or rental of any such single-family house
shall be excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is
sold or rented:
         a.   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of any real estate broker, agent, or salesman,
or of any employee or agent of any such broker, agent, salesman, or person;
         b.   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of the provisions of 42 United
States Code section 3604(c) or of section
7-3-3 of this chapter; but nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use of
attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies, and other such
professional assistance as necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
   D.   Certain Multi-Family Units: Rooms or units in dwellings containing
living quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four (4)
families living independently of each other, if the owner actually maintains
and occupies one of such living quarters as his residence. (1983 Code §
9.12.040)
7-3-5: GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Filing Of Complaint: Any person aggrieved by any unlawful practice
enumerated in this chapter may file a complaint with the district attorney
within thirty (30) days after the aggrieved person becomes aware of the alleged
unlawful practice, and in no event more than sixty (60) days after the alleged
unlawful practice occurred.
   B.   Investigation Of Complaint: The district attorney or a duly authorized
representative of the district attorney shall investigate each complaint and
attempt to resolve each complaint.
   C.   Resolution By State Or Federal Officials: Failure to achieve a
resolution acceptable to both parties and in compliance with this chapter shall
cause the district attorney to forward the complaint and the findings to
appropriate state and federal officials. (1983 Code § 9.12.050; amd. 2003 Code)
7-3-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person violating any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code § 9.12.060; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Remedies Not Exclusive: Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent
any person from exercising any right or seeking any remedy to which he might
otherwise be entitled or from filing his complaint with any appropriate
governmental agency. (1983 Code § 9.12.070)
CHAPTER 4
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
SECTION:
7-4-1: Acts Of Disorderly Conduct
7-4-2: Definition
7-4-3: Violation; Penalty
7-4-1: ACTS OF DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   A person commits disorderly conduct if:
      1.   The person refuses to comply with the lawful order of the police to
move from a public place, or knowingly creates a hazardous or physically
offensive condition, by any act which serves no legitimate purpose; or
      2.   The person intends to cause or recklessly creates a risk of public
inconvenience, annoyance, alarm; and:
         a.   Engages in fighting or in violent, tumultuous, or threatening
behavior;
         b.   Challenges another person to fight;
         c.   Makes unreasonable noises in a public place;
         d.   Makes unreasonable noises in a private place which can be heard
in a public place;
         e.   Obstructs vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
         f.   Uses profane, indecent, or obscene language to address another
person;
         g.   Breaches the peace;
         h.   Incites a disturbance; or
         i.   Interferes with, annoys, accosts, or harasses any other person
which conduct by its nature would tend to incite a disturbance. (Ord. 2008-09,
11-17-2008)
7-4-2: DEFINITION:
"Public place", for the purpose of this chapter, means any place to which the
public or a substantial group of the public has access and includes, but is not
limited to, streets, highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals,
apartment houses, office buildings, transport facilities, and shops. (Ord.
2008-09, 11-17-2008)
7-4-3: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be punished for a
misdemeanor by imprisonment in the county jail for up to six (6) months and/or
by a fine of not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) nor more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 2008-09, 11-17-2008)
TITLE 8
VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
COUNTY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Reckless Driving
8-1-2: Speed Regulations
8-1-3: County Vehicle Use
8-1-1: RECKLESS DRIVING:
   A.   Prohibition: It is unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle in
wilful or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property. A violation of
this section constitutes reckless driving. (1983 Code § 10.04.010)
   B.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Any person who violates this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor. (1983 Code § 10.04.020)
8-1-2: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   Basic Speed Rule: It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a
vehicle of any kind or character on a public road or under the jurisdiction of
the county at: (1983 Code § 10.08.050)
      1.   A rate of speed greater than is reasonable or proper, having due
regard for traffic, surface and width of the road, weather and other highway
conditions; (1983 Code § 10.08.050; amd. 2003 Code)
      2.   Such a rate of speed as to endanger life, limb or property of any
person;
      3.   Such a rate of speed greater than that posted by a public authority,
or the county sheriff acting under the direction of the board of county
commissioners, for that portion of road being traveled;
      4.   A rate of speed greater than the maximum speed limit specified by
the laws of the state or by a public authority of the state authorized to
establish a speed limit within state parks and property. (1983 Code §
10.08.050)
   B.   Specific Areas:
      1.   State Road 86 Between Echo Dam And Rose Valley: It is unlawful for
any person to drive or operate any vehicle at a rate of speed greater than
twenty five (25) miles per hour upon or along any portion of the road from Echo
Dam to the lower fields in Rose Valley in the county as posted. (1983 Code §
10.08.010)
      2.   Lincoln County Airport Road:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person to ride, drive or propel any
vehicle at a rate of speed greater than twenty (20) miles per hour upon or
along any portion of Airport Road from U.S. Highway 93 to the Lincoln County
airport.
         b.   Any person violating the provision of this subsection shall be
punished by a fine of two dollars ($2.00) per mile for each mile over the speed
limit. (1983 Code § 10.08.020)
      3.   Spring Valley State Park; Posting:
         a.   It is unlawful for any person to ride, drive or propel any
vehicle at a rate of speed greater than twenty five (25) miles per hour upon or
along any portion of the road through the Spring Valley state park between the
launch ramp located approximately three-tenths (0.3) mile north of the posted
southern Spring Valley state park boundary and the northern park boundary
located at the reservoir inlet, a distance of approximately one mile.
         b.   This area of reduced speed shall be posted by the Nevada division
of state parks. (1983 Code § 10.08.030)
   C.   Violation A Misdemeanor: Any person violating the provisions of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor. (1983 Code §§ 10.08.010, 10.08.040,
10.08.050)
8-1-3: COUNTY VEHICLE USE:
   A.   Policy: It is declared to be the policy of this county to promulgate
guidelines for the use of official county vehicles in Lincoln County, Nevada.
(Ord. 2001-04, 10-22-2001, eff. 12-15-2001)
   B.   Definition: "County vehicle" means any and all vehicles owned and
operated by Lincoln County and its various departments and have exempt status
license plates affixed thereto.
   C.   Official Use Designated: All automobiles or other motor vehicles owned
by the county shall be used for official county purposes only unless other use
is approved in advance by the department head. Official county purposes include
all uses of a motor vehicle necessary to the full and complete discharge of
official duties and all uses necessarily incidental thereto.
   D.   Private Use Prohibited: It is unlawful for any employee of the county
to use any automobile, truck or other mechanical conveyance for his own private
use unless prior approval is obtained from the department head.
   E.   Penalties: Any violation of this chapter shall constitute malfeasance
of office. A violation of any provision of this chapter is a misdemeanor and
anyone found guilty of any such violation may be punished pursuant to section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2001-04, 10-22-2001, eff. 12-15-2001)
CHAPTER 2
ALAMO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: State Traffic Laws Adopted
8-2-2: Careful Riding And Driving
8-2-3: Intoxicated Persons
8-2-4: Speed
8-2-5: Lights
8-2-6: Signs Regulating Traffic
8-2-7: Violation; Penalty
8-2-1: STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED:
All laws governing and regulating traffic as set forth in chapters 484 and 486
of Nevada Revised Statutes shall be applicable within the town of Alamo, save
and except any state and/or federal highways, and are adopted as a part of this
chapter. Any violations thereof shall be punishable as provided in section
8-2-7 of this chapter. (1983 Code § 10.48.060; amd. 2003 Code)
8-2-2: CAREFUL RIDING AND DRIVING:
Every person riding, driving, propelling or in charge of any vehicle upon any
streets or alleys or other public places of the town of Alamo, shall ride,
drive or propel such vehicle in a careful manner and with due regard for the
safety and convenience of pedestrians and all other persons, vehicles and
property upon such streets, and any person not so riding, driving or propelling
said vehicle shall be deemed guilty of reckless driving. (1983 Code §
10.48.010)
8-2-3: INTOXICATED PERSONS:
It is unlawful for any person while in an intoxicated condition or under the
influence of intoxicating liquor as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes section
484.379, to ride or drive any animal or vehicle or to have charge or control of
any animal or vehicle in any public street. (1983 Code § 10.48.030; amd. 2003
Code)
8-2-4: SPEED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, drive or propel any vehicle at a
rate of speed greater than twenty (20) miles per hour upon or along any portion
of the highways, streets and alleys within the boundaries of the town of Alamo,
as the same are now, or may be from time to time, fixed and determined by the
board of county commissioners. (1983 Code § 10.48.040)
8-2-5: LIGHTS:
All motor vehicles in use on public streets and alleys in the town of Alamo
shall, during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to one-half (1/
2) hour before sunrise, display such lights as may be prescribed by the traffic
laws of the state. A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided
in section
8-2-7 of this chapter. (1983 Code § 10.48.050; amd. 2003 Code)
8-2-6: SIGNS REGULATING TRAFFIC:
The board of county commissioners, acting as a town board for the town of
Alamo, may by resolution or order provide for the placing of signs for the
regulating of traffic within such town whenever they may deem advisable and may
by resolution or order change the same, and the county sheriff may do any of
the things provided in this section temporarily until the board may act upon
the same. Any violation of such resolution or order or disobedience of the
directions of such signs shall be punishable as provided in section
8-2-7 of this chapter. (1983 Code § 10.48.070)
8-2-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Suspension Of Driving Privileges: If any person shall be convicted of
violating any of the provisions of this chapter and the court finds that in
such violation such person was driving or operating a vehicle of any kind or
character on any street or highway in the town of Alamo in such manner as to
endanger the life, limb or property of any person, the court may, in addition
to any other penalty provided, make and enter an order prohibiting such person
so convicted from driving or operating any kind or character of vehicle on any
street or highway in the town of Alamo for a period not exceeding ninety (90)
days, and any violation by such person of the order so made and entered shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code § 10.48.080; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PANACA TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: State Traffic Laws Adopted
8-3-2: Careful Riding And Driving
8-3-3: Intoxicated Persons
8-3-4: Speed
8-3-5: Lights Displayed
8-3-6: Signs Regulating Traffic
8-3-7: Violation; Penalty
8-3-1: STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED:
All laws governing and regulating traffic as set forth in chapters 484 and 486
of Nevada Revised Statutes shall be applicable within the town of Panaca save
and except any state and/or federal highways, and are adopted as a part of this
chapter. Any violations thereof shall be punishable as provided in section
8-3-7 of this chapter. (1983 Code § 10.52.060; amd. 2003 Code)
8-3-2: CAREFUL RIDING AND DRIVING:
Every person riding, driving, propelling or in charge of any vehicle upon any
streets or alleys or other public places of the town of Panaca, shall ride,
drive or propel such vehicle in a careful manner and with due regard to the
safety and convenience of pedestrians and all other persons, vehicles and
property upon such streets and any person not so riding, driving or propelling
said vehicle shall be deemed guilty of reckless driving. (1983 Code §
10.52.010)
8-3-3: INTOXICATED PERSONS:
It is unlawful for any person while in an intoxicated condition or under the
influence of intoxicating liquor as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes section
484.379, to ride or drive any animal or vehicle or to have charge or control of
any animal or vehicle in any public street. (1983 Code § 10.52.030; amd. 2003
Code)
8-3-4: SPEED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, drive or propel any vehicle at a
rate of speed greater than twenty (20) miles per hour upon or along any portion
of the highways, streets and alleys within the boundaries of the town of
Panaca, as the same are now, or may be from time to time, fixed and determined
by the board of county commissioners. (1983 Code § 10.52.040)
8-3-5: LIGHTS DISPLAYED:
All motor vehicles in use on public streets and alleys in the town of Panaca
shall, during the period from one-half (1/2) hour after sunset to one-half (1/
2) hour before sunrise, display such lights as may be prescribed by the traffic
laws of the state. A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided
in section
8-3-7 of this chapter. (1983 Code § 10.52.050; amd. 2003 Code)
8-3-6: SIGNS REGULATING TRAFFIC:
The board of county commissioners, acting as a town board for the town of
Panaca, may by resolution or order provide for the placing of signs for the
regulating of traffic within such town whenever they may deem advisable and may
by resolution or order change the same, and the county sheriff may do any of
the things provided in this section temporarily until the board may act upon
the same. Any violation of such resolution or order or disobedience of the
directions of such signs shall be punishable as provided in section
8-3-7 of this chapter. (1983 Code § 10.52.070)
8-3-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty Imposed: Any person violating the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   Suspension Of Driving Privileges: If any person shall be convicted of
violating any of the provisions of this chapter and the court finds that in
such violation such person was driving or operating a vehicle of any kind or
character on any street or highway in the town of Panaca in such manner as to
endanger the life, limb or property of any person, the court may, in addition
to any other penalty provided, make and enter an order prohibiting such person
so convicted from driving or operating any kind or character of vehicle on any
street or highway in the town of Panaca for a period not exceeding ninety (90)
days, and any violation by such person of the order so made and entered shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code § 10.52.080; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PIOCHE TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-4-1: State Traffic Laws Adopted
8-4-2: Reckless Driving
8-4-3: Speed
8-4-4: Violation; Penalty
8-4-1: STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED:
All laws governing and regulating traffic as set forth in chapters 484 and 486
of Nevada Revised Statutes shall be applicable within the town of Pioche, save
and except any state and/or federal highways, and are adopted as a part of this
chapter. Any violations thereof shall be punishable as provided in section
8-4-4 of this chapter. (1983 Code § 10.56.030)
8-4-2: RECKLESS DRIVING:
Every person who rides, drives, propels or is in charge of any motor-propelled
vehicle upon any streets or alleys or other public places of the town of
Pioche, save and except upon any state and/or federal highways, in other than a
careful manner and without due regard to the safety of persons, vehicles and
property upon such streets, shall be deemed to be driving in a reckless manner.
(1983 Code § 10.56.010)
8-4-3: SPEED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, drive or propel any vehicle at a
rate of speed greater than twenty (20) miles per hour upon or along any portion
of the streets and alleys within the town of Pioche, save and except any state
and/or federal highways. (1983 Code § 10.56.020)
8-4-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code § 10.56.040; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 5
URSINE TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-5-1: State Traffic Laws Adopted
8-5-2: Reckless Driving
8-5-3: Speed
8-5-4: Violation; Penalty
8-5-1: STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED:
All laws governing and regulating traffic as set forth in chapters 484 and 486
of Nevada Revised Statutes shall be applicable within Section 35, Township 2
North, Range 69 East and specifically within the community of Ursine, save and
except any state and/or federal highways, and are adopted as a part of this
chapter. Any violations thereof shall be punishable as provided in section
8-5-4 of this chapter. (1983 Code § 10.60.030)
8-5-2: RECKLESS DRIVING:
Every person who rides, drives, propels or is in charge of any motor-propelled
vehicle upon any streets or alleys or other public places within Section 35,
Township 2 North, Range 69 East and specifically within the community of
Ursine, save and except upon any state and/or federal highways, in other than a
careful manner and without due regard to the safety of persons, vehicles and
property upon such streets, shall be deemed to be driving in a reckless manner.
(1983 Code § 10.60.010)
8-5-3: SPEED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, drive or propel any vehicle at a
rate of speed greater than twenty (20) miles per hour upon or along any portion
of the streets and alleys within Section 35, Township 2 North, Range 69 East
and specifically within the community of Ursine, save and except any state and/
or federal highways. (1983 Code § 10.60.020)
8-5-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1983 Code § 10.60.040; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 6
OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-6-1: State Off Highway Vehicle Laws Adopted
8-6-2: Designation Of County Highways And Roads
8-6-3: Designation Of State Highways
8-6-4: Restrictions
8-6-1: STATE OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE LAWS ADOPTED:
All laws governing and regulating certification and operation of off highway
vehicles as set forth in chapter 490 of Nevada Revised Statutes are adopted and
hereby incorporated herein. (Ord. 2006-04, 8-7-2006)
8-6-2: DESIGNATION OF COUNTY HIGHWAYS AND ROADS:
All county highways and roads within the unincorporated towns of Alamo, Panaca,
and Pioche are designated as permissible for the operation of off highway
vehicles for the limited purpose of allowing off highway vehicles ingress and
egress to private or public areas that are open for the use of off highway
vehicles. Off highway vehicles shall not be operated on designated highways or
roads for any purpose other than travel to or from (ingress and egress) the
private or public area open for the use of off highway vehicles. (Ord. 2006-04,
8-7-2006)
8-6-3: DESIGNATION OF STATE HIGHWAYS:
   A.   Within the town of Alamo, U.S. Highway 93 from northern town limits to
southern town limits.
   B.   Within the town of Panaca, U.S. Highway 93 from Airport Road
intersection to intersection with State Route ("SR") 319. SR 319 from
intersection with U.S. Highway 93 to eastern boundaries of town limits.
   C.   Within the town of Pioche, SR 321 from intersection with SR 322 to
northern town limits. SR 322 from intersection with SR 321 to eastern town
limits. (Ord. 2006-04, 8-7-2006)
8-6-4: RESTRICTIONS:
A person who is less than sixteen (16) years of age is prohibited from
operating the off highway vehicle on a designated highway unless supervised by
a person who is at least eighteen (18) years of age. (Ord. 2006-04, 8-7-2006)
TITLE 9
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
COOPERATIVE PUBLIC LANDS MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Findings Of Fact
9-1-2: Procedures Adopted
9-1-3: Specific Procedures
9-1-4: Presumption Of Negative Impact
9-1-5: Quarterly Reports Required
9-1-6: Saving Clause; Conflicting Provisions
9-1-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
The board of county commissioners, a political subdivision of the state of
Nevada, hereby finds as follows:
   A.   The government of the United States of America exercises control over a
significant portion of the land and resources within the geographic boundaries
of Lincoln County.
   B.   Decisions governing public lands in Lincoln County have a direct
broadly based impact on the interrelated heritage of cultural, environmental
and economic well-being and stability of county residents.
   C.   The congress of the United States has expressed intent, codified in 42
USC section 4331, to act in cooperation with county governments while using all
practicable means to create and maintain conditions on public lands allowing
for productive harmony between man and nature while fulfilling the social,
economic, environmental and cultural requirements of present and future
generations.
   D.   The efforts of congress seeking to coordinate federal plans with county
government, maintaining a balance between population and resources, and
encouraging high standards of living and a wide sharing of life's amenities, as
contemplated by 42 USC section 4331(b)(5) can be enhanced by both:
      1.   Increased cooperation between Lincoln County, state of Nevada and
those federal officials involved with the administration of public lands
situate within the county; and
      2.   Full consideration by the federal government of the needs of
citizens of this county will be directly and indirectly impacted by federal
agency decisions regarding the use of public lands.
   E.   There exists a significant need to increase the involvement of Lincoln
County in the management of public lands and the development of criteria that
are meaningful in any decision making process, as contemplated by 43 CFR
section 1610.3-1(a), sections 1610.3-1(b), 1620.3-2(a); 36 CFR chapter 11
sections 219.7(a), 219.7(c), 219.7(d). (Ord. 1998-02, 4-6-1998)
9-1-2: PROCEDURES ADOPTED:
Based upon consideration of the aforesaid findings, Lincoln County hereby
adopts the following procedures to ensure that there is full and complete
information and cooperation provided by the county to federal entities in the
decision making processes regarding management of public lands located within
the county and, reciprocally, that federal entities be made aware of the impact
of their actions and decision making on the interrelated heritage of culture,
environmental and economic well-being and stability of the county. The adopted
procedures apply to all decisions undertaken by any agency, department or other
federal entity within the department of interior, department of agriculture,
environmental protection agency, department of defense, or department of energy
(hereinafter known as "federal entities") or their contractors or
representatives, that do or will have a direct impact or indirect impact on
public and private lands within the geographic confines of the county. (Ord.
1998-02, 4-6-1998)
9-1-3: SPECIFIC PROCEDURES:
Within thirty (30) days after adoption of this chapter, and at the beginning of
each calendar year thereafter, the chairman of the board of Lincoln County
commissioners, on behalf of the board, or his designee, shall give to federal
entities written notice as follows:
   A.   That the county government of Lincoln County charges, pursuant to
adopted federal statutes and regulations, full and complete notice and
opportunity for involvement in the decision making processes of the federal
entity that:
      1.   Either are being taken or are being proposed to be taken regarding
public lands located within the state of Nevada;
      2.   Involving listing, delisting, classification or reclassification of
a threatened or endangered species or critical habitat within the county; or
      3.   Involve any major federal action, which significantly affects the
quality of human environment (quality of life), within the county.
   B.   That failure of the federal entities to afford state and county
government complete notice and opportunity for involvement beyond that afforded
individuals, or to limit state and county input to comment at local public
hearings, is presumed to be prejudicial to the government of Lincoln County and
its residents and that the board of Lincoln County commissioners is authorized
and empowered by this chapter to authorize and instruct the Lincoln County
district attorney to seek redress for such prejudices in the federal courts and
through administrative hearings.
   C.   That all zoning regulations lawfully in force, as recognized by 43 CFR
section 1601.0-5(e) and other regulations, and the existence of lawful business
enterprises of any kind, are expressions of environmental, cultural and
economic policies that Lincoln County deems to be critical to maintenance of
the well-being and stability of Lincoln County government and the residents of
this county, and impacts on any such business enterprise shall be considered
during preparation of an environmental impact statement, as contemplated by 40
CFR chapter V section 1508.14 and 36 CFR chapter 11 section 219.7;
   D.   That, within the county's budgetary constraints, the county will notify
federal entities of any other evidence of our interrelated historic, cultural
and environmental heritage, as well as the anticipated impact on same of any
use of federal or private lands situate within the county. (Ord. 1998-02, 4-6-
1998)
9-1-4: PRESUMPTION OF NEGATIVE IMPACT:
If implementation of a critical habitat designation or other federal policies
or practices over public lands located within the geographic boundaries of the
county or elsewhere may result in:
   A.   The alteration of present county and local zoning regulations without
such changes having been initiated voluntarily by the county; or
   B.   Make it unfeasible for existing, lawful businesses to continue their
current operations;
the proposed federal action will be presumed by the county to create a negative
impact on the interrelated environmental, cultural and economic well-being of
this county and its residents and not to be a preferred alternative acceptable
to the county as it relates to resolving the environmental and other concerns
of the federal entities. (Ord. 1998-02, 4-6-1998)
9-1-5: QUARTERLY REPORTS REQUIRED:
On a quarterly basis, or as often as necessary to meet federal deadlines, the
chairman of the Lincoln County public lands commission, or his designee, shall
report to the county commission and the public on the activity of the county
taken under this chapter and actions taken or proposed to be taken by the
federal of state governments regarding public lands in the county. (Ord. 1998-
02, 4-6-1998)
9-1-6: SAVING CLAUSE; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Nothing herein is intended to conflict with any lawful federal statute or
regulation that governs public lands within Lincoln County. Any section,
paragraph, sentence, phrase or word that is found to do so as a matter of law
may be severed from this chapter without limiting the enforceability of the
nonconflicting portion. The board of Lincoln County commissioners expressly
declares that it would have enacted the nonconflicting portion without enacting
any portion found to be in conflict or otherwise unlawful. (Ord. 1998-02, 4-6-
1998)
CHAPTER 2
AIRPORT ZONING
SECTION:
9-2-1: Short Title
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: Enforcement
9-2-4: Airport Zones
9-2-5: Height Limitations
9-2-6: Use Restrictions
9-2-7: Nonconforming Uses
9-2-8: Permits
9-2-9: Variances
9-2-10: Obstruction Marking And Lighting
9-2-11: Board Of Adjustment
9-2-12: Appeals
9-2-13: Judicial Review
9-2-14: Conflicting Regulations
9-2-15: Violation; Penalty
9-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the LINCOLN COUNTY AIRPORT
ZONING ORDINANCE. (1983 Code § 18.80.010)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
AIRPORT: The Lincoln County airport.
AIRPORT ELEVATION: Four thousand eight hundred twenty eight feet (4,828') above
mean sea level.
APPROACH SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
section
9-2-5 of this chapter. In plan the perimeter of the approach surface coincides
with the perimeter of the approach zone.
APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL AND CONICAL ZONES: The zones as set forth in
section
9-2-4 of this chapter.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: A board consisting of five (5) members appointed by the
board of county commissioners as provided for in chapter 278 of the Nevada
Revised Statutes.
CONICAL SURFACE: A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery of
the horizontal surface at a slope of twenty to one (20:1) for a horizontal
distance of four thousand feet (4,000').
HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION: An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
HEIGHT: For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth
in this chapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level
elevation unless otherwise specified.
HORIZONTAL SURFACE: A horizontal plane one hundred fifty feet (150') above the
established airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with
the perimeter of the horizontal zone.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any preexisting structure, object of natural growth, or use
of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an
amendment hereto.
OBSTRUCTION: Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile object,
which exceeds a limiting height set forth in section
9-2-5 of this chapter.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or governmental entity. "Person" includes a trustee, a
receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
PRIMARY SURFACE: A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway
has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two hundred
feet (200') beyond each end of that runway. When the runway has no specially
prepared hard surface, or planned hard surface, the primary surface ends at
each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface is set forth in
section
9-2-4 of this chapter. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the
same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
RUNWAY: A defined area on an airport prepared for landing and takeoff of
aircraft along its length.
STRUCTURE: An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
man, including, but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
TRANSITIONAL SURFACES: Surfaces extending outward at ninety degree (90°) angles
to the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of seven
feet (7') horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary
and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical
surfaces.
TREE: Any object of natural growth.
UTILITY RUNWAY: A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller-driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred (12,500) pounds'
maximum gross weight and less.
VISUAL RUNWAY: A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures. (1983 Code § 18.80.020; amd. 2003 Code)
9-2-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   County Commissioners: It shall be the duty of the county commissioners
to administer and enforce the regulation prescribed herein.
   B.   Applications:
      1.   Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the county
commissioners upon a form published for that purpose.
      2.   Applications required by this chapter to be submitted to the county
commissioners shall be promptly considered and granted or denied.
      3.   Application for action by the board of adjustment shall be forthwith
transmitted by the county commissioners. (1983 Code § 18.80.120)
9-2-4: AIRPORT ZONES:
In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are created and
established certain zones which include all of the land lying beneath the
approach surfaces, transitional surfaces, horizontal surfaces, and conical
surfaces as they apply to the Lincoln County airport. Such zones are shown on
the Lincoln County airport zoning map consisting of one sheet prepared by the
county commissioners and dated July 5, 1978, and made a part hereof. An area
located in more than one of the following zones is considered to be only in the
zone with the more restrictive height limitation. The various zones are
established and defined as follows: (1983 Code § 18.80.030; amd. 2003 Code)
   A.   Nonprecision Instrument Runway Approach Zone: The inner edge of this
approach zone is five hundred feet (500') wide. The approach zone expands
outward uniformly to a width of three thousand five hundred feet (3,500') at a
horizontal distance of ten thousand feet (10,000') from the primary surface.
The approach zone's centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the
runway. (2003 Code)
   B.   Transitional Zones: The transitional zones are the areas beneath the
transitional surfaces. (1983 Code § 18.80.030)
   C.   Horizontal Zone: The horizontal zone is established by swinging arcs of
ten thousand feet (10,000') radii from the center of each end of the primary
surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines
tangent to those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and
transitional zones. (2003 Code)
   D.   Conical Zone: The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of four thousand feet (4,000'). (1983 Code § 18.80.030)
9-2-5: HEIGHT LIMITATIONS:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure shall be erected,
altered, or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any zone
created by this chapter to a height in excess of the applicable height limit
established in this chapter for such zone. Such applicable height limitations
are established for each of the zones in question as follows: (1983 Code §
18.80.040)
   A.   Nonprecision Instrument Runway Approach Zone: The nonprecision
instrument runway zone slopes thirty four feet (34') outward for each foot
upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface
and extending to a horizontal distance of ten thousand feet (10,000') along the
extended runway centerline.
   B.   Transitional Zones: The transitional zones slope seven feet (7')
outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and the approach surface, and extending to a
height of one hundred fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation. In
addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping seven
feet (7') outward for each foot upward beginning at the sides of and at the
same elevation as the approach surface, and extending to where they intersect
the conical surface.
   C.   Horizontal Zones: The horizontal zones are established at one hundred
fifty feet (150') above the airport elevation or at a height of four thousand
nine hundred seventy eight feet (4,978') above mean sea level. (2003 Code)
   D.   Conical Zone: Slopes twenty feet (20') outward for each foot upward
beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one hundred fifty feet
(150') above the airport elevation and extending to a height of three hundred
fifty feet (350') above the airport elevation.
   E.   Excepted Height Limitations: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed
as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or growth of
any tree to a height up to fifty feet (50') above the surface of the land.
(1983 Code § 18.80.040)
9-2-6: USE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Electrical Interference; Hazardous Conditions: Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this chapter, no use may be made of land or water within
any zone established by this chapter in such a manner as to create electrical
interference with navigational signals or radio communication between airport
and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport
lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport,
impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport, create bird strike hazards,
or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff, or
maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport. (1983 Code § 18.80.050)
   B.   Existing Uses: No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of any obstruction or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date hereof, or any amendments hereto, or than it is when the
application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for
such a permit shall be granted. (1983 Code § 18.80.080; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Airport Compatible Land Use Overlay Zones Established: The controlled
area of the Lincoln County airport is divided into four (4) airport compatible
land use overlay zones for the purpose of regulating the development of noise
sensitive land uses, to promote compatibility between the airport and the
surrounding uses, to protect the airport from incompatible development and to
promote the health, safety, and general welfare of property uses. The four (4)
zones shall be known as:
      1.   Runway Protection Zone: This zone begins at the end of the primary
surface of each runway. The zone beings at a width of five hundred feet (500')
and expands outward uniformly to a width of one thousand feet (1,000') at a
horizontal distance of one thousand seven hundred feet (1,700') from the
primary surface.
      2.   Approach Zone (AZ): The approach zone begins at the end of the
primary surface on each runway end at a width of five hundred feet (500') and
expand outward uniformly to a width of three thousand five hundred feet
(3,500') at a horizontal distance of ten thousand feet (10,000').
      3.   Traffic Pattern Zone (TPZ): The traffic zone is established by
swinging arcs of one nautical mile (6,076 feet) radii from the center of each
end of the primary surface of the runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by
drawing lines tangent to those arcs.
      4.   Airport Influence Zone (AIZ): The airport influence zone commences
at the periphery of the traffic pattern zone and extends outward therefrom to a
horizontal distance of fourteen thousand feet (14,000') from the centerline of
the runway and center of the end of each primary surface.
When compatible land use overlay zones overlap, the more restrictive zone shall
apply.
   D.   Use Of Land And Buildings:
      1.   Within the airport compatible land use overlay zones as defined
herein, no land shall hereafter be used and no structure or other object shall
hereafter be erected, altered, converted, or modified other than for those
compatible land uses permitted by underlying comprehensive zoning districts, as
specified in this chapter. Additionally, land uses not compatible with the
airport compatible land use overlay zones, as set forth in the following land
use table, regardless of underlying zoning, are prohibited. Uses designated as
"P" are permitted; those designated as "N" are not permitted.
 AIZ TPZ AZ RPZ
                                                        AIZ TPZ AZ RPZ
 
Residential; hotels, motels, mobile home                P   P3  P1 N
Churches, schools, hospitals, places of public assembly P   P2  N  N
Transportation, parking, cemeteries                     P   P   P  N
General commercial uses                                 P   P   P  N
Industrial and manufacturing uses                       P   P   P  N
Agricultural-cropland, open space                       P   P   P  P
Livestock                                               P   P   P  N
Recreational; parks, playgrounds, golf courses, zoos    P   P   P  N
Outdoor spectator sports                                P   P   P  N
Amphitheaters                                           P   N   N  N
Conditions:
1. If allowed, aviation easement and disclosure must be required as a
condition of development.
2. If no reasonable alternative exists, use should be located as far from
extended centerline as possible.
3. If allowed, disclosure of airport proximity must be required as a
condition of development. An aviation easement should be considered based on
proximity to runway centerline.
Notes:
• Development projects which are wildlife attractants, including sewage
treatment ponds and new landfills, within 10,000 feet of the runway are
unacceptable (FAA advisory circular 150/5200-33). New landfills within 6
miles of the airport may required special review (FAA AC 150.5200-34).
• An FFA form 7460-I, "Notice of Proposed Construction Or Alteration" must
be submitted for any construction or alteration (including hangers and other
on-airport and off-airport structures, towers, etc.) within 20,000
horizontal feet of the airport greater in height than an imaginary surface
extending outward and upward from the runway at a scale of 100 to 1 or
greater in height than 200 feet aboveground level.
 
      2.   Where any prohibited use of land and buildings set forth in this
section conflicts with any use of land and buildings set forth in another
section of this chapter, as an allowed use on the zoning map, the more
restrictive regulation shall apply.
      3.   Owners of property within the approach zone, in advance of receiving
a building permit, shall grant an aviation easement to Lincoln County. The
purpose of this easement shall be to establish a maximum height restriction on
the use of property and to hold the public harmless for any damages caused by
noise, vibration, fumes, dust, fuel, fuel particles, or other effects that may
be caused by the operation of aircraft landing at, taking off from, or
operating on, or at, Lincoln County airport.
      4.   Owners of property constructing new buildings or structures within
the approach zone where the public is received, office areas, noise sensitive
areas, or where the normal noise level is low, or dwellings, shall incorporate
measures to achieve at least 25 dB sound attenuation. (2003 Code)
9-2-7: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Regulations Not Retroactive: The regulations prescribed by this chapter
shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other change or
alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the
effective date hereof, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of a
nonconforming use. Nothing contained in this chapter shall require any change
in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the
construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date
hereof and is diligently prosecuted. (1983 Code § 18.80.060; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Marking And Lighting: Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, the
owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby required to
permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such markers and
lights as shall be deemed necessary by the county commissioners, to indicate to
the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the presence of such
airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated, and
maintained at the expense of Lincoln County. (1983 Code § 18.80.060)
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Abandoned Or Destroyed: Whenever the county
commissioners determine that a nonconforming tree or structure has been
abandoned, or more than eighty percent (80%) torn down, physically deteriorated
or decayed, no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree
to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning
regulations. (1983 Code § 18.80.090)
9-2-8: PERMITS:
   A.   Future Uses: Except as specifically provided in subsections A1, A2 and
A3 of this section no material change shall be made in the use of land, no
structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be
planted in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been
applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the
purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to
permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure, or tree would
conform to the regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the
affirmative, the permit shall be granted. No permit for a use inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter shall be granted unless a variance has been
approved in accordance with section
9-2-9 of this chapter.
      1.   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the ground, except when,
because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, such tree or
structure would extend above the height limits prescribed for such zones.
      2.   In areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at a
horizontal distance of no less than four thousand two hundred feet (4,200')
from each end of the runway, no permit shall be required for any tree or
structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the
ground, except when such tree or structure would extend above the height limit
prescribed for such approach zones.
      3.   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond
the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree
or structure less than seventy five feet (75') of vertical height above the
ground, except when such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour,
or topographic features, would extend above the height limit prescribed for
such transition zones.
   B.   Compliance With Regulations: Nothing contained in any of the foregoing
exceptions shall be construed as permitting or intending to permit any
construction or alteration of any structure, or growth of any tree, in excess
of any of the height limits established by this chapter, except as set forth in
subsection 9-2-5E of this chapter. (1983 Code § 18.80.070)
9-2-9: VARIANCES:
   A.   Application For Variance: Any person desiring to erect or increase the
height of any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not
in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this chapter, may apply to the
board of adjustment for a variance from such regulations.
   B.   Federal Aviation Administration Determination: The application for
variance shall be accompanied by a determination from the federal aviation
administration as to the effect of the proposal on the operation of air
navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable airspace.
   C.   Conditions For Allowing Variance: Such variances shall be allowed where
it is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulation
will result in unnecessary hardship and relief granted will not be contrary to
the public interest, will not create a hazard to air navigation, will do
substantial justice, and will be in accordance with the spirit of this chapter.
   D.   Action By County Commissioners: Additionally, no application for
variance to the requirements of this chapter may be considered by the board of
adjustment unless a copy of the application has been furnished to the county
commissioners for advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance. If the
county commissioners do not respond to the application within fifteen (15) days
after receipt, the board of adjustment may act on its own to grant or deny the
application. (1983 Code § 18.80.100)
9-2-10: OBSTRUCTION MARKING AND LIGHTING:
Any permit or variance granted may, if such action is deemed advisable to
effectuate the purpose of this chapter and be reasonable in the circumstances,
be so conditioned as to require the owner of the structure or tree in question
to install, operate, and maintain, at the owner's expense, such markings and
lights as may be necessary. If deemed proper by the board of adjustment, this
condition may be modified to require the owner to permit Lincoln County, at its
own expense, to install, operate, and maintain the necessary markings and
lights. (1983 Code § 18.80.110)
9-2-11: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   A.   Board Created; Powers: There is created a board of adjustment to have
and exercise the following powers:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by the county commissioners, in the enforcement of this
chapter;
      2.   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter
upon which such board of adjustment under such regulations may be required to
pass; and
      3.   To hear and decide specific variances.
   B.   Membership; Terms: The board of adjustment shall consist of five (5)
members appointed by the board of county commissioners and each shall serve for
a term of five (5) years, and until a successor is duly appointed and
qualified. Of the members first appointed, one shall be appointed for a term of
one year, one for a term of two (2) years, one for a term of three (3) years,
one for a term of four (4) years, and one for a term of five (5) years. Members
shall be removable by the appointing authority for cause, upon written charges,
after a public hearing.
   C.   Rules; Meetings: The board of adjustment shall adopt rules for its
governance and in harmony with the provisions of this chapter. Meetings of the
board of adjustment shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at such
other times as the board of adjustment may determine. The chairperson or, in
the absence of the chairperson, the acting chairperson may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the board of adjustment
shall be public. The board of adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question; or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official action, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of
the county clerk and on due cause shown.
   D.   Findings Of Fact And Conclusions: The board of adjustment shall make
written findings of fact and conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it
acted and its legal conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or
modifying any order, requirement, decision, or determination which comes before
it under the provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Authority Of Board: The concurring vote of a majority of the members of
the board of adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement,
decision, or determination of the county commissioners or to decide in favor of
the applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
chapter, or to effect variation to this chapter. (1983 Code § 18.80.130)
9-2-12: APPEALS:
   A.   Right To Appeal: Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any
decision of the county commissioners, made in the administration of this
chapter, may appeal to the board of adjustment.
   B.   Filing Of Appeal; Time Limit: All appeals under this chapter must be
taken within a reasonable time as provided by the rules of the board of
adjustment, by filing with the county commissioners, a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The county commissioners shall forthwith
transmit to the board of adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from unless the board of county
commissioners certifies to the board of adjustment, after the notice of appeal
has been filed with it, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a
stay would in the opinion of the county commissioners cause imminent peril to
life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed except by order
of the board of adjustment or notice to the county commissioners and on due
cause shown.
   D.   Public Notice; Hearing: The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable
time for hearing appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in
interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any
party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   E.   Decisions Of Board: The board of adjustment may, in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify
the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make
such order, requirement, decision, or determination as may be appropriate under
the circumstances. (1983 Code § 18.80.140)
9-2-13: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected, by any decision of the board of
adjustment, may appeal to the district court as provided in chapter 278 of the
Nevada Revised Statutes. (1983 Code § 18.80.150)
9-2-14: CONFLICTING REGULATIONS:
Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict is with respect to the height of structures or
trees, and the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation
or requirement shall govern and prevail. (1983 Code § 18.80.160)
9-2-15: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order, or ruling
promulgated hereunder shall constitute a misdemeanor and be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. (1983 Code § 18.80.170)
CHAPTER 3
LITTLE ASH SPRING RECREATIONAL AREA
SECTION:
9-3-1: Definitions
9-3-2: Glass Containers
9-3-3: Alcohol Prohibited
9-3-4: Penalty
9-3-5: Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances
9-3-6: Severability
9-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, beer, wine, spirits, and includes any and all
distilled spirits, potable alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, aromatic
bitters, and every liquid containing one-half of one percent or more of alcohol
by volume and which is used or capable of use for beverage purposes. (Ord.
2002-04, 10-21-2002, eff. 12-6-2002; amd. Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-
2009)
9-3-2: GLASS CONTAINERS:
No person shall possess any beverage container, cup, tumbler, bottle, dish or
bowl made of glass within the area known as Little Ash Spring recreational
area. (Ord. 2002-04, 10-21-2002, eff. 12-6-2002)
9-3-3: ALCOHOL PROHIBITED:
No person shall consume, possess, or bring into the area known as Little Ash
Spring recreational area any alcoholic beverage. (Ord. 2002-04, 10-21-2002,
eff. 12-6-2002)
9-3-4: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and shall be punished as
prescribed by the Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 2002-04, 10-21-2002, eff. 12-
6-2002)
9-3-5: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
Any and all ordinances or parts of ordinances heretofore adopted by the Lincoln
County board of county commissioners which are in conflict with this ordinance
are hereby repealed. (Ord. 2002-04, 10-21-2002, eff. 12-6-2002)
9-3-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this ordinance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions and each provision is hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2002-04, 10-21-2002, eff. 12-6-2002)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definitions
9-4-2: Possession, Consumption And Sale Restrictions
9-4-3: Penalty
9-4-4: Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances
9-4-5: Severability
9-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: Alcohol, beer, wine, spirits, and includes any and all
distilled spirits, potable alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, gin, aromatic
bitters, and every liquid containing one-half of one percent or more of alcohol
by volume and which is used or capable of use for beverage purposes.
MINOR: For the purposes of this chapter, the definition of "minor" is any
person under the age of twenty one (21) years. (Ord. 2002-03, 10-21-2002, eff.
12-6-2002; amd. Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
9-4-2: POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION AND SALE RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of age to:
   A.   Purchase or consume any alcoholic beverage in any saloon, resort, or
premises where alcoholic beverages are sold;
   B.   1. Possess, for any reason, any alcoholic beverage in public. For the
purpose of this section, possession "in public" includes possession:
         a.   On any street or highway;
         b.   In any place open to the public; and
         c.   In any private business establishment which is in effect open to
the public.
      2.   Possession "in public" does not include:
         a.   Possession for an established religious purpose;
         b.   Possession in the presence of and with the permission of the
person's parent, guardian or spouse who is at least twenty one (21) years of
age;
         c.   Possession in accordance with a prescription issued by a person
statutorily authorized to issue prescriptions;
         d.   The selling, handling, serving or transporting of alcoholic
beverages by a person in the course of his lawful employment by a licensed
manufacturer, wholesaler or retailer of alcoholic beverages;
   C.   Be in public, as previously defined in this section, after having
consumed an alcoholic beverage. For the purposes of this section, "public
consumption" does not include:
      1.   Possession for an established religious purpose;
      2.   Possession in the presence of and with the permission of the
person's parent, guardian or spouse who is at least twenty one (21) years of
age;
      3.   Possession in accordance with a prescription issued by a person
statutorily authorized to issue prescriptions;
   D.   Have consumed any alcoholic beverage to be in a public place without
direct supervision of a parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 2002-03, 10-21-2002,
eff. 12-6-2002)
9-4-3: PENALTY:
Any person convicted under any provision of this chapter, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 2002-03, 10-21-2002, eff. 12-6-2002)
9-4-4: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
Any and all ordinances or parts of ordinances heretofore adopted by the Lincoln
County board of county commissioners which are in conflict with this ordinance
are hereby repealed. (Ord. 2002-03, 10-21-2002, eff. 12-6-2002)
9-4-5: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this ordinance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not
affect other provisions and each provision is hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2002-03, 10-21-2002, eff. 12-6-2002)
CHAPTER 5
WATER TRANSFERS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Plan To Mitigate Adverse Economic Effects Caused By Transfer Of Water
From Lincoln County To Another County
9-5-3: Imposition Of Tax On Certain Transfers Of Water By Lincoln County
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
BASIN: An area designated by the state engineer for the purposes of chapter 534
of Nevada Revised Statutes.
ORIGIN: The place where water is diverted from an underground basin wholly or
partially within Lincoln County. (Ord. 2003-02, 1-20-2004)
9-5-2: PLAN TO MITIGATE ADVERSE ECONOMIC EFFECTS CAUSED BY TRANSFER OF WATER
FROM LINCOLN COUNTY TO ANOTHER COUNTY:
   A.   When an applicant desires to transfer water from a basin within Lincoln
County to any other county, the Lincoln board of county commissioners shall
first meet with the applicant to develop and execute a plan to mitigate the
adverse economic effects caused by such an intercounty water transfer.
   B.   The plan to mitigate the adverse economic effects caused by the
transfer of water from within Lincoln County to any other county may include,
but is not limited to, provisions concerning:
      1.   The reservation of designated water rights to Lincoln County; and
      2.   Mitigation of the foreseeable economic effects of the transfer.
      3.   Education of the people of Lincoln County as to the resource issues
and resource conservation, preservation and resource development effects.
   C.   If such a plan is agreed upon by the applicant and the board of county
commissioners, the plan is binding on Lincoln County and the applicant or his
successor.
   D.   If a plan is executed pursuant to subsection A of this section, the
county and the applicant shall submit the mitigation plan to the state
engineer. The state engineer may modify the mitigation plan pursuant to
subsection A of this section only if a provision of the plan:
      1.   Violates a specific statute; or
      2.   Becomes impossible or impracticable to put into effect. (Ord. 2003-
02, 1-20-2004)
9-5-3: IMPOSITION OF TAX ON CERTAIN TRANSFERS OF WATER BY LINCOLN COUNTY:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in subsection D of this section, should
Lincoln County be unable to agree upon a mitigation plan in accordance with
section
9-5-2 of this chapter and if an appropriation of ground water pursuant to a
permit to appropriate ground water results in the transfer to and beneficial
use of water with a point of diversion within Lincoln County to a place of use
in any other county in this state other than Lincoln County or in another
state, Lincoln County may impose a tax, in the amount from time to time
authorized by chapter 533 of Nevada Revised Statutes, upon the initial transfer
and annually thereafter.
   B.   Lincoln County shall not impose a tax pursuant to subsection A of this
section without the prior approval of the state engineer. Lincoln County shall
notify the state engineer in writing of its intent to impose the tax. The state
engineer shall review the notice of intent to impose the tax to determine:
      1.   Whether the appropriation of ground water pursuant to the permit
specified in subsection A of this section results in a transfer to and
beneficial use of water in a county in this state other than Lincoln County or
in another state; and
      2.   The amount of water, if any, that is:
         a.   Subject to the proposed tax because of that transfer and
beneficial use; or
         b.   Not subject to the proposed tax pursuant to subsection D of this
section.
   C.   Within thirty (30) days after reviewing the notice of intent to impose
the tax, the state engineer shall send a written notice to Lincoln County that
includes the results of his review. If the state engineer determines that the
appropriation of ground water pursuant to the permit results in a transfer to
and beneficial use of water in a county in this state other than Lincoln County
or in another state, the state engineer shall include in the notice the amount
of water that is subject to the proposed tax. Lincoln County may, upon such a
determination, impose the tax on the transfer.
   D.   Lincoln County shall not impose a tax pursuant to this section on water
that is appropriated and beneficially used pursuant to a permit to appropriate
ground water which is issued for a point of diversion and a place of beneficial
use in Lincoln County and which, after the water is diverted and beneficially
used, is discharged or migrates into a county in this state other than the
county of origin or into another state.
   E.   All money collected from a tax imposed pursuant to this section must be
deposited in a trust fund for Lincoln County. The principal and interest of the
trust fund may be used by Lincoln County only for the purposes of economic
development, health care and education.
   F.   For the purposes of this section, if a basin includes land lying in
more than one county, each county any part of whose land is included is a
county of origin to the extent of the proportionate amount of water transferred
from it. The state engineer shall determine the respective proportions. (Ord.
2003-02, 1-20-2004)
CHAPTER 6
SALE OR LEASE OF COUNTY PROPERTY
SECTION:
9-6-1: Definitions
9-6-2: General
9-6-3: Purpose
9-6-4: List Established
9-6-5: Selection Procedure
9-6-6: Director's Responsibilities
9-6-7: Qualification Criteria
9-6-8: Appraisal Time Restriction
9-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
"Real estate" or "real property" shall be as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes
361.035. (Ord. 2006-07, 11-9-2006)
9-6-2: GENERAL:
Prior to the sale or lease of any real property owned by the county, the county
administrator or county departments that may be authorized by the board to
negotiate to sell or lease county owned real property (collectively and
individually, "the director"), shall obtain two (2) independent appraisals of
the real property. Each appraisal shall be prepared by appraisers selected from
a list established pursuant to this chapter. The selection and appointment of
the appraisers shall be according to the procedure established pursuant to this
chapter. The qualifications of the appraisers shall be determined pursuant to
this chapter. (Ord. 2006-07, 11-9-2006)
9-6-3: PURPOSE:
Unless otherwise provided by state law or required by federal law, before the
board of county commissioners may sell or lease any of the real property owned
by the county, the board shall first cause such property to be appraised
pursuant to the provisions set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 2006-07, 11-9-2006)
9-6-4: LIST ESTABLISHED:
The list of appraisers shall be established as follows. The director shall:
   A.   Obtain from the state of Nevada, department of business and industry,
real estate division, a current list of all Nevada certified general appraisers
licensed or certified to appraise real estate in the state of Nevada and
identify those on active status;
   B.   Send a letter to all appraisers on that list requesting that they
submit a statement of interest in providing appraisal services for the sale or
lease of real property owned by Lincoln County according to their area(s) of
practice, together with a statement of their general qualifications and general
consent to the requirements listed in section
9-6-7 of this chapter; and
   C.   Review and compile the list of appraisers responding to the letter and
organize it at random. Such random organization may be done by using any method
that the director determines will result in a random listing. The director
shall present each such list to the board for approval. (Ord. 2006-07, 11-9-
2006)
9-6-5: SELECTION PROCEDURE:
   A.   The board hereby establishes the following procedure for selection of
appraisers:
      1.   The director shall select the first two (2) or more names starting
at the top of the random list of appraisers, based on their area of practice
and qualifications for the particular assignment.
      2.   The appraisers so selected shall be required to submit a proposal,
including a quote and their specific qualifications for the particular
assignment together with the disclosure statement described in section
9-6-7 of this chapter.
      3.   Until such time as the list is amended or rotated as provided in
section
9-6-6 of this chapter, the names of those appraisers so selected and appointed
will be moved to the bottom of the list.
   B.   Should there be only one or two (2) appraisers responding to be put on
this list, the selection for the necessary appraisal action will be determined
by the board based on the response most advantageous to the county's interest.
(Ord. 2006-07, 11-9-2006)
9-6-6: DIRECTOR'S RESPONSIBILITIES:
The director shall annually, or at other times deemed necessary:
   A.   Review the records of the state of Nevada, department of business and
industry, real estate division, to identify changes, additions or deletions of
those Nevada certified general appraisers on active status;
   B.   Send a letter to all new appraisers requesting that they submit a
statement of interest in providing appraisal services for the sale or lease of
real property owned by Lincoln County according to their area(s) of practice,
together with a statement of their qualifications; and
   C.   Compile a new list of appraisers comprised of the existing appraisers
and the new appraisers responding to the letter and organize it at random. The
list may be amended to remove a name at any time upon written request from an
appraiser, upon information received from the state of Nevada, department of
business and industry, real estate division, that an appraiser is no longer
active or that some other basis exists for removal, or upon a determination by
the board that a basis exists for removal. (Ord. 2006-07, 11-9-2006)
9-6-7: QUALIFICATION CRITERIA:
   A.   The board hereby establishes the following criteria to be used in
determining the qualifications of appraisers. These criteria shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      1.   Possession of Nevada general appraiser certification issued by the
real estate division;
      2.   Years of experience in appraising real property in Nevada;
      3.   Description of previous projects similar in size and scope to the
particular assignment;
      4.   Professional expertise, based on a resume of qualifications,
certifications and professional expertise of the person performing the work;
      5.   Appraiser's current workload to determine ability to perform the
work required for the particular project;
      6.   Competitiveness of fees;
      7.   Ability to obtain professional liability insurance as required by
the county;
      8.   Willingness to indemnify the county for errors, omissions and
negligence;
      9.   Lack of any conflict of interest as specified in subsection B of
this section; and
      10.   Any other criteria deemed appropriate under the circumstances of
the particular assignment.
   B.   An appraiser shall not be qualified for an assignment if the appraiser
or a person related to the appraiser within the third degree of consanguinity
or affinity has an interest in the real property to be appraised or an interest
in real property adjoining the property to be appraised. An appraiser selected
from the list must provide a disclosure statement to the director which
includes, but is not limited to, a statement describing any such relationship
and a list of all sources of income that may constitute a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2006-07, 11-9-2006)
9-6-8: APPRAISAL TIME RESTRICTION:
The appraisals obtained pursuant to this chapter may be used to determine the
price of real property to be sold or leased only if such appraisals have been
prepared not more than six (6) months before the date on which the real
property is offered for sale or lease. (Ord. 2006-07, 11-9-2006)
CHAPTER 7
ALAMO TOWN CHILDREN'S PARK
SECTION:
9-7-1: Definitions
9-7-2: Open Uncorked Container
9-7-3: Alcohol Prohibited
9-7-4: Glass Container
9-7-5: Penalties
9-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   For the purpose of this chapter the definition of "alcoholic beverage"
means and includes the definition of "alcoholic beverage" codified in Nevada
Revised Statutes 202.015 as follows:
NRS 202.015 "Alcoholic Beverage" Defined. For the purposes of NRS 202.020 to
202.065, inclusive "alcoholic beverage" means:
1. Beer, ale, porter, stout and other similar fermented beverages, including
sake and similar products, of any name or description containing one-half of 1
percent or more alcohol by volume, brewed or produced from malt, wholly or in
part, or from any substitute therefore.
2. Any beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural content of fruits
or other agricultural products containing sugar, of not less than one-half of 1
percent of alcohol by volume.
3. Any distilled spirits commonly referred to as ethyl alcohol, ethanol or
spirits of wine in any form, including all dilutions and mixtures thereof from
whatever process produced.
(Ord. 2009-05, 11-16-2009, eff. retroactive to 11-10-2009)
9-7-2: OPEN UNCORKED CONTAINER:
For the purpose of this chapter, the definition of "open uncorked container"
means any beverage container, cup, tumbler, bottle made of glass within the
Alamo town parks. (Ord. 2009-05, 11-16-2009, eff. retroactive to 11-10-2009)
9-7-3: ALCOHOL PROHIBITED:
For the purpose of this chapter, no person shall consume, possess, or bring
into the Alamo town parks any alcoholic beverage. (Ord. 2009-05, 11-16-2009,
eff. retroactive to 11-10-2009)
9-7-4: GLASS CONTAINER:
Glass containers of any sort. (Ord. 2009-05, 11-16-2009, eff. retroactive to
11-10-2009)
9-7-5: PENALTIES:
For the purpose of this chapter, penalties shall be a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as prescribed by the Nevada Revised Statutes. (Ord. 2009-05, 11-16-
2009, eff. retroactive to 11-10-2009)
TITLE 10
PUBLIC SERVICES
CHAPTER 1
POWER, WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Definitions
10-1-2: User Classifications
10-1-3: Application For Service
10-1-4: Deposits Required
10-1-5: Connection Fees And Service Rates
10-1-6: Public Utilities; Duties And Restrictions
10-1-7: Consumer Rules And Regulations
10-1-8: Extensions To Main Lines
10-1-9: Meter Reading; Statements And Collection
10-1-10: Suspension Or Discontinuance Of Service
10-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONSUMER: Any person, partnership, corporation, association or other legal
entity.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any utility owned by an unincorporated town in Lincoln County,
Nevada. (1983 Code § 13.04.010)
10-1-2: USER CLASSIFICATIONS:
Classifications shall be as follows:
   A.   Residential: A single-family dwelling excluding motel, hotel and/or
transient dwelling accommodations; each trailer or mobile home, wherever
situated.
   B.   Commercial: Users in business for profit.
   C.   Cemeteries: Cemeteries.
   D.   Schools: Public schools.
   E.   Nonprofit Organizations: Nonprofit fraternal, philanthropic and
religious organizations; nonprofit corporations, businesses and associations.
   F.   Corrals: Corrals where horses or livestock are kept.
   G.   Permanent Residence: Yearly dwelling occupancy exceeding two (2)
months, continuous or otherwise. (1983 Code § 13.04.020)
10-1-3: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
All applications for service shall be made at the local public utility office
on a proper application form, and such application shall be granted unless:
   A.   Such service is not available under a standard rate.
   B.   It would involve excessive cost.
   C.   It would seriously impair service to existing users.
   D.   The consumer or user of services has failed to discharge prior
indebtedness. (1983 Code § 13.04.030)
10-1-4: DEPOSITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Water: Deposit per water meter shall be twice the minimum flat rate
charge per classification specified in this chapter and by resolution of the
board of county commissioners. If service has been discontinued for previous
nonpayment, the deposit shall be twice the normal flat rate deposit charged, as
specified in this subsection, or fifty dollars ($50.00), whichever is higher.
(1983 Code § 13.04.040; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Electricity:
      1.   Deposit per electrical meter shall be one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) for all electric homes, and seventy five dollars ($75.00) for homes
without electric heat. If service has been discontinued for previous
nonpayment, the deposit shall be twice the normal fee charged, as specified in
this subsection or three hundred dollars ($300.00), whichever is higher. The
deposit may be foregone if the party requesting service supplies a verified
credit reference from their past utility supplier.
      2.   Deposit per electrical power meter for commercial service shall be
three hundred dollars ($300.00). (1983 Code § 13.04.040)
   C.   Liability For Payment Of Bills: The owner of the property, as well as
the tenant or user of the utility service, shall be jointly and severally
responsible for payment of all bills incurred in connection with the service
furnished. (1983 Code § 13.04.040; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Deposit Nontransferable: The deposit shall not be negotiable or
transferable.
   E.   Refund: Deposit may be refunded after a period of six (6) months if
utility bills are satisfactorily paid.
   F.   Additional Deposit: Additional deposit may be required upon thirty (30)
days' written notice. The amount of deposit required may be increased to twice
the amount of the highest monthly statement. (1983 Code § 13.04.040)
10-1-5: CONNECTION FEES AND SERVICE RATES:
   A.   Original Connection Fees: Original connection fees shall be established
from time to time by resolution of the board of county commissioners. (1983
Code § 13.04.050)
   B.   Service Rates: Rates shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the board of county commissioners. (1983 Code § 13.04.090)
10-1-6: PUBLIC UTILITIES; DUTIES AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Water And Sewer Service:
      1.   With regard to water and sewer service, the public utility shall
maintain a service line from its distribution line to the property line of the
consumer.
      2.   The consumer shall install and be responsible for the maintenance of
any and all lines, connections and fittings upon consumer's premises, and
consumer shall install a cutoff valve for the entire system upon his own
property and shall further provide for complete drainage upon consumer's
property.
      3.   All water heaters shall be so installed to prevent any drain back
into the main system.
      4.   This shall not prevent the public utility and the consumer from
entering into a contract for the required work with the public utility as a
contractor.
      5.   Service may be refused if the lines and/or pipes on the premises
would allow cross connections and/or backflow.
   B.   Electrical Service:
      1.   With regard to electrical service, the public utility shall maintain
a service line from its distribution or service line to the entrance cap on the
consumer's home or pole.
      2.   The consumer shall install and be responsible for the maintenance of
entrance cap, conduit, wire and meter base, upon consumer's premises.
      3.   Service may be refused if the installation on consumer's building or
pole does not meet the national electrical code standards.
   C.   Meter Installations:
      1.   The public utility may install the meter or meters at the property
line or at its option upon consumer's property.
      2.   In the event of multiple use and installation of two (2) or more
meters, such meters shall be so marked as to clearly identify the consumer
being serviced.
   D.   Nonliability Of Public Utility; Exception: The public utility shall not
be liable for any damage of any kind whatsoever resulting from water or the use
of water on the consumer's premises or for any damage done by, or resulting
from, any defect in the piping, fixtures or appliances on the consumer's
premises or negligence of third persons, or force beyond the control of the
public utility resulting in any interruption of service; unless such damage
results directly from negligence on the part of the public utility. (1983 Code
§ 13.04.060)
   E.   Actions Of Employees:
      1.   No promise, agreement or representation of any employee shall be
binding upon the public utility unless acknowledged in writing by the Pioche
town board.
      2.   No modification of the rates or any of the rules and regulations may
be made by an employee of the public utility. (1983 Code § 13.04.120; amd. 2003
Code)
10-1-7: CONSUMER RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Connection Locations; Additional Meters:
      1.   With regard to power, water and sewer services, all connections must
be conveniently located for connection to the public utility's lines or mains.
      2.   In the event the services on the consumer's premises is such that
the public utility is required to install additional meters, each meter will be
considered a separate account. However, each situation may be brought before
the town board for consideration.
   B.   Accessibility Of Meter: If the meter is placed on consumer's premises,
an unobstructed and accessible site shall be provided.
   C.   Water And Sewer Installations: All water and sewer related
installations by the consumer shall be done in a safe and efficient manner and
in accordance with the public utility's rules and regulations and in full
compliance with the sanitary regulations of the Nevada state board of health.
   D.   Electrical Installations: All electrical related installations by the
consumer shall be done in a safe and efficient manner and in accordance with
the public utility's rules and regulations and in full compliance with the
national electrical code or the county code.
   E.   Liability For Utility Property: The consumer shall guarantee proper
protection for the public utility's property placed on the consumer's premises
and shall permit access to it only by authorized representatives of the public
utility. In the event of any loss or damage to the property of the public
utility or any accident or injury to the persons or property is caused by, or
results from, the negligence or wrongful act of the consumer, his agents or
employees, the cost of necessary repairs or replacements shall be added to the
consumer's bill, and if not paid by the consumer within a reasonable time,
services may be discontinued.
   F.   Allow Access To Premises: Consumer shall allow the public utility's
duly authorized agents access at all reasonable hours to the premises for the
purpose of installing or removing the public utility's property, inspecting
piping, wires, reading and testing meters and for any other purpose in
connection with their services and facilities.
   G.   Grant Of Easement: Each consumer shall grant or convey or shall cause
to be granted or conveyed to the public utility a perpetual easement and right
of way across any property owned or controlled by the consumer wherever said
perpetual easement and right of way is necessary for the public utility water
lines, sewer facilities, or power lines and facilities.
   H.   Underground Electrical Service: Any consumer desiring underground
electrical service to his facility shall furnish and install, at his own
expense, the necessary conduit, entrance cap, meter base and master breaker or
main fuse disconnect, underground wires, appurtenances at the point of delivery
or transformer, located on or adjacent to the consumer's premises and all wires
and appurtenances to be installed beyond this point of service.
   I.   Right To Impose Restrictions; Electrical Service: The public utility
shall reserve the right to impose restrictions, limiting the initial current
input, or the initial instantaneous starting current drawn from the lines by
motors of the customer, or other types of electrical apparatus than motors. The
customer shall pay all costs to rectify the above described situation if it
should occur. (1983 Code § 13.04.070)
10-1-8: EXTENSIONS TO MAIN LINES:
   A.   Water And Sewer Lines: The public utility may construct extensions to
its water lines and sewer lines to points within the town in which it is
located, but the public utility shall not be required to make such extensions
unless the consumer pays the cost of installation or makes suitable arrangement
to pay. Such extensions shall be evidenced by a written contract. (1983 Code §
13.04.080)
   B.   Overhead Electrical System: The public utility may construct extensions
of its overhead electrical system to serve new permanent consumers to points
within the town, but the public utility shall not be required to make such
extensions unless the consumer pays all costs, except for the meter, or makes
suitable arrangements to pay. Such extensions shall be evidenced by a written
contract. (1983 Code § 13.04.080; amd. 2003 Code)
   C.   Right Of Utility When Policy Detrimental: In situations where the
application of the terms of this line extension policy is detrimental to the
utility or its existing consumers, the utility reserves the right to deal with
such situations independently and without reference to the provisions of the
policy.
   D.   Request For Extensions Beyond Town Limits: In the event there is a
request for an extension of water, sewer and/or power service beyond the legal
boundaries of any town, such lines shall be maintained and kept in a state of
repair by the consumers using such lines to the specifications of the utility;
or after completion of construction, the line may be turned over to ownership
of the utility with a written agreement or contract, mutually agreed upon.
   E.   Monthly Service Rates; Agreement: Monthly service rates shall be
mutually agreed upon, but in no event shall such rates be less than the rates
established pursuant to sections
10-1-4 and 10-1-5B of this chapter. (1983 Code § 13.04.080)
10-1-9: METER READING; STATEMENTS AND COLLECTION:
   A.   Residence Water Meters: Residence water meters shall be read as
follows:
      1.   Monthly for the months of April through October;
      2.   In March only for the months of November through March.
   B.   Commercial Water Meters: Commercial water meters shall be read monthly.
   C.   Issuance Of Statements:
      1.   Commercial: Water and power meter statements shall be mailed monthly
on all commercial meters and on residence meters.
      2.   Residences; March Reading: A water meter reading statement shall be
mailed on the March reading of residence meters if the amount of the
consumption exceeds the minimum. Overages occurring due November through March
will appear on April's bill. (1983 Code § 13.04.100; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Commencement Of Charges: Charge for service commences when meter is
installed and connection made whether used or not.
   E.   Combination Of Meter Readings: Meter readings will not be combined for
billings whether said meters are for the same or different premises, or for the
same or different consumers or for the same or different services, unless
special circumstances and arrangements are made for such combinations.
   F.   Payment Of Bills; Delinquency:
      1.   Water, power and sewer bills are due and payable on or before the
twentieth day of the next succeeding month. All statements shall become
delinquent on the last day of said month. It shall be presumed that all
statements are received in due course by mail.
      2.   Failure to receive statements shall not relieve the consumer from
liability for payments.
      3.   If the statement is not paid when due, a request must be made to the
public utility for credit extension to prevent a cutoff.
   G.   Claims For Billing Adjustment; Testing Meter:
      1.   If the consumer believes the statement to be erroneous, the consumer
shall present his claim in person at the office of the utility for adjustment
before the statement becomes delinquent.
      2.   If the claim of adjustment is made after the statement has become
delinquent, such claim shall not prevent discontinuance of service as
heretofore provided. The consumer, however, may pay such statement under
protest without prejudice to his claim. (1983 Code § 13.04.100)
      3.   Upon the request of the consumer, a special meter reading will be
made for a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00). If such reading discloses that the
meter was over read, no such charge will be made. (1983 Code § 13.04.100; amd.
2003 Code)
      4.   Meters will be tested upon the request of the consumer and payment
to the utility of the cost to make the test; provided, however, if the meter is
found to over register beyond three percent (3%) of the correct volume, no
charge will be made.
   H.   Meter Failure: If the seal of a meter is broken or if the meter fails
to register correctly, the consumer will pay a reasonable amount estimated from
the previous record and/or other proper data. (1983 Code § 13.04.100)
10-1-10: SUSPENSION OR DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
   A.   Delinquency Notice; Discontinuance Of Service: Delinquent notices will
be mailed certified, or delivered by hand, to the consumer twenty five (25)
days after the regular monthly billing date; if not paid within five (5) days,
a cutoff will be made on all services without further notice. (1983 Code §
13.04.110; amd. 2003 Code)
   B.   Payment Of Fees Before Restoration: Services will be suspended five (5)
days from and after notice of delinquency is mailed and will not be restored
until all delinquent and connection fees are paid.
   C.   Reasons For Suspension Of Service: Services may be suspended:
      1.   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      2.   Consumer's wilful disregard of or failure to comply with the
utility's rules;
      3.   For emergency repairs;
      4.   For insufficiency of supply;
      5.   By direction of public authorities;
      6.   As a result of strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any other
unavoidable cause.
   D.   Discontinuance At Request Of Consumer: Services will be discontinued at
the request of the consumer and the deposit will be refunded if all statements
have been paid. In the event the statements have not been paid, the guaranteed
deposit will be applied by the utility toward settlement of the account and the
balance, if any, will be refunded to the consumer. If the deposit is not
sufficient to pay the amount due, the consumer will remain liable for the
deficiency in any manner provided by law for the collection of debts.
   E.   Tampering With Meter: Service may be refused to any consumer who
tampers with a meter or other measuring device. No meter shall be removed
unless permission is given by the utility first. (1983 Code § 13.04.110)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SERVICE COSTS (PIOCHE)
SECTION:
10-2-1: Payment Of Costs; Fees
10-2-2: Payment For Pipe And Installation
10-2-3: Exemptions
10-2-1: PAYMENT OF COSTS; FEES:
   A.   Costs Paid By User: The cost of all water service provided by the town
of Pioche, delivery of which requires pumping from the existing holding tank,
shall be paid for by the user of the water. (1983 Code § 13.48.010)
   B.   Connection Fees: The following connection fees are hereby established:
 
Water connection fee $1,000.00
Sewer connection fee 1,000.00
 
(2003 Code)
   C.   Items Included In Costs: The said cost shall include the cost of and
installation of the required pumping equipment, the cost of maintenance and
repair of the equipment, the cost of the water and the cost of pumping the
water to the user. (1983 Code § 13.48.020)
10-2-2: PAYMENT FOR PIPE AND INSTALLATION:
The cost of new pipe and the cost of new installation of pipe exceeding twenty
feet (20') in length from the main water line, used in providing water service,
shall be paid for by the user. (1983 Code § 13.48.030)
10-2-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter, except for subsection 10-2-1B, shall not apply
to water users who are purchasing water from the town of Pioche after May 8,
1980. (1983 Code § 13.48.040; amd. 2003 Code)
CHAPTER 3
UTILITY SERVICE CERTIFICATE OF STRUCTURAL COMPLIANCE
SECTION:
10-3-1: Definition
10-3-2: Certificate Required
10-3-3: Issuance Of Certificate
10-3-4: Exemptions
10-3-1: DEFINITION:
"Central station service" is defined as the wholesale delivery of power to a
central point for redistribution. (1983 Code § 13.08.010)
10-3-2: CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
Every business, public service company, corporation or individual furnishing
light and power, gas or water, or any of them, to the public shall, before said
service is provided, obtain from the person desiring such service a certificate
of structural compliance from said person. (1983 Code § 13.08.020)
10-3-3: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE:
A certificate of structural compliance required under section
10-3-2 of this chapter shall be issued by the county after a satisfactory
showing is made that the person has complied with the building, plumbing,
electrical codes and zoning ordinances of the county, if applicable. (1983 Code
§ 13.08.030)
10-3-4: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   This chapter shall not apply to service provided within the city of
Caliente.
   B.   This chapter is not applicable to utilities that only provide central
station service. (1983 Code § 13.08.040)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
10-4-1: Declaration Of County Policy
10-4-2: Definitions
10-4-3: Authority Of Board Of County Commissioners
10-4-4: Authority To Issue Citations (Rep. by Ord. 2006-05, 11-9-2006)
10-4-5: Reserved
10-4-6: Unlawful Disposal Of Solid Waste
10-4-7: Accumulation Of Waste Material Prohibited
10-4-8: Infectious Waste Disposal
10-4-9: Burning Of Solid Waste Or Recyclables
10-4-10: Transportation Of Solid Waste
10-4-11: Solid Waste Receptacles; Recyclables
10-4-12: Use Of Authorized Disposal Sites; Solid Waste Services; Fees
10-4-13: Inspections
10-4-14: Penalty
10-4-1: DECLARATION OF COUNTY POLICY:
It is declared to be the policy of Lincoln County to regulate the collection
and disposal of solid waste in a manner that will protect public health and
welfare, prevent water or air pollution, prevent the spread of disease and the
creation of nuisances, conserve natural resources and enhance the beauty and
quality of the environment. Effectuation of this policy will be pursued through
solid waste planning; maintenance of County solid waste landfills, transfer
stations, drop stations and collection services from real property in
compliance with all applicable State and Federal laws; the enactment, as
needed, of rules, regulations and fee structures for the County's solid waste
landfills, drop box facilities and collection services; the vigorous
enforcement of the County's Solid Waste Management Ordinance; contracting for
solid waste services; and such other activities as may be needed to carry out
the County's solid waste management plan. (Ord. 2016-02, 11-14-2016)
10-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the following
words and terms shall have the meanings, respectively, ascribed to them in this
section.
Any other words used, unless having special connotation, will be construed in
the normal and ordinary sense, in accordance with the normal parlance insofar
as possible.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure which is customarily accessory to and
incidental to that of a dwelling unit(s); commonly referred to as a shed, shop
or detached garage.
AGRICULTURAL WASTE: All putrescible and non-putrescible waste material in solid
or semisolid form that is generated by the rearing of animals other than
household pets, or the production and harvesting of crops or trees for profit,
and that has not been discarded or abandoned by its owner.
ASBESTOS: Any substance or material which contains the asbestiform varieties of
crysotile (serpentine), crocidolite (riebeckite), amosite
(cummingtonitegrunerite), anthophyllite, tremolite or actinolite.
ASHES: The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other combustible
solid waste.
BOARD: The Board of County Commissioners of the County of Lincoln.
BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
BUSINESS: Any person, partnership, association, firm, entity, or corporation
engaging in enterprise.
COLLECTION: The act of removing solid waste, recyclable material or
construction or demolition debris from storage at the place of waste generation
or from a drop box facility or transfer station.
COMMERCIAL/RETAIL WASTE: Includes material discarded by businesses and
commercial enterprises including stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses,
nonmanufacturing activities at industrial facilities, and other similar
establishments or facilities.
CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION DEBRIS: Solid waste resulting from the construction
or demolition of buildings and other structures, including, but not limited to,
wood, plaster, metals, asphaltic substances, bricks, block, and concrete and
excavation dirt, rock, stone and gravel. The term does not include
uncontaminated soil, rock, stone, gravel, unused brick and block and concrete,
if they are separate from other solid waste construction or demolition debris
and are to be used as clean fill.
COUNTY: The County of Lincoln, State of Nevada.
CURBSIDE COLLECTION: The act of removing solid waste, recyclable material or
construction or demolition debris on a periodic basis from receptacles at or
near the curbside of a street or other such location as needed to carry out the
County's solid waste management plan for collection of such solid waste from
households, public buildings, or places of business that are not serviced by a
drop box facility.
DISPOSAL: The deposit, discharge or injection of any solid or liquid waste at
an approved location intended for final disposition of that waste.
DISPOSAL SITE: Any place at which solid waste is dumped, abandoned or accepted
or disposed of by incineration, landfilling, composting or any other method.
The term includes, but is not limited to, Municipal solid waste landfills,
material recovery facilities, transfer stations, and any other facility at
which conversion technology is used.
DROP BOX FACILITY: A facility that provides one or more portable waste
containers which are used for the collection of solid waste for transport to a
solid waste disposal site. The term does not include residential or commercial
waste containers that are located on or near a site of waste generation.
Commonly referred to as a bin site.
DWELLING UNIT: A single unit or habitable structure providing complete
independent living facilities for one or more persons, including permanent
provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
FRANCHISEE: Any person who provides for drop box facility or curbside
collection of solid waste, construction or demolition debris, and/or
recyclables under contract with the County.
GARBAGE: Swill and any putrescible animal, vegetable and food refuse from
kitchens of residences, hotels, cafes, restaurants, and places where food is
prepared for human consumption, and that has been discarded or abandoned.
GENERATOR: The person, business, corporation or facility that is directly
responsible for the generation of a waste material.
GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY: Any government or any agency, bureau, board, commission,
court, department, official, political subdivision, tribunal or other
instrumentality of any government, whether Federal, State or local, and whether
domestic or foreign.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Has the meaning ascribed in Nevada Revised Statutes section
459.430.
HOUSEHOLD: Any single-family residences, multiple-family residences, and other
similar permanent or temporary housing establishments or facilities; including
a dwelling unit.
HOUSEHOLD WASTE: Any solid waste derived from households. To be classified as
"household waste", the waste must be generated by one or more members of a
household and the waste stream must be composed primarily of materials found in
the wastes generated by consumers in their homes (see 49 CFR 44.978 (1984)).
INCINERATOR: An engineered waste burner specially designed and constructed for
the purpose of burning solid waste.
INFECTIOUS WASTE: Waste materials derived in whole or in part from:
   A.   Cultures and stocks of infectious agents and associated biological
materials;
   B.   Pathological wastes;
   C.   Contaminated animal carcasses and body parts;
   D.   All sharps;
   E.   Human blood and blood products;
   F.   Byproduct waste such as, but not limited to, dressings, bedding, swabs,
pads and gloves; and/or
   G.   Invasive disposal equipment which has been, or may have been, in
contact with known infectious materials.
INSTITUTIONAL WASTE: Includes material discarded by schools, nonmedical waste
discarded by hospitals, material discarded by nonmanufacturing activities at
prisons and government facilities, and material discarded by other similar
establishments or facilities.
LANDFILL: An area of land or an excavation in which wastes are placed for
permanent disposal, and that is not a land application unit, surface
impoundment, injection well or waste pile.
LAW: Denotes applicable Federal law, the Constitution and Statutes of the State
of Nevada, the ordinances of the County of Lincoln, and, when appropriate, any
and all rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
MINING WASTE: Solid waste residues which result from mining operations and
which are dumped in permitted landfills on the land owned or leased by the
mining operation that extracted them. For purposes of this chapter, these
residues do not include overburden, heap leach materials, waste rock or soil,
and other earth deposits resulting from extractive operations.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCES: Apartments and any other collection of two (2) or
more dwelling units which are contained within one building or several
buildings within one complex, such as an apartment building or duplex.
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE: Household, commercial/retail, and/or institutional waste
as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes 444.490 and including "recyclables", as
defined herein. Household, commercial/retail, and institutional waste does not
include used oil; sewage sludge; wood pallets; construction, renovation, and
demolition wastes (which includes, but is not limited to, railroad ties and
telephone poles); clean wood; industrial process or manufacturing wastes;
medical waste; or motor vehicles (including motor vehicle parts or vehicle
fluff). Household, commercial/retail, and institutional wastes include:
   A.   Yard waste;
   B.   Refuse derived fuel; and
   C.   Motor vehicle maintenance materials limited to vehicle batteries and
tires except as specified in CFR section 60.5(c).
MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILL: Any landfill or landfill unit that receives
municipal solid waste, solid waste, commercial waste, nonhazardous industrial
waste, dried sewage sludge or construction/demolition debris.
MUNICIPALITY: Any city or town within the County, whether incorporated or
unincorporated.
NRS: Nevada Revised Statutes.
NUISANCE: Has the meaning ascribed in Nevada Revised Statutes 40.140.
OPEN BURNING: Any fire from which the products of combustion are emitted
directly into the atmosphere without passing through an approved control
device.
ORGANIC MATERIAL: Those discarded materials that will decompose and/or putrefy
and that County ordinance permits, directs and/or requires generators to
separate from solid waste for collection in specifically designated containers
for organic materials collection. Organic materials include yard trimmings less
than six inches (6") in diameter and five feet (5') in length, and food scraps,
such as, but not limited to, green trimmings, grass, weeds, leaves, prunings,
branches, dead plants, brush, tree trimmings, dead trees, small wood pieces,
other types of organic yard waste, vegetable waste, fruit waste, grain waste,
dairy waste, meat waste, fish waste, paper contaminated with food scrap, pieces
of unpainted or untreated wood, and pieces of unpainted and untreated
wallboard.
PARCEL: A legally defined and separate tract or plot of land.
PATHOLOGICAL WASTES: Human and animal remains, consisting of carcasses, organs
and solid organic waste from hospitals, laboratories, abattoirs, animal pounds
and similar sources.
PERSON: Any natural person, corporation, general or limited partnership,
limited liability company, joint venture, joint stock company, trust, business,
bank, trust company, estate (including any beneficiaries thereof), fraternity,
religious order, charity, unincorporated entity, firm, cooperative,
association, organization or governmental entity of any kind.
PUBLIC BUILDINGS: Office buildings, clubs, churches, schools, hospitals or
other places of similar character.
PUBLIC WASTE STORAGE BIN FACILITY: As defined in NAC 444.607; a facility that
provides one or more portable waste containers which are used for the
collection of solid waste for transport to a solid waste disposal site. The
term does not include residential or commercial waste containers that are
located on or near a site of waste generation. Commonly referred to as bin
sites or drop box facilities.
PUTRESCIBLE WASTE: Wastes that are capable of being decomposed by
microorganisms with sufficient rapidity as to cause nuisances from odors, gases
and similar objectionable conditions. Food wastes, offal, and dead animals are
examples of putrescible wastes.
RECEPTACLES: Any container of various size for the purpose of storing solid
waste, recyclables, or construction or demolition debris on a temporary basis
at the place of waste generation or drop box facility for the purpose of
collection.
RECYCLABLES: Any solid waste, whether source-separated or commingled, which can
be processed and returned to the economic mainstream in the form of raw
material or products, as determined by the Nevada State Environmental
Commission. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, recyclables
includes newspaper, corrugated cardboard, aluminum, yard debris, office paper,
glass, tin and steel cans, metal, motor oil, plastic, antifreeze and organic
material.
REFUSE: Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, bedding and noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to, metal,
plastic, tin cans, metal furniture, pieces of concrete, glass, crockery,
automobile wastes and other mineral wastes that have no useful physical,
chemical, or biological properties after serving their original purpose and
that cannot, therefore, be reused or recycled for the same or other purposes.
RUBBISH: Non-putrescible wastes that have been discarded or abandoned such as
paper, cardboard, automobiles, cans, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
SERVICE FEE AREA: Areas located within Lincoln County which are designated for
the purpose of providing service and associated fees for solid waste services.
These areas include both regularly serviced locations and outlying areas not
regularly serviced by a solid waste service hauler.
SHARPS: Needles, syringes, blades and related articles.
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE: A free-standing building or dwelling unit wherein not
more than one family resides or dwells.
SOLID WASTE: Has the meaning ascribed in Nevada Revised Statutes 444.490.
SOLID WASTE HAULER: Any person engaged in the business of collecting,
transferring, hauling, removing or transporting solid waste, recyclable
material, or construction or demolition debris within Lincoln County.
SOLID WASTE LANDFILL: A disposal site at which an engineered method is used to
dispose of solid waste on land by spreading the waste in thin layers,
compacting the waste to the smallest practical volume and covering the waste
with soil or alternative daily cover material each day of operation in a manner
that safeguards against environmental pollution.
TRANSFER STATION: As defined in NAC 444.628; a solid waste processing site
where solid waste is transferred from one vehicle to another vehicle or storage
device for temporary storage until transferred to a disposal site. Some
processing may be included therein.
WASTE: Useless, unwanted, abandoned or discarded materials resulting from any
activity.
WRITTEN: Includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multigraphed, or
otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form and digital and electronic
media.
YARD DEBRIS: Tree trimmings; grass cuttings; leaves; branches; dead plants,
trees and bushes; and similar materials generated from plants, trees and
bushes, whether generated on residential or commercial property. (Ord. 2016-02,
11-14-2016)
10-4-3: AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Provide For Waste Collection And Disposal: The Board may, by contract,
franchise agreement, or otherwise, or in any manner it may deem necessary or
desirable for the health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the County,
provide for the collecting and disposal of solid waste, construction and
demolition debris, and recyclables from households with or without kitchen
facilities, places of business and public buildings, at the expense of the
County, person, or otherwise.
   B.   Rules And Regulations: From time to time, the Board, by resolution, may
establish rules, regulations and fees for any solid waste landfill, transfer
station, drop box facility or other pertinent solid waste services operated in
the County. (Ord. 2016-02, 11-14-2016)
10-4-4: AUTHORITY TO ISSUE CITATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2006-05, 11-9-2006)
10-4-5: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2006-05, 11-9-2006)
10-4-6: UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE:
   A.   No person shall dump, put, place, throw, abandon, or deposit, or cause
to be thrown or deposited, in any street, alley, gutter or highway within the
limits of the County, any agricultural waste, construction or demolition
debris, garbage, hazardous waste, refuse, rubbish, or solid waste of any nature
or to dump, put, place or deposit upon any public, State, Federal, or private
property, any of the above items without the consent of the owner. A person may
not dispose of any hazardous waste in a designated drop box facility or
receptacle within the County. Notwithstanding subsection H of this section, a
natural person may dispose of household waste in a designated drop box facility
or receptacle within the County.
   B.   Reserved.
   C.   Even though consent is obtained, if the materials placed upon the
property have a tendency to become obnoxious, attract rodents, become a
nuisance or a danger to the health, welfare, peace or safety, or which annoy
the repose of any party, that said property shall be immediately, as soon as
physically feasible under the circumstances, covered or conditioned in such a
manner as to remove the objectionable feature of the materials deposited.
   D.   No person shall throw, or cause to be thrown, or deposited, any solid
waste or hazardous waste upon the property, premises, or into the receptacles
of another person or business, within the limits of the County.
   E.   No person shall place, deposit, or accumulate, or cause to be placed,
deposited or accumulated, any solid waste or recyclables in such a manner, or
permit the same to remain on his premises in such condition, so that the same
may be blown or carried over to public or other private property. This
provision does not apply during exceptional events which include, but are not
limited to, excessive winds, tornadoes, floods, blizzards or other storm
events.
   F.   No person shall throw, dump or deposit or cause to be thrown, dumped or
deposited any solid waste or recyclables in any areas, including vacant lots,
yards and any desert areas of the County not authorized or licensed for deposit
of these materials.
   G.   Identification of the owner of any solid waste which is disposed of in
violation of this section creates a reasonable inference that the owner is the
person who disposed of the solid waste. The fact that the disposal of the solid
waste was not witnessed does not, in and of itself, preclude the identification
of its owner.
   H.   No person shall dump, put, place, throw, abandon, or deposit, or cause
to be thrown or deposited in a designated drop box facility or receptacle
within the County unless they are a resident of the County or they possess a
valid business license within the County and pay the applicable solid waste
user fee or curbside collection service fee imposed by the County. (Ord. 2016-
02, 11-14-2016)
10-4-7: ACCUMULATION OF WASTE MATERIAL PROHIBITED:
   A.   Mandatory Solid Waste Curbside Collection: Except as otherwise provided
in this chapter, all owners or tenants of households and places of business,
except for those households and businesses serviced by a drop box facility as
provided in this chapter, shall contract with a solid waste hauler which the
County has designated for curbside collection of all construction or demolition
debris, garbage, hazardous waste, refuse, rubbish, or solid waste of any nature
from such place of business or household. The residential areas subject to this
provision include, but are not limited to, Coyote Springs, Toquop Township and
other future planned developments. Except as provided in subsection B of this
section, no solid waste hauler other than the franchisee whom the County has
designated shall be permitted to undertake collection (including curbside
collection), transportation or disposal of any such construction or demolition
debris, garbage, hazardous waste, refuse, rubbish, recyclables or solid waste
of any nature.
   B.   Exemption: The provisions of subsection A of this section do not
preclude owners or tenants of households and places of business served by a
drop box facility to contract with licensed haulers which provide collection
and solid waste services to the drop box facility.
   C.   Self-Hauling: The provisions of subsection A of this section do not
preclude a person hauling his own construction or demolition debris, garbage,
hazardous waste, refuse, rubbish, or solid waste of any nature or recyclable
material to a solid waste disposal site, or recyclables processing facility.
   D.   Waste Accumulations On Real Property: It is unlawful for any person to
allow agricultural waste, construction or demolition debris, garbage, hazardous
waste, refuse, rubbish, or solid waste of any nature to accumulate upon any
real property under the person's control or fail to remove the same within the
time specified by the County Commissioners or their authorized representatives.
   E.   Junk; Abandoned Vehicles: It is unlawful to cause or permit junk, scrap
metal, scrap lumber, discarded building material, or any abandoned vehicles or
vehicle parts or other waste material to accumulate in or upon any yard,
garden, lawn or premises, unless in connection with a business enterprise,
lawfully situated for the same.
   F.   Drop Box Facilities: Drop box facilities for the receiving and holding
of solid waste and recyclables (but not hazardous waste) from households and
certain businesses shall be established and placed in service at the following
locations as adjusted from time to time by the County: Alamo, Beaver Dam,
Caselton, Dry Valley, Hiko, Mount Wilson, Panaca, Pioche, Rachel, and Ursine.
The provisions of subsection A of this section do not apply to a household
serviced by a drop box facility. It is unlawful for owners or tenants of
households and places of business who have contracted with the County's
designated hauler for curbside collection to dispose of solid waste or
recyclables at drop box facilities. (Ord. 2016-02, 11-14-2016)
10-4-8: INFECTIOUS WASTE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: All requirements of this chapter, without
regard to the quantity of infectious waste produced, shall apply to any
healthcare facility which is a primary care clinic, surgical clinic or chronic
dialysis clinic, acute psychiatric hospital, skilled nursing facility,
intermediate care facility or intermediate care facility for the
developmentally disabled, outpatient clinic or other similar facility,
hospital, doctor's office, dental office, veterinarian office, home healthcare
facility, prison facility, or related business, including a person or business
that engages in taxidermy.
   B.   Manner Of Containing Waste: Infectious waste, except for sharps capable
of puncturing or cutting, shall be contained in one of the following ways:
      1.   Contained in double, disposable, red, plastic bags, which are
impervious to moisture and have a strength sufficient to preclude ripping,
tearing or bursting under normal conditions of usage, and of handling the waste
filled bags. Each bag shall be constructed of material of sufficient single
strength to pass the one hundred sixty five gram (165 g) dropped dart impact
resistant test, as prescribed by standard D1709-04 of the American Society for
Testing Materials, and certified by the bag manufacturer. The bags shall be
securely tied so as to prevent leakage or expulsion of solid or liquid wastes
during storage, handling or transport.
      2.   Contained in plastic-lined boxes specifically designed to store
infectious waste, conspicuously labeled with the words "INFECTIOUS WASTE" or
with the international biohazard symbol and the word "BIOHAZARD".
   C.   Sharps: Contaminated sharps shall be contained for disposal in leak-
proof, rigid, puncture resistant containers such as cartons or metal cans which
are taped closed or tightly lidded to preclude loss of the contents. These
containers shall be labeled in the same way as other infectious wastes.
   D.   Separating Infectious Waste: All infectious waste shall be segregated
from other solid waste during storage and transportation to a disposal site, as
required by NAC section 444.662. (Ord. 2016-02, 11-14-2016)
10-4-9: BURNING OF SOLID WASTE OR RECYCLABLES 1 :
It is unlawful for any person, for the purpose of disposal of solid waste or
recyclables by burning, to kindle or maintain any bonfire, or knowingly to
furnish the materials for such fire, or to authorize any such fire to be
kindled or maintained in any solid waste or recyclables receptacle, or on any
street, alley, road, land or public grounds or upon any private property,
within Lincoln County, unless a written permit to do so shall first have been
secured from the appropriate Municipal Fire Department. Nothing in this
provision shall prohibit the open burning of solid wastes as allowed under
section
5-2-3 of this Code. (Ord. 2016-02, 11-14-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 2, and section 5-3-5 of this Code.
10-4-10: TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE:
It is unlawful to use any cart, trailer, or other vehicle for the conveyance or
removal of solid waste or recyclables unless such cart or vehicle is staunch,
tight or otherwise appropriately constructed and closely covered with a wooden,
metal, wire, canvas or tarp cover or otherwise covered or contained, so as
wholly to prevent leakage, sifting, spilling, drifting or blowing of such solid
waste or recyclables or odors from such solid waste or recyclables or any
portion thereof, in or upon the streets or highways through which such cart,
trailer or vehicle may be driven or pulled. (Ord. 2016-02, 11-14-2016)
10-4-11: SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLES; RECYCLABLES:
   A.   Required Maintenance: It shall be the duty of every tenant, lessee,
manager, owner or occupant of any place of business, public building, multiple
dwelling or single-family residence to utilize at all times solid waste and/or
recyclable material receptacles at the real property (or, for any household
serviced by a drop box facility, at the drop box facility) for the collection
and temporary storage of garbage, household waste, commercial waste and/or
recyclables. It shall be the responsibility of the County to designate who
shall furnish all such receptacles as are necessary to provide the collection
services set forth in a certain contract for solid waste services with the
County. All garbage, household waste, commercial waste and/or recyclables shall
be placed in such receptacles. Covers shall not be removed except when
necessary to place solid waste therein. Each receptacle and its cover shall be
kept clean from accumulating grease and decomposing material and care should be
taken when disposing waste in such receptacles.
   B.   Hot Ashes Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to place hot ashes
in any receptacle.
   C.   Placement Of Solid Waste In Receptacles; Exceptions:
      1.   Except as hereafter expressly provided, all solid waste shall be
placed in a receptacle.
      2.   Recycling facilities may store bulk recyclable solid wastes in
appropriate bins, constructed to control blowing litter or potentially
dangerous materials.
   D.   Location Of Receptacles: All receptacles for the receiving, holding,
and collection of solid waste shall at all times be located on real property
which receives curbside collection services or at drop box facilities in or
adjacent to Beaver Dam, Caselton, Mount Wilson, Ursine, Pioche, Panaca, Dry
Valley, Hiko, Rachel and Alamo or any other designated locations provided for
in section
10-4-7 of this chapter. On the evening before the day of curbside collection
service, receptacle shall be placed at or near the curbside of a street or
other such location as needed to carry out County's solid waste management
plan.
   E.   Interfering With Or Removal Of Receptacles: It is unlawful for any
person, other than the owner, tenant, lessee, manager, occupant, the County, a
town or city within the County, a franchisee or other solid waste hauler acting
pursuant to a services contract, or their duly appointed agents, to interfere
in any manner with any receptacles containing solid waste, construction or
demolition debris, or recyclables, or to remove any such receptacle from the
location where placed for pick up by the solid waste hauler.
   F.   Removal Of Solid Waste From Receptacles: No other person other than the
owner, tenant, lessee, manager, occupant, the County, a town or city within the
County, a franchisee or other solid waste hauler acting pursuant to a services
contract with the County, or their duly appointed agents, shall remove any
solid waste or recyclable material from solid waste and/or recyclable material
receptacles maintained by a public building, place of business, household, or a
franchisee or solid waste hauler. (Ord. 2016-02, 11-14-2016)
10-4-12: USE OF AUTHORIZED DISPOSAL SITES; SOLID WASTE SERVICES; FEES:
   A.   Deposit At Authorized Disposal Sites: Except as provided in subsection
B of this section, all solid waste collected from real property, public and
private places and premises in the County shall not be deposited at any place
within the County limits, except at a disposal site authorized by the County.
   B.   Exceptions:
      1.   Mining waste may be disposed of in a landfill operated by the mine
from which the waste is generated; provided, however, that such landfills must
meet all applicable State and Federal laws, rules and regulations and, provided
further, that the County shall have the right to periodically review planning
documents for landfills operated by mines, to certify their compliance with
applicable laws.
      2.   Junk vehicles will not be accepted at any solid waste landfill or
drop box facility regulated by the County.
      3.   Commercially generated hazardous waste, industrial sludge and
asbestos shall not be disposed of in any drop box facility regulated by the
County. Commercially generated hazardous waste, industrial sludge and asbestos
must be disposed of in an approved facility.
      4.   Solid waste generated by Federal military facilities within Lincoln
County may be disposed of at landfills established within the boundaries of
such facilities or another Federal facility; however, Lincoln County may
approve the disposal of solid waste generated by such Federal facilities at a
solid waste landfill regulated by the County.
      5.   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the diversion of
solid waste from the solid waste stream for use in construction, land
stabilization or other recycling endeavors.
   C.   Drop Box Facilities: Drop box facilities shall only be used by
residential properties and certain businesses located outside of areas
designated for curbside collection. Other commercial entities shall negotiate
directly with other County authorized solid waste service contractor(s) for
collection and disposal of solid waste.
   D.   Host Community Solid Waste Disposal:
      1.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the words and terms defined in this subsection, inclusive, have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section.
    BOARD: Means the current Lincoln County Board of Commissioners and any
future board constituting the legislative body of the County.
   CLASS I SITE: Means a disposal site pursuant to NAC 444.5705, which is
comprised of at least one municipal solid waste landfill unit including all
contiguous land and structures, other appurtenances and improvements on the
land used for the disposal of solid waste; and is not a Class II or Class III
site.
   CLASS II SITE: Means a disposal site pursuant to NAC 444.571, which is
comprised of at least one municipal solid waste landfill unit including all
contiguous land and structures, other appurtenances and improvements on the
land used for the disposal of solid waste, which is comprised of at least one
municipal solid waste landfill unit; which accepts less than twenty (20) tons
of solid waste per day on an annual average; for which there is no evidence of
contamination of groundwater originating from the site; which serves a
community that has no other practicable alternatives for waste management; and
which is located in an area which annually receives no more than twenty five
inches (25") of precipitation.
   CLASS III SITE: Means a disposal site pursuant to NAC 444.5715, which
accepts only industrial solid waste, or waste otherwise permitted to be
accepted at a Class III site by NDEP.
   COMPANY: Means a business operating a landfill within Lincoln County.
   COUNTY: Means Lincoln County, a subdivision of the State of Nevada.
   DISPOSAL SITE: Is used interchangeably with the term "landfill" and means
any place at which solid waste is dumped, abandoned, or accepted or disposed of
by incineration, land filling, composting or any other method pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes 444.460. The term includes a municipal solid waste
landfill.
   HOST COMMUNITY FEE: Means a per ton fee payable to Lincoln County.
   TREASURER: Means the Lincoln County Treasurer.
      2.   Payment: A company operating a solid waste disposal site shall
prepare and file monthly host community fee returns with the Treasurer. These
host community fee returns shall indicate, at a minimum, the total tonnage of
waste received at a site, the class designation of the site, and the host
community fee total for the month. Monthly host community fee returns shall be
filed on a form. prescribed by the Treasurer. Not later than thirty (30) days
after the end of the month to which such a return applies, the company shall
remit to the Treasurer the return for that month together with the host
community fees that were required to be levied on all waste received during the
month as indicated on the host community fee return. All facts presented by a
company in a host community fee return shall be validated by sworn affidavit or
unsworn declaration made under penalty of perjury.
      3.   Weighing: All companies operating a disposal site within Lincoln
County shall maintain and operate a scale certified by the State of Nevada at
least once a year at the company's expense. Such a scale shall be used to
measure daily tonnage of solid waste received by each company.
      4.   Penalty: If a host community fee return or host community fees are
not remitted within thirty (30) days of the last day of the month to which the
return applies, the company shall pay an additional fifty percent (50%) of the
amount of the host community fees for each month or fraction thereof that the
fees were late. The late fee shall continue to accrue each month until the
company remits the host community fees. The late fee shall be calculated using
the following formula: total late fee due = (amount of host community fees that
are late) x (.5) x (number of months that the host community fees are late,
expressed as a whole number or fraction).
   E.   Solid Waste Service Fees: The following fees shall be established for
the management, collection and disposal of solid waste within the County.
      1.   Residential Solid Waste Service Fee: Fee assessed to dwelling units,
buildings and/or taxable parcels containing both personal and real property and
which may contain either residential or commercial uses.
      2.   Commercial/Governmental Solid Waste Service Fee: Fee assessed to all
businesses or government agencies operating in Lincoln County. Fees shall be
assessed according to business type and with the following categories:
         a.   Category 1 business: Service, retail or production related
business requiring solid waste service bins and applicable hauling of solid
waste.
         b.   Category 2 business: Service, retail or production related
businesses situated as such that placement and pick up of a solid waste service
bin is not feasible. Business would utilize the drop box facilities and provide
self-hauling services as required.
         c.   Category 3 business: Home-based operational services, minor
service industries or businesses located outside jurisdictional boundaries of
unincorporated portions of Lincoln County. Business would utilize the drop box
facilities and provide self-hauling services as required.
         d.   Category 4 business: Category 1 or 2 businesses containing unique
circumstances or special waste considerations and require additional solid
waste services and fees.
      3.   Solid Waste Services:
         a.   Solid waste services - special assessment.
         b.   Solid waste services - construction fee.
         c.   Solid waste services - landfill tipping fee.
         d.   Solid waste services - host fee.
Solid waste service fees shall be assessed, however said fees may be adjusted
by resolution or other discretionary action of the Board pursuant to section
10-4-3 of this chapter.
The Board may, at its discretion, grant to a property owner a discount of the
annual residential solid waste service fee assessed to that property owner,
where such a discount is required to provide equity. Solid waste service
discounts and policy shall be described and adjusted from time to time by
resolution or other discretionary method of the Board pursuant to section
10-4-3 of this chapter.
An application for a discount shall be submitted to the Board to grant or deny
the waiver.
      4.   Curbside Collection Service Fees: Residences receiving curbside
collection services shall pay monthly fees to the County's designated
franchisee for such services. Such fees shall be proposed from time to time by
such franchisee, which proposals shall be submitted to the Board in accordance
with the County's franchise agreement with such franchisee, including providing
all projections and information as contemplated under such franchise agreement.
Such proposals shall be reviewed and considered by the Board and the Board
shall establish or modify curbside collection service fees in accordance with
this chapter and such franchise agreement. The franchisee shall be entitled to
protest any rate established or modified by the Board to the extent permitted
by and in accordance with such franchise agreement. A current schedule of
charges, fees and penalties for curbside collection accounts shall remain on
file in the Office of the County Clerk. The County's designated franchisee
shall have the right to bill and collect directly from each household, public
building, or place of business the fees established by the Board for curbside
collection services.
      5.   Commercial Collection Fee: Commercial businesses or entities in the
County, not serviced by a drop box facility, shall contract directly with the
County's designated franchisee or County designated hauler for the collection
of solid waste. The fees charged for such commercial collections shall be set
by the County pursuant to the same methodology used to establish curbside
collection fees, as set forth in subsection E4 of this section. All other terms
contained in contracts between the franchisee and commercial customers,
including, without limitation, container size and frequency of pick up, shall
be negotiated directly between the franchisee and each commercial customer.
      6.   Host Community Fee Required: All companies operating a landfill
within Lincoln County shall pay a host community fee on waste generated outside
of Lincoln County and transported into a Lincoln County disposal site. (Ord.
2016-02, 11-14-2016)
10-4-13: INSPECTIONS:
If an inspection reveals that a public nuisance exists, the names of the owners
and/or occupants of the premises shall be obtained. Notice in writing shall be
served upon the owners and/or occupants, either personally or by certified
mail, requiring that the nuisance be abated and all objectionable items be
removed. The abatement time period shall be according to the reasonable
discretion of the County Commissioners or their authorized representatives.
(Ord. 2016-02, 11-14-2016)
10-4-14: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
prosecution for a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be punished as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and/or by performing community service, and each day's
failure to comply shall constitute a separate violation. Each offense is a
separate misdemeanor. (Ord. 2016-02, 11-14-2016)
CHAPTER 5
PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Prohibited Areas
10-5-2: Violation; Penalty
10-5-1: PROHIBITED AREAS:
No privy vault, cesspool or reservoir, septic tank or reservoir into which a
privy, water closet or sink is drained shall be constructed, dug or permitted
to remain within any part of the following described areas within the county:
The south half of the south half (S/2 S/2) of Section 32, Township 6 South,
Range 61 East; and Sections 5 and 8 of Township 7 South, Range 61 East, M.D.B.
& M. provided with sewage facilities.
(1983 Code § 13.12.010)
10-5-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other legal entity violating the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day's use shall be deemed and constitute a separate
violation. (1983 Code § 13.12.020; amd. 2003 Code)
TITLE 11
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TECHNICAL CODES; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Waiver Of Provisions
11-1-2: Powers And Duties Of Board
11-1-3: Exemptions
11-1-1: WAIVER OF PROVISIONS:
Any provision of this title may be waived by the unanimous vote of the board of
county commissioners. (1983 Code § 15.04.010)
11-1-2: POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD:
The board of county commissioners shall have all the power and duties delegated
under this title. (1983 Code § 15.04.020)
11-1-3: EXEMPTIONS:
This title shall not apply within the incorporated limits of the city of
Caliente. (1983 Code § 15.04.030)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
11-2-1: Codes Adopted
11-2-2: Enforcement
11-2-3: Conflict With Zoning Provisions
11-2-4: Permits Required
11-2-5: Work Exempted From Permit Requirement
11-2-6: Moving Buildings
11-2-7: Certification Of Occupancy
11-2-8: Fees
11-2-1: CODES ADOPTED:
The following documents are on file in the county clerk's office and the
building department office, located at the county courthouse in Pioche, Nevada,
and are hereby adopted as the building code of Lincoln County to regulate the
erection, construction, alteration, moving, removal, conversion, use and
maintenance of all buildings and/or structures within the unincorporated areas
of Lincoln County.
The current and future updated versions of the:
International building code,
International existing building code,
International fire code,
International fuel gas code,
International mechanical code,
International private sewage disposal code,
International property maintenance code, and the
International residential code.
Included in this adoption are the following appendices:
For the international building code; appendices C - agricultural buildings, G -
flood resistant construction, and J - grading.
For the international residential code; E - manufactured housing, G - swimming
pools, spas and hot tubs, H - patio covers, J - existing building & structures.
Appendices for the remainder of the international codes listed above are
included by reference.
These codes regulate and govern the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures: by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use; and
the demolition of such structures in the county. (Ord. 2005-09, 11-7-2005, eff.
11-24-2005)
11-2-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The county building department shall enforce the rules and regulations set out
in this chapter. (1983 Code § 15.04.110)
11-2-3: CONFLICT WITH ZONING PROVISIONS:
The building code adopted in this chapter is subject to the provisions of
existing zoning and planning ordinances relating to location of buildings and/
or structures and use of property. The said ordinances shall prevail in all
matters in which there may develop a conflict between them and the building
code. (1983 Code § 15.04.050)
11-2-4: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commence to erect, construct, enlarge,
alter, move, improve or convert any building or structure regulated by this
chapter, except as specified in section
11-2-5 of this chapter, or cause same to be done without first obtaining a
separate permit for each separate structure from the building department. (1983
Code § 15.04.060)
11-2-5: WORK EXEMPTED FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   A.   The following are exempted from the permit requirement:
      1.   One-story detached accessory buildings, provided the projected roof
area does not exceed one hundred eighty (180) square feet, and carports and
awnings;
      2.   Fences and walls not over six feet (6') high;
      3.   Retaining walls which are not over four feet (4') high;
      4.   Interior repair and remodeling, provided such work does not involve
the removal or replacement of load bearing walls and/or structural sections of
floors and ceilings;
      5.   Repair or replacement of roofing materials such as vapor barriers,
finish roofing, shingles, etc.; provided the work does not involve the
replacement of any structural portion of the roof such as rafters or trusses;
      6.   Repair, replacement or installation of exterior siding. (1983 Code §
15.04.070)
   B.   Exemption from the permit requirements of this chapter shall not be
deemed as granting authorization for any work to be done in any manner in
violation of the provisions of this chapter and the international building
code. (1983 Code § 15.04.070; amd. Ord. 2005-09, 11-7-2005, eff. 11-24-2005)
11-2-6: MOVING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Compliance With Chapter; Definition: Buildings or structures moved into
or within the county of Lincoln shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter for new buildings or structures. Moved buildings shall include "mobile
homes" as defined by Nevada Revised Statutes section 489.120, for the purpose
of this chapter.
   B.   Permit Required: No building or structure shall be moved or relocated
unless a permit is first obtained from the county building department. (1983
Code § 15.04.080)
   C.   Application; Fee; Inspection; Bond: Applications for moving a building
will not be accepted unless accompanied by a minimum fee of one hundred twenty
five dollars ($125.00), plus expenses for travel outside the county, which will
be applied to the permit fee but will not be refunded in the instance that the
permit is not granted. The minimum fee is used by the building department to
defray the costs in the initial inspections of the building to be moved and the
proposed site on which the building will be located. During this inspection,
the inspector will list and make record of the work necessary to bring the
building up to the standards of the codes and ordinances of the county and the
laws of the state. The inspector will then provide an estimate of the work to
be done which will then be used for the purchasing of the bond. A copy of the
inspection report will be issued within twenty (20) days of the finalization of
the estimate. (1983 Code § 15.04.080; amd. 2003 Code)
   D.   Denial For Noncompliance: No permit shall be issued to relocate any
building if it reasonably appears that after such relocation: 1) the building
would not be in compliance with this chapter; or 2) if it appears that the
proposed site would be contradictory to existing zoning and planning
ordinances.
   E.   Bond Requirements:
      1.   Posting; Amount: A bond shall be posted prior to the issuance of a
permit to move or relocate a building, with the county building department. The
bond shall name the owner of the proposed location of the building as principal
and a surety company authorized to do business in the state as surety. The
bond, which shall be in form joint and several, shall name the county as
obligee, and shall be in an amount equal to the cost, plus twenty five percent
(25%) of the work required to be done in order for the building to comply with
the provisions of this chapter. In lieu of bond, cash may be posted.
      2.   Waiver: Bond requirements may be waived by the chief inspector, if
it reasonably appears that the provisions of this chapter can be met without
bond.
      3.   Default In Performance: If there is default in performance of
conditions, those in default will be given written notice of default by mailing
the notice to the owner at his address indicated on the bond. The notice shall
include those specifics which must be cured and a reasonable amount of time in
which to cure them. If at the end of the reasonable time, and in no event less
than thirty (30) days, the defects are not cured, the bond will be forfeited to
the county and the building will not be occupied.
      4.   Demolition Of Building In Default: In lieu of completing the work as
set forth above, the surety shall have the option of demolishing the building
or structure and clearing, cleaning and restoring the site. If the surety
defaults, then the county building department shall have the same option. (1983
Code § 15.04.080)
11-2-7: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required: No newly constructed building or structure shall
be occupied before the issuance of a certificate of structural compliance by
the county building department.
   B.   Temporary Certificate: A temporary certificate of occupancy may be
issued by the building department for the use of a portion of a building or
structure prior to the completion of the entire building or structure if said
portion meets the requirements of this chapter. (1983 Code § 15.04.090)
11-2-8: FEES:
Inspection and permit fees shall be adopted by resolution of the board of
county commissioners and shall be on file in the office of the county building
department and office of the county clerk. It shall be unlawful to pay or
receive any fees or remuneration not provided for by resolution of the board of
commissioners. (1983 Code § 15.04.100)
CHAPTER 3
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
11-3-1: Code Adopted
11-3-2: Scope
11-3-3: Enforcement
11-3-4: Permits Required
11-3-5: Work Exempted From Permit Requirement
11-3-6: Fees
11-3-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The international plumbing code, in its latest edition, is adopted and
designated as the plumbing code of Lincoln County. (1983 Code § 15.04.120; amd.
Ord. 2005-09, 11-7-2005, eff. 11-24-2005)
11-3-2: SCOPE:
   A.   All plumbing installations and all materials, fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances furnished for the installation or sale or distributed for use in
or on any building, structure or premises, as well as the practices related
thereto within the boundaries of the county shall conform to the requirements
of this chapter.
   B.   New buildings and structures or other work, either above or below the
surface of the earth and buildings and structures including prefabricated
buildings, moved into or within the unincorporated areas of the county shall
conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Additions, alterations, replacement and repairs shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as to
requiring any existing portion of the plumbing system, if such work was
installed in accordance with the plumbing code in effect at the time of
installation or subsequent alteration and is maintained in proper operating
condition.
   D.   This section shall not apply to public utilities operating under
statutory authority, power districts or utilities belonging to a political
subdivision of the state, authorized and operating under such capacity. (1983
Code § 15.04.130)
11-3-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The county building department shall enforce the rules and regulations set out
in this chapter and the international plumbing code. (1983 Code § 15.04.170;
amd. Ord. 2005-09, 11-7-2005, eff. 11-24-2005)
11-3-4: PERMITS REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person to commence to install, erect or construct any
plumbing, plumbing systems, fixtures or apparatus in any new building, new
section of an existing building or new structure without first obtaining a
permit from the county building department. A separate permit shall be obtained
for each separate structure. Emergency work for the protection of health or
property shall have a permit obtained therefor within forty eight (48) hours of
doing the work, holidays excluded. (1983 Code § 15.04.140)
11-3-5: WORK EXEMPTED FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   A.   Repair Work: No permit shall be required in the case of any repair work
or replacement of any existing plumbing which does not require the
rearrangement of valves, pipes or fixtures:
      1.   Replacement of broken, leaky or faulty fixtures;
      2.   The repair of leaks by the replacement of short sections of pipe;
      3.   Replacement or repair of any water heating or treating equipment;
      4.   Cleaning or stoppage. (1983 Code § 15.04.150)
   B.   Work In Violation Prohibited: Exemption from the permit requirements of
this chapter shall not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done
in any way in violation of this chapter and the international plumbing code.
(1983 Code § 15.04.150; amd. Ord. 2005-09, 11-7-2005, eff. 11-24-2005)
11-3-6: FEES:
Inspection and permit fees shall be adopted by resolution of the county board
of commissioners and shall be on file in the office of the county building
department and the office of the county clerk. It shall be unlawful to pay or
receive any fees or remuneration not provided for by resolution of the board of
commissioners. (1983 Code § 15.04.160)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
11-4-1: Code Adopted
11-4-2: Scope
11-4-3: Enforcement
11-4-4: Permit Requirements
11-4-5: Fees
11-4-1: CODE ADOPTED:
The national electrical code, in its latest edition, as recommended by the
national fire protection association, together with all tables of contents,
definitions, chapters, tables, indexes and appendices, and the same is adopted
and designated as the electrical code of the county and is made a part of this
chapter the same as if it were fully set forth in this chapter. (1983 Code §
15.04.180)
11-4-2: SCOPE:
   A.   No alterations or additions shall be made in existing wiring, nor shall
any wiring be installed or done for the placing of any light, power or heating
devices, or any apparatus which generates, transmits, transforms or utilizes
any electricity, nor shall any alterations be made to any wiring system without
complying with this chapter and the national electrical code.
   B.   Additions, alterations, replacement and repair as described herein
shall comply with the provisions of this chapter. Nothing contained in this
chapter shall be construed as requiring any existing portion of the electrical
system, regulated by this chapter, to be altered, changed or removed, if such
work was installed in accordance with the electrical code in effect at the time
of installation or subsequent alteration and is maintained in proper condition.
   C.   Except as otherwise herein provided, all electrical wiring
installations or electrical fixtures, apparatus or appliances for furnishing
light, heat and/or power introduced into or placed in or on any building or
structure within the unincorporated limits of Lincoln County shall be in
conformity with the rules and requirements of the national electrical code and
this chapter and all fittings and material used in such installation must be
sanctioned in the list of electrical fittings, published by the Underwriter's
Laboratories.
   D.   This section shall not apply to agencies of government, power districts
or power companies and telephone companies operating under government
franchise. (1983 Code § 15.04.190)
11-4-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The county building department shall enforce the rules and regulations of this
chapter. (1983 Code § 15.04.220)
11-4-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to commence to install,
erect, alter or construct any electrical apparatus, light, power or heating
apparatus which generates, transmits, transforms or utilizes any electricity in
any new building or new structure without first obtaining a permit for
construction and inspection therefor from the county building department. A
separate permit for each separate building or structure shall be obtained.
Emergency work for the protection of health or property shall have a permit
obtained therefor within forty eight (48) hours of doing the work, holidays
excluded.
   B.   Inspections; Issuance Of Certificates: During the course of work and
upon completion of the installation of any electrical wiring, fixtures,
appliances or apparatus in or on any new building or new structure as defined
in subsection A of this section, it shall be the duty of the owner or person
doing the work to notify the building department for required inspections. The
building department shall cause to be inspected the same and, upon completion,
if approved, issue a certificate of occupancy or certificate of structural
compliance.
   C.   Tag Required Prior To Connection: It shall be unlawful for any person
or utility company to turn on or connect the current with such installation
mentioned in this section until a utilities tag has been issued. (1983 Code §
15.04.200)
11-4-5: FEES:
Inspection and permit fees shall be adopted by resolution of the county board
of commissioners and shall be on file in the building department and in the
office of the county clerk. It shall be unlawful to pay or receive any fee or
remuneration not provided for by resolution of the board of county
commissioners. (1983 Code § 15.04.210)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE HOMES (URSINE)
SECTION:
11-5-1: Definition; Intent Of Evasion
11-5-2: Restricted Area
11-5-3: Stored Trailers
11-5-4: Temporary Use
11-5-5: Certain Provisions Superseded
11-5-6: Conflicting Variances
11-5-7: Violation A Misdemeanor
11-5-1: DEFINITION; INTENT OF EVASION:
The term "mobile home" is defined as those factory built, prefabricated, family
living facilities commonly referred to as "mobile homes" by the building
industry, which, although they may contain wheels, are hauled to a particular
site; wheels, if any, removed; and anchored to a permanent, or semipermanent
foundation. No such structure shall be placed on the premises with the intent
of evading said restrictions by attempting to classify it as a permanent
fixture. (1983 Code § 15.48.010)
11-5-2: RESTRICTED AREA:
No travel trailer (whether registered or unregistered under the motor vehicle
registration certificate laws of the state), tent, or shack shall be placed,
erected or be permitted to remain within the boundaries of that property
described as Sections 2, 10, 11 and 15 of Township 1, North Range 69, East
Mount Diablo Meridian, Lincoln County, Nevada and Section 35, of Township 2,
North Range 69, East Mount Diablo Meridian, excluding therefrom the SW1/4 of
the NE1/4 of said Section 35, in Lincoln County, Nevada.
(1983 Code § 15.48.020; amd. 2003 Code)
11-5-3: STORED TRAILERS:
This chapter shall not apply to travel trailers under the size of thirty feet
(30') in length which are stored on the property. It shall be unlawful to live
or reside in a stored trailer. (1983 Code § 15.48.030; amd. 2003 Code)
11-5-4: TEMPORARY USE:
The provisions of this chapter apply to mobile homes which are intended for
temporary use. (1983 Code § 15.48.040; amd. 2003 Code)
11-5-5: CERTAIN PROVISIONS SUPERSEDED:
This chapter is declared to supersede the provisions of any ordinance which
otherwise provides for variances in the above described area. (1983 Code §
15.48.050)
11-5-6: CONFLICTING VARIANCES:
Variances in conflict with the provisions of this chapter cannot be granted,
and the provisions of this chapter cannot be waived. (1983 Code § 15.48.060)
11-5-7: VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR:
A violation of this chapter or any section of this chapter shall be punishable
as a misdemeanor. (1983 Code § 15.48.070)
TITLE 12
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 1
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACTS,
PURPOSE AND METHODS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Statutory Authorization
12-1-2: Findings Of Fact
12-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
12-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
12-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Nevada has in Nevada Revised Statutes sections
278.020, 244A.057, and 543.020, delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Lincoln County
board of commissioners does ordain the following floodplain management
regulations. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of Lincoln County are subject to periodic
inundation which results in danger of loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and government services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   B.   The cumulative effects of obstructions in special flood hazard areas,
which increase flood heights and velocities, are major contributors to flood
losses. The flood losses are also caused by structures that are inadequately
elevated, floodproofed, or protected from flood damage.
   C.   The ability of Lincoln County to overcome impediments to wash
maintenance have resulted in significant damage to personal property, local
structures and public infrastructure.
   D.   Significant portions of private lands and future public land releases
are located in unmapped areas of Lincoln County. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff.
8-21-2010)
12-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water mains,
electric, telephone, and sewer lines, and streets and bridges located in
special flood hazard areas;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of special flood hazard areas so as to minimize future blighted
areas caused by flood damage;
   G.   Ensure potential buyers are notified of property located in special
flood hazard areas;
   H.   Ensure those who occupy special flood hazard areas assume
responsibility for their actions; and
   I.   Maintain qualifying standards for participation in the national flood
insurance program. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
To accomplish its purposes, this title includes methods and provisions to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that land uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of the initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, alluvial fans, stream
channels, and natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Terms Defined
12-2-1: TERMS DEFINED:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this title its most reasonable application. A local ordinance need only
include definitions of words actually used in the ordinance. Where any
conflicts exist between definitions in various titles of county code the more
stringent definition will prevail.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure used solely for parking (2 car detached
garages or smaller) or limited storage (small, low cost sheds).
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal use
of the parcel of land on which it is located.
ACT: The national flood insurance act of 1968 and flood disaster protection act
of 1973, both as amended.
ACTUAL CASH VALUE (ACV): The replacement cost of an insured item of property at
the time of loss, less the value of physical depreciation as to the item
damaged.
ALLUVIAL FAN: A geomorphologic feature characterized by a cone or fan shaped
deposit of clay, silt, sand, gravel, and boulders that have been eroded from
mountain slopes, transported by flood flows, and deposited on areas leading to
and including the valley floor.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar land form which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows, active processes of erosion, sediment transport, deposition,
and unpredictable flow paths.
ANCHOR: A series of methods used to secure a structure to its footings or
foundation wall so that it will not be displaced by flood or wind forces.
APEX: The highest point on an alluvial fan or similar land form below which the
flow path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and
alluvial fan flooding can occur.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the county floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provisions of this title.
APPURTENANT STRUCTURE: A detailed garage or carport servicing a multiple-family
dwelling.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: Designated zones AO and AH on the county's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) or greater annual chance of
flooding to an average depth of one to three feet (3') where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
ASSIGNMENT: The transfer by a policyholder of his/her legal right or interest
in a policy contract to a third party. In the national flood insurance program
(NFIP), written assignment of a local policy is permissible upon transfer of
title without the consent of the administrator except in the case where a
residential (household) contents only policy is involved or a policy was issued
to cover a one through four (4) family residential building in the course of
construction.
BACKFILL: The placement of fill material within a specified depression as a
means of improving floodwater conveyance or to restore the land to the natural
contours existing prior to excavation.
BACKWATER AFFECT: The rise in water surface elevation caused by some
obstruction such as a narrow bridge opening, debris, buildings or fill material
that limits the area through which water must flow.
BASE FLOOD: A flood which has a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year (also called a 100-year flood).
BASE FLOOD DEPTH (BFD): The depth shown on the FIRM for zone AO that indicates
the depth of water above highest adjacent grade resulting from a flood that has
a one percent (1%) chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given
year.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The height in relation to mean sea level expected to be
reached by the waters of the base flood at pertinent points in the floodplain
of riverine areas.
BASE FLOODPLAIN: The floodplain that would be inundated by a one percent (1%)
chance flood.
BASEMENT: Any area of a building having its floor subgrade on all sides.
BINDER: A temporary agreement between company, producer, and the insured that
the policy is in effect.
BLANKET INSURANCE: A single amount of insurance applying to more than one
building and/or contents. Blanket insurance is not permitted under the NFIP.
BUILDING: See definition of Structure.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial watercourse with definite bed and banks to
confine and conduct flowing water.
CHANNEL CAPACITY: The maximum flow that can pass through a channel without
overflowing the banks.
CLAIMS COORDINATING OFFICE (CCO): A clearinghouse for the various insurers who
are responding to a multiperil catastrophe. Through voluntary participation,
all losses are reported to the coordinating office and are processed to locate
address matches among the reported claims. The interest of each carrier is
protected as the claims coordinator maintains sole control over the policy and
loss information. If a match is found, special care is taken to direct the
assigned adjusters to a mutually agreeable adjustment or to have one adjuster
surrender his/her loss with the assurance that every effort will be made to
replace it.
CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS: Codification of the general and permanent rules
published in the federal regulations register (CFR) by the executive
departments and agencies of the federal government.
COINSURANCE: This provision reduces the loss payment if the insured does not
carry coverage equal to at least eighty percent (80%) of the replacement cost
of the damaged building.
COMMUNITY/CITY: Any political subdivision thereof which has authority to adopt
and enforce floodplain management regulations for the areas within its
jurisdiction.
COMMUNITY NUMBER: A six (6) digit designation identifying each NFIP community.
The first two (2) numbers are the state code. The next four (4) are the federal
insurance administrator (FIA) assigned community number. An alphabetical suffix
is added to a community number to identify revisions in the FIRM for that
community.
COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS): A program developed by FIA to provide incentives
for those communities in the regular program that have gone beyond the minimum
floodplain management requirements to develop extra measures to provide
protection from flooding.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (CLOMA): A letter from federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) stating that a proposed structure that is not to be
elevated by fill would not be inundated by the base flood if built as proposed.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (BASED ON FILL) (CLOMR-F): A letter from
FEMA stating that a parcel of land or proposed structure that is to be elevated
by fill would not be inundated by the base flood if fill is placed on the
parcel as proposed or the structure is built as proposed.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): Procedures by which contractors,
developers and communities can request review and determination by the federal
insurance administrator of scientific and technical data for a proposed
project, when complete and functioning effectively would modify the elevation
of individual structures and parcels of land, stream channels, and floodplains
on the FIRM.
CONDOMINIUM: A system of individual ownership of units in a multi-unit building
or buildings or in single-unit buildings in which each unit owner has an
undivided interest in the common areas of the building(s) and facilities that
serve the building(s).
CONTROL OFFICE: An NFIP claims office similar to a flood insurance claims
office (FICO) with the exception that the control office does not: a) maintain
insured files, b) maintain a claims examiner staff at the site, and c) issue
claim payments.
COUNTYWIDE MAP: A FIRM that shows flooding information for the entire
geographic area of the county.
CRITICAL FEATURES: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system (e.g., dams, floodwalls, channel improvements), without which
the flood protection provided by the entire system would be compromised.
CRITICAL STRUCTURE(S): A structure for which even a slight chance of flooding
would reduce or eliminate its designed function of supporting a community in an
emergency. Fire stations, hospitals, municipal airports, police stations,
communication antennas or towers, elder care facilities (retirement homes),
fuel storage facilities, schools designated as emergency shelters, fresh water
and sewage treatment facilities are examples.
CURVILINEAR LINE: The border on either an FHBM or FIRM that delineates the
special flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood related erosion hazard
areas and consists of a curved or contour line that follows the topography.
DATE OF CONSTRUCTION: The date that the building permit was issued provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, or improvement was within
one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date.
DEDUCTIBLE BUYBACK: For an additional premium, policyholders who wish to reduce
their deductibles from a standard deductibles of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for pre-FIRM risks may opt to purchase separate five hundred dollar
($500.00) deductibles for building and content coverage.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel of a stream and the portion of the adjoining
floodplain designated by a regulatory agency to be kept free of further
development to provide for unobstructed passage of flood flows.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
DIAGRAM NUMBER: The diagram numbers on the FEMA elevation certificate identify
the various types of buildings.
DIRECT PHYSICAL LOSS BY OR FROM FLOOD: Any loss in the nature of actual loss of
or physical damage to, evidenced by physical changes, the insured property
(building or personal property) which is directly and proximately caused by a
flood (as defined in the policy forms).
DOUBLEWIDE MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME: A manufactured (mobile) home that, when
assembled as a nonmovable, permanent building, is at least sixteen feet (16')
wide with an area within its perimeter walls of at least six hundred (600)
square feet. A doublewide is not classified as a manufactured (mobile) home for
insurance rating purposes under the NFIP, but is to be classified under one of
the other building types.
DRY PROOFING: A floodproofing method used to design and construct buildings so
as to prevent the entrance of floodwaters.
ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building that has its lowest elevated floor
raised above the ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATE: The elevation certificate is required in order to
properly rate post-FIRM buildings, which are buildings constructed after
publication of the FIRM, for flood insurance zones A1-A30, AE, AH, A (with
BFE), AR, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/O. The elevation certificate is
not required for pre-FIRM buildings unless the building is being rated under
the optional post-FIRM flood insurance rules.
EMERGENCY PROGRAM: Typically the first phase under which a community
participates in the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of
insurance at subsidized rates to all insurable structures in that community
before the effective date of the initial FIRM.
ENCLOSURE: That portion of an elevated building below the lowest elevated floor
that is either partially or fully shut in by rigid walls.
ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, excavation,
fill, buildings, permanent structures or development, storage of equipment and
materials, or any other physical object placed in the floodplain that hinders
the passage of water or otherwise affects flood flows.
EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away of any landmass. This peril is
not per se covered under the program. (See definition of Flood Related
Erosion.)
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured
home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the county.
EXPANSION TO A MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) PARK: The preparation of
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA): The federal agency under which the
national flood insurance program (NFIP) is administered.
FEDERAL INSURANCE ADMINISTRATION (FIA): The government unit, a part of FEMA,
that administers the national flood insurance program (NFIP).
FEDERAL REGISTER: A document published daily by the federal government that
provides a uniform system for making available to the public regulations and
legal notices issued by federal agencies.
FLASH FLOOD: A flood that crests in a short period of time and is often
characterized by high velocity flows. It is often the result of heavy rainfall
in a localized area.
FLOOD CONTROL: Keeping floodwaters away from specific developments or populated
areas by the construction of flood storage reservoirs, channel alterations,
dikes and levees, bypass channels, or other engineering works.
FLOOD, FLOODING OR FLOODWATERS: A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of
floodwaters; the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source and the condition resulting from flood related erosion.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A statistical expression of the average time period between
floods equaling or exceeding a given magnitude.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the
administrator, where the boundaries of the flood related erosion areas having
special hazards that have been designated as zones A, M, and/or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): Official map on which the FEMA or FIA has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones
applicable to the county.
FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONE DESIGNATIONS: The zone designations indicate the
magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of the county.
   A.   Zone A: Special flood hazard areas (SFHA) inundated by the 100-year
flood; base flood; base flood elevations are not determined.
   B.   Zone A1-30 And Zone AE: SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood; base
flood elevations are determined.
   C.   Zone AO: SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood; with flood depths of one
to three feet (3') (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain); average depths are
determined. For areas of alluvial fan flooding, velocities are also determined.
   D.   Zone AR: SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood; flood depths of one to
three feet (3') (usually areas of ponding); base flood elevations are
determined.
   E.   Zones AR/A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AH, AR/AO, And AR/A: SFHA that result from
the decertification of a previously accredited flood protection system that is
in the process of being restored to provide a 100-year or greater level of
flood protection. After restoration is complete, these areas will still
experience residual flooding from other flooding sources.
   F.   Zone A99: SFHA inundated by the 100-year flood to be protected from the
100-year flood; no base flood elevations are determined.
   G.   Zone B And Zone X (Shaded): Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject to
the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot (1') or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood. Areas with 0.2 percent annual chance (or 500-year)
flood.
   H.   Zone C And Zone X (Unshaded): Areas determined to be outside the 500-
year floodplain.
   I.    Zone D: Areas in which flood hazards are undetermined.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS): The official report provided by the FIA that
includes flood profiles, the FIRM, and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION: The collapse or subsidence of land along a stream or
wash or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by currents of
water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually
high water level in a natural body of water, possibly accompanied by a severe
storm or by an unanticipated force of nature such as a flash flood, or by some
similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION AREA MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood related erosion damage,
including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood related
erosion control works, and floodplain management regulations.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION PRONE AREA: A land area adjoining a body of water which,
due to the composition of the shoreline or bank and high water levels or wind
driven currents, is likely to suffer flood related erosion damage.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The individual appointed by the county commission who
is given specific authority and responsibilities to enforce the county's
floodplain management regulations. The person named as floodplain administrator
must be capable of interpreting this title and have access to necessary
technical competence.
FLOODPLAIN AND FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by waters from any source. (See definition of Flood, Flooding Or Floodwaters.)
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
plans, regulations and ordinances.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: This title, and any federal, state or local
regulations plus community zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, building
codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a grading and
erosion control) and other applications of police power, which control
development in flood prone areas to prevent and reduce flood loss and damage.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and
their contents. (Refer to FEMA technical bulletins TB1-93, TB8-93 and TB7-93
for guidelines on dry and wet floodproofing.)
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation. Also referred to as a
regulatory floodway.
FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT LINES: The lines marking the limits of floodways on
federal, state and local floodplain maps.
FLOODWAY FRINGE: The area of the floodplain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted.
FOOTING: The enlarged base of a foundation wall, pier, or column, designed to
spread the load of the structure so that it does not exceed the soil bearing
capacity.
FOUNDATION: The underlying structure of a building usually constructed of
concrete that supports the foundation walls, piers, or columns.
FOUNDATION WALLS: A support structure that connects the foundation to the main
portion of the building or superstructure.
FRAUD/VICTIMIZATION: Related to variances of this title, the variance granted
must not cause fraud on or victimization to the public. In examining this
requirement, the county of Lincoln will consider the fact that every newly
constructed building adds to government responsibilities, and remains a part of
the community for fifty (50) to one hundred (100) years. Buildings permitted to
be constructed below the base flood elevation are subject during all those
years to increased risk of damage from floods, while future owners of the
property and the community as a whole are subject to all the costs,
inconvenience, danger, and suffering that those increased flood damages bring.
Additionally future owners may be unaware of the risk potential to the property
due to flood damage and the extremely high rates for flood insurance.
FREEBOARD: A margin of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as bridge
openings, additional debris in the wash, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, as in marina
facilities. The term does not include long term storage or related
manufacturing facilities.
GOVERNING BODY: The Lincoln County board of commissioners (the county) or their
designee which is empowered to adopt and implement regulations to provide for
public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens.
HARDSHIP: Related to variances of this title. The exceptional hardship would
result from failure to grant the requested variance. The county requires the
variance be exceptional, unusual, and pertain only to the property involved.
Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional. Inconvenience,
aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal preferences, or the
disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule, qualify as an
exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved through other means
without granting a variance, even if the alternative is more expensive or
requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the parcel to a different
use than originally intended.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of ground surface prior
to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified either
by an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the interior or
directly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved programs.
HYDRAULICS: The science that deals with practical applications of water in
motion.
HYDRODYNAMIC LOADS: Forces imposed on structures by floodwaters due to the
impact of moving water on the upstream side of the structure, drag along its
sides, and eddies or negative pressures on its downstream side.
HYDROGRAPH: A graph that charts water movement as a function of time. It shows
flood stages, depicted in feet above mean sea level or gauge height, plotted
against stated time intervals.
HYDROLOGY: The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
earth's surface and underground.
HYDROSTATIC LOADS: Forces imposed on a flooded structure due to the weight of
the water.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): The procedure by which any owner or lessee of
property who believes his property has been inadvertently included in a special
flood hazard area can submit scientific and technical information to the FIA
for review to remove the property from said area. The administrator will not
consider a LOMA if the information submitted is based on alteration of
topography or new hydrologic or hydraulic conditions since the effective date
of the FIRM.
LETTERS OF MAP REVISION (BASED ON FILL) (LOMR-F): A letter from FEMA stating
that an existing structure or parcel of land that has been elevated by fill
would not be inundated by the base flood.
LETTERS OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): An official revision to a current effective
FIRM. A LOMR officially changes flood zone, floodplain and floodway
designations, flood elevations and planimetric features.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including
basements. An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that the
enclosure does not violate applicable nonelevation design requirements.
LOWEST FLOOR ELEVATION (LFE): The measured distance of a building's lowest
floor above the national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) or other datum
specified on the FIRM for that location.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK SUBDIVISION: A parcel or contiguous parcels of land
divided into two (2) or more or manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
manufactured home does not include recreational vehicles.
MARKET VALUE: For the purposes of determining substantial improvement, market
value pertains only to the structure in question. It does not pertain to the
land, landscaping or detached accessory structures on the property. For
determining improvement, the value of the land must always be subtracted.
Market value shall be determined by estimating the cost to replace the
structure in new condition and adjusting that cost figure by the amount of
depreciation which has accrued since the structure was constructed.
   A.   The cost of replacement of the structure shall be based on a square
foot cost factor determined by reference to a building cost estimating guide
recognized by the building construction industry.
   B.   The amount of depreciation shall be determined by taking into account
the age and physical deterioration of the structure and functional obsolescence
as approved by the floodplain administrator, but shall not include economic or
other forms of external obsolescence.
Use of replacement costs or accrued depreciation factors different from those
contained in recognized building cost estimating guides may be considered only
if such factors are included in a report prepared by an independent
professional appraiser and supported by a written explanation of the
differences.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the county's FIRM are referenced.
MODULAR BUILDING: A building that is usually transported to its site on a steel
frame or special trailer because it does not have a permanent chassis like a
manufactured (mobile) home. A modular building is classified and rated under
one of the other building types.
NATURAL GRADE: The grade unaffected by construction techniques such as cut,
fill, road construction, landscaping or berming.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Buildings for which the start of construction commenced on or
after the effective date of an initial FIRM (currently March 1, 1984) and
including any subsequent improvements.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME) SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads is completed on or after the effective
date of the floodplain management ordinance adopted by the county.
NONRESIDENTIAL: Includes, but is not limited to: small business concerns,
churches, schools, farm buildings (including grain bins and silos), pool
houses, clubhouses, recreational buildings, mercantile structures, agricultural
and industrial structures, warehouses, and hotels or motels with normal room
rentals for less than six (6) months duration.
OBSTRUCTION: Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf, embankment,
levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, channelization, bridge,
conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill, structure,
vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into any
watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
100-YEAR FLOOD: Having the same meaning as base flood.
OTHER RESIDENTIAL: Hotels or motels where the normal occupancy of a guest is
six (6) months or more; a tourist home or rooming house which has more than
four (4) roomers. A residential building (excluding motels with normal room
rentals for less than 6 months duration and containing more than 4 dwelling
units) is permitted incidental office, professional private school, or studio
occupancy, provided that the total area of such occupancy is limited to less
than twenty five percent (25%) of the total floor area within the building.
PHYSICAL MAP REVISIONS (PMR): A reprinted NFIP map incorporating changes to
floodplains, floodways, or flood elevations. Because of the time and cost
involved to change, reprint, and redistribute an NFIP map, a PMR is usually
processed when a revision reflects large scope changes.
POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION: Construction or substantial improvement that started on
or after March 1, 1984, the effective date of the initial FIRM of Lincoln
County.
PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION: Construction or substantial improvement that started on
or before March 1, 1984, the effective date of the initial FIRM of Lincoln
County.
PRINCIPAL RESIDENCE: A single-family dwelling in which at the time of loss, the
named insured or the named insured's spouse has lived for either: a) eighty
percent (80%) of the calendar year, or b) eighty percent (80%) of the period of
ownership, if less than one year.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: A structure used for the principal use of the property as
distinguished from an accessory use.
PROPER OPENINGS FOR ENCLOSURES (APPLICABLE TO ZONES A, A1-A30, AE, AO, AH, AR,
AND AR DUAL ZONES): All enclosures below the lowest floor must be designed to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing
for the entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of two (2) openings, with
positioning on at least two (2) walls, having a total net area of not less than
one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding must
be provided. The bottom of all openings must be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
PUBLIC SAFETY NUISANCE: Related to variances of this title. The granting of a
variance must not result in anything which is injurious to safety or health of
the entire community or neighborhood.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle built on a single chassis, four hundred (400)
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REPLACEMENT COST: The cost to replace property with the same kind of material
and construction without deduction for depreciation.
RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM BUILDING: A building owned by the members of a
condominium association containing one or more residential units and in which
at least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area within the building is
residential.
SHEET FLOW AREA: Having the same meaning as the definition of Area Of Shallow
Flooding.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Darkly shaded area on an FHBM or a FIRM that
identifies an area that has a one percent (1%) chance of being flooded in any
given year (100-year floodplain). Over a thirty (30) year period, the life of
most mortgages, there is at least a twenty six percent (26%) chance that this
area will be flooded. The FIRM identifies these shaded areas as FIRM zones A,
AO, AH, A1-A30, AE, A99, AR/A, AR/AE, AR/A1-A30, AR/AH, and AR/AO.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and other proposed new
development and means the date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days from
the date of the permit.
The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the placement
of a manufactured home on a foundation, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building that is principally aboveground. This
definition includes gas or liquid storage tanks and manufactured homes.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
proposed new development of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds
fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
   B.   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this title which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this title.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this title. A structure or other development in a special flood
hazard area, without an elevation certificate, other certifications or other
evidence of compliance required in this title is presumed to be in violation
until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the NGVD of 1929 or other
datum of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of
coastal or riverine areas.
WATERCOURSE: A river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other topographic
feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse
includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may
occur.
ZONE: A geographical area shown on an FHBM or a FIRM that reflects the severity
or type of flooding in the area. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Lands To Which This Title Applies
12-3-2: Basis For Establishing Special Flood Hazard Areas
12-3-3: Compliance
12-3-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-3-5: Interpretation
12-3-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
12-3-7: Declaration Of Public Nuisance
12-3-8: Abatement Of Violations
12-3-9: Unlawful Acts
12-3-1: LANDS TO WHICH THIS TITLE APPLIES:
This title shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
unincorporated areas of the county of Lincoln, state of Nevada. (Ord. 2010-03,
8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-3-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS:
The special flood hazard areas identified by the federal insurance
administration (FIA) of the federal emergency management agency (FEMA) in "The
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) For The County Of Lincoln" dated August 5, 2010,
and accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) (most recent adjustment
always being applicable) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFM), and all
subsequent amendments and/or revisions, are hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this title. The FIS dated August 5, 2010 (community
names 32014 and 32015), and attendant mapping is the minimum area of
applicability of this title and may be supplemented by studies for other areas
which allow implementation of this title and which are recommended to the
county by the county floodplain administrator. A copy of the FIS, FIRMs, and
FBFMs are on file at the office of the planning department, county courthouse,
Pioche. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-3-3: COMPLIANCE:
No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this title and
other applicable regulations. Violations (including violations of conditions
and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall constitute a
misdemeanor and subject to the penalties in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day a violation continues after receiving written
notice of such violation shall constitute a separate violation and shall
subject the violator to the penalties in section
1-4-1 of this code. Nothing herein shall prevent the county from taking such
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 2010-
03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-3-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this title and other
ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restriction(s) or that impose the higher
standard(s) shall prevail. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-3-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements,
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of Lincoln County, and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted to Lincoln
County under state of Nevada statutes. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-3-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within
such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall not
create liability on the part of the county, any officer or employee of the
county, the state of Nevada, or the federal insurance administration, federal
emergency management agency, for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this title or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder. (Ord. 2010-
03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-3-7: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Every new structure, building, fill, excavation or development located or
maintained within any special flood hazard area after March 1, 1984, in
violation of this title is a public nuisance per se and may be abated,
prevented or restrained by action of the county. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff.
8-21-2010)
12-3-8: ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS:
Within thirty (30) days of discovery of a violation of this title, the county
floodplain administrator shall submit a report to the county commission or
their designee, which shall include all information available to the county
floodplain administrator, which is pertinent to said violation. Within thirty
(30) days of this report, the county commission shall either:
   A.   Take any necessary action to effect the abatement of such violation, or
   B.   Issue a variance to this title in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 6 of this title, or
   C.   Order the owner of the property upon which the violation exists to
provide whatever additional information may be required for their
determination. Such information must be provided to the county commission or
their designee within thirty (30) days of such order, and the county floodplain
administrator shall submit an amended report including the additional
information to the county commission or their designee within a subsequent
thirty (30) days. At their next regularly scheduled public meeting, the county
commission or their designee shall either order the abatement of said violation
or they shall grant a variance in accordance with the provisions of chapter 6
of this title.
   D.   If a variance is not issued, and the owner does not abate the violation
within the time limit set by the county commission or their designee, the
county, through its floodplain administrator, shall submit to the administrator
of the federal insurance administration a declaration for denial of insurance,
stating that the property is in violation of a cited statute or local law,
regulation or ordinance, pursuant to section 1316 of the national flood
insurance act of 1968, as amended. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-3-9: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to divert, retard or obstruct the flow of
waters in any watercourse when it creates a hazard to life or property without
securing the written authorization to do so from the county. Where the
watercourse is a delineated floodplain, it is unlawful to excavate or build any
structure affecting the flow of waters without securing written authorization
from the county.
   B.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and punished according to section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
12-4-1: Designation Of The County Floodplain Administrator
12-4-2: Establishment Of Development Permit
12-4-3: Permit Application
12-4-4: Duties And Responsibilities Of The County Floodplain Administrator
12-4-4-1: Permit Application Review
12-4-4-2: Use Of Other Flood Data
12-4-4-3: Alteration Of Watercourses
12-4-4-4: Inspections
12-4-4-5: Stop Work Orders
12-4-4-6: Retaining Floodplain Development Documentation
12-4-4-7: Map Determinations
12-4-4-8: Appeals
12-4-4-9: Submission Of New Technical Data To FEMA
12-4-1: DESIGNATION OF THE COUNTY FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
The Lincoln County planning director is hereby appointed as the Lincoln County
floodplain administrator to administer and implement this title by granting or
denying floodplain development permits in accordance with its provisions. The
Lincoln County commission from time to time by resolution may appoint a
different person or entity to perform the duties and responsibilities of
floodplain administrator. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-4-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A floodplain development permit is hereby established for all construction and
other development to be undertaken in special flood hazard areas in the county
for the purpose of protecting its citizens from increased flood hazards and
ensuring new development is constructed in a manner that minimizes its exposure
to flooding. It shall be unlawful to undertake any development in a special
flood hazard area, as shown on the FIRM enumerated in section
12-3-2 of this title without a valid floodplain development permit.
Applications for a permit shall be made on forms furnished by the Lincoln
County floodplain administrator and may include, but not be limited to: plans
in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevation of the area in question, existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location of the foregoing.
(Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-4-3: PERMIT APPLICATION:
The applicant shall provide at least the following information, where
applicable. Additional information may be required on the permit application
forms.
   A.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all residential and nonresidential structures
whether new or substantially improved to be located in zones A, A1-A30, AE and
AH, if base flood elevations data are available.
   B.   In zone AO the proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the
lowest floor (including basement) and the elevation of the highest adjacent
grade of all residential and nonresidential structures whether new or
substantially improved.
   C.   The proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, to which any new
or substantially improved nonresidential structure will be floodproofed.
   D.   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in the
state of Nevada that any utility floodproofing meets the criteria in section
12-5-2, "Standards For Utilities", of this title.
   E.   A certificate from a licensed professional engineer or architect in the
state of Nevada that any nonresidential floodproofed structures meet the
criteria in section
12-5-1-5, "Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements", of this title.
   F.   When a watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, the applicant must submit the maps, computations, and
other materials required by the FEMA to process a letter of map revision (LOMR)
and pay any fees or other costs assessed by FEMA for processing the revision.
   G.   A technical analysis, by a professional engineer licensed in the state
of Nevada, showing the proposed development located in the special flood hazard
area will not cause physical damage to any other property.
   H.   When there is no base flood elevation data available for zone A from
any source, the base flood elevation data will be provided by the permit
applicant for all proposed development of subdivisions, manufactured home and
recreational vehicle parks in the special flood hazard areas, for all
developments of ten (10) lots or three (3) acres, whichever is less. (Ord.
2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-4-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COUNTY FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR:
Duties and responsibilities of the county floodplain administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-
21-2010)
12-4-4-1: PERMIT APPLICATION REVIEW:
The floodplain development permit will not be issued by the county floodplain
administrator until the following has been accomplished:
   A.   Review all applications for completeness, particularly with the
requirements of section
12-4-3, "Permit Application", of this chapter and for compliance with the
provisions and standards of this title.
   B.   Review all subdivision and other proposed new development, including
manufactured home and recreational vehicle parks to determine whether the
proposed development site will be reasonably safe from flooding. When the
proposed building site is located in the special flood hazard area, all new
construction and substantial improvements will meet the applicable standards of
section
12-5-1, "Standards Of Construction", of this title.
   C.   Determine whether any proposed development in the special flood hazard
area may result in physical damage to any other property to include stream bank
erosion and any increase in velocities or that it does not adversely affect the
carrying capacity of the areas where base flood elevations have been determined
but a floodway has not been designated. For purposes of this title, "adversely
affects" means the cumulative effect of the proposed development when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development which will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point.
To assist the county floodplain administrator in making this determination, the
permit applicant may be required to submit additional technical analyses.
   D.   Ensure all other required state and federal permits have been received.
   E.   That the county flood control district have reviewed the application
and approved said development.
   F.   Hazard mitigation plan: The planning commission shall weigh all
requests for future floodplain development against the community's general
plan. Consideration of the following elements is required before approval:
      1.   Determination of whether or not a proposed development is in or
affects a known floodplain;
      2.   Inform the public of the proposed activity;
      3.   Determine if there is a practicable alternative or site for the
proposed activity;
      4.   Identify impact of the activity on the floodplain;
      5.   Provide a plan to mitigate the impact of the activity with
provisions in this section;
      6.   Identify new areas within the county subject to development but in
unmapped areas. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-4-4-2: USE OF OTHER FLOOD DATA:
   A.   When the FEMA has designated special flood hazard areas on the county's
FIRM but has neither produced water surface elevation data nor identified a
floodway, the county floodplain administrator shall attempt to obtain, review
and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, including data developed pursuant to
subsection 12-4-3H of this chapter, as criteria for requiring new construction,
substantial improvements or other proposed development meet the requirements of
this title.
   B.   When base flood elevations are not available from any other source,
base flood elevations shall be obtained using one of two (2) methods from the
FEMA publication, FEMA 265, "Managing Floodplain Development In Approximate
Zone A Areas - A Guide For Obtaining And Developing Base (100-year) Flood
Elevations", dated July 1995. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-4-4-3: ALTERATION OF WATERCOURSES:
Prior to issuing a permit for any alteration or relocation of watercourse, the
county floodplain administrator must:
   A.   Have processed the letter of map revision (LOMR).
   B.   Notify all adjacent communities, Nevada's national flood insurance
program coordinator, and submittal of evidence of such notification to the FIA,
and the FEMA.
   C.   Determine that the potential permit recipient has provided for
maintenance within the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity is not diminished. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-
21-2010)
12-4-4-4: INSPECTIONS:
The county floodplain administrator or designee shall make periodic inspections
throughout the period of construction to monitor compliance with the
requirements of the floodplain development permit or any variance provisions.
Inspections related to floodplain development may be included in regular
building inspections. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-4-4-5: STOP WORK ORDERS:
The county floodplain administrator shall issue, or cause to be issued, a stop
work order for any floodplain development found noncompliant with the
provisions of this title or conditions of the development permit and all
development found ongoing without a floodplain development permit. Disregard of
a stop work order shall subject the violator to the penalties described in
section
12-3-3 of this title. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-4-4-6: RETAINING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT DOCUMENTATION:
The county floodplain administrator shall obtain and retain for public
inspection and have available for the national flood insurance program
coordinator or the FEMA representative conducting a community assistance visit,
the following:
   A.   Floodplain development permits and certificates of compliance.
   B.   Certification required by section
12-5-1-4, "Lowest Floor Certification Requirements", of this title.
   C.   Certification required by section
12-5-1-5, "Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements", of this title.
   D.   Certification of elevation required by section
12-5-3, "Standards For Subdivisions", of this title.
   E.   Certification required by section
12-5-7, "Floodways", of this title.
   F.   Variances issued pursuant to chapter 6, "Variance Procedures", of this
title.
   G.   Notices required under section
12-4-4-3, "Alteration Of Watercourses", of this title. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010,
eff. 8-21-2010)
12-4-4-7: MAP DETERMINATIONS:
The county floodplain administrator may make map interpretations where needed,
in writing with appropriate documentation as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas and where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions.
The county is authorized to assess a fee for map determinations. (Ord. 2010-03,
8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-4-4-8: APPEALS:
The board of county commissioners or their designee shall hear and decide
appeals when it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or
determination made by the county floodplain administrator in the enforcement or
administration of this title. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-4-4-9: SUBMISSION OF NEW TECHNICAL DATA TO FEMA:
When the county base flood elevations either increase or decrease resulting
from physical changes affecting flooding conditions, as soon as practicable,
but not later than six (6) months after the date such information becomes
available, the county will submit the technical or scientific data to FEMA.
Such submissions are necessary so that upon confirmation of the physical
changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and floodplain
management requirements will be based upon current data. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-
2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
12-5-1: Standards Of Construction
12-5-1-1: Anchoring
12-5-1-2: Construction Materials And Methods
12-5-1-3: Elevation Requirements For Lowest Floor
12-5-1-4: Lowest Floor Certification Requirements
12-5-1-5: Nonresidential Floodproofing Requirements
12-5-1-6: Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor
12-5-1-7: Garages And Low Cost Accessory Structures
12-5-2: Standards For Utilities
12-5-3: Standards For Subdivisions
12-5-4: Standards For Critical Structures
12-5-5: Standards For Manufactured Homes
12-5-6: Standards For Recreational Vehicles
12-5-7: Floodways
12-5-8: Standards For Parcel Maps
12-5-1: STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION:
In all special flood hazard areas the following standards are required. (Ord.
2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-5-1-1: ANCHORING:
   A.   All new construction and substantial improvements of properties within
a designated flood hazard zone shall be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
   B.   All manufactured homes so located shall meet the anchoring standards of
section
12-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-5-1-2: CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS AND METHODS:
All new construction and substantial improvements in flood hazard zones shall
be constructed:
   A.   With materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   B.   Using methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   C.   Ensure electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment and other service facilities are designed or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   D.   So that homes, within zones AH or AO, have adequate drainage paths on
slopes around structures to guide floodwaters around and away from the proposed
structures. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-5-1-3: ELEVATION REQUIREMENTS FOR LOWEST FLOOR:
Residential construction, new or substantial improvements in flood hazard
zones, shall have the lowest floor, including basement as follows:
   A.   In zone AO, elevated above the highest adjacent grade to a height equal
to or exceeding the depth number specified in feet on the FIRM, or elevated at
least two feet (2') above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is
specified.
   B.   In zone A, elevated to at least two feet (2') above the base flood
elevation.
   C.   In all other zones, elevated to two feet (2') or more above the base
flood elevation. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-5-1-4: LOWEST FLOOR CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Upon completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor including
basement shall be certified by the county floodplain administrator or the
county building inspector to be properly elevated. The certification shall be
filed by the county floodplain administrator using the current FEMA elevation
certificate.
County shall follow the state of Nevada recommendations in that the
certification of the lowest floor, including basement, shall be accomplished as
soon as possible after the slab has been poured for slab on grade or when the
lowest floor is completed and prior to the start of framing. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-
2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-5-1-5: NONRESIDENTIAL FLOODPROOFING REQUIREMENTS:
Nonresidential construction shall either be elevated to conform with section
12-5-1-3 of this chapter or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities:
   A.   Will be floodproofed below the elevation recommended under section
12-5-1-3 of this chapter so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
   B.   Will have the structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; or
   C.   Will be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of section
12-5-1-3 of this chapter are satisfied. The certification shall be provided to
the county floodplain administrator. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-5-1-6: REQUIREMENTS FOR AREAS BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR:
All new construction and substantial improvements on structures within flood
hazard zones with fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor (excluding
basements) that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage, and which are subject to flooding, shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement shall follow the
guidelines in FEMA technical bulletins TB1-93 and TB7-93 and must either be
certified by a licensed professional engineer or architect to meet or exceed
the following minimum criteria:
   A.   Must have a minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding.
   B.   The bottom of all such openings will be no higher than one foot (1')
above the lowest adjacent finished grade. Openings may be equipped with
louvers, valves, screens or other coverings or devices provided they permit the
automatic entry and exit of floodwaters. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-
2010)
12-5-1-7: GARAGES AND LOW COST ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
   A.   Attached Garages:
      1.   A garage attached to a residential structure, constructed with the
garage floor slab below the BFE, must be designed to allow for the automatic
entry of floodwater in accordance with section
12-5-1-6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this chapter.
Areas of the garage below the BFE must be constructed with flood resistant
material in accordance with subsection 12-5-1-2A of this chapter.
      2.   A garage attached to a nonresidential structure must meet the above
requirements or be floodproofed. For guidance on below grade parking areas, see
FEMA technical bulletin TB-6 (below grade parking requirements, 1993).
   B.   Detached Garages And Accessory Structures:
      1.   Accessory structures used solely for parking (2 car detached garages
or smaller) or limited storage (small, low cost sheds), as defined in chapter
2, "Definitions", of this title may be constructed such that its floor is below
the base flood elevation (BFE), provided the structure is designed and
constructed in accordance with the following requirements:
         a.   Use of the accessory structure must be limited to parking or
limited storage;
         b.   The portions of the accessory structure located below the BFE
must be built using flood resistant materials;
         c.   The accessory structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse and lateral movement;
         d.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in the accessory structure
must be elevated or floodproofed to or above the BFE;
         e.   The accessory structure must comply with floodplain encroachment
provisions in section
12-5-7, "Floodways", of this chapter; and
         f.   The accessory structure must be designed to allow for the
automatic entry of floodwaters in accordance with section
12-5-1-6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this chapter.
      2.   Detached garages and accessory structures not meeting the above
standards must be constructed in accordance with all applicable standards in
section
12-5-1-6, "Requirements For Areas Below The Lowest Floor", of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-5-2: STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES:
   A.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   B.   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters or discharge from the systems
into floodwaters. Sanitary sewer and storm drainage systems for buildings that
have openings below the base flood elevation shall be provided with automatic
backflow valves or other automatic backflow devices that are installed in each
discharge line passing through a building's exterior wall. State of Nevada
backflow regulations control.
   C.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff.
8-21-2010)
12-5-3: STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood.
   B.   All subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed structures
and pads. If the site is filled above the base flood, the final lowest floor
and pad elevation shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor and provided to the county floodplain administrator.
   C.   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage.
   D.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   E.   All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards.
   F.   Additionally all subdivision proposals within flood hazard zones will
demonstrate, by providing a detailed hydrologic and hydraulic analyses that the
proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base flood
more than one foot (1') at any point within the community. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-
2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-5-4: STANDARDS FOR CRITICAL STRUCTURES:
Critical structures are not authorized in a special flood hazard area, unless:
   A.   All alternative locations in flood zone X have been considered and
rejected.
   B.   All alternative locations in flood zone B have been considered and
rejected. If the county floodplain manager determines the only practical
alternative location for the development of a new or substantially improved
critical structure is in a special flood hazard area she/he must give public
notice of the decision and reasons for the elimination of all alternative
locations. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-5-5: STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   All manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved,
within zones A, AH, AE on the county's FIRM and on sites located:
      1.   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
      2.   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
      3.   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
      4.   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on a site upon
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a
flood:
Shall be elevated on a permanent foundation so that the lowest floor will be
elevated to two (2) or more feet above the base flood elevation and be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation,
collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to
be limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state and county anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces.
   B.   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved on sites
in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision within zones A, AH, and AE
on the county's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of subsection A of
this section will be elevated so that either:
      1.   The bottom of structural frame or the lowest point of the
manufactured home is two feet (2') or more above the base flood elevation; or
      2.   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or
other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than
thirty six inches (36") in height above grade and securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement.
   C.   Within zone A, when no base flood elevation data is available, new and
substantially improved manufactured homes shall have the floor elevated at
least three feet (3') above the highest adjacent grade.
   D.   Within zone AO, the floor for all new and substantially improved
manufactured homes will be elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least
two feet (2') higher than the depth number specified on the FIRM, or at least
three feet (3') higher than the adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest floor
including basement shall be certified for compliance by the county floodplain
administrator or county building inspector. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-
2010)
12-5-6: STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
All recreational vehicles placed on sites within the floodplain on the county's
FIRM will either:
   A.   Be on the site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days;
   B.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
no permanently attached additions, porches or awnings; or
   C.   Will meet the permit requirements of section
12-4-3 of this title and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in section
12-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-5-7: FLOODWAYS:
Designated floodways are located within the special flood hazard areas
established in section
12-3-2 of this title. Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to
the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and
erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
   A.   Encroachment shall be prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, storage of equipment or supplies, and any other
development within the adopted regulatory floodway; unless it has been
demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses, performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge, and the FEMA has issued a conditional
letter of map revision (CLOMR).
   B.   If subsection A of this section has been satisfied, all proposed new
development and substantial improvements will comply with all other applicable
flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010,
eff. 8-21-2010)
12-5-8: STANDARDS FOR PARCEL MAPS:
   A.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with this title, the applicant shall obtain and
provide the planning commission with necessary information to review, and
reasonably utilize the best base flood data available from any source: federal,
state or other; such as high water marks, USGS maps, floods of record, or
private engineering reports, in order to administer this title and provide the
developer with an estimated base flood elevation (see subsection D of this
section).
   B.   Single Parcels: Single parcels will be required to elevate the lowest
floor of any residential structure to be not less than two feet (2') above
natural grade when base flood data does not exist. Nonresidential structures
may be elevated or floodproofed to meet this standard.
   C.   Multiple Parcels: Multiple parcels (5 or more), subsequent parcel maps,
and subdivisions will be required to have all proposals establish the 100-year
base flood elevation before consideration of the preliminary plan for
development. The planning board may require flood control studies and standards
exceeding those identified in section
12-5-3 of this chapter.
   D.   Map Indications: All parcel maps shall indicate mapped waterways,
waters of the U.S., dry washes, streams and contours available from USGS maps
when FEMA mapping is unavailable for an area. In areas of USGS mapped waterways
the applicant shall indicate suitable building pad(s) and access routes that
minimize potential from future flooding. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-
2010)
CHAPTER 6
VARIANCE PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-6-1: Nature Of Variances
12-6-2: Appeal Board
12-6-3: Conditions For Variances
12-6-1: NATURE OF VARIANCES:
   A.   The variance criteria set forth in this chapter are based on the
general principal of zoning law that variances pertain to a piece of property
with physical characteristics so unusual that complying with the requirements
of this title would create an exceptional hardship to the applicant or to the
surrounding property owners. The request for variance cannot be the result of a
self-created hardship.
   B.   The characteristics must be unique to the property and not be shared by
adjacent parcels. The unique characteristics must pertain to the land itself,
not to the structure, its inhabitants, or the property owners.
   C.   It is the duty of the county to help protect its citizens from
flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below flood level are so serious that variances from
the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood ordinance are quite
rare. The long term goal of preventing and reducing flood loss and damage can
only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore, the variance
guidelines provided in this title are more detailed and contain multiple
provisions that must be met before a variance can be properly granted. The
criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-
2010)
12-6-2: APPEAL BOARD:
   A.   In passing upon requests for variances, the county planning commission
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this title, provide written findings of fact to
support such a variance and consider:
      1.   The danger of materials being swept onto other lands and injuring
others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and effect of such damage on the existing individual owner and
future owners of the property;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a flood damage prone location,
where applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of dry access to the property in time of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site;
      11.   The cost of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water system, and streets and bridges.
   B.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of the floodplain administrator that:
      1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood level will result in increased annual premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage ($25,000.00 per $100,000.00 coverage);
      2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life
and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the county floodplain
administrator in the office of the Lincoln County recorder and shall be
recorded in a manner so that it appears as an exception on the title of the
affected parcel of land.
   C.   The county floodplain administrator will maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in its biennial report submitted to the federal insurance
administration and FEMA. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
12-6-3: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction, substantial
improvements, and other proposed new development to be erected on a lot of one-
half (1/2) acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with
existing structures constructed below the base flood level, providing that the
procedures of chapters 4 and 5 of this title have been fully considered. As the
lot size increases beyond one-half (1/2) acre, the technical justification
required for issuing the variance increases.
   B.   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures (as defined in chapter 2 of this title) upon a determination that
the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   C.   Variances shall not be issued within any mapped regulatory floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   D.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
Minimum necessary means to afford relief with a minimum of deviation from the
requirements of this title. For example, in the case of variances to an
elevation requirement, this means the county need not grant permission for the
applicant to build at grade, or even to whatever elevation the applicant
proposed, but only to that elevation which the county believes will both
provide relief and preserve the integrity of the local ordinance.
   E.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      1.   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
      2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship (does not include self-created hardships) (as defined in
chapter 2 of this title) to the applicant;
      3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or extraordinary
public expense, create a nuisance (as defined in chapter 2 of this title,
"public safety nuisance"), cause fraud or victimization (as defined in chapter
2 of this title) of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction, substantial improvement,
and other proposed new development necessary for the conduct of a functionally
dependent use provided that the provisions of subsections A through E of this
section are satisfied and that the structure or other development is protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and does not
result in additional threats to public safety and does not create a public
nuisance.
   G.   Upon consideration of all the factors of subsection 12-6-1C of this
chapter and the purposes of this title, the county may attach such additional
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this title. (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-2010)
CHAPTER 7
MAP REVISION/AMENDMENT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-7-1: Letters Of Map Revision/Amendment
12-7-1: LETTERS OF MAP REVISION/AMENDMENT:
National flood insurance program regulations provide procedures to remove
property from the 100-year floodplain or from a special flood hazard area.
Amendments and revisions to the county's FIRM cannot adversely impact the
floodplain or floodway delineation's of the level of the 100-year flood.
There are several procedures provided whereby the FIA will review information
from the county, an owner, or a lessee of property where it is believed the
property should not be included in a special flood hazard area.
Submissions to FEMA for revisions to effective flood insurance studies (FISs)
by individual and community requesters will require the signing of application/
certification forms. These forms will provide FEMA with assurance that all
pertinent data relating to the revision is included in the submittal. They will
also assure that: a) the data and methodology are based on current conditions;
b) qualified professionals have assembled data and performed all necessary
computations; and c) all individuals and organizations impacted by proposed
changes are aware of the changes and will have an opportunity to comment on
them. FEMA procedures permit the following types of request:
   A.   A request for a revision to the effective FIS information (FIRM, FBFM,
and/or FIS report) is usually a request that FEMA replace the effective
floodplain boundaries, flood profiles, floodway boundaries, etc., with those
determined by the requester. Before FEMA will replace the effective FIS
information with the revised, the requester must:
      1.   Provide all of the data used in determining the revised floodplain
boundaries, flood profiles, floodway boundaries, etc.;
      2.   Provide all data necessary to demonstrate that the physical
modifications to the floodplain have been adequately designed to withstand the
impacts of the one percent (1%) annual chance flood event and will be
adequately maintained;
      3.   Demonstrate that the revised information (e.g., hydrologic and
hydraulic analyses and the resulting floodplain and floodway boundaries) are
consistent with the effective FIS information.
   B.   Requests for amendments or revisions to FEMA maps must be reviewed and
submitted to FEMA by the county along with materials and documents supplied by
the applicant for a map amendment or revision required to prepare all the
supporting information and appropriate FEMA forms.
The scientific or technical information to be submitted with these requests may
include, but is not limited to, the following:
   A.   An actual copy of the recorded plat map bearing the seal of the Lincoln
County recorder's office indicating the official recordation and proper
citation, deed or plat book volume and page number.
   B.   A topographical map showing:
      1.   Ground elevation contours in relation to the NGVD (national geodetic
vertical datum).
      2.   The total area of the property in question.
      3.   The location of the structure or structures located on the property
in question.
      4.   The elevation of the lowest adjacent grade to a structure or
structures.
      5.   An indication of the curvilinear line which represents the area
subject to inundation by a base flood. The curvilinear line should be based
upon information provided by an appropriate authoritative source, such as a
federal agency, department of water resources, the Lincoln County water
district, a federal emergency management agency flood insurance study, or a
determination by a registered professional engineer.
      6.   All buildings located within subject area.
   C.   A copy of the FHBM or FIRM indicating the location of the property in
question.
   D.   A certification by a registered professional engineer or licensed land
surveyor that the lowest grade adjacent to the structure is above the base
flood elevation.
   E.   The completion of the appropriate forms in the FEMA packets, amendments
and revisions to national flood insurance program maps (MT-1 FEMA form 81-87
series and MT-2 FEMA form 81-89 series). (Ord. 2010-03, 8-2-2010, eff. 8-21-
2010)
TITLE 13
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT CODE
CHAPTER 1
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Statutory Authority
13-1-2: Planning Commission Review
13-1-3: Planned Development Requirement
13-1-4: Administration And Enforcement
13-1-5: Application Of Zoning Provisions
13-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORITY:
Pursuant to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 278.0201 to 278.0207,
inclusive, the board of county commissioners may enter into development
agreements to regulate the development of land within the county. Such
agreements and the procedures applicable thereto shall be governed by and must
conform to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.0201 to 278.0207, inclusive and the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-02, 7-6-2004, eff. retroactive to 7-1-
2004)
13-1-2: PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:
Before the board of county commissioners enters into a development agreement
pursuant to this chapter, the agreement shall be reviewed by the planning
commission for consistency with the county's master plan, prior to submittal to
the county commission. (Ord. 2004-02, 7-6-2004, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2004)
13-1-3: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT:
Only land zoned for planned unit development or designated by a planned unit
development ordinance may be made the subject of a development agreement. (Ord.
2004-02, 7-6-2004, eff. retroactive to 7-1-2004)
13-1-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The county commission, with the advice of affected county departments and the
planning commission, shall be responsible for applying, administering and
enforcing the provisions of this chapter, including the negotiation and
enforcement of development agreements. (Ord. 2004-02, 7-6-2004, eff.
retroactive to 7-1-2004)
13-1-5: APPLICATION OF ZONING PROVISIONS:
Except as otherwise provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 278.0201 to 278.0207,
inclusive, or in a development agreement entered into pursuant to this chapter,
all the procedures and requirements of planned unit development zoning or in
the case of an area designated as a planned unit development by ordinance, the
requirements of that ordinance shall apply to the development of property that
is the subject of such a development agreement. (Ord. 2004-02, 7-6-2004, eff.
retroactive to 7-1-2004)
CHAPTER 2
INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-2-1: Title
13-2-2: Purpose
13-2-3: Organization And Use Of Title
13-2-4: Types Of Applications
13-2-5: Review Procedure
13-2-6: Authority
13-2-7: Scope And Interpretation
13-2-8: Separability
13-2-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the LINCOLN COUNTY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT CODE.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-2-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The provisions of this title are intended to regulate the use of land
and the division of same into separate interests for the purpose of protecting
the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare of the residents of
the county. The title is adopted in accordance with and in order to further the
implementation of the county master plan and such other plans, policies, and
studies designed to promote the orderly growth of the county and its
communities.
   B.   Among other purposes, this title is specifically adopted to preserve
air and water quality; conserve open space and agricultural resources; protect
natural and scenic resources from unreasonable impairment; provide for
recreational needs; protect life and property from flooding and other natural
hazards; preserve historic sites and structures; and to ensure that development
is commensurate with the character and physical limitations of the land.
Further, this title is designed to ensure that the timing, location and nature
of new development takes into account the immediate and long range financial
impacts of proposed uses; supports the county's development of a timely,
orderly and efficient arrangement of public facilities, services and
transportation; and enhances achievement of the county's economic development
goals.
   C.   Regulations pertaining to the subdivision of land are additionally
intended to ensure conformance with public improvement requirements of the
county, establish standards to encourage well planned development, to improve
land records and land survey monuments, and to safeguard the interest of the
public and the subdivider and provide consumer protection for the purchaser of
lots. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-2-3: ORGANIZATION AND USE OF TITLE:
This title replaces the previous provisions of the county zoning and
subdivision ordinance, and incorporates special development regulations
pertaining to resource development, historic, flood hazard, manufactured homes,
and other reviews. The title includes a procedures section which serves zoning,
subdivision and special reviews. It also permits simultaneous processing of
more complicated applications which may involve more than one application.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-2-4: TYPES OF APPLICATIONS:
   A.   There are several zoning, subdivision, and special applications
required by this title. The zoning regulations of this title, in general
regulate and restrict the erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair and use of buildings, structures or land. The zoning regulations,
chapter 5 of this title, designate land use districts which provide for
permitted and conditional uses and establish density, height, setback, and
parking requirements. Special permits are as required for:
      1.   Planned Development Units: A review in which development may vary
the strict provisions of the zone district and subdivision regulations through
a review procedure in order to promote better site design and integration of
the development with the surrounding development;
      2.   Conditional Uses: A review of uses which may be permitted in a zone
district only after review by the planning commission and board of county
commissioners for compatibility with other uses in that zone;
      3.   Variances: A review for a variance from the zoning provisions of
this title where, by reason of extraordinary conditions, the strict application
of these regulations would result in practical difficulty or hardship to the
owner;
      4.   Change In District Boundaries And Classification: Change in district
boundaries and classification of an area from one district to another, the
revision of any of the requirements of a certain district or the change in
boundaries of any district.
   B.   The subdivision regulations, chapter 17 of this title, generally
provide for the division of land or interests in land into two (2) or more
separate interests. A full subdivision review is required for any land, vacant
or improved, which is divided or proposed to be divided into five (5) or more
lots, parcels, sites, units, or plots, for the purpose of any transfer,
development, or any proposed transfer or development unless exempted by Nevada
Revised Statutes section 278.320. There are also statutorily mandated review
procedures for the division of land into four (4) or fewer interests (parcel
map) and for the division of land into large parcels. Review of all of these
applications is intended to ensure the orderly development of land in
accordance with the standards of design and improvement set by the county. The
reviews of chapter 17 of this title include:
      1.   Full subdivision. The preliminary (tentative map) and final reviews
of a subdivision to determine its compliance with county and state (final map)
standards and platting requirements;
      2.   Parcel map. The review of the division of land for transfer of
ownership or development into four (4) or fewer lots or interests;
      3.   Division of land into large parcels. A division of land into parcels
of not less than forty (40) acres nor greater than six hundred forty (640)
acres;
      4.   Amendment of plats;
      5.   Vacation of plats.
   C.   Special development regulations provide for regulations which
supplement the zoning and subdivision regulations of this title. In general,
these regulations deal with especially sensitive areas or matters and help to
implement special policies of the Lincoln County master plan. Included in this
title are standards and procedures for the review of resource development
activities, flood hazards, mobile home subdivisions and parks and historic
districts and structures. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-2-5: REVIEW PROCEDURE:
The review procedure for applications is specified in articles 17C and 17D of
this title. The procedure consists of three (3) steps of review: a
preapplication conference, step 1 planning commission review, and step 2 board
of county commissioners review. The preapplication conference is recommended
but not mandatory for all applications in order to give the applicant guidance
as to review procedures and the standards against which the application will be
reviewed. A step 1 review is the only review required for a historic design
district review, special use, variance, change in district boundary or
classification, or parcel map review. A full subdivision and PUD application
require step 1 and step 2 reviews. Variations in public notice and hearing
requirements or other procedural matters are specified for each application.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-2-6: AUTHORITY:
The county is authorized by law to regulate the zoning, planning and
subdivision of land by chapter 278 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, 1993. This
title is adopted pursuant to chapter 278. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-2-7: SCOPE AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   This title shall apply to all public and private lands situated within
the unincorporated portions of the county.
   B.   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be regarded as the minimum requirements for the protection of the public
health, safety and welfare. Whenever a provision of this title, or any other
law, rule, contract, resolution or regulation of the state, federal government
or the county, contain provisions covering the same subject matter, the more
restrictive or higher standards shall apply.
   C.   If any ambiguity exists with reference to the provisions of standards
or policies of this title, it shall be the duty of the planning commission to
interpret the provisions. The planning commission shall ascertain all pertinent
facts concerning the intent and purpose of the provisions of this title, and
set forth its findings and reasons. Its approval shall be final, and its
interpretation shall prevail. A record of such resolutions shall be kept with
the county clerk. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-2-8: SEPARABILITY:
Any determination of illegality relating to a provision of this title shall
have no bearing on the effectiveness of the remainder of the title. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
13-3-1: Generally
13-3-2: Specific Definitions
13-3-1: GENERALLY:
   A.   For the purpose of this title, certain terms and words are defined as
follows in this chapter.
   B.   When consistent with the context:
      1.   Words used in the present tense include the future;
      2.   Words in the singular number include those in the plural number and
the plural the singular;
      3.   The word "building" includes "structure";
      4.   The word "shall" is mandatory, not directory;
      5.   The word "person" includes "firm", "association", "corporation",
"partnership " and "natural person";
      6.   The word "used" includes the words "arranged", "designed" or
"intended to be used";
      7.   The word "construct" includes the words "erect", "reconstruct",
"alter", "move in" and "move upon". (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-3-2: SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A detached subordinate building clearly incidental to and
located upon the same lot occupied by the main building. Any accessory building
shall be considered to be part of the main building when joined to the main
building by a common wall not less than four feet (4') long, or when any
accessory building and the main building are connected by a breezeway which
shall be not less than ten feet (10') in width.
ACCESSORY USE: A use customarily incidental and accessory to the principal use
of the land, building or structure located on the same lot or parcel of land as
the principal use.
ACTIVE RECREATIONAL AREAS: Usable common open space which is developed with
active recreation facilities such as swimming pools, tennis courts, handball
courts, golf courses, recreational buildings, clubhouses or other similar
facilities.
AGRICULTURE: The tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and
gardening, but not including the keeping or raising of domestic animals and
fowl, and not including any agricultural industry or business such as packing
plants, dairies, fur farms, animal hospitals or similar uses.
ALLEY: A public way permanently reserved as a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
APARTMENT HOTEL: A building or portion thereof designed for or containing both
individual guestrooms or suites of rooms and dwelling units.
APARTMENT HOUSE: A building, or portion thereof, designed or occupied by three
(3) or more families living independently of each other.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the local administrator's interpretation of
any provision of this title or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO or VO zone on the flood insurance
rate map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a
clearly defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
This area is designated as zone A, AO, AH, A1-30 on the FIRM.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: A story partly underground. A basement shall be counted as a story
for purposes of height measurement if its height is one-half (1/2) or more
above grade.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN: A facility with sleeping and dining accommodations
designed for the motoring public within a single- family dwelling, limited to a
maximum of five (5) bedrooms, with required parking to be located off street.
BILLBOARD: An outdoor advertisement making a message, material or service
known, such advertisement being remote from point of sale of such material or
service.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building or portion thereof which is used to accommodate, for
compensation, five (5) or more boarders or roomers, not including members of
the owner's immediate family who might be occupying such building.
BOND OR PERFORMANCE BOND: A bond or performance bond executed by a corporate
surety company authorized to do and doing business in the state, or, in lieu
thereof, a cashier's check or certified check of the owner made payable to the
county, or a cash deposit with the county in lawful money of the government of
the United States, to secure the performance of the agreement for which the
bond or performance bond is required; provided, however, that no part of such
cash deposit shall be released to the owner for any reason whatsoever until
completion of the subdivision agreement and acceptance of all matters provided
in this title by the county; and, provided further, that under no circumstances
shall said words be construed to authorize or permit a personal bond or any
security other than that described in this title.
BUILDING: Any structure having a single or common roof supported by columns or
walls. The following definitions also relate to buildings:
Building Height: The vertical distance from the grade to the highest point of
the structure.
Building Line: A line between any street right of way, either existing or
future, and any building, parts of a building or structures which may be
erected or altered on a lot, parcel or tract of land.
Building Site: The ground area of a building or buildings, together with all
open spaces which are required.
Main Building: The principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a
lot, or the building or principal buildings housing a principal use upon a lot.
Public Building: A building owned and operated or owned and intended to be
operated, by a public agency of the United States, of the state, or any of
their subdivisions.
CARPORT: A permanent, roofed structure with not more than two (2) enclosed
sides and which is used or intended to be used for automobile shelter or
storage.
CASINO: A gaming establishment that holds a nonrestricted gaming license issued
by the Nevada gaming commission and by the board pursuant to title 4, chapter 9
of this code.
CEMETERY: Any land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead and
may include columbaria, crematoriums, mausoleums and mortuaries when operated
in conjunction with and within such boundary of such cemetery.
CLUB: An association of persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated, for
some common purpose but not including groups organized primarily to render a
service carried on as a business and does not include labor union organizations
or similar labor or business organizations.
CONDOMINIUM: An estate in real property consisting of an undivided interest in
common in portions of real property together with a separate interest in space
in a residential, industrial or commercial building, or industrial and
commercial building on such real property, such as, but not restricted to, an
apartment, office or store. A condominium may include, in addition, a separate
interest in other portions of such real property as defined in Nevada Revised
Statutes section 117.010.
CONVALESCENT HOME: Any building used or maintained to provide nursing, dietary
and other personal services to convalescents, invalids, aged or infirm persons,
but excluding cases of contagious or communicable diseases, and excluding
surgery or primary treatments such as those customarily provided in sanitariums
and hospitals.
COUNTY REPRESENTATIVE: Refers to the county engineer or his designated
representative.
CUL-DE-SAC: A short dead end street terminating in a vehicular turnaround area
within a proposed subdivision.
DAIRY: Any premises on which three (3) or more cows or goats are kept for the
commercial production or sale of milk and dairy products.
DESIGN STANDARDS: The design standards providing certain minimum construction
standards, methods of construction, kind and use of materials, the preparation
of lands for construction of streets, alleys, structures, drainage, sewerage,
street lighting and water supply facilities within the county.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy including one-family manufactured units and multiple-
family dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, boarding houses. The
following definitions also apply to dwellings:
Dwelling Unit: One or more rooms and a single kitchen in a dwelling or
apartment hotel, designed as a unit for occupancy by not more than one family
for living or sleeping purposes, and not having more than one kitchen or set of
fixed cooking facilities, whether or not designed for use of occupants such as
janitors, caretakers, servants or guests.
Group Dwelling: One or more buildings containing dwelling units arranged around
two (2) or more sides of a court.
Multiple-Family Dwelling: A building containing two (2) or more dwelling units.
One-Family Dwelling: Any detached building containing only one dwelling unit.
ENGINEER: Any person or persons, firm, partnership or corporation who is
employed as a consultant by the owner and legally authorized to practice
engineering in the state in accordance with chapter 625 of Nevada Revised
Statutes.
EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous
parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more mobile home lots for rent or sale
for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which the
mobile home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of
utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and the
construction of streets) is completed before the effective date hereof.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the mobile homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring of concrete
pads, or the construction of streets).
FAMILY: An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage
or legal adoption, or an unrelated group of not more than five (5) persons,
other than domestic employees, living together as a single housekeeping unit in
a dwelling unit.
FINAL MAP: A map prepared in accordance with the provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes sections 278.010 through 278.630, inclusive.
FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP: The office map on which the federal insurance
administration has delineated both the areas of flood hazard and the floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal emergency
management agency that includes flood profiles, the FIRM, the flood boundary
floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION: A condition that exists in conjunction with a flooding
event that alters the composition of the shoreline or bank of a watercourse.
One that increases the possibility of loss due to the erosion of land area
adjacent to the shoreline or watercourse.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to nonresidential structures which reduce or eliminate
flood damage to real property.
GAMBLING ESTABLISHMENT (GAMING): Any place where gaming is operated and
maintained. "Gaming" means and includes all games of chance or devices and any
slot machines played for money or for checks or tokens redeemable in money,
except, for the purpose of this title only, "gaming" shall not be construed to
include slot machines when such slot machines are operated incidental to or
accessory to the conduct of a business permitted under the provisions of this
title.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or a portion of a main building
designed or used for the parking or temporary storage of automobiles owned and
used by the occupants of the premises.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any building or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling or
storing of motor driven vehicles.
GRADE (Ground Level): The average of the finished ground level at the center of
all walls of a building.
GUESTROOM: Any room in a hotel, dormitory, boarding house, or home for the
aged, used and maintained to provide sleeping accommodations.
HABITABLE FLOOR: Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes working,
sleeping, eating, or the combination thereof. For flood insurance purposes,
"habitable floor" and "lowest floor" will share the same definition.
HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN: A plan that incorporates a process whereby the
potential of future loss due to flooding can be minimized by planning and
implementing alternatives to floodplain development communitywide.
HIGHEST GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to
construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HOG RANCH: Any premises used for the commercial raising of hogs.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation carried on by the resident of a dwelling as a
secondary use in connection with which there is no person employed, no sounds
audible beyond the premises, no display and no advertising, no stock in trade
or commodity sold upon the premises, and no mechanical equipment used except
such as is necessary for housekeeping purposes. Clinics, hospitals,
barbershops, beauty salons, business offices and professional offices shall not
be deemed home occupations.
HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof used for the accommodation and
medical care of sick, injured or infirm persons, including sanitariums,
institutions for the treatment of substance abusers and/or mental patients,
rest homes, homes for the aged.
HOTEL: Any building or group of buildings, designed for, or occupied as the,
more or less, temporary abiding place of individuals who are lodged with or
without meals in which there are six (6) or more guestrooms, and in which no
provision is made for cooking in any individual room or suite.
JUNKYARD: The use of any lot, portion of a lot or tract of land for the
storage, keeping, sale or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals and other
scrap material; also, that which is for the dismantling, demolition or
abandonment of automobiles, other vehicles, machinery or parts thereof.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or to be occupied by a building or group of
buildings, together with such yards, open spaces, lot width and lot area as
required by this title, having frontage upon a street or private easement. A
lot may be land so recorded on a plat of record, or considered as a unit of
property and described by metes and bounds, and which may include parts of or a
combination of such lots, when adjacent to one another, providing such grounds
are used for one improvement. All lots shall front on or have ingress or egress
by means of an officially approved public right of way. The following
definitions also apply to lots:
Corner Lot: A lot abutting two (2) intersecting streets, where the interior
angle or intersection does not exceed one hundred thirty five degrees (135°).
Front Lot Line: The property line dividing a lot from a street. On a corner lot
only one street line shall be considered as a front line and the shorter street
frontage shall be considered the front lot line.
Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot.
Lot Area: The total horizontal area within the lot.
Rear Lot Line: The property line opposite the front lot line.
Side Lot Line: Any lot boundary not a front lot line or a rear lot line.
Through Lot: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
Width Of Lot: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
right angles to the lot depth at the front yard setback line. The street
frontage of a lot shall be at least eighty percent (80%) of the required width.
MANUFACTURED BUILDING: Includes any modular building or any building
constructed using one or more modular components, but does not include a
recreational park trailer.
   A.   "Manufactured home" means a structure which is:
      1. Built on a permanent chassis;
      2. Designed to be used with or without a permanent foundation as a
dwelling when connected to utilities;
      3. Transportable in one or more sections, and
      4. Eight feet (8') or more in body width or forty feet (40') or more in
body length when transported, or, when erected on site, contains three hundred
twenty (320) square feet or more.
   B.   The term includes:
      1. The plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems of the
structure,
      2. Any structure:
         a. Which meet the requirements of subsections A1 to A3 of this
definition, and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the secretary of urban development and safety
standards act of 1974, 42 USC section 5401 et seq.; or
         b. Built in compliance with the requirements of chapter 461 of Nevada
Revised Statutes.
MAP OF DIVISION INTO LARGE PARCELS: A division of land into parcels not less
than forty (40) acres and not greater than six hundred forty (640) acres as
defined by Nevada Revised Statutes sections 278.010 to 278.630, inclusive, as
amended.
MOBILE HOME: Has the same meaning as a "manufactured home". It does not include
recreational vehicles, travel trailers or manufactured unit housing on
permanent slab foundations.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plot of ground upon which two (2) or more mobile homes
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located regardless of whether or
not a charge is made for such accommodation.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home.
MODULAR BUILDING: An office, apartment, school, motel or other building,
whether it is a total building or room, which is either wholly manufactured or
is in substantial part manufactured at an off site location to be wholly or
partially assembled on site in accordance with regulations of the building
department or the Nevada manufactured housing division pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes 461.170, but does not include a mobile home or recreational
park trailer.
MOTEL: A building or group of attached or detached buildings containing
individual sleeping or living units, designed for or used temporarily by
automobile tourists or transients with garage or parking space conveniently
located to each unit, including tourist courts, auto courts, or motor lodges.
MOTORIZED HOME: A portable home designed and constructed as an integral part of
a self-propelled vehicle.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on
or after the effective date hereof.
NEW MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: A parcel, or contiguous
parcels, of land divided into two (2) or more mobile home lots for rent or sale
for which the construction of facilities or servicing the lot (including, at a
minimum, the installation of utilities, either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads, and the construction of streets) is completed on or
after the effective date hereof.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure or portion
thereof, lawfully existing at the time the ordinance, or amendments thereto,
codified in this title takes effect, and which does not conform to all the
height, area and yard regulations prescribed in the zone in which it is
located.
NONCONFORMING USE: Areas lawfully occupied by a building or land use at the
time the ordinance, or amendments thereto, codified in this title takes effect,
and which does not conform with the use regulations of the zone in which it is
located.
OPEN SPACE: Land areas which are not occupied by buildings, structures,
streets, alleys; excepting, however, approved landscape features and active
recreation facilities, when developed in accordance with this title.
OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership or
corporation, having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
subdivided, to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under
this title; and, while used herein, the masculine gender and singular number
mean the feminine and neuter genders and plural number whenever required.
PARCEL MAP: A division of land into four (4) or fewer parcels for the purpose
of transfer of development as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes sections
278.461 to 278.469, inclusive.
PARKING LOT, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a street, used for the parking of
more than four (4) automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for
compensation or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: A space within a building, lot or parking lot for the parking or
storage of one automobile. The space shall not be less than a nine foot by
eighteen foot (9' x 18') area, exclusive of drives, streets, alleys or aisles
giving ingress and egress thereto.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A pedestrian walkway located within the interior of a block and
shall be constructed on a dedicated right of way.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT UNIT: A tract of land which is developed as an integrated
unit under single ownership or control, which includes two (2) or more
principal buildings, and where the specific requirements of a given district
may be modified, and where the minimum area is affixed.
PRINT: A blueprint, photostat, direct process print or other copy which
reproduces exactly the original drawing from which it is made.
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE: A building containing one or more offices in which there
is no display of wares or stock in trade, commodity sold, nor any commercial
use conducted other than the professional offices of a doctor, dentist, lawyer,
architect, landscape architect, engineer, minister of religion, insurance
agent, realtor or other similar professional services; but shall not include
barbershops, beauty salons, nor similar services.
RECREATIONAL PARK TRAILER 1 : A vehicle which is primarily designed to provide
temporary sleeping quarters for recreational, camping or seasonal use and
which:
   A.   Is built on a single chassis mounted on wheels.
   B.   Has a gross trailer area not exceeding four hundred (400) square feet
in the setup mode, and
   C.   Is certified by the manufacturer as complying with standard no. A119.5
of the American National Standards Institute.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE 2 : A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
living quarters for travel, recreational or camping use, which may be self-
propelled, mounted upon or drawn by, a motor vehicle. The term includes a
recreational park trailer.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK 3 : A campground or other facility, any portion of
which is rented or held out for rent, to accommodate recreational vehicles.
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY: The number of residential dwelling units occupying a given
land area, expressed in terms of either dwelling units per gross acre of land
or dwelling units per net acre of land area.
REST HOME: Any building used or maintained to provide nursing, dietary and
other personal services to convalescents, invalids, aged or infirm persons, but
excluding cases of contagious or communicable diseases, and excluding surgery
or primary treatments such as those customarily provided in sanitariums and
hospitals.
SAND DUNES: Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
SANITARIUM: A building or institution for the recuperation and treatment of
persons with physical or mental disorders.
SIDEWALK: A pedestrian walkway located between the curb and property line.
SIGN: Any device and all parts thereof which are used to advertise products,
goods, services or otherwise promote the sale of objects or identify objects
for sale.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: The first placement of concrete for permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings
or any work beyond the stage of excavation. For mobile homes within mobile home
parks or mobile home subdivisions, "start of construction" is the date on which
the construction of facilities for servicing the site on which the mobile home
is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the construction of streets, either
final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and installation of
utilities) is completed.
STORY: The space within a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the ceiling next above.
STREET: A thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to the public and
accepted by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare which has been made
public by right of use and which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.
STRUCTURE: Any building, fence, tower, edifice or building of any kind, or any
piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in
some definite form which requires location on the ground or is attached to
something having a location on the ground.
SUBDIVIDER: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing proceedings under this
title to effect a subdivision of land under this title for himself or for
another, and while used herein the masculine gender and singular number, means
and includes the feminine or neuter gender and plural number whenever required.
"Subdivider" means, further, any person or persons, firm, corporation,
partnership or association who proposes to divide any land into two (2) or more
lots, parcels, sites, units, plots or interest for transfer or development,
whether immediate or future.
SUBDIVISION: Any land or portion thereof which is a unit or a contiguous unit
which is divided for the purpose of sale, lease or transfer, whether immediate
or future, or being divided or split off and sold into five (5) or more parcels
of less then five (5) acres each within any one calendar year, unless exempted
by those provisions contained in Nevada Revised Statutes section 278.320.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure, either:
   A.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
   B.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement"
is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that
alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
This term does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
SURVEYOR: A person who is employed by the owner and is currently licensed as a
land surveyor in accordance with chapter 624 of Nevada Revised Statutes.
TENTATIVE MAP: A map in accordance with the Nevada planning act made for the
purpose of showing the design of a proposed subdivision and existing conditions
in and around it and need not be based on an accurate or detailed final survey
of the land.
TOWNHOUSE: An arrangement of single-family dwellings separate or joined by
common walls on not more than two (2) opposite sides with the uppermost story
being a portion of the same dwelling located directly beneath at the grade or
first floor level and having exclusive individual ownership and occupant rights
of each dwelling unit including, but not limited to, the land area directly
beneath the dwelling.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A portable vehicle built on a chassis designed to be used as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses. When factory
equipped for the road, it shall have a body width of not more than eight feet
(8') and a body length of not more than forty feet (40').
USABLE COMMON OPEN SPACE: Open space which is suitably located and improved for
common recreational purposes and accessible to each lot or dwelling within a
development through a system of public or private walkways. Such walkways may
abut a private or dedicated right of way.
USABLE PRIVATE OPEN SPACE: Open space which is designed and maintained for sole
and exclusive use of the occupants of not more than one dwelling unit and may
include private patio areas.
USE: The purpose for which land or building is arranged, designed or intended,
or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this title which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this title.
YARD: An open space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed
from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided in this title. The
following definitions also apply to yards:
Front Yard: An open space on the same lot with a building extending between the
front line of the building and the front lot line and extending across the full
width of the lot. The depth of the front yard is the minimum distance between
the front lot line and the nearest exterior wall of the building, the front of
a bay window or the front of a covered porch, or other similar projections,
whichever is nearest the front lot line.
Rear Yard: An open space extending across the full width of the lot between the
most rear main building and the rear lot line. The depth of the required rear
yard shall be measured horizontally from the nearest part of a main building
toward the nearest point of the rear lot line.
Side Yard: An open space between the main building and the side lot line and
extending from the front yard to the rear yard. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006; amd.
Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 482.1005.
2 2. NRS 482.101.
3 3. NRS 109.2678.
CHAPTER 4
ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE A. PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
13-4A-1: Creation
13-4A-2: Membership
13-4A-3: Appointment, Compensation, Term, Removal And Vacancies
13-4A-4: Powers And Duties
13-4A-1: CREATION:
The board of county commissioners creates a county planning commission to be
known as the "Lincoln County planning commission". (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-4A-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The planning commission shall consist of seven (7) members. Members of the
planning commission are appointed by the chair of the board of county
commissioners. The members must not be members of the governing body of the
city or county. The chair may select members from each of the unincorporated
towns and the city of Caliente, where possible, but are not required to do so.
(Ord. 2011-03, 8-1-2011)
13-4A-3: APPOINTMENT, COMPENSATION, TERM, REMOVAL AND VACANCIES:
Matters regarding appointment, compensation, term, removal, and vacancies shall
be in compliance with the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes section
278.040. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-4A-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The county planning commission may exercise powers and duties as prescribed and
governed by Nevada Revised Statutes section 241.010 et seq., section 278, and
this title. In addition, the planning commission is granted the power, by this
title, to take final action on both tentative and final parcel maps, plat
amendments, surveys, special use permits, zoning variances and conditional use
permits. Additionally the planning director is authorized to grant a deviation
of less than ten percent (10%) from requirements for land use established
within a zoning district without conducting a hearing, per Nevada Revised
Statutes 278.319. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE B. APPEALS BOARD
SECTION:
13-4B-1: Creation
13-4B-1: CREATION:
In accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 278.3195 an appeals board consisting
of the board of county commissioners is hereby created. The appeals board, upon
application and payment of a fee by the applicant, in an amount equal to the
fee paid for the original action, will consider the appeal of an aggrieved
person by a decision of the planning commission. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-5A-1: Title
13-5A-2: General Purpose
13-5A-3: Authority
13-5A-4: Interpretation And Conflict
13-5A-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF
LINCOLN COUNTY, NEVADA. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5A-2: GENERAL PURPOSE:
An official land use zoning ordinance for the county is adopted and established
to serve the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare;
to provide the economic and social advantages resulting from an orderly planned
use of land and water resources; to encourage, guide and provide for the future
growth and development of the county; and to implement the goals, objectives,
policies and proposals of the county master plan. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5A-3: AUTHORITY:
The county is authorized by law to regulate the zoning of land by section
278.250 of the Nevada Revised Statutes. This chapter is adopted pursuant to
chapter 278. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5A-4: INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements. Wherever the requirements of this chapter
are at variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, restrictions or ordinances, the most restrictive, or that imposing
the higher standards, shall govern. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE B. ZONING MAPS
SECTION:
13-5B-1: Official Zoning Map
13-5B-2: Area Zoning Maps
13-5B-3: Changes Of Official And Area Zoning Maps
13-5B-4: Rules For Interpretation Of District Boundaries
13-5B-1: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   The county is divided into zones, or districts, as shown on the
official zoning map which, together with all explanatory matter thereon, is
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this title.
   B.   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
chairman of the board of county commissioners attested by the county clerk and
bearing the seal of the county under the following words: "This is to certify
that this is the Official Zoning Map referred to in chapter 5, of the Lincoln
County Code; State of Nevada" together with the date of adoption. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
13-5B-2: AREA ZONING MAPS:
For convenience and identification, the official zoning map may be divided into
separate maps having a scale different than the official zoning map. The
classifications and boundaries of said zones shall be determined and delineated
in accordance with the official zoning map if such area map is an enlargement
of the official zoning map. When an area zoning map is created and not based
upon the delineations of the official zoning map, a public hearing will be held
for each area covered as provided in chapter 10 of this title prior to adoption
of the map. Upon such adoption, regulations governing said zones shall become
effective. Each area zoning map shall be certified in the manner specified for
the official zoning map in section
13-5B-1 of this article. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5B-3: CHANGES OF OFFICIAL AND AREA ZONING MAPS:
   A.   In accordance with the provisions of this chapter, if changes are made
in zone district boundaries or other matters portrayed on the official or area
zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the official or area zoning map
promptly after the amendment has been approved by the planning commission with
an entry on the official or area zoning map indicating the name of the property
owner and date of rezoning, which entry shall be signed by the chairman of the
board of county commissioners and attested by the county clerk.
   B.   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the official and
area zoning maps which may from time to time be made or published, the official
and true area zoning maps shall be located in the office of the county clerk
and shall be the final authority as the current zoning status of land and water
area, building and other structures in the county. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5B-4: RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official and area zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerline;
   B.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following plotted lines, section
lines, quarter section lines or city limits shall be construed as following
such lines;
   C.   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks;
   D.   In unsubdivided property or where a zone boundary divides a lot, the
location of such boundary, unless the same is indicated by dimensions, shall be
determined by use of the scale appearing on the map;
   E.   In case any uncertainty exists, the planning commission shall determine
the location of the boundaries. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE C. ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
13-5C-1: Zoning Districts Listed
13-5C-2: Application Of Zoning District Regulations
13-5C-1: ZONING DISTRICTS LISTED:
In order to classify, regulate and segregate the use of land, buildings and
structures, and to regulate and restrict the height and bulk of buildings, the
unincorporated territory of the county is divided into several classes of
zoning districts to be known as follows:
R1  Single-family residential
RM  Multiple-family residential
RR  Rural residential
C1  Limited commercial
C2  General commercial
M1  Light manufacturing
M2  Heavy manufacturing
SID Special industrial district
A   Agricultural
OS  Open space
MHP Mobile home park; T mobile home
HD  Historic design
 
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5C-2: APPLICATION OF ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
The regulations set by this chapter within each zoning district shall be
minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land, and particularly, except as hereinafter provided:
   A.   No building, or other structure, shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity
with all regulations specified in this chapter for the zoning district in which
it is located.
   B.   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered:
      1.   To exceed the height or bulk;
      2.   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
      3.   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area;
      4.   To have narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces than required by this chapter, or in any other manner
contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   No part of a yard, other open space, or off street parking or loading
space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space or
off street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
   D.   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of the ordinance
codified in this chapter shall be reduced in dimension or area below the
minimum requirements set forth in this chapter. Yards or lots created after the
effective date hereof shall meet at least the minimum requirements established
by this chapter. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE D. R1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-5D-1: Purpose And Intent
13-5D-2: Uses Permitted
13-5D-3: Uses Permitted Subject To Special Use Permit
13-5D-4: Building Height
13-5D-5: Front Yard
13-5D-6: Side Yard
13-5D-7: Rear Yard
13-5D-8: Lot Area And Width Requirements
13-5D-9: Distance Between Buildings On Same Lot
13-5D-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The single-family residential district is established to provide for the
development of single-family residential use and to prohibit the development of
incompatible uses that are detrimental to the residential environment. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5D-2: USES PERMITTED:
In an R1 single-family residential district, land may be used and buildings and
structures may be erected, maintained and used if they are arranged, intended
or designed for the following uses:
Accessory uses, buildings and structures if they are clearly incidental to a
permitted use and when placed upon the same lot or parcel with a permitted use.
Agricultural and horticultural uses for domestic purposes.
Home occupations.
Manufactured homes subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Any manufactured home must have a manufacture date after 1980, and must
pass a safety inspection by a certified building inspector. A manufactured home
must have an application for conversion to real property filed with the county
assessors office prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   B.   Any manufactured home located on a lot shall comply with all United
States of America department of housing and urban development standards in
effect for the year of the manufacture of the mobile home in addition to the
requirements of any other state or county regulation.
   C.   A manufactured home shall be placed on a permanent foundation,
consistent with the Lincoln County building code and the international building
code.
      1.   The manufactured home shall:
   a. Be permanently affixed to a residential lot.
   b. Have exterior siding and roofing which is similar in color, material and
appearance to the exterior siding and roofing primarily used on other single-
family residential dwellings in the immediate vicinity of the manufactured
home, as established by the governing body.
   c. Consist of at least nine hundred fifty (950) square feet of living area.
      2.   If the manufactured home has an elevated foundation, the foundation
is to be masked architecturally by raising the adjacent ground elevation to
within eight inches (8") of the finish floor elevation as viewed from the
street, or by other methods approved by the building department.
   D.   Before the building department issues a permit to place a manufactured
home on a lot pursuant to this section, other than a new manufactured home, the
owner must surrender the certificate of ownership to the manufactured housing
division of the department of business and industry. The division shall provide
proof of surrender to the owner who must submit that proof to the building
department.
   E.   The provisions of this section do not abrogate a recorded restrictive
covenant prohibiting manufactured homes nor do the provisions apply within the
boundaries of a historic district established pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 384.005 or 384.100. An application to place a manufactured home on a
residential lot pursuant to this section constitutes an attestation by the
owner of the lot that the placement complies with all covenants, conditions and
restrictions placed on the lot and that the lot is not located within a
historic district.
   F.   As used in this section:
      1.   "Manufactured home" has the meaning ascribed to it in this title and
Nevada Revised Statutes 489.113.
      2.   "New manufactured home" has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada
Revised Statutes 489.125.
One single-family dwelling of a permanent character in a permanent location
with each residence on its own lot or parcel of land including all required
yard areas.
Poultry, rabbits or similar small fowl and animals raised for food or
scientific purposes, provided not more than twelve (12) of any one or
combination of such animals may be maintained on one lot. The keeping of such
fowl or animals shall conform to all other provisions of law governing the
same, and no fowl or animals, nor any pen or coop, shall be kept or maintained
within twenty feet (20') of any window or door of any residence, dwelling or
other building used for human habitation, or within sixty feet (60') of the
front property line upon which it is located. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5D-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The following additional uses may be permitted subject to securing a special
use permit as provided for in chapter 8 of this title:
Additional single-family dwellings at the rate of one dwelling unit for each
additional six thousand (6,000) square feet of lot area available, provided
that there shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') between dwellings.
Bed and breakfast inns.
Child daycare nursery when five (5) or more children will be cared for.
Churches and the facilities which are normally accessory to a religious use.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5D-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Two and one-half (21/2) stories and not to exceed thirty five feet (35').
Accessory building to not exceed fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5D-5: FRONT YARD:
There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty five feet (25'), unless
modified by chapter 6 of this title. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5D-6: SIDE YARD:
There shall be a side yard on each side of a main building of not less than
five feet (5'), except that on a street side of a corner lot there shall be a
side yard of not less than ten feet (10'), unless modified by chapter 6 of this
title. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5D-7: REAR YARD:
There shall be a rear yard behind every main building of not less than ten feet
(10'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5D-8: LOT AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum lot size shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet. Each lot shall
have a minimum width of fifty feet (50'). Where an existing lot has less area
than required by this section and was recorded prior to the date of the
adoption of in this chapter, the lot may be occupied by not more than one
dwelling. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5D-9: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS ON SAME LOT:
   A.   There shall be a minimum distance of six feet (6') between a building
used for dwelling purposes and accessory buildings.
   B.   There shall be a minimum distance of six feet (6') between accessory
buildings. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE E. RM MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-5E-1: Purpose And Intent
13-5E-2: Uses Permitted
13-5E-3: Uses Permitted Subject To Special Use Permit
13-5E-4: Building Height
13-5E-5: Front Yard
13-5E-6: Side Yard
13-5E-7: Rear Yard
13-5E-8: Lot Area And Width Requirements
13-5E-9: Distance Between Buildings On Same Lot
13-5E-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The RM multiple-family residential district is established to provide for the
development of medium or higher density residential use and to prohibit the
development of incompatible uses that are detrimental to the residential
environment. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5E-2: USES PERMITTED:
In an RM multiple-family residential district, land may be used and buildings
and structures may be erected, maintained and used if they are arranged,
intended or designed for the following uses:
Any use permitted in the R1 single-family residential district, except
manufactured homes.
Accessory uses, buildings and structures, with construction permits as needed,
if they are clearly incidental to a permitted use and when placed upon the same
lot or parcel with a permitted use.
Churches and the facilities which are normally accessory to a religious use.
Manufactured homes are not permitted unless specifically factory designed for
use as a multi-family residence, and must conform to manufactured home
requirements of section
13-5D-2 of this chapter, including conversion to real property.
Multiple-family dwelling groups.
Multiple-family dwellings.
One sign of not to exceed twenty (20) square feet in area containing only the
name of the complex and/or advertising the complex for lease or rent, located
not closer than ten feet (10') to adjoining premises and not closer than five
feet (5') to a street line. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5E-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The following additional uses may be permitted subject to securing a special
use permit in each case as provided for in chapter 8 of this title:
Apartment hotels.
Bed and breakfast inns.
Boarding houses and rooming houses.
Child daycare nursery when five (5) or more children will be cared for.
Lodge halls. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5E-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Two and one-half (21/2) stories and not to exceed thirty five feet (35').
Accessory buildings to not exceed fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5E-5: FRONT YARD:
There shall be a front yard of not less than fifteen feet (15'), unless
modified by section
13-6-16 of this title. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5E-6: SIDE YARD:
There shall be a side yard on each side of a main building of not less than
five feet (5'), except that on a street side of a corner lot there shall be a
side yard of not less than ten feet (10'), unless modified by chapter 6 of this
title. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5E-7: REAR YARD:
There shall be a rear yard behind every main building of not less than ten feet
(10'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5E-8: LOT AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum lot area shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet. Each lot shall
have a minimum width of fifty feet (50'). The minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall be two thousand (2,000) square feet. When a lot has less area than
required by this section and was recorded prior to the adoption of ordinance
1990-5, the lot may be occupied by not more than one dwelling unit for each two
thousand (2,000) square feet of lot area contained within the lot. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
13-5E-9: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS ON SAME LOT:
   A.   There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet (10') between buildings
used for dwelling purposes.
   B.   There shall be a minimum distance of six feet (6') between a building
used for dwelling purposes and an accessory building.
   C.   There shall be a minimum distance of six feet (6') between accessory
buildings. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE F. RR RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-5F-1: Purpose And Intent
13-5F-2: Uses Permitted
13-5F-3: Uses Permitted Subject To Special Use Permit
13-5F-4: Building Height
13-5F-5: Front Yard
13-5F-6: Side Yard
13-5F-7: Rear Yard
13-5F-8: Lot Area And Width Requirements
13-5F-9: Distance Between Buildings On Same Lot
13-5F-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The RR rural residential district is established for areas particularly suited
for low density residential use and to the raising of crops and a limited
number of animals for noncommercial purposes. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5F-2: USES PERMITTED:
In an RR rural residential district, land may be used and buildings and
structures may be erected, maintained and used if they are arranged, intended
or designed for the following uses:
Accessory uses, buildings and structures if they are clearly incidental to a
permitted use and when placed upon the same lot or parcel with a permitted use.
Agricultural and horticultural uses for domestic purposes.
Home occupations.
Keeping of bovine, sheep, goats and horses under ownership of the resident
occupant of the lot; provided, that any combination of such animals on any one
lot shall be limited to one animal for every one-fourth (1/4) acre of lot area,
unless otherwise modified in chapter 6 of this title. The keeping of such
animals shall conform to all other provisions of law governing the same, and no
animal, nor any stable, barn or corral, shall be kept or maintained within
fifty feet (50') of any dwelling or other building used for human habitation or
within one hundred feet (100') of the front line of the lot upon which it is
located. There shall be no killing or dressing of any such animals for
commercial purposes. The keeping of pigs and/or hogs is prohibited except as
provided in subsection 13-6-16A2 of this title.
Manufactured homes subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Any manufactured home must have a manufacture date after 1980, and must
pass a safety inspection by a certified building inspector. A manufactured home
must have a conversion to real property application filed with the county
assessors office prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   B.   Any manufactured home located on a lot shall comply with all United
States of America department of housing and urban development standards in
effect for the year of the manufacture of the mobile home in addition to the
requirements of any other state or county regulation.
   C.   Any manufactured home shall be placed on a permanent foundation
consistent with the Lincoln County building code and the international building
code.
      1.   The manufactured home must:
         a. Be permanently affixed to a residential lot.
         b. Have exterior siding and roofing which is similar in color,
material and appearance to the exterior siding and roofing primarily used on
other single-family residential dwellings in the vicinity of the manufactured
home, as established by the governing body.
         c. Consist of at least nine hundred fifty (950) square feet of living
area.
      2.   If the manufactured home has an elevated foundation, the foundation
is to be masked architecturally by raising the adjacent ground elevation to
within eight inches (8") of the building ground floor elevation as viewed from
the street, or by methods approved by the building department.
   D.   Before a building department issues a permit to place a manufactured
home on a lot pursuant to this section, other than a new manufactured home, the
owner must surrender the certificate of ownership to the manufactured housing
division of the department of business and industry. The division shall provide
proof of surrender to the owner who must submit that proof to the building
department.
   E.   The provisions of this section do not abrogate a recorded restrictive
covenant prohibiting manufactured homes nor do the provisions apply within the
boundaries of a historic district established pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 384.005 or 384.100. An application to place a manufactured home on a
residential lot pursuant to this section constitutes an attestation by the
owner of the lot that the placement complies with all covenants, conditions and
restrictions placed on the lot and that the lot is not located within a
historic district.
   F.   As used in this section:
      1.   "Manufactured home" has the meaning ascribed to it in Nevada Revised
Statutes 489.113.
      2.   "New manufactured home" has the meaning as ascribed to it in Nevada
Revised Statutes 489.125.
One single-family dwelling of a permanent character in a permanent location
with each residence in its own lot or parcel of land including all required
yard areas.
Poultry, rabbits or similar small fowl and animals raised for food or
scientific purposes, provided not more than twenty (20) of any one or
combination of such animals may be maintained on one lot. The keeping of such
fowl or animals shall conform to all other provisions of law governing the
same, and no fowl or animals, nor any pen or coop, shall be kept or maintained
within twenty feet (20') of any window or door of any residence, dwelling or
other building used for human habitation, or within one hundred feet (100') of
the front property line upon which it is located. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5F-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The following additional uses may be permitted subject to securing a special
use permit as provided in chapter 8 of this title:
Bed and breakfast inns.
Child daycare nursery when five (5) or more children will be cared for.
Churches and the facilities which are normally accessory to a religious use.
Riding and boarding stables with a minimum land area of five (5) acres. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5F-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Two and one-half (21/2) stories and not to exceed thirty five feet (35').
Accessory buildings to not exceed seventeen feet (17'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-5F-5: FRONT YARD:
There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty five feet (25'). (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5F-6: SIDE YARD:
There shall be a side yard on each side of a main building of not less than ten
feet (10'), except that on a street side of a corner lot there shall be a side
yard of not less than twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5F-7: REAR YARD:
There shall be a rear yard behind every main building of not less than twenty
five feet (25'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5F-8: LOT AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The following minimum lot sizes and widths shall apply in the following
RR districts:
District Minimum Area Minimum Width
District Minimum Area       Minimum Width
                           
RR1      10,000 square feet 60 feet
RR2      12,000 square feet 60 feet
RR3      15,000 square feet 80 feet
RR4      20,000 square feet 125 feet
RR5      1 acre             100 feet
RR6      21/2 acres         200 feet
RR7      5 acres            250 feet
RR8      10 acres           300 feet
 
   B.   The area of any lot created after the effective date hereof shall not
be less than the minimum area required by the zoning district. (Ord. 2005-10,
1-3-2006)
13-5F-9: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS ON SAME LOT:
   A.   There shall be a minimum distance of six feet (6') between a building
used for dwelling purposes and an accessory building.
   B.   There shall be a minimum distance of six feet (6') between accessory
buildings. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE G. C1 LOCAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-5G-1: Purpose And Intent
13-5G-2: Uses Permitted
13-5G-3: Uses Permitted Subject To Special Use Permit
13-5G-4: Building Height
13-5G-5: Front Yard
13-5G-6: Side Yard
13-5G-7: Rear Yard
13-5G-8: Lot Area And Width Requirements
13-5G-9: Distance Between Buildings On Same Lot
13-5G-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of the C1 local commercial district is to provide areas for limited
retail and service activities in convenient locations. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5G-2: USES PERMITTED:
In the C1 local commercial district, no building or structure shall be erected
which is arranged, intended or designed to be used for other than one or more
of the following uses:
Any use permitted in the RM multiple-family residential district.
Accessory buildings and structures necessary to such uses located on the same
lot or parcel of land.
Automobile parking areas.
Signs, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Any exterior sign displays shall pertain only to a use conducted on the
premises,
   B.   Shall not exceed a height of twenty four feet (24'),
   C.   Shall not have an area in excess of, collectively, two (2) square feet
per each linear foot of street frontage up to a maximum of three hundred (300)
square feet,
   D.   No sign shall project above the roofline;
The following retail and service uses and establishments, provided such stores,
shops or businesses, except automobile service stations, shall be conducted
entirely within an enclosed building:
Antique shop and collectible sales.
Appliance stores.
Art shops and artists supplies.
Automobile service, including gasoline sales but excluding the repairing,
painting or upholstering of motor vehicles.
Bakery, retail only.
Banks, credit unions, savings and loan services, and automatic teller stations.
Barbershop.
Beauty shops or parlors.
Bicycle shops.
Bookkeeping and accountant offices.
Bookstores.
Cafes or cafeterias.
Candy stores.
Churches and the facilities which are normally accessory to a religious use.
Clothing or wearing apparel shops.
Convenience food stores.
Delicatessens.
Dress or military shops.
Drugstores.
Dry cleaning, pressing and laundry agencies.
Dry goods or notions stores.
Electronic equipment sales and service.
Employment agencies.
Florist shops.
Food stores.
Gift shops.
Hardware stores.
Ice cream parlors.
Insurance agencies.
Jewelry stores.
Law offices.
Meat markets.
Medical clinics and medical offices.
Offices, business or professional.
Photographer or photographic supplies, studios.
Private postal mailing and shipping services.
Radio and television sales and repair.
Real estate offices.
Restaurants, including take-out food and drive-in establishments.
Self-service laundries.
Shoe stores or shoe repair shops.
Sporting goods stores.
Stationery stores.
Tailoring.
Tobacco stores.
Tourist guest facilities providing bed and breakfast accommodations.
Toy stores.
Travel agencies.
Video game parlors.
Video sales and rentals.
Other uses similar to the above which are determined by the planning commission
to be consistent and compatible with the uses permitted within the district.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5G-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The following additional uses may be permitted subject to securing a special
use permit as provided for in chapter 8 of this title:
Mobile home parks when developed in accordance with chapter 13 of this title,
and Nevada Revised Statutes 461A.
Residential use in conjunction with an on site business, if occupied by an
owner, or an employee acting as the manager or caretaker of the business. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5G-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Four (4) stories and not to exceed forty five feet (45'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-5G-5: FRONT YARD:
There shall be no front yard required; except, all buildings used exclusively
for dwelling purposes shall have a front yard of fifteen feet (15') measured
from the front property line, or from the rear of a commercial building
situated on the front of the property. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5G-6: SIDE YARD:
   A.   There shall be no side yard required; except, wherever a building is
located upon a lot adjacent to a residential zone boundary, there shall be
provided a side yard of not less than ten feet (10') on the side of the
building adjacent to the zone boundary line.
   B.   All buildings used exclusively for dwelling purposes shall have a side
yard of five feet (5'); except, that on a street side corner lot, there shall
be a side yard of not less than ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5G-7: REAR YARD:
There shall be, behind every building, a rear yard having a minimum depth of
ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5G-8: LOT AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
None, except, all buildings used exclusively for residential purposes shall be
located on a lot or parcel having the same lot area, width and density
requirements as provided for in the RM multiple-family residential district.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5G-9: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS ON SAME LOT:
None, except all buildings used exclusively for dwelling purposes shall comply
with the provisions of the RM multiple-family residential district. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE H. C2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-5H-1: Purpose And Intent
13-5H-2: Uses Permitted
13-5H-3: Uses Permitted Subject To Special Use Permit
13-5H-4: Building Height
13-5H-5: Front Yard
13-5H-6: Side Yard
13-5H-7: Rear Yard
13-5H-8: Lot Area And Width Requirements
13-5H-9: Distance Between Buildings On Same Lot
13-5H-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of the C2 general commercial district is to provide areas where
commercial activities may be established and maintained. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-5H-2: USES PERMITTED:
In the C2 general commercial district, no building or structure shall be
erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used for other than one
or more of the following uses:
Any use permitted in the C1 local commercial district.
Any of the following retail or wholesale stores or businesses not involving any
kind of manufacture, processing or treatment of products other than that which
is clearly incidental to the retail business conducted on the premises:
Animal hospitals.
Automobile service stations, including repair garages.
Bakeries, employing not more than ten (10) persons on premises.
Bars, taverns.
Blueprinting shops.
Bowling alleys.
Building materials, but not including ready mix concrete or hot mix asphalt
plants.
Car rentals.
Car washes, self-service.
Carpet sales.
Churches and the facilities which are normally accessory to a religious use.
Cleaning and pressing establishments using nonflammable and nonexplosive
cleaning fluids.
Department stores.
Electrical repair services.
Equipment sales and/or rental services.
Farm machinery sales and services.
Feed stores.
Furniture stores.
Furniture warehouses for storing personal household goods.
Garages, public.
Gunsmiths.
Gymnasiums.
Hardware stores.
Health clubs.
Heating and plumbing supplies and services.
Hospitals.
Hotels.
Interior decorating shops.
Liquor stores.
Lumberyards.
Massage parlors.
Medical and dental labs.
Miniwarehouses and storage facilities.
Mobile home dealers.
Monument sales.
Mortuaries and funeral parlors.
Motels, auto courts and tourist courts.
Motor vehicle sales.
Music stores.
Nurseries, flower and plant.
Paint sales.
Pawnbrokers.
Pest extermination and control services.
Pet stores.
Plumbing and sheet metal shops.
Printing shops.
Public parking areas.
Recreational vehicle sales and service.
Refrigerated lockers.
Resorts, spas and recreational facilities.
Restaurants.
Secondhand stores.
Sign painting shops.
Skating rinks.
Taxidermists.
Telephone exchanges.
Theaters (except drive-in theaters).
Trade schools.
Trailer rental.
Upholstery shops.
Used car sales.
Veterinarians.
Wedding chapels.
Automobile parking areas.
Signs, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Any exterior sign displayed shall pertain only to a use conducted on
the premises,
   B.   Shall not exceed a height of thirty five feet (35'),
   C.   Shall not have an area in excess of, collectively, three (3) square
feet per each linear foot of street frontage;
The accessory buildings and structures necessary to such permitted uses located
on the same lot or parcel of land.
Other uses similar to the above which are determined by planning commission to
be consistent with the uses permitted within the district. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-5H-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The following additional uses may be permitted subject to securing a special
use permit in each case as provided for in chapter 8 of this title:
Billboards, subject to the following provisions:
   A.   No billboard shall have a surface area greater than six hundred seventy
two (672) square feet;
   B.   No billboard shall be higher than thirty five feet (35').
Car washes.
Drive-in theaters.
Gambling casinos and establishments.
Mobile home parks, when developed in accordance with chapter 13 of this title.
Recreational vehicle parks.
Residential use, if occupied by an owner or employee acting as the manager or
caretaker of the business. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5H-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The height of a building or structure shall not exceed four (4) stories nor
shall the overall height exceed fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5H-5: FRONT YARD:
There shall be no front yard required, except all buildings used exclusively
for dwelling purposes shall have a front yard of fifteen feet (15') measured
from the front property line, or the rear of a commercial building, situated on
the same property. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5H-6: SIDE YARD:
   A.   There shall be no side yard required, except wherever a building is
located upon a lot adjacent to a residential zone boundary, there shall be
provided a side yard of not less than ten feet (10') on the side of the
building adjacent to the zone boundary line.
   B.   All buildings used exclusively for dwelling purposes shall have a side
yard of five feet (5'), except that on a street side of a corner lot there
shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5H-7: REAR YARD:
There shall be, behind every building, a rear yard having a minimum depth of
ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5H-8: LOT AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
None, except, all buildings used exclusively for residential purposes shall be
located on a lot or parcel having the same lot area, width and density
requirements as provided for in the RM multiple-family residential district.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5H-9: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS ON SAME LOT:
None, except all buildings used exclusively for dwelling purposes shall comply
with the provisions of the RM multiple-family residential district. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE I. M1 LIGHT MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-5I-1: Purpose And Intent
13-5I-2: Uses Permitted
13-5I-3: Uses Permitted Subject To Special Use Permit
13-5I-4: Building Height
13-5I-5: Front Yard
13-5I-6: Side Yard
13-5I-7: Rear Yard
13-5I-8: Lot Area And Width Requirements
13-5I-9: Distance Between Buildings On Same Lot
13-5I-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The M1 light manufacturing district is intended to provide areas for the
development and operation of industrial uses which do not cremate or cause
fumes, odor, dust, smoke, gas, noise or vibrations which are or may be
detrimental to other properties in the neighborhood. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5I-2: USES PERMITTED:
In the M1 light manufacturing district, no building or structure shall be
erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used for other than one
or more of the following uses:
Any use permitted in the C2 general commercial district, except multiple-family
dwellings.
Any of the following industrial, manufacturing, wholesale and storage uses:
Agricultural industries.
Assembly of machines (other than aircraft and motor vehicles), toys, novelties
or appliances from previously prepared parts.
Automobile and truck parking and storage.
Automobile, truck, airplane, motorcycle, bicycle or farm machinery repair or
sale; body and fender works; dismantling and used parts storage, when operated
or maintained wholly within a building.
Bakeries.
Billboards.
Blacksmith shops.
Boat building, storage, sales or repair.
Bottling plants.
Breweries.
Building material sales and storage yards, including ready mix concrete and hot
mix asphalt plants.
Cabinet shops or furniture manufacture.
Car washes.
Carpet, awning, blinds, mattress or upholstery shops, including cleaning and
repair.
Cleaning and dyeing plants.
Contractors' plants or storage yards.
Creameries.
Distribution plants.
Draying, freighting or trucking yards or terminals.
Garment manufacture.
Heating and air conditioning sales, supply and repair.
Ice and cold storage plants.
Kennels.
Laboratories, experimental and research.
Laundries.
Lumberyards.
Machine shops.
Manufacturing, compounding, assembly or treatment of merchandise from the
following materials: bond, cellophane, canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt,
fiber, glass, hair, horn, leather, paper, plastics, precious or semiprecious
stones, shell, straw, textiles, tobacco, wood, wool yarn and paint.
Oil and water well surveying and servicing business.
Paint mixing plants.
Petroleum products storage.
Planing mills.
Propane sales and storage.
Public scales.
Public utility service yards, electric transmission substations and gas
transmission and compressor stations.
Rubber fabrication.
Sheet metal shops.
Sign painting and manufacture.
Signs.
Tire rebuilding, recapping and retreading plants.
Truck repairing and overhauling shops.
Truck sales, new and used.
Union halls.
Upholstery shops.
Warehouses and warehouse complexes.
Welding shops.
The accessory buildings and structures necessary to such permitted uses located
on the same lot or parcel of land.
Other uses similar to the above which are determined by the planning commission
to be consistent and compatible with the other uses permitted within the
district. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5I-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The following additional uses may be permitted subject to securing a special
use permit in each case as provided for in chapter 8 of this title:
Animal sales yards.
Drive-in theaters.
Gambling casinos and establishments.
Junk, salvage or auto wrecking yards.
Recreational vehicle parks.
Residential use, if occupied by an owner or employee acting as the manager or
caretaker of the business.
Temporary asphalt, concrete plants and cement batch plants for construction
projects. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5I-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Six (6) stories and not to exceed seventy five feet (75'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-5I-5: FRONT YARD:
There shall be no front yard required, except all buildings used exclusively
for dwelling purposes shall have a front yard of fifteen feet (15') measured
from the front property line. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5I-6: SIDE YARD:
   A.   There shall be no side yard required, except wherever a building is
located upon a lot adjacent to a residential zone boundary, there shall be
provided a side yard of not less than twenty five feet (25') on the side of the
building adjacent to the zone boundary line.
   B.   All buildings used exclusively for dwelling purposes shall have a side
yard of five feet (5'), except that on a street side of a corner lot there
shall be a side yard of not less than ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5I-7: REAR YARD:
There shall be, behind every building, a rear yard having a minimum depth of
ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5I-8: LOT AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
None, except all buildings used exclusively for residential purposes shall be
located on a lot or a parcel having the same lot area, width and density
requirements as provided for in the R1 single-family residential district.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5I-9: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS ON SAME LOT:
None, except all buildings used exclusively for dwelling purposes shall comply
with the provisions of the R1 single-family residential district. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE J. M2 HEAVY MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-5J-1: Purpose And Intent
13-5J-2: Uses Permitted
13-5J-3: Uses Permitted Subject To Special Use Permit
13-5J-4: Building Height
13-5J-5: Front Yard
13-5J-6: Side Yard
13-5J-7: Rear Yard
13-5J-8: Lot Area And Width Requirements
13-5J-9: Distance Between Buildings On Same Lot
13-5J-10: Uses Prohibited
13-5J-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The M2 heavy manufacturing district is intended to provide areas for the
development and operation of industrial and manufacturing uses. (Ord. 2005-10,
1-3-2006)
13-5J-2: USES PERMITTED:
In the M2 heavy manufacturing district, no building or structure shall be
erected which is arranged, intended or designed to be used for other than one
or more of the following uses:
Any use permitted in the M1 light manufacturing district, except residential
uses.
Any of the following industrial, manufacturing, wholesale and storage uses:
Alcohol and alcoholic beverages manufacture.
Blast furnaces.
Boiler or tank works.
Brick, tile or terra cotta products manufacture.
Building materials manufacture.
Cement and lime manufacturing.
Creosote treatment or manufacture.
Feed mills.
Mining and mill operations.
Ore reduction.
Paints, oil, shellac, turpentine or varnish manufacture.
Paper manufacture.
Petroleum products manufacture.
Petroleum refining and reclaiming plants.
Plastic manufacture.
Quarry or stone mills.
Rock, sand and gravel excavating, crushing and distribution.
Rubber manufacture.
Sawmills.
Soap manufacture.
The accessory buildings and structures necessary to such permitted uses located
on the same lot or parcel of land.
Other uses similar to the above which are determined by the planning commission
to be consistent and compatible with the other uses permitted within the
district. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5J-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The following additional uses may be permitted subject to securing a special
use permit in each case as provided for in chapter 8 of this title:
Acid manufacture.
Ammunition manufacture.
Chemical manufacture.
Commercial stockyards and animal slaughter.
Curing, tanning and storage of rawhides or skins.
Dumps and refuse disposal areas.
Explosives manufacture or storage.
Fat rendering.
Fertilizer manufacture.
Incinerators.
Junk, salvage or auto wrecking yard.
Recycling facilities and operations involving use, recovery or residue of
hazardous materials and/or wastes.
Residential use, if occupied by an owner or employee acting as the manager or
caretaker of the business.
Rocket fuel manufacture, testing and/or storage.
Sewer farms or sewage disposal plants. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5J-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Six (6) stories and not to exceed seventy five feet (75'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-5J-5: FRONT YARD:
There shall be no front yard required. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5J-6: SIDE YARD:
There shall be no side yard required, except wherever a building is located
upon a lot adjacent to a residential zone boundary, there shall be provided a
side yard of not less than fifty feet (50') on the side of the building
adjacent to the zone boundary line. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5J-7: REAR YARD:
There shall be, behind every building, a rear yard having a minimum depth of
twenty five feet (25'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5J-8: LOT AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
None. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5J-9: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS ON SAME LOT:
In accordance with the international building code. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5J-10: USES PROHIBITED:
There shall be no residential uses allowed in this district, except for one
residence to be used for watchman quarters or by the owner or manager of the
premises or operator of the facility located on the premises. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-
3-2006)
ARTICLE K. SID SPECIAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-5K-1: Purpose And Intent
13-5K-2: Uses Permitted
13-5K-3: Required Criteria For Permitted Uses
13-5K-4: Separation Of Incompatible Uses; Special Limitations
13-5K-5: Permitted Use; Building Requirements
13-5K-6: Lot Area And Width Requirements
13-5K-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The SID special industrial district is intended to provide areas for special
industrial and manufacturing uses characterized by activities which require
distance separations from other less intensive uses. Such uses are necessary
and appropriate for the planned development of the county and shall be
protected from encroachment through proper land use controls and buffering.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5K-2: USES PERMITTED:
In the SID special industrial district the following uses shall be permitted,
provided the applicant for the use demonstrates compliance with the criteria
set forth in section
13-5K-3 of this article:
   A.   Acid manufacture and storage.
   B.   Ammunition manufacture, testing and storage.
   C.   Chemical manufacture, testing and storage.
   D.   Hazardous materials, treatment, storage and disposal sites including
refuse disposal sites.
   E.   Explosives manufacture, storage and testing.
   F.   Incinerators, including hazardous materials incinerators.
   G.   Hazardous waste management facilities involving use, recovery,
recycling, storage, treatment and management of hazardous materials.
   H.   Rocket fuel manufacture, testing and/or storage.
   I.   Rocket propulsion system manufacture, testing and/or storage.
   J.   Remanufacture of propulsion systems for military, commercial and space
exploration applications.
   K.   Weaponry testing facilities.
   L.   Environmental testing facilities, such as simulation of temperature,
vibration, fire, explosion and high altitude, etc.
   M.   Employee service facilities, operated in connection with, and on the
same property as, a use listed in preceding subsections A through L of this
section. Such facilities shall be for the exclusive use of employees and shall
not be open to the public.
   N.   Refinery.
   O.   Quarries, gravel pit, cement and concrete manufacturing.
   P.   Office, security, research and development operated in connection with,
and on the same property as, a use listed in subsections A through O of this
section.
   Q.   Residential use if occupied by an owner or employee acting as the
manager or caretaker of the business. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5K-3: REQUIRED CRITERIA FOR PERMITTED USES:
Any use listed in section
13-5K-2 of this article which is demonstrated by the applicant to meet the
following criteria shall be a permitted use in the SID district. Any use listed
in section
13-5K-2 of this article which does not meet all of the following criteria may
be permitted by special use permit pursuant to the procedures in chapter 8 of
this title.
   A.   No use or building except structures used for office or employee
service facilities, shall be closer than five hundred feet (500') from the
boundary of the site unless the applicant demonstrates that a distance of not
less than two hundred fifty feet (250') from the boundary of the site is
adequate to protect surrounding uses.
   B.   In lieu of subsection A of this section, the boundaries of the site may
be surrounded by a buffer area of the same distance. The buffer area shall not
contain any uses or buildings, except that a use or building permitted in the
SID district may be allowed provided such use or building is not less than five
hundred feet (500') from the boundaries of the property making the application.
The buffer area may consist of property restricted by fee ownership, lease,
easement, license or other manner which the applicant demonstrates will assure
the existence of the buffer area for as long as the permitted use remains on
the property. The buffer area may be provided by open space areas, wilderness
land, or land restricted in use by a governmental agency or private entity, if
the applicant demonstrates that the buffer area requirements will be met and
retained for the life of the permitted use.
   C.   The boundaries of the property shall not be any closer than one mile to
property which has a zone which permits a residential use.
   D.   The boundaries of the property shall not be any closer than two (2)
miles to the boundaries of any city or town.
   E.   Posting, marking and fencing of the property shall be in accordance
with requirements or agencies having regulatory jurisdiction of the activity.
   F.   Weaponry, ordnance or explosive testing shall not include the flight of
any missile, aircraft or projectile outside the boundary of the area zoned SID.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5K-4: SEPARATION OF INCOMPATIBLE USES; SPECIAL LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The purpose of these special limitations is to provide long term
assurance against the encroachment of incompatible uses into areas adjacent to
lands zoned for SID special industrial district. Such limitations are intended
to preserve the continued usability of those areas zoned SID special industrial
district and to protect other uses from the impacts and hazards which could
result if such uses were established near areas zoned SID special industrial
district.
   B.   All property within a one mile distance of any area zoned SID special
industrial district shall be zoned and maintained in one or more of the
following zone districts:
      1.   The OS open space district;
      2.   The M2 heavy manufacturing district.
   C.   The uses allowed within the M2 heavy manufacturing district shall be
further restricted to only those uses which are permitted under sections
13-5J-2 and
13-5J-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5K-5: PERMITTED USE; BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
Building sighting and construction shall conform to federal, state and local
health, fire and safety codes applicable to the permitted use. (Ord. 2005-10,
1-3-2006)
13-5K-6: LOT AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
Each property shall meet the required criteria of article J of this chapter.
The minimum lot width shall be one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320').
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE L. A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-5L-1: Purpose And Intent
13-5L-2: Uses Permitted
13-5L-3: Uses Permitted Subject To Special Use Permit
13-5L-4: Building Height
13-5L-5: Front Yard
13-5L-6: Side Yard
13-5L-7: Rear Yard
13-5L-8: Lot Area And Width Requirements
13-5L-9: Distance Between Buildings On Same Lot
13-5L-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The A agricultural district is established for areas particularly suited for
the raising of crops and animals and other related agricultural activities.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5L-2: USES PERMITTED:
In the A agricultural district, no building or structure shall be erected which
is arranged, intended or designed to be used for other than one or more of the
following uses:
Accessory agricultural buildings, structures and uses, including farm
buildings, garages and implement shelters.
All agricultural uses, including the keeping of cattle, horses, sheep, hogs or
other farm stock, including supplementary feeding thereof, but not including
hog ranches, commercial cattle or livestock feed yards, animal sales yards or
dairies.
Animal hospitals and veterinaries.
Churches and the facilities which are normally accessory to a religious use.
Community centers and grange halls.
Equestrian establishments, including stables or riding academies.
Farm machinery equipment sales and services.
Harvesting, curing, processing, packaging and storage incidental thereto and
shipping of agricultural products produced upon the premises.
Home occupations.
One single-family dwelling or manufactured home. A manufactured home must meet
the requirements of a manufactured home as indicated in section
13-5D-2 of this title, including, but not limited to, conversion to real
property.
Signs, not to exceed two (2) signs with a maximum area of twelve (12) square
feet each, used only to advertise the products produced or sold on the premises
or identifying the premises or occupants.
Storage of petroleum products for use on the premises, but not for resale.
Accessory building, structures and uses, customary and incidental to the above
uses. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5L-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The following additional uses may be permitted subject to securing a special
use permit in each case as provided for in chapter 8 of this title:
Additional dwellings and manufactured homes to be used in conjunction with an
agricultural operation on the premises.
Agricultural industries and processing plants.
Animal sales yards.
Animal slaughterhouses.
Bed and breakfast inns.
Dairies.
Dumps and refuse disposal areas.
Forest industries and the production of forest products.
Golf courses.
Guest facilities in conjunction with a ranching operation.
Hog ranches.
Livestock feed yards.
Mining and milling operations.
Public utility or public service buildings, structures and uses.
Recreational camps and resorts.
Recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds.
Temporary asphalt concrete plants and cement batch plants for construction
projects. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5L-4: BUILDING HEIGHT:
Two and one-half (21/2) stories and not to exceed thirty five feet (35'). (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5L-5: FRONT YARD:
There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty five feet (25') measured
from the front property line. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5L-6: SIDE YARD:
There shall be a side yard on each side of a main building not less than twenty
feet (20'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5L-7: REAR YARD:
There shall be a rear yard behind every main building of not less than thirty
feet (30'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5L-8: LOT AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum lot and parcel sizes and widths shall apply in the
following agricultural districts:
 
District Minimum Lot Area Minimum Width
A-1      21/2 acres       200 feet
A-2      5 acres          250 feet
A-3      10 acres         300 feet
A-4      20 acres         600 feet
A-5      40 acres         600 feet
 
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5L-9: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS ON SAME LOT:
In accordance with the international building code. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE M. OS OPEN SPACE DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-5M-1: Purpose And Intent
13-5M-2: Establishment
13-5M-3: Uses Permitted
13-5M-4: Uses Permitted Subject To Special Use Permit
13-5M-5: Area Requirement
13-5M-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The OS open space district is established to create a land use zone
classification that may be applied to public, semipublic and private lands as
necessary; wherein use of such land will be restricted for the following
purposes:
   A.   To prohibit construction, enlargement or encroachment of any existing
or proposed structure, mobile home, improvements or developments of any kind in
areas which have been identified as being susceptible to the effects of natural
hazards, such as flooding or flash floods in areas not included on maps in the
flood insurance study for the county, steep slopes and landslides;
   B.   For the long range preservation of designated areas in open space for
the health, safety and welfare of the public;
   C.   To establish reasonable regulations and standards to assure maximum
retention of desirable natural amenities;
   D.   For the long range preservation of appropriate natural open space
areas;
   E.   When used in conjunction with the special industrial district (SID
district), as specified in section
13-5K-3 of this chapter to prevent the establishment or encroachment of uses or
activities in specified areas which could be affected by hazardous uses or
activities that may occur on other lands in the general vicinity. When used to
accomplish the purposes specified in the OS open space district may not be used
for any active or passive recreation use or activity and the provisions of
section
13-5M-3 of this article do not apply. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5M-2: ESTABLISHMENT:
The OS open space district may be applied to various public, semipublic and
private lands deemed necessary to accomplish the purposes stated in section
13-5M-1 of this article, except that, the open space district may not be
applied to any privately owned lands when used to accomplish the purposes
specified in subsection 13-5M-1E of this article, unless the written permission
of the owner(s) of the private property is first obtained and filed with the
planning commission. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5M-3: USES PERMITTED:
Only the following uses shall be permitted in the OS open space district:
Open field animal grazing limited to horses, cattle, sheep and goats, providing
such grazing is not part of or conducted in conjunction with any dairy,
livestock feed yard or livestock sales yard; and provided further, that no soil
tillage or land clearing is involved in connection with such uses. Range
improvements used in conjunction with livestock grazing use such as fences,
watering troughs, wells and guzzlers may be installed.
The construction, installation, operation and maintenance of public utility
distribution and transmission lines, towers and poles, and underground lines or
pipes for providing gas, water, electricity or telephone and telegraph services
by public utility companies. It is not the intent of this section to allow the
construction, installation and maintenance of any type of energy generating
facility, electric, gas or water distribution centers, service yards or
equipment storage yards. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5M-4: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
The following additional uses may be permitted subject to securing a special
use permit in each case as provided for in chapter 8 of this title:
Apiaries not requiring structures or improvements of any type, except hives.
Improved roads, streets and/or trails for motor driven vehicles.
Water collection, storage and distribution uses, including reservoirs, dams,
gauging stations, pumping stations, settling basins and ground water recharge
areas.
Wildlife refuge and game preserves. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5M-5: AREA REQUIREMENT:
The OS open space district may be applied to any parcel or portion thereof,
however, no lot or parcel of land under one ownership at the effective date
hereof, or which may come under one ownership within the OS open space district
any time after the effective date hereof, shall be divided or separated in any
manner, except in the case of a conveyance or dedication of land to a
governmental agency, public entity, or public utility for public purposes or
public utility purposes. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE N. MANUFACTURED HOME DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-5N-1: Purpose And Intent
13-5N-2: Application
13-5N-3: Permitted Uses When Combined With Another Zone
13-5N-4: Requirements When Not Used With Another Zone
13-5N-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The manufactured home district is established to provide areas where
manufactured homes may be utilized for residential purposes in the place of a
conventional dwelling on an individual lot outside of a mobile home park. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5N-2: APPLICATION:
Land classified in a manufactured home district may be combined with another
zone or may be zoned exclusively as a manufactured home district. The
manufactured home district may be combined with the following districts:
   A.   R1 single-family residential;
   B.   RR rural residential;
   C.   C1 limited commercial;
   D.   C2 general commercial. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5N-3: PERMITTED USES WHEN COMBINED WITH ANOTHER ZONE:
Whenever the manufactured home district is combined with another district, the
regulations, requirements and uses of the combined district will be applied,
provided that one manufactured home may be established and utilized as a
single-family dwelling in lieu of a permitted conventional single-family
dwelling unit. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5N-4: REQUIREMENTS WHEN NOT USED WITH ANOTHER ZONE:
When the manufactured home district is established without a combining zone the
following regulations, requirements and uses will be applied:
   A.   Uses Permitted:
A one-family independent manufactured home unit.
Accessory uses, buildings and structures if they are clearly incidental to a
permitted use and when placed upon the same lot or parcel with a permitted use.
Agricultural and horticultural uses for domestic purposes.
Home occupations.
Poultry, rabbits or similar small fowl and animals raised for food or
scientific purposes, provided not more than twelve (12) of any one or
combination of such animals may be maintained on one lot. The keeping of such
fowl or animals shall conform to all other provisions of law governing the
same; and no fowl or animals, nor any pen or coop shall be kept or maintained
within twenty feet (20') of any window or door of any residence, dwelling or
other building used for human habitation, or within sixty feet (60') of the
front property line upon which it is located.
   B.   Uses Permitted Subject To A Special Use Permit: The following
additional uses may be permitted subject to securing a special use permit as
provided for in chapter 8 of this title:
Child daycare nursery when five (5) or more children will be cared for.
   C.   Building Height: One story and not to exceed fifteen feet (15').
   D.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty five
feet (25'), unless modified by section
13-6-16 of this title.
   E.   Side Yard: There shall be a side yard for a manufactured home on
individual lots of five feet (5') on one side, ten feet (10') on the other
side, except that on a street side of a corner lot there shall be a side yard
of not less than ten feet (10'), unless modified by section
13-6-16 of this title.
   F.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard behind a manufactured home of not
less than ten feet (10').
   G.   Lot Area And Width Requirements:
      1.   The minimum lot size shall be six thousand (6,000) square feet. Each
lot shall have a minimum width of fifty feet (50').
      2.   The area of any lot created after the effective date hereof shall
not be less than the minimum area required by the zoning district. When an
existing lot has less area than required by this subsection and was recorded
prior to the date of adoption hereof, the lot may be occupied by not more than
one manufactured home.
   H.   Distance Between Buildings On The Same Lot:
      1.   There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet (10') between a
manufactured home and an accessory building.
      2.   There shall be minimum distance of six feet (6') between accessory
buildings. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE O. HD HISTORIC DESIGN DISTRICT
SECTION:
13-5O-1: Purpose And Intent
13-5O-2: Application
13-5O-3: Design Standards
13-5O-4: Procedure
13-5O-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The HD historic design district is established to allow the regulation of the
architectural design for new structures and the alteration of existing
structures in areas having historical significance and character. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
13-5O-2: APPLICATION:
Land classified in an HD historic design district shall also be classified in
another district and the regulations set forth in this article shall also apply
to the district to which the HD district is combined. The HD district shall,
however, not be combined with the following districts: R1 single-family
residential, RR rural residential, MHP mobile home park, T mobile home, A
agricultural, M1 light manufacturing and M2 heavy manufacturing. (Ord. 2005-10,
1-3-2006)
13-5O-3: DESIGN STANDARDS:
In order that buildings, structures, signs and landscaping will be in harmony
with other structures and improvements in the area, the following items may be
considered in approving plans of proposed improvements in the historic design
district:
   A.   The height, bulk and area of buildings;
   B.   The setback distances from all property lines;
   C.   The colors and material on the exterior;
   D.   The type and pitch of roof;
   E.   The size and spacing of windows, doors and other openings;
   F.   The size and type and location of signs;
   G.   Towers, chimneys, roof structures, flagpoles, radio and television
masts;
   H.   Landscaping;
   I.   Automobile parking area;
   J.   Relationship to existing buildings and structures in the general
vicinity and area;
   K.   Lighting of buildings, signs and grounds. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-5O-4: PROCEDURE:
   A.   Plans of the exterior architectural design and appearance of all
buildings and structures, plot plans, advertising sign plans, parking area
plans and building setback plans shall be subject to approval in order that the
proposed buildings, structures, signs and landscaping will be in harmony with
other structures and improvements in the area. Plans shall be submitted to the
planning commission for their review.
   B.   In the event it is determined that such proposed structures and/or
appurtenant facilities are inharmonious or unsightly in appearance, the
planning commission shall notify the applicant of the reasons for denial and
the changes that may be necessary for the proposal to be approved. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 6
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
13-6-1: Intent
13-6-2: Classification Of Uses As Permitted, Nonconforming Or Prohibited
13-6-3: Uses Permitted Subject To A Special Use Permit
13-6-4: Nonconforming Buildings And Uses; Regulations
13-6-5: Nonconformance Regulations, Applicability
13-6-6: Reconstruction Of Damaged Nonconforming Building
13-6-7: Modernization Of Public Utility Facilities
13-6-8: Location Of Dwelling
13-6-9: Height Restrictions; Exceptions
13-6-10: Location Of Accessory Buildings
13-6-11: Through Lots
13-6-12: Yard Encroachments
13-6-13: Fences, Walls And Hedges
13-6-14: Public Utility Uses
13-6-15: Minimum Lot Area
13-6-16: Additional Provisions; Alamo, Pioche, Panaca
13-6-17: Medical Marijuana Establishments
13-6-18: Recreational Marijuana Establishments
13-6-1: INTENT:
   A.   The regulations set forth in this chapter modify or further restrict,
where applicable, the district regulations of this title.
   B.   If any ambiguity exists with reference to the classifications of uses
or property development standards, it shall be the duty of the Planning
Commission to ascertain all pertinent facts concerning the use or standard and,
set forth its findings and reasons therefor, and such findings and resolutions
shall prevail. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-2: CLASSIFICATION OF USES AS PERMITTED, NONCONFORMING OR PROHIBITED:
   A.   Uses Listed As Permitted: Buildings, structures and land shall be used,
erected, maintained, altered or enlarged only for purposes listed as permitted
in the district in which such building or land is located and then only after
applying for and securing all permits and licenses required by law and
ordinance.
   B.   Nonconforming: Any use already established within an area prior to the
present district regulations which is not a permitted use within such district
or is a permitted use only with a special use permit shall be allowed to
continue as a nonconforming use subject to all conditions and restrictions
relating to nonconforming uses as provided in section
13-6-4 of this chapter.
   C.   Uses Not Listed As Permitted; Prohibited: When a use is not
specifically listed as permitted, it shall be assumed that such uses are
expressly prohibited unless a determination is made by the Planning Commission
that the use is consistent with and compatible to those other uses permitted
within the district. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-3: USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO A SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
Such uses are to be considered as special exceptions within a district where
such use cannot be permitted as a right. Further, granting of a special use
permit should only occur when such permit is demonstrated by the applicant to
be in the best interest of the general public and would not be incompatible
with or detrimental to the surrounding area. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-4: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES; REGULATIONS:
The following regulations shall apply to all nonconforming buildings and
structures or parts thereof and uses existing at the effective date hereof:
   A.   Any such nonconforming building or structure may be continued and
maintained provided there is not physical change other than necessary
maintenance and repair in such building or structure;
   B.   Any such nonconforming use may be maintained and continued provided
there is not increase or enlargement of the area, space or volume occupied or
devoted to such nonconforming use;
   C.   Any part of a building, structure or land occupied by such a
nonconforming use which is changed to or replaced by a use conforming to the
provisions of this chapter shall not thereafter be used or occupied by a
nonconforming use;
   D.   Any part of a building, structure or land occupied by such a
nonconforming use, which use is abandoned, shall not again be used or occupied
for a nonconforming use. Any part of a building, structure or land occupied by
such a nonconforming use, which use shall have ceased for a period of one year
or more, shall not again be used or occupied for a nonconforming use;
   E.   If no structural alterations are made, a nonconforming use of a
building may be changed to another nonconforming use of a more restrictive
classification.
   F.   All buildings and uses which were illegally existing at the time of
adoption of ordinance 1990-5 shall still be considered as illegal buildings and
structures and shall not be considered or treated as a nonconforming building
or use. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-5: NONCONFORMANCE REGULATIONS, APPLICABILITY:
   A.   The provisions of section
13-6-4 of this chapter shall also apply to buildings, structures, land or uses
which hereafter become nonconforming due to any reclassification of zones under
this title or any subsequent change in regulations of this title; provided,
however, that whenever a period of time is specified in section
13-6-4 of this chapter for the removal of nonconforming buildings, structures
or uses, such period shall be computed from the date of such reclassification
or change.
   B.   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to uses which become
nonconforming by reason of amendments to this chapter, as of the effective date
of such amendment. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-6: RECONSTRUCTION OF DAMAGED NONCONFORMING BUILDING:
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the reconstruction, repairing and
rebuilding and continued use of any nonconforming building or structure
partially damaged by fire, collapse, explosion or acts of God, subsequent to
the effective date hereof, wherein the expense of such reconstruction does not
exceed one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the assessed value of the building
or structure at the time such damage occurred. All such reconstruction shall be
performed under one building permit, started within a period of one year from
the date of damage and diligently prosecuted to completion. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-6-7: MODERNIZATION OF PUBLIC UTILITY FACILITIES:
Nothing in this chapter or otherwise in this title shall be construed or
applied so as to prevent the expansion, modernization, replacement,
reconstruction, repair, or rebuilding and continued use of public utility
buildings, structures, equipment and facilities where there is no change of use
or increase in area of land so used. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-8: LOCATION OF DWELLING:
Except where otherwise provided for in this title, every dwelling shall face or
have frontage upon a street or permanent means of access to a street, by way of
a public or private easement or passageway other than an alley. (Ord. 2005-10,
1-3-2006)
13-6-9: HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   No penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators,
stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment, towers, roof signs or
other structures shall exceed the height limit provided in this title.
   B.   Radio and television masts, flagpoles, chimneys and smokestacks may
extend not more than forty five feet (45') above the height limit provided in
this title, provided, that the same may be safely erected and maintained at
such height in view of the surrounding conditions and circumstances. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-10: LOCATION OF ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
The following regulations shall apply to the location of accessory buildings
unless otherwise provided in this title:
   A.   No detached accessory buildings in the R1, RM or RR districts may
exceed two (2) stories or thirty five feet (35') in height.
   B.   No detached accessory buildings in the R1, RM, RR or T districts shall
be located at a distance less than seventy percent (70%) of the depth of the
lot from the front property line, or sixty feet (60'), whichever is less.
   C.   On a corner lot no detached accessory buildings in the R1, RM, RR, T or
MHP districts shall be located at a distance less than ten feet (10') from the
side street line.
   D.   No accessory buildings in the R1, RM, RR, T or MHP districts, if two
(2) stories in height, shall be located nearer than five feet (5') to any
interior property line. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-11: THROUGH LOTS:
On through lots, either line separating such lot from a public thoroughfare may
be designated by the owner as the front lot line. In such cases, the minimum
rear yard shall be the average of the yards on lots next adjoining. If such
lots next adjoining are undeveloped, the minimum rear yard shall conform to the
front yard setback for the district in which the property is located. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-12: YARD ENCROACHMENTS:
Where yards are required in this title, they shall be not less in depth or
width than the minimum dimension specified for any part, and they shall be at
every point open and unobstructed from the ground upward, except as follows:
   A.   Cornices, canopies, eaves, or other similar architectural features not
providing additional floor space within the building may extend into a required
front, side or rear yard not to exceed three feet (3');
   B.   Open, unenclosed, uncovered porches, platforms or landing places which
do not extend above the level of the first floor of the building, may extend
into any front, side, or rear yard not more than six feet (6'), provided,
however, that an open work railing, not more than thirty inches (30") in
height, may be installed or constructed on any such porch, platform or landing
place;
   C.   Detached accessory buildings may occupy side and rear yards, except as
provided in section
13-6-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-13: FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES:
   A.   In the R1, RM, RR, MPH or T districts, no fence, wall or hedge located
in the rear or side yards shall exceed a height of six feet (6').
   B.   In the R1, RM, RR, MPH, or T districts no fence, wall or hedge located
in the required front yard shall exceed a height of four feet (4'). (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-14: PUBLIC UTILITY USES:
The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to apply to the
construction, installation, operation and maintenance of public utility
distribution and transmission lines, towers, and poles and underground
facilities for providing gas, water, electricity or telephone and telegraph
services by public utility companies under the jurisdiction of the public
services commission of the state, provided, however, before any right of way
for transmission lines is acquired, the proposed route shall be submitted to
the board of county commissioners for review and recommendation. (Ord. 2005-10,
1-3-2006)
13-6-15: MINIMUM LOT AREA:
The minimum lot area required for any lot within a district is based on the lot
being served by both public utilities of water and sewer systems. For a lot
without both public utilities of water and sewer systems, the following shall
be the minimum lot area within any residential district:
   A.   One acre per dwelling unit where the lot is served by a public sewer
system but not by a public water system.
   B.   Ten thousand eight hundred ninety (10,890) square feet per dwelling
unit where the lot is served by a public water system but not by public sewer
system; provided the tentative map was approved before January 1, 2000.
   C.   After January 1, 2000, twenty one thousand seven hundred eighty
(21,780) square feet where the lot is served by a public water system but not
by a public sewer system.
   D.   One acre per dwelling unit where the lot is served by neither a public
water nor public sewer system. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-16: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS; ALAMO, PIOCHE, PANACA:
Within the established town boundaries, the following additional provisions
shall be applied:
   A.   Town of Alamo:
      1.   In the R1 Single-Family Residential District, the RM Multiple-
Family Residential District, and the T Mobile Home District, the required side
yard for each main building or mobile home shall be ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
      2.   In the RR1, RR2, RR3, RR4, RR5, RR6, RR7 or RR8 District (and T
Zones included) market swine will be allowed to be raised during the period
December 1 through April 15 (but in no case longer than 5 months).
         a.   This action allows for the animal care project (educational
project) which must be sponsored and monitored by a national membership animal
husbandry society that provides participants with ongoing guidance in the
raising of animals and an opportunity to exhibit the animal at an off site
location at the end of the project. Participant must provide proof of
enrollment in a national membership association and/or program such as 4-H or
FFA prior to placing animals on the property. Proof will be provided to Alamo
Town Advisory Board and Lincoln County Building and Planning Department.
         b.   No project will be allowed on lots less than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet. Lots ten thousand (10,000) square feet or larger will
allow two (2) domesticated animals per household, including hogs/pigs together
with its young age of one year. No individual animal or its young shall be kept
for a period of more than five (5) months.
         c.   Participant is required to maintain cleanliness of the project
area at all times.
         d.   Complaints filed against the participant for failure to maintain
health, sanitation and safety procedures of the project area may be a reason
for Lincoln County Commission to find the participant in violation of this
subsection A2 and require immediate removal of animals from the property.
         e.   Should participant be found in violation and duly noticed by the
Lincoln County Commission or their agents or assigns, and does not remedy the
violation within five (5) days of receiving notice, any costs incurred by
Lincoln County to remedy the violation will become a lien on the real property
of the participant. (Ord. 2005-05, 8-15-2005)
   B.   Town of Pioche: In the R1 Single-Family Residential District, the RM
Multiple-Family Residential District and the T Mobile Home District, the
required front yard setback may be reduced to no less than ten feet (10') from
the front property line if: 1) the lot has an average depth of less than
seventy feet (70'); or 2) a front yard setback of less than fifteen feet (15')
exists for a residential building in the same district and within the same
block where the front yard setback reduction is desired.
   C.   Town of Panaca: The keeping of livestock and large domestic animals in
areas zoned RR Rural Residential District shall be subject to the same
restrictions governing the keeping of such animals in the A Agricultural
District, except that the maintenance of pigs and hogs is not permitted. The
provisions of all other State and local codes and regulations governing the
care and maintenance of such animals continue to be applicable and are not
amended or nullified by this section. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-6-17: MEDICAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, medical marijuana
establishments are not allowed, and shall be unlawful as a permitted use,
special use or accessory use in any zone throughout the unincorporated areas of
Lincoln County.
   A.   Defined: "Medical marijuana establishment" shall have the same
definition as in section 8.3 of SB 374, and as may be amended.
   B.   Medical Use Of Marijuana: This prohibition is not intended to interfere
with the individual rights of persons to the medical use of marijuana as
permitted by chapter 453A of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
   C.   Consistency With State And Federal Law: Notwithstanding any other
provision of this title, any land use, activity or establishment that
contravenes either State or Federal law, or both, is prohibited. (Ord. 2014-03,
8-18-2014, eff. 9-22-2014)
13-6-18: RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Purpose: Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, recreational
marijuana establishments are not allowed, and shall be unlawful as a permitted
use, special use, or accessory use in any zone throughout the unincorporated
areas of Lincoln County.
   B.   Definition: "Recreational marijuana establishment" shall have the same
definition as Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 453D.030(11).
   C.   Private Use: The land use prohibition is not intended to interfere with
the rights of individuals to use or grow marijuana at their private residences
as permitted by Nevada Revised Statutes 453D.110.
   D.   Consistency With State And Federal Law: Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this title, any land use, activity, or establishment that
contravenes either State or Federal law, or both is prohibited.
   E.   Severability: If any paragraph, clause, or provision of this section
shall for any reason be held to be invalid, unenforceable, or unconstitutional
by any court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity, or unenforceability of
such paragraph, clause, or provision shall not affect any remaining provisions
of this section. (Ord. 2019-02, 4-1-2019)
CHAPTER 7
OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
13-7-1: Off Street Parking Spaces Required; Minimum Size; Quantity
13-7-2: Collective Spaces
13-7-3: Required Parking In Separate Lot Recorded
13-7-4: Surfacing Requirements
13-7-5: Lighting
13-7-1: OFF STREET PARKING SPACES REQUIRED; MINIMUM SIZE; QUANTITY:
   A.   For each dwelling, multiple dwelling, business, industrial or other
structure or use there shall be provided and maintained off street parking
facilities to accommodate the motor vehicles used by the occupants, customers,
clientele and employees of such structures or uses.
   B.   Each required parking space shall not be less than nine feet (9') wide
and eighteen feet (18') long, exclusive of access drives, and in addition there
shall be adequate space for ingress and egress.
   C.   The number of parking spaces for each type of use shall be not less
than as provided in the provisions following:
Amusement places:                         
 Bowling establishment                  4 parking spaces shall be provided
                                          for each lane or alley
                                          1 parking space shall be provided for
 Dance hall                             each 90 square feet of floor area or
                                          fraction thereof, but in no event
                                          shall less than 15 spaces be provided
                                          1 parking space shall be provided for
                                          each 31/2 seats provided therein.
                                          Where seating is by means other than
 Stadium or an arena or a fair, or      individual chairs or seats designed
  other similar place of assembly         for occupancy by 1 person (such as,
                                          for example, benches or bleacher
                                          seats) each 18 linear inches of
                                          seating space shall count as 1 seat
Auditorium and other places of            
assembly:
                                          1 parking space shall be provided for
                                          each 31/2 seats provided therein.
                                          Where seating is by means other than
                                          individual chairs or seats designed
  Auditorium connected with a church,     for occupancy by 1 person (such as,
 school, college or university, or for  for example, benches or pews), each
  a theater, general auditorium or        18 linear inches of seating space
  other similar place of assembly         shall count as 1 seat. Where no
                                          permanent seating is provided, each 7
                                          square feet of floor space within
                                          such auditorium, theater or place of
                                          assembly shall count as 1 seat
Hospitals or clinics:                     
                                          1 parking space shall be provided for
  Hospitals, including sanitariums,       every 5 patient beds, plus at least 1
 convalescent homes, homes for the      additional parking space for each
  aged or infirm, and all other similar   staff and visiting doctor, plus at
  institutions                            least 1 additional parking space for
                                          every 2 employees, including nurses
                                          3 permanently maintained off street
 Medical and dental clinics             parking spaces shall be provided for
                                          every doctor or dentist having
                                          offices in such clinic
                                          1 parking space shall be provided for
                                          each living or sleeping unit on the
Motels, hotels, bed and breakfast inns,   same lot or parcel of land or
tourist courts or auto courts            contiguous thereto, except that
                                          parking space for hotels shall be on
                                          the same lot or within 500 feet of
                                          the building
Office buildings:                         
  Office buildings, including             At least 1 parking space shall be
 commercial, governmental and           provided for every 300 square feet of
  professional buildings                  floor space in the building
One-family, two-family, multiple-         
family dwellings and mobile homes:
  Every dwelling, multiple dwelling,
  mobile home or other structure          2 parking spaces for each dwelling
 erected or intended to be used as a    unit
  dwelling there shall be provided on
  the same lot or parcel of land:
Restaurants or taverns:                   
                                          At least 1 parking space shall be
  Restaurants or establishments that      provided for every 100 square feet of
  serve meals, lunches or drinks,         floor space in the building, or 1
 including bars, nightclubs and         parking space for every 4 seats
  taverns, to patrons either in their     provided for patrons' use, or 10
  cars or in the building                 parking spaces, whichever requirement
                                          is greater
Retail establishments:                    
  Retail establishments, including        At least 1 parking space shall be
  personal service shops, equipment       provided for each 500 square feet of
 repair shops, retail shops and         floor area or fraction thereof. Each
  businesses, banks or other financial    parking space shall be on the same
  or lending institutions                 lot or within 500 feet of the
                                          building
Rooming houses and lodging houses:        
                                          1 space shall be provided for each
                                          guestroom. Each such parking space
 Rooming house or lodging house         shall be provided on the same lot or
                                          parcel of land with such building or
                                          shall be contiguous thereto
Other uses:                               
                                          1 parking space shall be provided for
                                          every 2 employees working on the
 All business and industrial uses not   highest employment shift, or 1
  listed above                            parking space for every 1,000 square
                                          feet of gross floor area, whichever
                                          requirement is greater
 
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-7-2: COLLECTIVE SPACES:
Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the collective use of space for off
street parking, provided such collectively used space is equal to the sum of
the requirements of each individual establishment participating in such
collective use. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-7-3: REQUIRED PARKING IN SEPARATE LOT RECORDED:
When the required off street parking space is provided on a separate lot from
the main building, there shall be recorded, in the office of the county
recorder, a covenant by the owner or owners of the lot for the benefit of the
county to the effect that such owner or owners will continue to maintain such
parking space so long as the building is maintained. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-7-4: SURFACING REQUIREMENTS:
All off street automobile parking areas, including automobile sales lots,
service stations and other drive-in establishments, shall be surfaced with a
bituminous surface treatment or other surfacing of a higher type. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
13-7-5: LIGHTING:
All lights used to illuminate the lot shall be arranged so as to reflect away
from adjoining premises. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 8
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
13-8-1: Purpose And Procedure
13-8-2: Uses Permitted In Any Zone; Exceptions
13-8-3: Commercial Energy Development
13-8-1: PURPOSE AND PROCEDURE:
Certain uses may be permitted by the planning commission in zones in which they
are not permitted by this title where such uses are deemed essential or
desirable to the public convenience or welfare. The procedure for filing of
applications, filing fees, investigations, public hearings, findings and appeal
shall be the same as provided for variances in chapter 9 of this title. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-8-2: USES PERMITTED IN ANY ZONE; EXCEPTIONS:
The following uses in this section may be permitted in any zone, except the SID
special industrial district and OS open space district, upon the granting of a
special use permit:
Airports or aircraft landing fields.
Cemeteries, columbaria, crematories, mausoleums, mortuaries and funeral
parlors.
City, county, state and federal enterprises, including buildings, facilities
and uses of departments or institutions thereof.
Educational institutions including elementary, middle and high schools.
Establishments or enterprises involving large assemblages of people or
automobiles including: amusement parks, circuses, carnivals, expositions,
fairgrounds, open air theaters, racetracks, recreational and sport centers.
Golf courses and country clubs.
Hospitals, sanatoriums and rest homes.
Institutions of a philanthropic nature.
Libraries, museums and private clubs.
Parks, playgrounds and community facilities.
Public utility or public service buildings, structures and uses.
Radio and television transmitters.
Real estate tract offices and signs.
Recreational vehicle parks.
Sewer farms or sewage disposal plants. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-8-3: COMMERCIAL ENERGY DEVELOPMENT:
Any aboveground utility project, which is planned to be located in a corridor
for the construction of aboveground utility projects as identified in the
Lincoln County master plan, shall notify Lincoln County prior to construction.
Upon notification Lincoln County staff shall review said notification to
confirm location within the master plan designated utility corridor.
Review and approval of the proposed project will be undertaken as part of the
special use permitting process.
Conditions of approval specific to the proposed project shall be set by the
Lincoln County planning commission and/or board of Lincoln County
commissioners. (Ord. 2014-06, 12-15-2014, eff. 1-30-2015)
CHAPTER 9
VARIANCES
SECTION:
13-9-1: Granting Variances
13-9-2: Application; Procedure
13-9-3: Application; Public Record
13-9-4: Fees; Variance, Special Use Permit Exceptions
13-9-5: Hearing; Notice
13-9-6: Action Of Planning Commission
13-9-7: Final Decision Effective Date
13-9-8: Reapplication
13-9-9: Permit Expiration
13-9-10: Permit Extension
13-9-1: GRANTING VARIANCES:
A variance to the provisions of this title may be granted by the planning
commission in accordance with the provisions of this chapter where by reason of
exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property at
the time of enactment of the regulations, or by reason of exceptional
topographic conditions or other extraordinary and exceptional situation or
condition of such piece of property, the strict application of such regulations
enacted under this title would result in peculiar and exceptional practical
difficulties to, or exceptional and undue hardships upon, the owner of the
property. Such relief from the strict application of the regulations of this
title, however, may only be granted without substantial detriment to the public
good and without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of any
ordinance or resolution and under such conditions as such board may deem
necessary to assure that the general purpose and intent of this title will be
observed, public safety and welfare secured and substantial justice done. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-9-2: APPLICATION; PROCEDURE:
The application for a variance or a special use permit as provided herein shall
be made to the planning commission on forms furnished by the commission. Such
applications shall be accompanied by the following data and information:
   A.   Site development plan, drawn to scale to include building dimensions of
existing and proposed structures, setback dimensions, yards and open space
dimensions, parking space dimensions, location and size of signs, location of
landscaping and such other information as may be necessary;
   B.   Floor plan, drawn to scale to indicate size of building and total
square footage of buildings, if appropriate for the project;
   C.   Rendered elevation to indicate the architectural appearance of proposed
buildings, if appropriate for the project. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-9-3: APPLICATION; PUBLIC RECORD:
From the time of filing of such application, the application, together with all
plans and data submitted, shall become a part of the permanent records of the
planning commission and shall be available for public inspection in the
commission's office. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-9-4: FEES; VARIANCE, SPECIAL USE PERMIT EXCEPTIONS:
The planning commission shall charge and collect a fee for the filing of a
variance application or special use permit application, the charge being due
and payable at the time of filing:
   A.   Fees will be on file in the county planning office and may be adjusted
as necessary by action of the board of county commissioners.
   B.   The fee may be waived, at the discretion of the planning commission,
for any nonprofit organization or political entity which is the owner of record
of the property involved in a special use permit or variance application. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-9-5: HEARING; NOTICE:
Upon receipt in proper form of any application, the planning commission will
hold a public hearing thereon. A notice of time and place of hearing, a
description of the property involved and the purpose of the hearing shall be
sent to each owner of property within a minimum distance of three hundred feet
(300') of the exterior boundary of the lot or parcel of land described in such
application. If it is deemed advisable, the planning commission shall also
cause the notice to be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days prior to
the meeting. For the purpose of this section, "property owner" means that owner
shown upon the latest assessment rolls of the county. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-9-6: ACTION OF PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the planning commission shall take
such action thereon as it deems warranted under the circumstances and shall
announce and record its action by formal resolution and such resolution shall
recite the findings of the planning commission upon which it bases its
decision. This decision shall be final, subject only to the appeals process.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-9-7: FINAL DECISION EFFECTIVE DATE:
The decision of the planning commission shall not become final and effective
until seven (7) days after the decision is entered in the minutes of the
meeting. No permits shall be issued concerning the property in question until
the decision becomes final. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-9-8: REAPPLICATION:
No person, including the original applicant, shall reapply for a similar
special use permit or variance on the same land, building or structure within a
period of six (6) months from the date of the final decision by the planning
commission of such previous application. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-9-9: PERMIT EXPIRATION:
Each special use permit or variance authorized under the provisions of this
chapter which is not actually established or the actual construction commenced
on the buildings or structures within six (6) months from the date of the final
decision is null and void. In the event some construction work is involved, it
must actually commence within the stated period and be diligently prosecuted to
completion. A lapse of work for a period of three (3) months will be sufficient
to cause the invalidity of the permit; provided further, when any use of land,
building, structure or premises established under the provisions of this
chapter has been discontinued for a period of one year, it is unlawful to again
use such land or building or premises for such discontinued use unless a
subsequent special use permit or variance is authorized. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-9-10: PERMIT EXTENSION:
Extensions of time may be granted by the planning commission, if requested by
the property owner of record not less than seven (7) days prior to the
expiration date of the date of the final decision. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 10
CHANGES IN DISTRICT BOUNDARIES AND CLASSIFICATIONS
SECTION:
13-10-1: Authorization
13-10-2: Initiation Of Changes, Amendments
13-10-3: Fees
13-10-4: Hearing; Notice
13-10-5: Action Of Planning Commission
13-10-6: Decision Effective Date
13-10-7: Reapplication
13-10-1: AUTHORIZATION:
Boundaries of zone districts established by this title or the classification of
property uses therein may be amended, reclassified or altered whenever public
necessity, convenience and general welfare require, by the planning commission.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-10-2: INITIATION OF CHANGES, AMENDMENTS:
Amendments, supplements or changes may be initiated in the following manner,
either by:
   A.   The planning commission,
   B.   The board of county commissioners,
   C.   The petition of one or more property owners. The petition shall be in
the form of an application for change of zone classification and shall be duly
signed and acknowledged by the property owner of record and shall be filed in
the office of the planning commission upon forms furnished by the commission
for the purpose and shall be accompanied by the following data and information:
      1.   Site plan, drawn to scale, showing the boundaries and dimensions of
the area included in the application, property lines with dimensions, rights of
way, easements, and such other information as may be necessary to accurately
indicate the configuration of the area include in the application and its
relationship to surrounding properties.
      2.   Copy of the recorded deed or deeds of the area included in the
application.
      3.   Each application shall be signed by the property owner(s) of record
of the property to be changed by such application and notarized. (Ord. 2005-10,
1-3-2006)
13-10-3: FEES:
The planning commission shall require a fee payable to the county which
schedule shall be on file in the county planning office. The fee is to offset
the cost of reviewing maps by the county surveyor, sending out notices and
other administrative expenses involved in a petition for a change in these
regulations, the charge being due and payable at the time of filing any
petition or request for change. The fee may be waived when the property owner
of record is a government agency or nonprofit organization. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-10-4: HEARING; NOTICE:
Upon the filing of any such verified petition of a property owner, or by a
resolution of intention by the planning commission or board of county
commissioners, the planning commission shall hold at least one public hearing
in relation thereto which has been duly advertised in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county at least ten (10) days before the day of such
hearing, at which parties of interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to
be heard. The planning commission shall, in addition thereto, cause notice of
the same hearing to be sent to each property owner within three hundred feet
(300') of the subject property, and send a notice to the applicant and/or the
property owner, within the above time limit. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-10-5: ACTION OF PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the planning commission shall take
such action thereon as it deems warranted under the circumstances and shall
announce and record its action by formal resolution, and such resolution shall
recite the findings of the planning commission upon which it based its
decision.
   B.   The decision of the planning commission in the legislative matter of
amending zone boundaries and zone classifications shall be final. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
13-10-6: DECISION EFFECTIVE DATE:
The decision of the planning commission shall not become final and effective
until seven (7) days after the decision is entered in the minutes of the
planning commission. No permits shall be issued concerning the property in
question until the decision becomes final. At the expiration of the aforesaid
seven (7) day period, the decision of the planning commission shall become
final and effective. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-10-7: REAPPLICATION:
No person, including the original applicant, shall reapply for the same
reclassification of the same property within a period of six (6) months from
the date of the final appeals process denial by the board of county
commissioners of such previous application. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 11
ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
13-11-1: Enforcement
13-11-2: Penalty
13-11-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   All departments, officials public employees of the county vested with
the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses, shall conform to the
provisions of this title and shall issue no permit or license for uses,
buildings or purposes in conflict with the provisions of this title, and any
such permit or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this title
shall be null and void.
   B.   The provisions of this title shall be administered by the county
building inspector, the planning commission, or their designated
representative.
   C.   Any building or structure erected or maintained, or any use of
property, contrary to the provisions of this title, is unlawful and a public
nuisance, and the district attorney shall immediately commence actions and
proceedings for the abatement, removal and enjoinment thereof, in the manner
provided by law, and shall take such other steps, and shall apply to any court
as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or remove such
building, structure or use and restrain or enjoin any person, firm or
corporation from erecting or maintaining such building or structure, or using
any property contrary to the provisions of this title. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-11-2: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation, whether as principal, agent, employee or
otherwise, violating any provision of this title shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not more
than six (6) months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that
violation of this title continues shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 12
RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES
SECTION:
13-12-1: Intent
13-12-2: Standards For All Mining Activities
13-12-3: Review Criteria; Activities May Be Permitted Subject To Conditional
Use Permit
13-12-4: Submission Requirements
13-12-5: Guarantee Of Completion Performance
13-12-1: INTENT:
The intent of this chapter is to provide standards and requirements for the
review of resource development activities, including, but not limited to, oil
and gas drilling, mining, sand and gravel extraction, and forestry, in order to
provide for the continuation, reactivation, and development of such activities
in the county while providing for the protection of human lives, adjacent land
uses, the safeguarding of private property, and the protection of public
investment in streets, utilities, and other public facilities. (Ord. 2005-10,
1-3-2006)
13-12-2: STANDARDS FOR ALL MINING ACTIVITIES:
The following standards shall apply to mining activities, including oil and gas
drilling, mining, and sand and gravel extraction, whether they are permitted
uses or uses permitted subject to a conditional use permit in the zone
district:
   A.   Mining extraction activities shall be conducted no closer than:
      1.   Two hundred feet (200') from the centerline of a public street or of
a right of way for utilities including water lines, sewer lines, electrical
lines, natural gas lines, or other public utility.
      2.   Three hundred feet (300') from any residential, commercial,
industrial or public structure or use not owned by the mine operator or which
is ancillary to the mining activity.
      3.   One hundred feet (100') from any other structure.
The foregoing distances may be modified by the planning commission or board of
county commissioners with the consent of the affected property owners.
   B.   All mining extraction activities shall be surrounded by a safety fence
built to such requirements as may be established by the planning commission.
   C.   The subsurface extraction of minerals shall be prohibited, unless
modified by the planning commission or board of county commissioners, within
five hundred feet (500') or within a residentially or commercially zoned
district, to protect inhabited or intensively used areas from the danger of
subsidence. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-12-3: REVIEW CRITERIA; ACTIVITIES MAY BE PERMITTED SUBJECT TO CONDITIONAL
USE PERMIT:
The following criteria shall be considered by the planning commission when
reviewing mining operations. The planning commission shall approve, disapprove,
or approve with conditions based on findings with respect to the proposal's
compliance with these conditions:
   A.   The operation shall demonstrate that there will be no damage or
nuisance resulting from noise, smoke, odor, dust, erosion, or vibration and
that they will comply with any applicable state or local pollution regulations.
   B.   The operation must be compatible with adjacent and surrounding land
uses.
   C.   Dust produced by mechanical operation, tracking, or road conditions
must be controlled.
   D.   The applicant shall demonstrate that added vehicle traffic is
compatible with existing land uses and can be accommodated by the road system
without cost to the county to repair or maintain such roads.
   E.   Landscaping or appropriate visual barriers may be required to screen
operations from public view in a sensitive setting or from adjacent land uses.
   F.   The operation shall demonstrate that it has a sufficient water supply
for the proposed use without interfering with vested water rights. The
applicant shall provide assurance of ownership of water rights or legal
capability to accomplish any change in the use or points of diversion of such
rights.
   G.   The operation shall not pollute or cause undue interference with ground
water aquifers by paving or the disposal of wastes or tailings or by causing a
reduction in the amount or duration of supply of water available to an existing
ground water use, or by altering historic patterns and availability of an
existing ground water use.
   H.   The operation shall not interfere with existing agricultural operations
or with sources of irrigation.
   I.   Major facilities shall demonstrate that there is or will be sufficient
housing available in existing, nearby communities to house the anticipated
workers and their families and that water, sewer and other utilities as well as
school facilities are adequate to handle expected populations as a result of
the activity without additional burden to the taxpayers of the community.
   J.   If the mining activity involves "strip" mining, a sand or gravel
operation or any other activity that would disturb a large area of ground
surface, the applicant shall demonstrate that the site will be adequately
revegetated subsequent to its use. The commission may require a revegetation
plan which shall specify the schedule, amount, and type of vegetation and the
contours of the restored site. In no event shall a slope less than two to one
(2:1) be left when operations are completed unless the approval plans call for
other types of stabilized slopes.
   K.   The commission and board may specify hours of operation in order to
protect surrounding neighborhoods from unreasonable noise disturbance. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-12-4: SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS:
Applications for mining activities as a use permitted subject to a conditional
use permit shall provide information sufficient to demonstrate compliance with
the policies of this chapter. The planning commission may require an applicant
to provide geological data regarding the site in support of the proposed mining
use. The commission may submit any application data to an appropriate state or
federal agency and/or an independent professional engineer registered in the
state for review analysis, concurrence, and advice. Any costs for such review
and analysis shall be borne by the applicant. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-12-5: GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION PERFORMANCE:
The planning commission may require a surety bond or irrevocable letter of
credit or other satisfactory guarantee of completion and faithful performance
of any conditions imposed. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 13
MOBILE HOME PARKS 1
SECTION:
13-13-1: Intent And Purpose
13-13-2: Uses Permitted
13-13-3: Location
13-13-4: Minimum And Maximum Size
13-13-5: Building Height
13-13-6: Distance From Property Line
13-13-7: Enclosure Requirements
13-13-8: Distance Between Buildings And Between Buildings And Mobile Homes
13-13-9: Mobile Home Space Area And Width Requirements
13-13-10: Recreational Vehicle Space Area And Width Requirements
13-13-11: Outdoor Living Area
13-13-12: Common Recreation Area(s)
13-13-13: Streets
13-13-14: Parking And Access Drive Requirements
13-13-15: Walkways
13-13-16: Sign Regulations
13-13-17: Utility Installation Requirements
13-13-18: Landscaping Requirements
13-13-19: Conformance With Other Regulations
13-13-20: Water Supply
13-13-21: Wastewater Disposal
13-13-22: Facilities For Recreational Vehicles
 
Notes
1 1. NRS 461A, 489.
13-13-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
Mobile home parks are areas intended for the development of spaces for mobile
homes and/or recreational vehicles for rent. Mobile home parks are a permitted
use or a use permitted subject to a conditional use review in certain zone
districts. This chapter provides standards and conditions under which mobile
home parks may be developed as a permitted use or a use permitted subject to
conditional use review. In addition to this chapter mobile home parks must meet
the standards of the manufactured housing division, state of Nevada. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-2: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses will be permitted in an approved mobile home park:
A recreational vehicle park may be made a part of an approved mobile home park
as a secondary use, provided the area of such recreational vehicle park is
separate and distinct from the area for mobile homes and does not exceed twenty
five percent (25%) of the combined area of the mobile home park and such
secondary recreational vehicle park.
Accessory uses which are clearly incidental to the operation of the park, and
which are for the exclusive use of the residents of such park, including, but
not limited to, such uses as recreation and laundry buildings, swimming pools,
storage areas for recreational vehicles, boats and trailers, vending machines
and limited packaged dry goods sales.
Mobile homes. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-3: LOCATION:
The mobile home park shall be located on a well drained site, and shall be
located so that its drainage will not constitute an unreasonable hazard or
nuisance to persons, property or water supply in the immediate vicinity of the
site. The site shall be free from marshes. Mobile home park sites shall not be
subject to undue flooding, fire or safety hazards, and shall not be exposed to
nuisances, such as undue noise, smoke, fumes or odors. The topography of the
site should be favorable to minimum grading, mobile home placement and ease of
maintenance. Initial site grades shall not exceed eight percent (8%). (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-4: MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM SIZE:
The minimum area required for a mobile home park is two (2) acres and the
maximum size allowed is fifteen (15) acres. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The building height required is two and one-half (21/2) stories and not to
exceed thirty five feet (35') in height. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-6: DISTANCE FROM PROPERTY LINE:
A setback of twenty five feet (25') of all buildings from all property
boundaries of the mobile home park is required. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-7: ENCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS:
Each mobile home park shall be completely enclosed within a fence, hedge, wall
or combination thereof; provided, that such fence, hedge or wall shall be six
feet (6') in height, except within any required front yard the required
enclosure shall be four feet (4') in height. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-8: DISTANCE BETWEEN BUILDINGS AND BETWEEN BUILDINGS AND MOBILE HOMES:
   A.   There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet (10') between each
building that is not a mobile home.
   B.   There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet (10') between each mobile
home and any building, excepting mobile home accessory structures.
   C.   The minimum distance required for the separation of a mobile home from
any other mobile home shall be:
      1.   Fifteen feet (15') from side to side;
      2.   Fifteen feet (15') from side to rear; and
      3.   Ten feet (10') from rear to rear.
   D.   The tongue of the mobile home must be at least three feet (3') from any
sidewalk.
   E.   There shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') from any other point on the
mobile home to the pavement of any adjacent access road serving more than one
mobile home space. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-9: MOBILE HOME SPACE AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
Each mobile home space shall contain a minimum of three thousand (3,000) square
feet and have a minimum width of thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-10: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE AREA AND WIDTH REQUIREMENTS:
Spaces designed for exclusive use of recreational vehicles shall contain a
minimum of one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet and a minimum width of
fifteen feet (15'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-11: OUTDOOR LIVING AREA:
Each mobile home space shall include an outdoor living area of least three
hundred (300) square feet. The minimum horizontal dimension of such area shall
not be less than fifteen feet (15'). Such outdoor living area shall be properly
drained, located for convenience and optimum use, and walled, fenced or planted
to provide reasonable privacy. This area shall not be used as the required
parking spaces. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-12: COMMON RECREATION AREA(S):
At least ten percent (10%) of the gross area of the mobile home park shall be
developed for common recreational areas for use by residents of the mobile home
park. The area(s) shall be twenty feet (20') in the least dimension and shall
contain not less than one thousand (1,000) square feet. Such area(s) shall be
used for playgrounds, swimming pools, community buildings, play areas for small
children, horseshoe pits, or paths for pedestrians and cyclist, away from
streets and thoroughfares. The park owner shall maintain common recreation
areas. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-13: STREETS:
   A.   The mobile home park site shall have at least two (2) direct accesses
to a public street or highway.
   B.   All streets and accessways providing ingress to and egress from the
mobile home park shall be constructed in accordance with county specifications
for like streets and accessways on public ways, and shall be completed within a
period of two (2) years after the date of approval of the mobile home park.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-14: PARKING AND ACCESS DRIVE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A minimum of two (2) parking spaces shall be provided upon each mobile
home space. A minimum of one parking space shall be provided upon each
recreational vehicle space. Each parking space shall have a dimension at least
nine feet by twenty feet (9' x 20'). Required parking spaces may be side by
side, in tandem, or separate.
   B.   Parking spaces reserved for guests shall be interspersed throughout the
mobile home park at a ratio of one guest parking space per four (4) mobile home
park spaces.
   C.   All access drives within a mobile home park shall be not less than
twenty four feet (24') in width, and must be completed within two (2) years
after the date of approval of the mobile home park.
   D.   All mobile home spaces shall have a frontage on internal private
drives. No mobile home space shall have direct access to a public street or
public alley.
   E.   All vehicular parking areas and drives shall be improved with paved
surfacing.
   F.   Each mobile home park shall have at least one street access for each
twenty five (25) mobile home or recreational vehicle spaces contained within
the park. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-15: WALKWAYS:
Walkways at least four feet (4') wide shall be provided from all mobile home
spaces to service buildings and other community areas, and along all access
roads. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-16: SIGN REGULATIONS:
Signs in the mobile home park district shall be limited to two (2) signs not to
exceed a total area of fifty (50) square feet and shall contain information
related only to the name of the owner or business and address of the premises.
No sign shall exceed a maximum height of ten feet (10'), measured from grade to
top of sign. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-17: UTILITY INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
All public utility transmission lines located within the park shall be placed
underground. Utility connections to each mobile home space or recreational
vehicle space shall be placed underground. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-18: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:
Landscaping shall include trees in number not less than a ratio of one tree for
each mobile home or recreational vehicle space within the park, plus
conditional landscaping (trees and shrubs) in the common recreation area. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-19: CONFORMANCE WITH OTHER REGULATIONS:
In addition to the regulations set out in this chapter, all mobile home parks
must conform to any state regulations covering the construction and
installation of mobile home parks such as regulations adopted pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes section 489, and subsequent revisions. Mobile home
parks must also conform to flood hazard regulations as stated in title 12 of
this code. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-20: WATER SUPPLY:
An applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the planning commission
that the proposed subdivision meets all the applicable conditions of the water
supply, regulations governing subdivisions, division of health, state of
Nevada, as revised. In addition to these requirements:
   A.   If a new community water supply system is to be installed, the method
of financing, system of construction, maintenance and operation must be
outlined. The board of county commissioners may require a bond or similar
security to the value of these improvements be held in escrow until such time
as the system is installed to the standards approved at the time of subdivision
review.
   B.   If private water supply systems are to be used, the applicant must
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the board of county commissioners that
proposed wells have the flow and supplies adequate to meet the demand of the
proposed subdivision in all seasons. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-13-21: WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
An applicant must demonstrate to the satisfaction of the planning commission
that the proposed subdivision/mobile home park meets all the applicable
conditions of sewerage system regulations governing subdivisions, division of
health, state of Nevada, as revised. In addition to these requirements:
   A.   If a new community sewerage system is to be constructed, the applicant
must outline the method of financing all system construction, operation and
maintenance. The planning commission may require a bond or similar security to
the value of these improvements be held in escrow until such time as the
improvements are installed to the standards described at the time of
subdivision approval.
   B.   If an existing approved community sewerage system is to be utilized,
the applicant must outline who will bear the cost of any extension lines
necessary to connect the proposed subdivision/park to the existing system. If a
public entity (town, district or cooperative) is to bear these costs, the
applicant must demonstrate the entity agrees to do so.
   C.   If individual or on site wastewater disposal systems are to be used,
the minimum distances between any point of the disposal field and other
structures or points are as follows:
      1.   Water supply well, one hundred feet (100');
      2.   Stream or watercourse, one hundred fifty feet (150');
      3.   Drinking water lines, twenty five feet (25');
      4.   Property lines, ten feet (10');
      5.   Dwellings or other buildings, ten feet (10'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-13-22: FACILITIES FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
Mobile home parks containing spaces for recreational vehicles must provide
shower and laundry facilities and wastewater disposal facilities. The board of
county commissioners may determine whether these facilities can be included as
part of the ten percent (10%) common recreation area or whether they must be on
common land over and above the ten percent (10%). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 14
MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISIONS
SECTION:
13-14-1: Purpose And Intent
13-14-2: Uses Permitted
13-14-3: Development Standards
13-14-4: Other Regulations
13-14-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Mobile home subdivisions are areas intended for the development of individual
lots for primarily, but not exclusively, mobile home residences. Mobile home
subdivisions are a permitted use or a use permitted subject to conditional use
review in certain zone districts as specified in chapter 5 of this title.
Mobile home subdivisions shall also comply with the subdivision procedures of
chapter 17 of this title. This chapter provides additional standards and
conditions under which mobile home subdivisions may be developed as a permitted
use or a use permitted subject to conditional use review. The mobile home
subdivision regulations provide standards for mobile home areas. (Ord. 2005-10,
1-3-2006)
13-14-2: USES PERMITTED:
In mobile home subdivisions only the following uses shall be permitted:
Community recreation facilities for the use of individual lot owners within the
subdivision may be developed. The maintenance of the community recreation and
service areas shall be assured by provisions in the deeds, such as covenants
running with the land, providing for participation by the individual lot owners
in the responsibility and costs thereof.
Conventional or manufactured single-family houses for residential use together
with the normal accessory uses. In no event shall more than one dwelling unit
per lot be used for residential purposes, with occupancy limited to one family.
Mobile homes for residential use together with the normal accessory uses such
as a cabana, ramada, patio, slab, carport or garage, and a storage or washroom
building. In no event shall more than one mobile home be used for residential
purposes on a lot, with occupancy limited to one family.
Temporary real estate tract offices, to be used for and during the original
sale of the lots within the subdivision, but not to exceed a period of one
year. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-14-3: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   A.   Compliance With Other Regulations: Mobile home subdivisions shall
comply with the subdivision regulations of chapter 17 of this title.
   B.   Conventional Or Manufactured Single-Family Houses: Conventional or
manufactured single-family houses in a mobile home subdivision must meet the
minimum requirements of the corresponding residential district.
   C.   Site Size: There is no minimum site size for a mobile home subdivision;
however, the maximum size of a site is thirty (30) acres.
   D.   Minimum Lot Size:
      1.   If the mobile home subdivision is to be developed in a low density
residential zone, the lot size, width, and setback requirements of the LRD zone
must be met, and the long side of the mobile home must be parallel to the
street.
      2.   If the mobile home subdivision is to be developed in a medium
density residential zone, the minimum lot size is three thousand (3,000) square
feet plus the building area (mobile home pad) provided no lot is smaller than
four thousand five hundred (4,500) square feet.
 
           14 x 70 mobile home = 980 square feet
Example 1: 3,000
           3,980 square foot lot required
           28 x 24 mobile home = 2,342 square feet
Example 2: 3,000
           5,352 square foot lot required
 
      3.   The minimum lot width shall be fifty feet (50').
   E.   Setbacks: Mobile home setbacks on individual lots shall be twenty five
feet (25') in the front (primary and accessory buildings), ten feet (10') on
the side, and fifteen feet (15') in the rear of the primary building. Accessory
structures and uses shall not be placed or be permitted to remain on any lot in
the mobile home subdivision without a mobile home first being placed and
utilized on said lot. The use of any accessory structure or recreational
vehicle for residential use shall be prohibited.
   F.   Building Height: One single story, not to exceed fourteen feet (14') in
height.
   G.   Streets And Access Roads: All access roads and interior streets in the
mobile home subdivision shall be constructed in accordance with county
specifications and width requirements. All such streets and accessways shall
include sidewalks, curb and gutter.
   H.   Parking: Two (2) off street vehicle parking spaces each at least nine
feet by twenty feet (9' x 20') in size shall be provided on each lot occupied
by a mobile home. Said parking spaces shall not be located within the front
yard setback area. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-14-4: OTHER REGULATIONS:
In addition to the regulations set out in chapter 15 of this title, mobile home
subdivisions must conform to subdivision regulations, all state regulations
applicable to mobile homes, and flood regulations. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 15
HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
13-15-1: General Provisions
13-15-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Designation Of Historic Districts And Structures: The board of county
commissioners may designate districts or structures as historic. The
designation of a historic district or structure shall be processed in
accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 384.
   B.   Development Permit Required: In a designated historic district or on a
designated historic site, no structure may be constructed or any existing
structure altered, reconstructed, extended, or removed without first obtaining
a permit for alteration of the exterior of any such structure and demonstrating
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. This authorization to be issued
by the designated review board provided for in Nevada Revised Statutes 461.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 16
SPECIAL RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
13-16-1: Recreational Vehicles
13-16-1: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this chapter, the term "recreation
vehicle" means any motor vehicle or trailer designed and used as a travel
trailer, camper, motor home, tent trailer, boat, boat trailer, snowmobile
trailer, camping trailer, used for overnight accommodations, or for any similar
purpose.
   B.   Dimensions: For the purposes of this chapter, a "recreational vehicle"
is defined as being equal to or less than forty feet (40') in length, eight and
one-half feet (81/2') in width (in travel configuration).
   C.   Storage: In areas zoned for residential purposes, including multiple-
family areas, a recreational vehicle may be stored in a garage, side or rear
yard. Recreational vehicles shall not be stored in the front yard of any lot,
unless stored on a driveway. Such recreational vehicles shall not occupy more
than ten percent (10%) of the area of the lot which the main building occupies.
   D.   Occupation:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to occupy any recreational vehicle for
residence purposes anywhere in the county except in a duly established trailer
or RV park maintained in accordance with the ordinances of the county, however,
occupation for a period up to, but not more than, fourteen (14) consecutive
days shall not be considered a violation of this section, provided said RV is
removed from the location for a minimum of fourteen (14) days before being
occupied again.
      2.   An exception shall be made for an RV to be used as a residence for a
period up to six (6) months, while construction is ongoing for a main residence
on the same property, provided a special use permit is obtained through the
county planning process.
   E.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of
this section shall be fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) or more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
CHAPTER 17
LAND DIVISION
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-17A-1: Purpose
13-17A-2: Authority
13-17A-3: Effect Of Repeal
13-17A-4: Sale Restrictions
13-17A-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard the public health, safety and
general welfare by establishing certain minimum standards of design,
improvement, survey and construction of land developments hereafter plotted in
all areas of the county, to provide and ensure the orderly and proper growth
thereof and to aid in the prevention of pollution of land or water resources.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17A-2: AUTHORITY:
The statutory authority for the enactment of local ordinances governing land
division, improvements and related subjects are contained in Nevada Revised
Statutes 278.320 to 278.5695. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17A-3: EFFECT OF REPEAL:
The repeal of ordinances codified herein shall not affect any agreement,
contract, or bond executed pursuant to such ordinances, or any rights of action
accrued thereunder. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17A-4: SALE RESTRICTIONS:
It is unlawful for any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership
trust, or any other legal entity, as a principal, agent, or otherwise, to offer
to sell, to contract to sell, or to sell, or lease, or transfer, any
subdivision of land or any part thereof, unless and until all the requirements
hereinafter provided have been complied with. This shall not be construed to
prohibit the sale of any lot or parcel of land which was legally created in
conformance with the state and local codes and ordinances governing the
creation of subdivided lots or parcels in effect at the time such subdivision
or parceling occurred. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE B. DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
13-17B-1: Generally
13-17B-2: Specific Definitions
13-17B-1: GENERALLY:
When used in this chapter the words and phrases defined in this article shall
have the meanings set forth in this article. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17B-2: SPECIFIC DEFINITIONS:
OWNER: The individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership or
corporation, having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought to be
subdivided, to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the land under
this title, and while used herein in the masculine gender and singular number,
it means the feminine and neuter gender and plural number whenever required.
SUBDIVIDER: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership,
corporation, trust, or other legal entity commencing proceedings under this
title, to effect a subdivision of land hereunder for himself or for another
and, while used herein in the masculine gender and singular number, it means
and includes the feminine or neuter gender and the plural number whenever
required.
SUBDIVISION:
   A.   Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to be
divided into five (5) or more lots, parcels, sites, units or plots, for the
purpose of any transfer, development or any proposed transfer or development
unless exempted by one of the following provisions:
      1. The term "subdivision" does not apply to any division of land which is
subject to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 278.471 to 271.4725,
inclusive.
      2. Any joint tenancy or tenancy in common shall be deemed a single
interest in land.
      3. Unless a method of disposition is adopted for the purpose of evading
this chapter or would have the effect of evading this chapter, the term
subdivision does not apply to:
         a. Any division of land which is ordered by any court in this state or
created by operation of law;
         b. A lien, mortgage, deed of trust or any other security instrument;
         c. A security or unit of interest in any investment trust regulated
under the laws of this state or any other interest in an investment entity;
         d. Cemetery lots; or
         e. An interest in oil, gas, minerals or building materials, which are
now or hereafter severed from the surface ownership of real property.
   B.   A common interest community consisting of five (5) or more units shall
be deemed to be a subdivision of land within the meaning of this section, but
need only comply with Nevada Revised Statutes 278.326 to 278.460, inclusive,
and 278.473 to 278.490, inclusive.
   C.   The board of county commissioners may exempt any parcel or parcels of
land from the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 278.010 to 278.630,
inclusive if:
      1. The land is owned by a railroad company or by a nonprofit corporation
organized and existing pursuant to the provisions of chapter 81 or 82 of Nevada
Revised Statutes which is an immediate successor in title to railroad company,
and the land was in the past used in connection with any railroad operation,
and
      2. Other persons now permanently reside on the land.
   D.   This chapter does not apply to the division of land for agricultural
purposes into parcels of more than ten (10) acres, if a street, road, or
highway opening or widening or easement of any kind is not involved. Lincoln
County interprets this to mean property will continue to be used for
agricultural purposes and the division is not going to be used to circumvent
parceling procedures. The divisions shall not create any new road accesses
which must then go before the planning commission to review for master plan
impacts.
SUBSEQUENT PARCEL MAP: Any map that is further subdividing a parcel map but not
going into subdivision is a subsequent parcel map. Any subsequent parcel map
will be required to show a master plan of property and any upgrades deemed
necessary up to the standards of subdivision by the county commissioners with
special attention to public health and safety in regards to roads, flood
hazards, water and sewage disposal. Applicant shall have a separate map
depicting road easements or rights of way. Parcel sizes shall be a reflection
of the percent of lot that is easement or right of way and the percent of lot
that is useable land. If it is anticipated that roads will be dedicated for
acceptance by the county road supervisor, the dedication shall not leave the
lots in a nonconforming size.
TENTATIVE MAP: A preliminary map made to show the design of a proposed
development and the existing conditions in and nearby the development but not
necessarily based on an accurate or detailed survey.
UTILITY: A serving facility such as electrical, gas, sewer, television,
telephone, water, etc. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE C. SUBDIVISION; TENTATIVE MAP
SECTION:
13-17C-1: Preliminary Conference
13-17C-2: Filing Of Tentative Map
13-17C-3: Form
13-17C-4: Contents
13-17C-5: Approval Of Form
13-17C-6: Number Of Copies Required
13-17C-7: Filing Fees
13-17C-8: Distribution Of Copies
13-17C-9: Planning Commission Recommendation
13-17C-10: Planning Commission Review
13-17C-11: Action Of Board Of County Commissioners
13-17C-12: Extension Of Time
13-17C-1: PRELIMINARY CONFERENCE:
It is suggested that prior to submittal of a tentative map for a subdivision
the developer or representative meet with the planning department to determine
master plan conformance, zoning regulations, specific engineering requirements,
and other factors which may influence the design and improvement of the area
where such subdivision is proposed. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17C-2: FILING OF TENTATIVE MAP:
   A.   The tentative map for a subdivision shall be filed with the planning
commission at least thirty (30) days prior to the meeting for which
consideration is desired. At the filing twelve (12) copies of the map will be
submitted. All fees shall be paid and a fully completed application shall be
filed with the planning office.
   B.   The tentative map must be approved by the town board, if any, prior to
submittal to the planning commission. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17C-3: FORM:
Tentative maps shall be submitted on durable paper twenty four inches by thirty
two inches (24" x 32") in size and drawn to a scale of sufficient size to show
all details of the plan and required data clearly. Maps shall be folded to fit
into a nine inch by twelve inch (9" x 12") envelope. Any number of sheets may
be used, providing each sheet specifies the total number of sheets and the
number of that particular sheet. If the tract is a portion of a larger area
which may be divided later, the tentative map shall indicate the ultimate plan
for the whole. With each such tentative plat, the developer shall also file a
copy of preliminary deed restrictions if any apply. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17C-4: CONTENTS:
The tentative map shall show:
   A.   The name of the subdivision;
   B.   The names and addresses of record owners, subdividers, and engineer or
licensed surveyor;
   C.   Essential facts as to adjoining properties, such as street locations
and widths, parcel numbers and names of owners;
   D.   A small diagram or inset vicinity map with scale indicated, showing the
general location of the subdivision with respect to nearby communities,
holdings of the developer and principal highways;
   E.   All boundary dimensions;
   F.   All proposed streets, with widths, approximate radius of curves and
grades;
   G.   All lots, with approximate dimensions and numbers thereof;
   H.   Proposed easements and building or setback lines with dimensions;
   I.   Proposed parks and areas offered for dedication;
   J.   Date, north point, and scale;
   K.   A topographic contour map showing accurately the existing terrain
within the land development, approximate finished grade contours of all
proposed roads, existing draining channels, roads, culverts, underground
utility lines, wells and springs, major structures, irrigation ditches, utility
poles and other improvements in their correct location which may affect the
design of the development. The map shall be drawn to an engineer's scale large
enough to show all information clearly. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17C-5: APPROVAL OF FORM:
Within thirty (30) days after submittal of the tentative map to the planning
commission at a regular meeting which shall be the first review, it shall be
determined whether the map is in compliance with the provisions of state law
and this chapter. If it is found not to be in compliance, it shall be
immediately returned to the developer with a written specification of reasons
why it does not comply. If such map is in compliance with state law and this
chapter, the filing date shall be the date upon which such map is received by
the planning commission. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17C-6: NUMBER OF COPIES REQUIRED:
Twelve (12) copies of the tentative map (and additional copies as necessary)
for any subdivision shall be filed with the planning commission. They shall be
folded into nine by twelve (9 x 12) format for mailing. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-17C-7: FILING FEES:
   A.   Filing fees as set forth in the current schedule of fees on file in the
county planning office shall be due and payable to Lincoln County as a
prerequisite to the filing of a tentative map prior to any official
consideration thereof.
   B.   No part of the filing fee will be refunded in the event that the
tentative map is not approved nor for any other cause. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17C-8: DISTRIBUTION OF COPIES:
   A.   Copies of the tentative map shall be sent by the planning commission to
the division of water resources and the division of environmental protection of
the state department of conservation and natural resources and the health
division of the department of human resources for their review and comment on
the proposal. Each reviewing agency shall have fifteen (15) days from receipt
of the tentative map to file written comments recommending approval,
conditional approval, or disapproval of the proposal and stating the reasons
thereof.
   B.   If any part of the proposed subdivision lies within one mile of the
boundary of any incorporated city, a copy of the tentative map shall be
submitted to the city clerk or planning commission of such city, by the
subdivider, as appropriate.
   C.   If a state highway traverses or borders upon or is located within one
hundred feet (100') of any part of the proposed subdivision, a copy of the
tentative map shall be submitted, by the subdivider, to the district office of
the state department of transportation.
   D.   A copy of the tentative map shall be submitted, by the planning
commission, to the board of trustees of the county school district. The board
of trustees shall have fifteen (15) days after the receipt of such copy to
notify the planning commission whether a school site is needed within the area
proposed for subdivision.
   E.   If the proposed subdivision lies within an area included within a
general improvement district, a copy of the tentative map shall be sent, by the
planning commission, to the board of directors of the district for review and
comment. The board of directors shall have thirty (30) days to comment on the
proposal.
   F.   If the proposed subdivision lies within an area included within an
irrigation district, a copy of the tentative map shall be sent, by the planning
commission, to the board of directors of the district for review and comment.
The board of directors shall have thirty (30) days to comment on the proposal.
   G.   When a tentative map proposes water or services for the disposal of
sewage subject to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 704.6672, a copy of
the map shall be sent, by the planning commission, to the public service
commission of Nevada for their information.
   H.   A copy of the tentative map shall be submitted to the Lincoln County
flood control board for their review of potential flooding and inundation
hazards, if there is not a flood control board seated, then the planning
commission may require a civil engineer review for public safety to be paid for
by the developer. The flood control board shall have thirty (30) days to
comment on the proposal.
   I.   If the proposed subdivision lies within the boundaries of an
unincorporated town, a copy of the tentative map shall be sent to the advisory
town board for review and comment. The subdivider must appear before the town
board and obtain their approval prior to being approved by the planning
commission. The advisory town board shall have thirty (30) days to approve/
disapprove the proposal.
   J.   A copy of the tentative subdivision map shall be referred to each
utility agency providing gas, telephone, power, culinary water and sanitary
sewer and to the county surveyor and recorder for checking and recommendation
concerning the availability of service, easements, required problems to be
solved, etc. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17C-9: PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION:
Within sixty (60) days after the second review of the tentative map the
planning commission shall consider all such evidence as presented by the
developer, the boards, agencies and others reviewing the map, and staff, and
shall make such findings relative to the tentative map as are not consistent
with the laws of the state or with this chapter. The planning commission shall
recommend to the board of county commissioners to approve, disapprove or
conditionally approve the tentative map by written report to said board stating
the basis for their recommendation. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17C-10: PLANNING COMMISSION REVIEW:
   A.   The planning commission must review, at least, all of the following:
      1.   Environmental and health laws and regulations concerning water and
air pollution, solid waste disposal, water supply facilities, community or
public sewage disposal and, where applicable, individual systems for sewage
disposal;
      2.   Availability of water which meets applicable health standards and is
sufficient in quantity for the reasonably foreseeable needs of the subdivision,
and if served by a public water system, plans must be submitted for water meter
installation to serve each water user;
      3.   Availability and accessibility of utilities;
      4.   Availability and accessibility of public services such as schools,
police protection, transportation, recreation and parks;
      5.   Conformity with the zoning ordinances and master plan, except that
if any existing ordinance is inconsistent with the master plan, the zoning
ordinance takes precedence;
      6.   General conformity with the master plan of streets and highways;
      7.   Effect of the proposed subdivision on existing public streets and
the need for new streets or highways to serve the subdivision;
      8.   Physical land characteristics such as floodplain, slope, soil;
      9.   The availability and accessibility of fire protection, including,
but not limited to, the availability and accessibility of water and services
for the protection and containment of fires, including fires in wild land;
      10.   Recommendations and comments of those entities reviewing the
tentative map pursuant to section
13-17C-9 of this article.
   B.   Any disapproval or conditional approval must include a statement of the
reason for that action.
   C.   The planning commission shall submit in writing to the county
commissioners facts and findings regarding the above requirements. The county
commission may accept or reject all or portions of this recommendation or they
may add to it as they see fit regarding public safety, infrastructure impacts,
roads, flood hazards and mitigation and other issues pertaining, but limited,
to the implementation of the county master plan. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17C-11: ACTION OF BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Within sixty (60) days of receipt of the planning commission's written
facts and findings regarding the proposed map, after full review of the
recommendation, the board of county commissioners shall, by a majority vote of
the members present, approve, conditionally approve, or disapprove a tentative
map filed with it.
   B.   The board of county commissioners may consider:
      1.   Any and all requirements that the planning commission reviewed.
      2.   Any public safety, health, school, infrastructure impacts, and make
additional requirements, require a development agreement, a performance bond,
or deny the tentative map based upon written findings.
      3.   If the map is denied, the appropriate county entities shall be
notified in writing by the county commission that said map has been denied and
cannot be recorded or lots sold from the map as denied by the county
commissioners.
      4.   No map shall be considered for approval by the county commissioners
until all required signatures up to this approval are on the Mylar and
notarized. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17C-12: EXTENSION OF TIME:
The time limitations specified in this article for acting and reporting on a
tentative map by the planning commission and the board of county commissioners
may be extended by mutual consent of the subdivider and the planning commission
or board of county commissioners, as the case may be. The time limitation for
action on a tentative map may be suspended for a period, not to exceed one
year, if during that time the state of Nevada or the federal government takes
any action to protect the environment or an endangered species which prohibits,
stops or delays the processing of a tentative map. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE D. SUBDIVISION; FINAL MAP STANDARDS
SECTION:
13-17D-1: Presentation And Recordation Of Final Map
13-17D-2: Map Standards
13-17D-3: Title
13-17D-4: Certificates
13-17D-5: Surveying Data; Lots
13-17D-6: Surveying Data; Streets
13-17D-7: Easement Designation
13-17D-8: Existing Monument Designation
13-17D-9: Other Map Requirements
13-17D-10: Submission To Board Of County Commissioners
13-17D-11: Filing Of Improvement Plans
13-17D-12: Approval By Board Of County Commissioners
13-17D-13: Clerk To Notify Subdivider Of Board's Action
13-17D-14: Filing For Recordation
13-17D-15: Compliance Required For Recordation
13-17D-16: Dedication Of Property
13-17D-1: PRESENTATION AND RECORDATION OF FINAL MAP:
   A.   Unless the time is extended the subdivider shall present to the board
of county commissioners the final map, prepared in accordance with the
tentative map, for the entire area for which a tentative map has been approved,
or one of a series of final maps, each covering a portion of the approved
tentative map, within one year or within successive one year periods after the
date of approval of the tentative map, if in the development agreement phases
were approved.
   B.   At the time of filing a final map with the board of county
commissioners, the board may require the payment of a final map review fee to
cover the costs of hiring a professional land surveyor or registered civil
engineer to examine and evaluate the final map for the board in lieu of the
county surveyor. The amount of the fee shall be determined by the board of
county commissioners, however, the total fee shall not exceed the actual costs
incurred by the county to hire such expertise to review the final map.
   C.   If the subdivider fails to record a final map for any portion of the
tentative map within one year after the date of approval of the tentative map,
or within one year after the date of approval of the most recently recorded
final map, all proceedings concerning the subdivision are terminated. There
shall be no refund of fees paid up to this date and all reviews will begin
again with the planning commission.
   D.   The board of county commissioners may grant an extension of not more
than one year for the presentation of any final map after the one year period
for presenting the entire final map or next successive final map has expired.
If in the interim between approval of maps there is an entirely new board of
commissioners, they may refer back to the planning commission for review and
recommendation. They may also require documentation of approvals be presented
with the map.
   E.   The time limitation for action on a final map may be suspended for a
period, not to exceed one year, during which the state of Nevada or the federal
government takes any action to protect the environment or an endangered species
which prohibits, stops or delays the development, processing or recordation of
a final map.
   F.   If the subdivider is presenting in a timely manner a series of final
maps, each covering a portion of the approved tentative map, no requirement
other than those imposed on each of the final maps in the series may be placed
on the map when an extension of time is granted unless the requirement is
directly attributable to a change in applicable laws which affect the public
health, safety or welfare. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-2: MAP STANDARDS:
   A.   The final subdivision map shall be clearly and legibly drawn upon
tracing cloth of good quality or produced by the use of other materials of a
permanent nature generally used for such purposes. All lines, letters and
figures shall be made in permanent black ink. Certificates may be stamped or
printed with permanent black ink. The size of each sheet of the map shall be
twenty four inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32"). A marginal line shall be
drawn completely around each sheet. Leaving an entirely blank margin of one
inch (1") at the top, bottom, and right edges, and of two inches (2") at the
left edge along the twenty four inch (24") dimension. The name, title, or other
designation, and all drawings, affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments,
endorsements, acceptance of dedication, and notarial seals shall be within the
marginal line.
   B.   The scale to which the drawing is made shall be large enough to show
the details clearly, and enough sheets shall be used to accomplish this end.
Each sheet shall be numbered. The relation of one sheet to another shall be
clearly shown, and the number of sheets used shall be set forth in the title of
the map.
   C.   In addition, the map must be submitted in digital format. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-3: TITLE:
   A.   The first sheet shall contain the title conspicuously placed in the
lower right hand corner of the map. Below the title shall be a subtitle
consisting of a general description of all the property being subdivided, by
reference to deeds or to maps which have been recorded, or to official United
States survey. In addition, the map must have the vicinity drawing on the first
sheet.
   B.   Every sheet comprising the map proper shall bear the title (but not
subtitle), scale, north point, and sheet number. The title sheet shall show, in
addition, the basis of bearings, the names of the engineer and subdivider, and
a location diagram. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-4: CERTIFICATES:
Prior to recording, the following certificates and acknowledgments shall appear
on the final map and may be combined when appropriate:
   A.   A certificate signed and acknowledged by all record owners:
      1.   Consenting to the preparation and recordation of the final map;
      2.   Offering for dedication that part of the land which the person
wishes to dedicate for public use, subject to any reservation contained
therein;
      3.   Reserving any parcel from dedication;
      4.   Granting any permanent easement for utility installation or access,
as designated on the final map, together with a statement approving such
easement, signed by the public utility or person in whose favor the easement is
created or whose services are required.
   B.   A certificate signed and acknowledged by a title company certifying
that each person signing the final map owns a record of interest in the land
and that all of the owners of record of the land have signed the final map, and
that there are no liens of record per Nevada Revised Statutes 278.374.
   C.   A certificate of the surveyor responsible for the survey and final map
in the form specified in Nevada Revised Statutes 278.375.
   D.   A certificate of the county surveyor, or the professional land surveyor
or registered civil engineer reviewing such final map for the county, stating
that he has examined the final map and that he is satisfied that the map is
technically correct. If the required monuments have not been set, the
certificate shall certify that a proper performance bond has been deposited
guaranteeing their setting on or before a certain day.
   E.   A certificate of the health division of the state department of human
resources indicating that the final map is approved concerning sewage disposal,
water pollution, water quality and water supply facilities.
   F.   A certificate of the division of water resources of the state
department of conservation and natural resources indicating that the final map
is approved concerning water quantity.
   G.   A certificate by the clerk of the governing body stating that the final
map was approved by the board of county commissioners or county planning
commission, that the board has accepted or rejected on behalf of the public any
parcel of land offered for dedication, and that the final map substantially
complies with the tentative map and all conditions have been met. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-5: SURVEYING DATA; LOTS:
Sufficient data must be shown to determine readily the bearing and length of
every lot line, block line, and boundary line. Linear dimension shall be
expressed in feet and decimals of a foot. No ditto marks shall be used. Lots
containing two (2) acres or more must show acreage to the nearest hundredth of
an acre. Lots containing less than two (2) acres must have their area
calculated in square feet. The length, radius and total delta and length of arc
of all centerline curves on streets and lengths of arc and delta of each curved
lot boundary must be shown. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-6: SURVEYING DATA; STREETS:
The map shall show the centerline of all streets, the total width of each
street, the width of the portion being dedicated and the width of existing
dedication. The width of any railroad right of way, flood control or drainage
channel, and any other easement appearing on the map shall be shown. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-7: EASEMENT DESIGNATION:
The map shall show the lines of all easements to which the lots are subject.
Easement for storm drains, sewers, and other purposes shall be denoted by fine
dashed or dotted lines. The width of the easement, and lengths and bearings of
lines thereof, and sufficient dimensions and ties to locate the easement
definitely with respect to the subdivision shall be shown.
The easement shall be clearly labeled and identified, and if already of record,
proper reference to the records given. If the easement is being dedicated a
separate map is required and it shall be properly set out in the owner's
certificate of dedication. All lots shall still conform to current zoning after
dedication of the roads. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-8: EXISTING MONUMENT DESIGNATION:
The map shall show clearly what stakes, monuments, or other evidence was found
on the ground to determine the boundaries of the tract. The corners of all
adjoining subdivisions or portions thereof shall be identified by lot number,
tract name, and place of record, or by section, township, and range, or by
other proper designation. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-9: OTHER MAP REQUIREMENTS:
The exterior boundary of the land included within the subdivision shall be
indicated by graphic border. Each lot and block must be numbered or lettered in
sequence and each street must be named. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-10: SUBMISSION TO BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
The final map, together with all certificates as required by law, shall be
prepared and submitted in ten (10) copies and one reproducible copy to the
clerk of the board of county commissioners. The clerk of the board shall submit
one copy each of the map to the board of county commissioners, the county
surveyor, assessor and district attorney, planning office and other offices
requiring updates. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-11: FILING OF IMPROVEMENT PLANS:
The subdivider shall file with the clerk of the board of county commissioners
two (2) copies of the complete plans covering the improvements of streets,
alleys, curb and gutters, sidewalks, proposal for surface drainage, culinary
water supply and sewage disposal including water and sewer mains, hydrants,
etc., and such other plans as may be required together with a detailed estimate
of the one copy of all plans and estimates to the county surveyor for a review
and report on the accuracy and completeness of the plans and estimates filed.
The county surveyor shall submit the report on the plans and estimates to the
clerk of the board of county commissioners within twenty one (21) days of
receipt. The cost of this review is to be paid by the applicant. (Ord. 2005-10,
1-3-2006)
13-17D-12: APPROVAL BY BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
The board of county commissioners at its next meeting, or within a period of
not more than ten (10) days after the filing, shall approve the map if it
conforms to all legal requirements; and the board of county commissioners
shall, at that time also, accept or reject any or all offers of dedication, and
may, as a condition to acceptance of any streets or easements, require that the
subdivider, at his option, either improve or agree to improve the streets or
easements. The board of county commissioners may also require as a condition
precedent to the approval of any final map, that any or all of the parcels of
land shown thereon and intended for any public use shall be offered for
dedication for public use, except those parcels, other than streets, intended
for the exclusive use of the lot owners in the subdivision, their licensees,
visitors, tenants and servants. If an agreement for a required improvement has
been entered into, the board of county commissioners may require that the
agreement be secured by a good and sufficient bond or other security in the
amount determined by the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-17D-13: CLERK TO NOTIFY SUBDIVIDER OF BOARD'S ACTION:
The clerk of the board of county commissioners shall notify the subdivider, or
his authorized agent, of the action of the board of county commissioners. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-14: FILING FOR RECORDATION:
   A.   A final map presented to the county recorder for recording must include
a certificate by the clerk of the governing body, or planning commission,
director of planning or other authorized person or agency:
      1.   Approving the map;
      2.   Accepting or rejecting on behalf of the public any parcel of land
offered for dedication for public use in conformity with the terms of the offer
of dedication; and
      3.   If applicable, determining that a public street, easement or utility
easement that will not remain in effect after a merger and resubdivision of
parcels conducted, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.4925, has been
vacated or abandoned in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 278.480.
   B.   The director of planning, shall certify on the final map that it
substantially complies with the tentative map and all conditions have been met.
   C.   The clerk of the planning commission shall cause the approved map to be
presented to the county recorder for recording. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-15: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED FOR RECORDATION:
   A.   No final map of a subdivision as defined in Nevada Revised Statutes
shall be accepted by the county recorder for recording unless all applicable
provisions of the Nevada Revised Statutes and this chapter have been complied
with.
   B.   The county recorder may have not more than ten (10) days to examine the
final map before accepting or refusing it for recordation.
   C.   Any final map submitted for recordation shall be accompanied by a
written statement signed by the county treasurer indicating that all property
taxes on the land for the fiscal year have been paid. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17D-16: DEDICATION OF PROPERTY:
Title to property dedicated or accepted for streets and easements passes when
the final map is recorded if the roads are accepted by the county commission.
If at the time the final map is approved any streets are rejected, the offer of
dedication shall be deemed to remain open, and the board of county
commissioners may by resolution at any later date and without further action by
the subdivider, rescind its action and accept and open the streets for public
use. Such an acceptance must be recorded in the office of the county recorder
and be accompanied by a separate map depicting every easement that is
dedicated. Dedication of roads cannot create parcels that do not conform to the
current zoning. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE E. SUBDIVISION; DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
13-17E-1: Compliance With Article Required
13-17E-2: Relation Of Block And Streets To Topography
13-17E-3: Continuation Of Street Centerlines
13-17E-4: Street Names
13-17E-5: Primary And Secondary Highway Widths
13-17E-6: Street And Local Road Widths
13-17E-7: Street Grades
13-17E-8: Intersections
13-17E-9: Dead End Streets
13-17E-10: Reserve Strips
13-17E-11: Alleys
13-17E-12: Easements
13-17E-13: Lots
13-17E-1: COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLE REQUIRED:
No tentative or final subdivision map shall be approved by the board of county
commissioners until and unless the map or maps indicate full compliance with
the requirements of this article. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17E-2: RELATION OF BLOCK AND STREETS TO TOPOGRAPHY:
Topographic conditions shall determine the general pattern and alignment of
streets, highways, and byways. Roads on maps shall conform to the topographic
reality of the property. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17E-3: CONTINUATION OF STREET CENTERLINES:
The arrangement of streets shall provide for the direct continuation of the
centerline of the principal existing streets or highways adjacent or adjoining
subdivided areas. In general, such streets shall have a width at least as great
as existing streets. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17E-4: STREET NAMES:
Streets that are extensions of or obviously in alignment with existing streets
shall bear the names of the existing streets. The names of new streets shall be
subject to the approval of the county planning commission and shall not
duplicate existing streets, except as provided above. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17E-5: PRIMARY AND SECONDARY HIGHWAY WIDTHS:
The width of a primary highway shall not be less than one hundred feet (100'),
and the width of a secondary highway shall not be less than eighty feet (80').
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17E-6: STREET AND LOCAL ROAD WIDTHS:
The standard width of all streets and local roads shall be consistent with the
local community design and Lincoln County road department standards or forty
feet (40'), but the requirement that a forty foot (40') right of way be
dedicated may be modified and a lesser width approved under such conditions as
the board of county commissioners, as advised by the road supervisor and
planning commission, may prescribe. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17E-7: STREET GRADES:
Street grades shall not exceed seven percent (7%) unless topographical
conditions make grades in excess of seven percent (7%) necessary. On primary
and secondary highways the maximum grade shall be six percent (6%). (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
13-17E-8: INTERSECTIONS:
The intersections of streets shall be at an angle of ninety degrees (90°), or
as close to such an angle as is practicable, but in no case shall an
intersection be at an angle less than thirty degrees (30°). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-17E-9: DEAD END STREETS:
Where necessary to give access to or permit a satisfactory subdivision of
adjoining land, streets shall run through to the boundary of the property and
the resulting dead end streets may be approved without a turnaround, provided
they are ninety feet (90') in width; but in all other cases a turnaround having
a radius of sixty feet (60') or more shall be provided. All dead end streets
must meet approval of emergency service providers in the area, and provide
adequate space for turnarounds and emergency services. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17E-10: RESERVE STRIPS:
Narrow parcels or reserve strips controlling access to streets or highways from
adjoining property will not be approved, unless the control or disposal of such
land is placed under the jurisdiction of the board of county commissioners
subject to takings review, under conditions satisfactory to the board. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17E-11: ALLEYS:
An alley having a minimum width of twenty feet (20') shall be laid out in the
rear of proposed commercial lots. In residential blocks the provision of alleys
is optional with the subdivider, but where they are provided, the minimum width
shall be twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17E-12: EASEMENTS:
Where alleys are not provided, public utilities easements not less than six
feet (6') in width, shall be provided on each side of rear lot lines and along
side lines, where necessary. When an easement on only one side of a lot line is
required, it shall have a width of twelve feet (12'). Easements of greater
width will be required along natural watercourses, conforming substantially to
the lines of such channel. These easements shall be defined in a development
agreement and meet with any and all other plans in use at the time. Easements
shall be defined on a case by case basis. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17E-13: LOTS:
The size and shape of lots shall be in conformance to any zoning regulations
effective for the area of the proposed subdivision, provided that in areas in
which no zoning regulations are in effect, lots shall not be less than sixty
feet (60') in width nor less than six thousand (6,000) square feet in area, nor
less than eighty feet (80') in depth, provided that for corner lots the width
shall not be less than seventy feet (70'). In no case shall the depth be
greater than three (3) times the width of a lot.
   A.   The side lines of all lots, so far as possible, shall be at right
angles to the street which the lot faces, or radial or approximately radial to
the street if the street is curved.
   B.   No lot shall be divided by a city boundary line.
   C.   Lot numbers or letter shall begin with the number "1" or letter "A" and
shall continue consecutively throughout the block with no omissions or
duplications. Clarification of the numbering system utilized may be required by
the planning commission to avoid confusion. This may be done on the inset map
showing all of the applicant's neighboring holdings.
   D.   Lots without frontage on a public street will not be permitted.
   E.   All lots shall be suitable for the purpose for which they are intended
to be sold. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE F. SUBDIVISION; SURVEYS AND MONUMENTS
SECTION:
13-17F-1: Survey Required For Final Map
13-17F-2: Monuments, Generally
13-17F-3: Monument Setting
13-17F-4: Monument Specifications
13-17F-5: Marking Lots For Identification Purposes
13-17F-6: Bond Or Deposit To Guarantee Placement
13-17F-1: SURVEY REQUIRED FOR FINAL MAP:
Before a final map of a land development can be prepared or submitted, an
accurate and complete boundary survey of the building sites, blocks, roads,
easements, and boundaries shall be made by a professional land surveyor
registered in the state of Nevada. The final monuments must be set before the
recordation of the final map unless a performance bond or other suitable
assurance has been provided as specified in section
13-17F-6 of this article. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17F-2: MONUMENTS, GENERALLY:
Monuments shall be set as specified in section
13-17F-3 of this article and shall be permanently and visibly marked or tagged
with the registration and license number of the surveyor under whose
supervision the survey was made and a description of each monument to be set
subsequent to recordation shall be shown on the final map. Tags set in iron
pipes shall be grouted with mortar. Minimum allowable error of closure shall be
one ten- thousandth (0.0001). Closure for an exterior boundary traverse shall
be one one-thousandth (0.001) and the engineer shall furnish to the county
engineer at the time of filing of the final map the traverse sheets showing
mathematic closure together with such other data as may be required for
checking. Temperature and tension correction shall be applied to all measured
distances in conformance with the standard adopted by the federal board of
surveys and maps in May, 1925. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17F-3: MONUMENT SETTING:
The engineer or surveyor in charge of surveys shall cause permanent monuments
to be set in accordance with this section.
   A.   A class A monument shall be set as follows:
      1.   On each corner of the land development boundary;
      2.   Along boundary lines of the development at intervals of not more
than one-fourth (1/4) mile;
      3.   At street intersections or by reference thereto;
      4.   On all block corners.
   B.   A class B monument shall be set on each building site corner. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17F-4: MONUMENT SPECIFICATIONS:
Monuments required in this chapter shall be as follows:
   A.   A class A monument shall consist of a capped iron pipe having an inside
diameter of two inches (2") or more or a six inch by twelve inch (6" x 12")
concrete monument or malleable metal capped steel shaft or its equivalent
thirty inches (30") long driven at least twenty four inches (24") into the
ground.
   B.   A class B monument shall consist of an iron pipe having an inside
diameter of three-fourths (3/4) of an inch or more and at least eighteen inches
(18") long, driven at least twelve inches (12") in the ground, extending
between four inches (4") and six inches (6") above the surface and having a
stamped galvanized cap or a steel reinforcing bar with a minimum diameter of
five- eighths (5/8) of an inch and at least eighteen inches (18") long, driven
in the ground at least twelve inches (12") and extending above the surface of
the ground at least six inches (6") with the top painted red.
   C.   Where a monument is set in a paved street, it shall be set with the top
at least four inches (4") below finish grade and be covered with a cast iron
cover set flush with the finished street grade.
   D.   If a class A monument cannot be set because of steep terrain, water,
marsh or existing structures, or if it would be obliterated as a result of
proposed construction, one or more reference monuments must be set. In addition
to the physical requirement for a class A monument set forth in subsection A of
this section, the letters "RM" and "WC" must be stamped in the tablet, disc or
cap. If only one reference monument is used, it must be set on the actual line
or a prolongation thereof. Otherwise, at least two (2) reference monuments must
be set.
   E.   By order entered in the minutes, the board of county commissioners may
authorize placement of other specified kinds of monuments in a special
development. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17F-5: MARKING LOTS FOR IDENTIFICATION PURPOSES:
The developer shall indicate or post markers which will show the approximate
corners of building sites so as to enable a determination whether such
development will comply with applicable sanitary, pollution and other
provisions of county and state law. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17F-6: BOND OR DEPOSIT TO GUARANTEE PLACEMENT:
   A.   Where the certificate of the land surveyor states that all the
monuments will be set on or before a specified later date, the developer shall
furnish to the county a performance bond or other suitable assurance
guaranteeing the subdivider will provide a professional land surveyor to set
the monuments. The board of county commissioners shall determine the required
amount of the performance bond; and
   B.   Within five (5) days after the final setting of all monuments has been
completed by the land surveyor, written notice shall be given to the county
engineer that final monuments have been set. After setting the final monuments,
the developer shall present to the county engineer evidence of same together
with a request that his bond be released or other assurance be returned. The
county shall immediately thereafter release the bond or other assurance to the
depositor. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE G. SUBDIVISION; REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
13-17G-1: Generally
13-17G-2: Development Agreement To Make Improvements
13-17G-3: Performance Bond Or Deposit
13-17G-4: Assessment District Proceedings
13-17G-5: Acceptance Of Work
13-17G-6: Inspection And Control
13-17G-7: Inspection Fee
13-17G-8: Prosecution Of Work; Forfeit Of Deposit
13-17G-9: Improvement Standards For Submissions
13-17G-1: GENERALLY:
   A.   As a condition precedent to the acceptance of any features offered for
dedication to the public, and prior to the approval of the final map, the
developer shall agree to improve at his own expense and within a stated time,
all land so dedicated with such improvements required which may include
underground utilities or other public safety or community standardization, and
the final map of any such land development shall not be approved until either
such features have been improved as required or the developer has executed an
agreement to so improve such features as secured by a bond or cash deposit as
set forth in section
13-17G-3 of this article. Trunk sewer lines, other improvements not solely for
the benefit of the subject subdivision, and full improvements of primary and
secondary routes shall not be required unless included within the developer's
agreement; however, the developer shall be held to his proportion of all of
these improvements. The amount of said fair participation shall be decided by
the board of county commissioners.
   B.   Whenever the installation of roads, sewers, water systems or drainage
facilities is required of the developer, and such improvements are of benefit
and value to land other than that located within the development, the board of
county commissioners may enter into an agreement with the developer to
reimburse him in whole or part for the use of such improvements by the lands
other than those improved by the developer and the board of county
commissioners may impose and collect a charge for use of such facilities. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17G-2: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS:
If, at the time the final map of the land development is considered for
approval, any of the improvements required by this chapter have not been
completed, the developer shall submit an agreement to complete all of such
improvements prior to the date fixed by the county and specified in the
agreement. The agreement to complete such improvements shall provide for the
acceptance of the work as it progresses, and for withdrawal of that portion of
any security posted as required equal to ninety percent (90%) of the estimated
cost of that portion of the work so accepted, as shown by the certificate of
the county surveyor under the rules established by resolution of the board of
county commissioners. The agreement shall also provide that the developer shall
repair, at his sole cost and expense, any hidden defect in workmanship or
materials which appears in the work within one year following acceptance of the
work by the board of county commissioners and for retention of ten percent
(10%) of the original amount of the security posted as required to secure
developer's obligation to repair such defects. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17G-3: PERFORMANCE BOND OR DEPOSIT:
   A.   The performance of any agreement to make improvements or to form an
assessment district in a land development shall be secured by a corporate
surety bond issued by a surety company authorized to do a general surety
business in the state, in a form approved by the district attorney, and a penal
sum equal to the established cost of complete required improvements computed by
the county surveyor. In lieu of such bond, the developer may submit a cash
deposit in the like amount as security for performance of such agreement.
   B.   Where all or part of the improvements required by this chapter are made
by assessment district proceedings providing for an awarded contract to
construct such improvements and the faithful performance of such contract is
secured by a surety bond approved by the district attorney in the amount of the
contract price, the amount of the bond or cash deposit required by this chapter
may be reduced by an amount equal to seventy five percent (75%) of such
faithful performance bond from and after filing of such approved faithful
performance bond with the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-17G-4: ASSESSMENT DISTRICT PROCEEDINGS:
In lieu of the agreement to make the improvements required by the board of
county commissioners, the developer shall submit an agreement to initiate and
consummate proceedings under an appropriate special assessment act or acts for
the formation of a special assessment district which includes the development,
or a part thereof, for the financing and construction of the improvements
required. Any such agreement shall also incorporate the requirements and
procedures contained in the resolution establishing procedures for acquisition
of public improvements by assessment district proceedings and any revision
thereof adopted by the board of county commissioners. The agreement to
consummate assessment district proceedings shall provide for the acceptance of
the work as it progresses and partial withdrawal of any deposit made, in money
or bond, to secure the faithful performance of the agreement upon the
certificate of the county surveyor. Any such agreement shall be in a form
approved by the district attorney. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17G-5: ACCEPTANCE OF WORK:
   A.   When all improvement work required by the improvement plans, or a
complete unit thereof, is complete to the satisfaction of the county planner,
he/she shall issue a certificate to the board of county commissioners stating
that such a portion of the work has been satisfactorily completed and that he
recommends the acceptance by the board of county commissioners of the completed
portion of the work.
   B.   Upon satisfactory completion of all work required to meet the
requirements of this chapter, and its acceptance by the board of county
commissioners, the commission shall file a notice of completion as to the
required improvements in the office of the county recorder.
   C.   Any unexpended cash deposits not required for completion of the work
shall be refunded. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17G-6: INSPECTION AND CONTROL:
   A.   All work done in constructing improvements and all materials furnished
shall be subject to the inspection of the county building department, and is
subject to building permits and fees for inspections.
   B.   The county building department shall have access to work at all times
during its construction and shall be furnished with each and every reasonable
facility for ascertaining that the materials as used and the workmanship are in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   If any of the work on improvements is done by the developer prior to
the approval of the improvement plans or prior to the inspection of the
improvements as required by the county building department, such work may be
rejected and shall be deemed to have been done at the risk and peril of the
developer. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17G-7: INSPECTION FEE:
Prior to the commencement of construction, the developer shall pay to the
county building department the cost for the inspection of the work and checking
and testing of the materials at the following rates:
 
Inspection Fee    Improvement Cost
                             
31/2 percent   $ 0.00 -     $ 50,000.00
31/4 percent   50,000.00 -  100,000.00
3 percent      100,000.00 - 200,000.00
23/4 percent   200,000.00 - 300,000.00
21/2 percent   300,000.00 and up
 
   A.   The cost of improvements as such shall be based on the estimated
construction cost, or on a construction contract if awarded prior to the filing
of the final map with the board of county commissioners. If any portion of the
work has been done at the time of depositing the fee, the developer shall pay
to the county building department all necessary costs plus fifteen percent
(15%) thereof for the inspection and testing required to verify the actual
quantity and quality of the work done. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17G-8: PROSECUTION OF WORK; FORFEIT OF DEPOSIT:
   A.   The developer shall prosecute the work to completion without undue
delay except for inclement weather or other reasonable cause.
   B.   Delay in the completion of the work beyond the period by the board of
county commissioners and the surety company, may result in forfeiture of the
cash deposit and/or security or a portion thereof for the completion of the
work. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17G-9: IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS FOR SUBMISSIONS:
   A.   The board of county commissioners or at the recommendation of the
county road supervisor may require, whether recommended by the planning
commission or not, the improvement, construction and/or installation of:
streets; curbs; gutters; sidewalks; drainage channels, ditches or bar ditches,
including culverts or other facilities; water supply and distribution system,
including water mains, water service connections and fire hydrants; sewage
collection and disposal systems, including mains and laterals; street name
signs; and underground utilities for any subdivision.
   B.   The application and requirements of improvements and facilities shall
be determined by the board of county commissioners based upon location, need
for improvements, topographic conditions, soil compaction in tests, existing
improvements in the vicinity and proposed use of the lots created by the
subdivision.
   C.   The standards of improvement may be up to and including those specified
in article H of this chapter.
   D.   The board of county commissioners may require all improvements
specified in article H of this chapter to be applied to a subdivision or may
require some of the improvements, or may require a level or standard of
improvements other than that specified.
   E.   A subdivider may construct or install improvements and facilities in a
subdivision which may be in excess or to a higher standard than that required
by the board of county commissioners. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE H. SUBDIVISION; IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
13-17H-1: Streets
13-17H-2: Curbs And Gutters
13-17H-3: Drainage
13-17H-4: Sidewalks
13-17H-5: Water Supply
13-17H-6: Wastewater Disposal
13-17H-7: Fire Hydrants
13-17H-8: Street Name Signs
13-17H-9: Underground Utilities
13-17H-1: STREETS:
All streets shown on the final map to be dedicated to, and if accepted by, the
county shall be constructed and improved to the following minimum standards
prior to acceptance by the county as a public street:
   A.   Have a right of way extending at least two feet (2') beyond those
places where the natural surface of the ground must be excavated or covered
with fill dirt and materials in constructing such cuts and fills which are
necessary to provide the roadbed and drainage ditches required.
   B.   The entire width of the right of way shall be cleared of all brush,
trees, stumps or other debris except that sound trees twelve inches (12") or
more in diameter may be left standing with the approval of the road supervisor
when within the right of way and within three feet (3') of the right of way.
   C.   Have a minimum paved surface of twenty feet (20') in case of one-half
(1/2) right of way boundary streets.
   D.   Where native soil is not suitable, the developer or contractor shall
excavate as needed and replace with a minimum of eight inches (8") of approved
and tested pit run or bank run material to bring subgrade to proper elevation.
Subbase to be scarified to not less than nine inches (9"), watered, and
recompacted to not less than ninety percent (90%) of the maximum density.
   E.   Be provided with necessary drainage ditches, culverts and structures,
built according to a drainage plan approved by the road supervisor, who may
require a drainage plan be prepared by a civil engineer registered in the state
and duly approved prior to commencement of road grading.
   F.   The base course shall consist of base materials that are crushed
gravel, screened riverbed gravel, or decomposed granite meeting the gradation
requirements specified by the road supervisor. The base thickness shall be
determined by the soil classification of the subgrade, and in no case shall be
less than six inches (6") for residential streets or nine inches (9") for
collectors and major streets. The road supervisor may require classification
test data to be submitted with the construction drawings, at the rate of one
test for every one thousand feet (1,000') of roadway being developed. On the
basis of these tests, and/or with field observations of the soils, the road
supervisor shall determine base thickness required.
   G.   Where a higher surface treatment is required by the board of county
commissioners:
      1.   A paved surface of plant mixed or road mixed asphalt shall be
applied to the roadbed and be compacted to a thickness of at least two and one-
half inches (21/2"). The design of the mix shall have the written approval of
the road supervisor before placing pavement. Where curbs and gutters are
involved, road mixed pavement will not be satisfactory; plant mix AC pavement
is mandatory.
      2.   A liquid asphalt prime coat of SC 250 grade liquid asphalt may
applied at the rate of at least two-tenths (0.2) of a gallon per square yard to
the entire width of the base coat.
      3.   In subdivisions where it is established that each lot therein
contains at least two (2) acres and is restricted to single- family use without
resubdivision possibility, or reduction in area or separation of ownership, and
where each lot has an adequate water supply available, this provision may be
waived.
   H.   Road shoulders shall extend at least three feet (3') past the edge of
the base course at the same elevation and slope as the roadway. The outside
edges of shoulders shall be sloped no greater than a two to one (2:1) slope.
Shoulders shall be compacted to not less than ninety percent (90%) of the
maximum density.
   I.   Bar ditches shall be no greater than twelve inches (12") deep unless
otherwise approved and shall be installed only as necessary to provide adequate
drainage.
   J.   All engineering costs, compaction tests and soil analysis tests are the
responsibility of, and shall be paid for, by the developer or contractor.
   K.   The developer or contractor shall be responsible for the condition and
maintenance of all streets and alleys constructed for a period of twelve (12)
months following completion of the streets and alleys. Any damage or settling
of the streets or alleys shall be repaired or replaced at the developer's or
contractor's expense. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17H-2: CURBS AND GUTTERS:
Where required by the board of county commissioners for drainage or safety or
other reasons curbs and gutters shall be installed to the following standards:
   A.   Flow line of curb and gutter shall have a minimum grade of three-tenths
of one percent (0.3%).
   B.   Curb returns shall have a minimum radius of ten feet (10').
   C.   Curbs and gutters shall be three thousand (3,000) psi concrete and
shall be "L" type construction with five inch (5") type II gravel subbase.
Minimum width varies with street design.
   D.   Valley gutters shall be three thousand (3,000) pound concrete, six feet
(6') in width at street intersections and two and one- half feet (21/2') in
width at alleys where required by the road commissioner, both to be six inches
(6") thick. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17H-3: DRAINAGE:
   A.   In the event that a proposed subdivision or any part thereof is
traversed by any major watercourse channel, the subdivider shall dedicate
adequate easements or rights of way for storm water drainage purposes.
   B.   No subdivision plat shall be considered for final approval until the
subdivider submits to the board of county commissioners a report prepared by a
registered engineer as to the ability of existing watercourse channels,
drainage tiles, gutters, culverts and other works pertaining to drainage or
flood control within the subdivision to handle the additional runoff which will
likely be generated by the development of the land within the subdivision.
   C.   The following standards shall apply:
      1.   Drainage channels shall be so designed as to maintain a minimum
velocity of two feet (2') per second and a maximum velocity of eight feet (8')
per second.
      2.   The subdivider shall submit to the county clerk for checking by the
county surveyor sufficient information in the form of maps and profiles
prepared by his surveyor or engineer to indicate the proper drainage of the
surface water to natural drainage courses or into city, county or state
drainage systems. If the same is across lands intended to be used as private
lots, rights of way or easements must be indicated in the proposed lot. The
location and width of easements must be indicated on the plat to be recorded
and marked "Easement Reserved for Surface Drainage". If it is deemed necessary
by the county, ditching shall be provided. If it is deemed expedient, the drain
shall be enclosed in pipe made to designed size and specification, and laid to
the grade and depth required by the county surveyor.
      3.   Circular culverts shall be reinforced concrete pipe with cement
joints or corrugated metal or metal arch pipe.
      4.   No drainage structure shall be permitted with a diameter of pipe
less than fifteen inches (15").
      5.   Standard head walls shall be placed on all circular culvert up to
seventy two inches (72") in diameter.
      6.   The design, size and material used shall comply with the
specifications of the county in all cases. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17H-4: SIDEWALKS:
Sidewalks shall be installed where, in the opinion of the board of county
commissioners, they are necessary for reasons of traffic safety or public
protection and welfare. Where required, sidewalks shall be constructed of four
inch (4") Portland cement concrete or two inch (2") asphaltic concrete on
prepared subgrade. Sidewalks shall have a minimum width of three feet (3').
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17H-5: WATER SUPPLY:
All water supply features shall be constructed and installed in compliance to
the "Standards Of The American Water Works Association", the "Standard
Specifications And Details For Public Works Construction" ("The Orange Book"),
and the "Regulations For Construction Of Public Water Systems" (NAC 445)
administered by the Nevada division of health, as appropriate. In addition to
these requirements, if a new community water system is to be installed, the
method of financing, system of construction, maintenance and operations must be
outlined. The board of county commissioners may require a bond or similar
security to the value of these improvements be held in escrow until such time
as the system is installed to the standards approved at the time of subdivision
review. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17H-6: WASTEWATER DISPOSAL:
All wastewater features shall be constructed and installed in compliance to the
"Standard Specifications And Details For Public Works Construction" ("The
Orange Book"), the international plumbing code and the "Regulations Governing
Individual Sewage Disposal Systems" (NAC 444) administered by the Nevada
division of health, as appropriate. In addition to these requirements, if a new
community wastewater system is to be constructed, the applicant must outline
the method of financing all system construction, operation and maintenance. The
board of county commissioners may require a bond or similar security to the
value of these improvements be held in escrow until such time as the system is
installed to the standards approved at the time of the subdivision review.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17H-7: FIRE HYDRANTS:
If required by the board of county commissioners, fire hydrants shall be
installed in compliance to the "Standard Specifications And Details For Public
Works Construction". (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17H-8: STREET NAME SIGNS:
At least one street sign of a type and character as approved by the board of
county commissioners shall be placed at each street intersection. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
13-17H-9: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES:
   A.   If required by the board of county commissioners for public safety or
continuity of surrounding community, all utilities for direct service to land
developments, building sites and structures shall be installed underground. The
owner or developer is responsible for complying with the requirements of this
section and shall make all the necessary arrangements for the installation of
such facilities.
   B.   For the purposes of this section, appurtenances and associated
equipment, such as, but not limited to, surface mounted transformers, pedestal
mounted terminal boxes, and meter cabinets and concealed ducts in underground
systems can be placed aboveground.
   C.   All underground utilities, sanitary sewers and storm drains installed
in streets, service roads, alleys or highways shall be constructed before the
surfacing of such street, service road, alley or highway. Service connections
for all underground utilities and sanitary sewers shall be laid so as to
obviate the necessity for disturbing the street or alley improvements when
service connections are made thereto. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE I. DIVISION INTO LARGE PARCELS
SECTION:
13-17I-1: Generally
13-17I-2: Application Of Article
13-17I-3: Filing Procedure
13-17I-4: Tentative Land Division Map; Requirements
13-17I-5: Planning Commission Action
13-17I-6: Final Land Division Map Requirements
13-17I-7: Filing With The County Recorder
13-17I-8: Recording The Map
13-17I-9: Effect Of Recordation
13-17I-1: GENERALLY:
All divisions into large parcels shall be accomplished in the manner set forth
in this article. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17I-2: APPLICATION OF ARTICLE:
   A.   A proposed division of land is subject to the provisions of this
article if each proposed lot is at least:
      1.   One sixty-fourth (1/64) of a section, as described by a government
land office survey, or
      2.   Ten (10) acres in area, including roads and easements.
   B.   A proposed division of land into lots or parcels, each of which
contains not less than one section or six hundred forty (640) acres, is not
subject to this article. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17I-3: FILING PROCEDURE:
   A.   Prior to proposed division of land as described in section
13-17I-2 of this article, the owner must file a tentative division into large
parcels map with the planning commission. The planning commission, upon
application, may waive the requirement for filing a tentative map. If a
tentative map is waived the applicant shall file a final map with the planning
commission subject to the requirements in section
13-17I-5 of this article. A tentative map filed shall:
      1.   Be submitted to the planning commission in a minimum of forty five
(45) days prior to the planning commission meeting at which the owner wishes to
be considered;
      2.   Indicate all contiguous holdings of the owner including land in the
"same ownership", with an indication of the portion which is proposed to be
subdivided;
      3.   Be prepared in conformance with section
13-17I-4 of this article;
      4.   Include such other information necessary for review of the tentative
map that the planning commission may regularly require, including takings
checklist and review for potential takings lawsuits;
      5.   Be accompanied with a filing fee as established by the current fee
schedule on file in the planning office.
   B.   Filings will not be considered complete and will not be set for
consideration until all the information required herein is submitted.
   C.   Ten (10) copies of the tentative map shall be filed with the planning
commission. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17I-4: TENTATIVE LAND DIVISION MAP; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   This map must be:
      1.   Entitled "Tentative Map Of Division Into Large Parcels", and
      2.   Prepared and certified by a professional land surveyor.
   B.   This map must show:
      1.   The approximate, calculated or actual acreage of each lot and the
total acreage of the land to be divided;
      2.   Any roads or easements of access which exist including RS 2477
rights of way, are proposed in an applicable master plan, or are proposed by
the person who intends to divide the land;
      3.   Any easements for public utilities which exist or which are
proposed;
      4.   Any existing easements for irrigation or drainage, any normally
continuously flowing watercourses and all floodways and flood hazard areas as
shown on maps prepared by the federal emergency management agency and which
otherwise are known to exist;
      5.   Any indication of any existing road or easement which the owner does
not intend to dedicate;
      6.   The name and address of the owner(s) of the land. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-
3-2006)
13-17I-5: PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION:
   A.   All tentative maps must be considered by the planning commission. The
planning commission shall, within sixty (60) days after receiving a tentative
map, review the map to determine if the requirements enumerated in section
13-17I-4 of this article have been complied with. When the planning commission
has determined that all requirements have been met and satisfactorily complied
with the planning commission may approve the map.
   B.   The planning commission may within the sixty (60) day period, designate
the location and width of any easements for roads and public utilities as shown
on the master plan, if there is one applicable to the area to be divided, or
designate the location and width of any easements for roads and public
utilities which may be reasonably necessary to serve the area to be divided.
      1.   After the planning commission has approved the tentative map or
waived the requirement of its filing, or after the expiration of sixty (60)
days from the date of its filing, whichever is sooner, the owner who proposes
to divide the land may file a final map of the division with the planning
commission.
      2.   The final map must be accompanied by a written statement signed by
the treasurer of the county indicating that all property taxes on the land for
the fiscal year have been paid.
   C.   The planning commission must approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove the map filed, basing its action on the requirements of Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.472 and section
13-17I-6 of this article within forty five (45) days after its filing. Except
as otherwise provided in subsections D and E of this section if the county
planning commission neither approves nor disapproves the map within forty five
(45) days, the map shall be deemed approved unconditionally.
   D.   If the final map divides the land into sixteen (16) lots or more, a map
shall not be deemed approved, unless:
      1.   Each lot contains an access road that is suitable for use by
emergency vehicles; and
      2.   The corners of each lot are set by a professional land surveyor.
   E.   If the final map divides the land into fifteen (15) lots or less, the
planning commission may, if reasonably necessary, require the map to comply
with the provisions of subsection D of this section.
   F.   If the map is disapproved, the planning commission shall return the map
to the owner who proposes to divide the land, with the reason for its action
and statement of what changes would be necessary to render the map acceptable.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17I-6: FINAL LAND DIVISION MAP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   This map must be:
      1.   Entitled "Map Of Division Into Large Parcels";
      2.   Filed with the planning commission within one year from the date
that the tentative map was first filed with the planning commission or when the
requirement for filing a tentative map was waived;
      3.   Prepared by a professional land surveyor;
      4.   Based upon an actual survey by the preparer and show the date of
such survey and contain the certificate of the surveyor required pursuant to
Nevada Revised Statutes 278.375;
      5.   Clearly and legibly drawn in black permanent black ink upon good
tracing cloth or produced by the use of other materials of a permanent nature
generally used for such purpose in the engineering profession. Affidavits,
certificates and acknowledgments must be legibly stamped or printed upon the
map with permanent black ink;
      6.   Twenty four inches by thirty two inches (24" x 32") in size with the
marginal line drawn completely around each sheet, leaving an entirely blank
margin of one inch (1") at the top, bottom, and right edges, and of two inches
(2") at the left edge along the twenty four inch (24") dimension;
      7.   Of a scale large enough to show clearly all details, and in
addition, the required maps must be submitted in a digital format compliant
with the county GIS format.
   B.   The particular number of the sheet and the total sheets comprising the
map must be stated on each of the sheets, and its relation to each adjoining
sheet must be clearly shown.
   C.   This map must show and define:
      1.   All subdivision lots by number and actual acreage of each lot, if
under two (2) acres must show square footage.
      2.   Any roads or easements of access which exist and which the owner
intends to offer for dedication, any roads or easements of access which are
shown on the applicable master plan, and all roads or easements of access which
are specially required by the planning commission or board of county
commissioners; placing dedications on a map does not mean that the county has
to accept or will accept roads, easements or right of way for dedications.
      3.   Any easement for public utilities which exist or are proposed.
      4.   Any existing easements for irrigation or drainage, any normally
continuously flowing watercourse, and all floodways and flood hazard areas as
on maps prepared by the federal emergency management agency and which otherwise
are known to exist. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17I-7: FILING WITH THE COUNTY RECORDER:
The map filed with the county recorder must include:
   A.   A certificate signed and acknowledged by the owners(s) of the land
consenting to the dedication of the roads and granting of the easements;
   B.   A certificate signed by the clerk of the board of county commissioners
that the map was approved, or the affidavit of the owner presenting the map for
filing that the time limited by section
13-17I-5 of this article for the action by the board of county commissioners
has expired and the requirements of subsections D and E of this section have
been met;
   C.   A written statement signed by the treasurer of the county indicating
that all property taxes on the land for the fiscal year have been paid;
   D.   A report from a title company which:
      1.   Lists the names of:
         a.   Each owner of record of the land to be divided, and
         b.   Each holder of record of a security interest in the land to be
divided, if the security interest was created by a mortgage or a deed of trust.
      2.   Shows that there are no liens of record against the subject
property;
   E.   The signature of each owner of record of the land to be divided;
   F.   Written consent of each holder of record of a security interest listed
pursuant to subsection D1b of this section, to the preparation and recordation
of the final map. A holder of record may consent by signing:
      1.   The final map; or
      2.   A separate document that is filed with the final map and declares
his consent to the division of the land. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17I-8: RECORDING THE MAP:
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to file the original map with the
county recorder within thirty (30) days after approval. Simultaneously with the
filing of the map, the owner shall cause such other legal documents as shall be
required by the county, such as grants of easements, NDOT permits, or copies of
deed restrictions, to be recorded. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17I-9: EFFECT OF RECORDATION:
   A.   Recordation of the final map with the county recorder shall operate as
the continuing.
      1.   Offer to dedicate for public roads the areas shown as proposed roads
or easements of access, which the board of county commissioners may accept in
whole or in part at any time or from time to time, but which are not
automatically accepted by recordation of the map;
      2.   Offer to grant the easements shown for public utilities, which any
public utility may similarly accept, with the approval of the board of county
commissioners, without excluding any other public utility whose presence is
physically compatible.
   B.   After map has been filed with the county recorder, any lot shown
thereon may be conveyed by reference to the map, without further description.
   C.   The county recorder shall charge and collect, for recording the final
map the fee currently shown on the schedule of fees on file in the recorder's
office. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE J. PARCEL MAPS
SECTION:
13-17J-1: Generally
13-17J-2: Exemptions
13-17J-3: Survey Requirements
13-17J-4: County Action On Parcel Map
13-17J-5: Form And Contents Of A Parcel Map
13-17J-6: Requirements Which May Be Imposed By The Planning Commission
13-17J-7: Adjustment Of Boundary Lines
13-17J-8: Filing And Recording Of An Approved Parcel Map
13-17J-9: Effect Of Recordation
13-17J-1: GENERALLY:
   A.   Any person who proposes to divide any land for transfer or development
into four (4) lots or less shall file twelve (12) copies of the proposed parcel
map with the planning commission, unless such division is exempted by section
13-17J-2 of this article or the parcels to be created are all in excess of ten
(10) acres in area and are subject to the requirements of article I of this
chapter.
   B.   The map must be accompanied by a written statement by the treasurer of
the county indicating that all property taxes on the land for the fiscal year
have been paid.
   C.   A filing fee as shown on the schedule of fees on file in the planning
office shall be paid to Lincoln County upon the filing of the proposed parcel
map. The fee is nonrefundable. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17J-2: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   A parcel map is not required when the land division is for the express
purpose of:
      1.   Creation or realignment of a public right of way by a public agency;
      2.   Creation or realignment of an easement;
      3.   Adjustment of a boundary line between two (2) abutting parcels or
the transfer of land between two (2) owners of abutting parcels which does not
result in the creation of any additional parcels, when the provisions of
section
13-17J-7 of this article have been complied with;
      4.   Purchase, transfer or development of space within an apartment
building, condominium, cooperative, or an industrial or commercial building;
      5.   Carrying out an order of any court or dividing land as a result of
an operation of law.
   B.   A parcel map is not required for any of the following transactions
involving land:
      1.   Creation of a lien, mortgage, deed of trust, or any other security
instrument;
      2.   Creation of a security or unit of interest in any investment trust
regulated under the laws of the state of Nevada or any other interest in an
investment entity;
      3.   Conveying an interest in oil, gas, minerals or building materials,
which is severed from the surface ownership of real property;
      4.   Conveying an interest in land acquired by the department of
transportation pursuant to chapter 408 of Nevada Revised Statutes;
      5.   Filing a certificate of amendment to correct an error or omission in
any subdivision plat, record of survey, parcel map, map or division into large
parcels, or reversionary map where the correction does not change the physical
location of any survey monument, property line or boundary line as specified in
Nevada Revised Statutes 278.473.
   C.   The provisions for the division of land by parcel map do not apply to a
transaction exempted by paragraph 8 of subsection 1 of Nevada Revised Statutes
278.320 or as indicated in the definition of "subdivision" in section
13-17B-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17J-3: SURVEY REQUIREMENTS:
A parcel map must be based on a survey conducted by a professional surveyor
made for that purpose, unless this requirement is waived by the board of county
commissioners. Before waiving a survey for a parcel map, a determination must
be made by the county surveyor or another professional surveyor that a survey
is not required. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17J-4: COUNTY ACTION ON PARCEL MAP:
   A.   When a parcel map is filed, the planning commission shall send copies
of the parcel map to the appropriate utility companies, the Lincoln County road
department, the Lincoln County surveyor, the Lincoln County flood control board
and the respective town board if located within a town boundary for the purpose
of review. If no comments or questions by these entities are received by the
planning commission within thirty (30) days of receipt of the parcel map, it
shall be deemed as approved by these entities.
   B.   The planning commission shall review the parcel map to determine its
conformity to zoning requirements, the requirements of sections
13-17J-5 and
13-17J-6 of this article, and the comments received from the entities to which
copies of the map were sent. Following such review, the planning commission
shall then approve, conditionally approve or disapprove a parcel map in a
written report, subject to takings review on application.
   C.   The approval or conditional approval of a parcel map and the associated
division of land shall be noted on the map in the form of a certificate
attached thereto and executed by the planning commission. The clerk shall not
sign the certificate until all improvements which may be required as part of
the map approval have been completed or complied with or that assurances for
completion as specified in section 12-17G-3 of this chapter have been made.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17J-5: FORM AND CONTENTS OF A PARCEL MAP:
   A.   The parcel map must be legibly drawn in a permanent black ink on
tracing cloth or produced by the use of other materials of a permanent nature
generally used for that purpose in the engineering profession. Affidavits,
certificates and acknowledgments must be legibly stamped or printed upon the
map with permanent black ink. The size of each sheet must be twenty four inches
by thirty two inches (24" x 32"). A marginal line must be drawn completely
around each sheet, leaving an entirely blank margin of one inch (1") at the
top, bottom and right edges, and of two inches (2") at the left edge along the
twenty four inch (24") dimension.
   B.   A parcel map must indicate the owner of any adjoining land, or any
right of way if owned by the person dividing the land.
   C.   A parcel map must show:
      1.   The area of each parcel or lot and the total area of the land to be
divided in the following manner:
         a.   In acres, calculated to the nearest one-hundredth (1/100) of an
acre, if the area is two (2) acres or more; or
         b.   In square feet if the area is less than two (2) acres.
      2.   All monuments found, set, reset, replaced or removed, describing
their kind, size and location and giving other data relating thereto.
      3.   Bearing or witness monuments, the basis of bearings, bearing and
length of lines and the scale of the map.
      4.   The name and legal designation of the tract or grant in which the
survey is located and any ties to adjoining tracts.
      5.   Any easements granted or dedications made.
      6.   Any other data necessary for the intelligent interpretation of the
various items and locations of the points, lines and area shown.
   D.   A parcel map must include:
      1.   The memorandum of oaths described in Nevada Revised Statutes
625.320.
      2.   Certificate of the surveyor required pursuant to Nevada Revised
Statutes 278.375.
      3.   A report from a title company which lists the names of:
         a.   Each owner of record of the land to be divided, and
         b.   Each holder of record of a security interest in the land to be
divided, if the security interest was created by a mortgage or a deed of trust.
      4.   The written consent of each holder of record of a security interest
listed pursuant to section D3b of this section to the preparation and
recordation of a parcel map. A holder of record of a security interest may
consent by signing:
         a.   The parcel map; or
         b.   A separate notarized document that is recorded with the parcel
map declaring his consent to the division of land, if the map contains a
notation that a separate document has been recorded to this effect.
      5.   A vicinity map inset showing the general location of the parcel map
and the means of access from the parcel map to the nearest county maintained
street or highway, with appropriate distances and dimensions shown thereon. If
necessary a copy of the grant of easement must be recorded with the map. No map
will be approved without recorded grants of easement. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17J-6: REQUIREMENTS WHICH MAY BE IMPOSED BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   Street grading, drainage provisions and lot designs as are reasonably
necessary.
   B.   If the planning commission anticipates that the parcels will be used
for residential, commercial or industrial purposes, it may require off site
access, street alignment, surfacing and width, water quality, water supply and
sewerage provisions as are reasonably necessary and consistent with the
existing use of any land zoned for similar use which is within six hundred
sixty feet (660') of the proposed parcel.
   C.   If the proposed parcels are less than one acre, the planning commission
may require additional improvements which are reasonably necessary and
consistent with the use of the land if it is developed as proposed. Lots that
are not served by either city water or sewer shall not be less than one acre.
If a lot has to have its own sewage system and a well, it must be documented
that this can be accomplished safely on that size of lot, by developer. A plot
plan of locations of each proposed septic and well must be on plot plan of
parcel map to ensure setbacks for all future residents.
   D.   For a second or subsequent parcel map with respect to:
      1.   A single parcel; or
      2.   A contiguous tract of land under the same ownership, any reasonable
improvement, but not more than would be required if the parcel map were a
subdivision.
      3.   Show master plan of property so that any upgrades necessary may be
imposed with special attention to roads, flood hazards, water use, and sewage
disposal.
   E.   All improvements required shall be specified on the map or be
referenced in the certificate of approval of the planning commission.
   F.   All required improvements shall be completed prior to recordation of
the parcel map. In lieu of completed improvements the applicant for the parcel
map may comply with the provisions specified in section
13-17G-3 of this chapter as they apply to subdivisions. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-
2006)
13-17J-7: ADJUSTMENT OF BOUNDARY LINES:
For a boundary line to be adjusted or for land to be transferred pursuant to
subsection 13-17J-2A3 of this article, a professional land surveyor must have
performed a field survey, set monuments and filed a record of survey pursuant
to Nevada Revised Statutes 625.340.
   A.   A record of survey filed to adjust a boundary line must contain:
      1.   Certificate by the professional land surveyor who prepared the map
stating that:
         a.   He has performed a field survey of the boundaries of the affected
parcels;
         b.   All corners and angle points of the adjusted boundary line have
been set;
         c.   The map is not in conflict with the provisions of Nevada Revised
Statutes 278.010 to 278.630 inclusive and will not create any new parcels;
         d.   All property taxes on the land for the fiscal year have been
paid; and
         e.   Any lender with an impound account for the payment of taxes has
been notified of the adjustment of the boundary line on the transfer of the
land.
      2.   A certificate by the county commission or the county planner
approving the adjustment of the boundary line and stating that this does not
create any nonconforming parcels according to current zoning of area. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17J-8: FILING AND RECORDING OF AN APPROVED PARCEL MAP:
Filing and recording of an approved parcel map must be in accordance with
Nevada Revised Statutes 278.4725.
   A.   If a parcel map is approved, the preparer of the map shall:
      1.   Record the approved map in the office of the county recorder within
one year after the date the map met all conditions required for approval. The
map must be accompanied by a written statement signed by the treasurer of the
county in which the land to be divided is located indicating that all property
taxes on the land for the fiscal year have been paid.
      2.   Pay the current fee to the county recorder for filing and indexing.
   B.   Upon receipt of the parcel map, the county recorder shall file the map
in a suitable place. The recorder shall keep proper indexes of parcel maps by
name of grant, tract, subdivision or United States subdivision.
   C.   Reference to the parcel number and recording data of a recorded parcel
map is a complete description of the land contained in the parcel. (Ord. 2005-
10, 1-3-2006)
13-17J-9: EFFECT OF RECORDATION:
Recordation of the approved parcel map with the county recorder shall operate
as the continuing:
   A.   Offer to dedicate for public roads the areas shown as proposed roads or
easements of access, which the board of county commissioners may accept in
whole or in part at any time or from time to time. Offer of dedication does not
mean the county is obligated or will ever accept dedication. A separate map is
required to be on file which depicts the dedicated roads once they are
accepted.
   B.   Offer to grant easements shown for public utilities, which any public
utility may similarly accept, with the approval of the board of county
commissioners without excluding any other public utility whose presence is
physically compatible. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE K. AMENDMENT OF PLATS, SURVEYS
SECTION:
13-17K-1: Correction Which Does Not Change Survey Monument, Property Line Or
Boundary Line
13-17K-2: Correction Which Requires Change To Survey Monument, Property Line Or
Boundary Line
13-17K-3: Procedures And Requirements For Amending Plats, Maps And Surveys
13-17K-1: CORRECTION WHICH DOES NOT CHANGE SURVEY MONUMENT, PROPERTY LINE OR
BOUNDARY LINE:
   A.   To correct an error or omission in, or to amend any recorded
subdivision plat, record of survey, parcel map, map of division into large
parcels, or reversionary map, if the correction or amendment does not change or
purport to change the physical location of any survey monument, property line
or boundary line, a certificate of amendment must be requested and recorded
pursuant to this section.
   B.   A certificate of amendment may be requested by the county surveyor or
the planning commission.
   C.   If a certificate of amendment is requested to correct or amend a record
of survey, the surveyor who made the survey which is to be amended, or is
responsible for the error or omission which is to be corrected, shall prepare
and record the certificate of amendment within ninety (90) days after he
receives notification of the request made pursuant to subsection B of this
section. If the surveyor or a professional land surveyor is no longer
professionally active, the county surveyor or a professional land surveyor
appointed by the board of county commissioners shall prepare and file the
certificate.
   D.   The certificate of amendment must:
      1.   Be in the form of a letter addressed to the county surveyor, the
professional land surveyor, if so appointed by the board of county
commissioners, or the planning commission, and the appropriate fee paid to the
planning office for expenses incurred in processing.
      2.   Specify the title, legal description and recording date of the
document being corrected or amended.
      3.   Concisely state the data being changed and the correction or
amendment.
      4.   Be dated, signed and sealed by the surveyor preparing the
certificate.
      5.   Contain the following statement, dated and signed by the county
surveyor, the professional land surveyor if so appointed by the board of county
commissioners, or the planning commission:
I hereby certify that I have examined the certificate of amendment and that the
changes to the original document specified therein are provided for in
applicable sections of NRS 278.010 to 278.630, inclusive 625.340 to 625.380,
inclusive and local ordinances adopted pursuant thereto, and I am satisfied
that this certificate of amendment so amends or corrects the document as to
make it technically correct.
   E.   Upon the recording of a certificate of amendment, the county recorder
shall cause a proper notation to be entered upon all recorded sheets of the
original document being amended, if the county recorder does not maintain a
cumulative index for such maps and amendments. If such an index is maintained,
the county recorder shall direct an appropriate entry for the amendment. (Ord.
2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17K-2: CORRECTION WHICH REQUIRES CHANGE TO SURVEY MONUMENT, PROPERTY LINE OR
BOUNDARY LINE:
   A.   To correct an error or omission in any recorded subdivision plat,
record of survey, parcel map, map of division into large parcels, reversionary
map, if the correction changes or purports to change the physical location of
any survey monument, property line or boundary line, an amended plat, survey or
map must be requested and recorded pursuant to this section.
   B.   An amended plat, survey or map, which corrects an error or omission,
may be requested by the county surveyor or the planning commission.
   C.   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, a surveyor who
performed the survey is responsible for the error or omission which is to be
corrected and shall prepare and record the amended plat, survey or map within
ninety (90) days after he receives notification of the request made pursuant to
subsection B of this section. The time within which the surveyor must prepare
and record the amended plat, survey or map may be extended by the county
surveyor, the board of county commissioners or the planning commission. If the
surveyor is no longer professionally active, the county surveyor or a
professional land surveyor appointed by the board of county commissioners shall
prepare and file the amended plat, survey or map. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17K-3: PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR AMENDING PLATS, MAPS AND SURVEYS:
   A.   In addition to the requirements of subsection B of this section, an
amendment of a recorded subdivision plat, parcel map, map of division into
large parcels, or record of survey which changes or purports to change the
physical location of any survey monument, property line or boundary line is
subject to the following requirements:
      1.   If the proposed amendment is to a parcel map, map of division into
large parcels, or record of survey, the same procedures and requirements apply
as in the original filing.
      2.   If the proposed amendment is to a subdivision plat, only those
procedures for the approval and filing of a final map are required.
   B.   Any amended plat, map or survey required pursuant to subsection A of
this section must:
      1.   Be identical in size and scale to the document being amended, drawn
in the manner and on the materials provided by law;
      2.   Have the words "Amended Plat of" prominently displayed on each sheet
above the title of the document amended;
      3.   Have a blank margin for the county recorder's index information;
      4.   Have a three inch (3") square adjacent to and on the left side of
the existing square for the county recorder's information and stamp;
      5.   Contain or be accompanied by the report of a title company and the
certificate required by Nevada Revised Statutes 278.374 or an order of the
district court of the county in which the land is located that the amendment
may be approved without all the necessary signatures if the order is based upon
a finding that a bona fide effort was made to communicate with the necessary
persons, that all persons who responded have consented thereto and that the
amendment does not adversely affect the persons who did not respond;
      6.   Contain a certificate of the professional land surveyor who prepared
the amendment stating that it complies with all pertinent sections of Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.010 to 278.630, inclusive, and 625.340 to 625.380,
inclusive and with this chapter;
      7.   For a survey recorded in support of an adjusted boundary, contain a
certificate executed by the county surveyor, or a registered civil engineer
stating that he has examined the document and that it is technically correct.
   C.   Upon recording the amended document, the county recorder shall cause a
proper notation to be entered upon all recorded sheets of the document being
amended, if the county recorder does not maintain a cumulative index for such
maps and amendments. If such an index is maintained, the county recorder shall
direct an appropriate entry for the amendment. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE L. VACATION OR ABANDONMENT OF STREET OR EASEMENT
SECTION:
13-17L-1: Action Of Planning Commission
13-17L-2: Action Of The Board Of County Commissioners
13-17L-1: ACTION OF PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.   Any abutting owner or local government desiring the vacation or
abandonment of any street or easement owned by the county or any portion
thereof, shall file a petition in writing with the planning commission.
   B.   No street, public way or easement owned by the county or portion
thereof may be closed or abandoned until the location, character or extent of
such requested closure or abandonment has been reviewed and approved by the
planning commission within forty (40) days from the date of publication by the
planning commission. Failure of the planning commission to act within forty
(40) days shall be deemed to be an approval of the proposal. Any utility
easements must be reviewed and approved by the proper and affected utility.
   C.   The planning commission shall report its findings and recommendations
on the proposed closure or abandonment to the board of county commissioners.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17L-2: ACTION OF THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS:
   A.   Upon the receipt of a recommendation by the planning commission on a
proposal to vacate or abandon any street or easement, or after forty (40) days
have elapsed since a proposal for such vacation or abandonment was submitted to
the planning commission, the board of county commissioners shall notify by
certified mail each owner of property abutting the proposed abandonment and
cause a notice to be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city or county, setting forth the extent of the proposed
abandonment and setting a date for public hearing, which must be not less than
ten (10) days and not more than forty (40) days after the date the notice is
first published.
   B.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, if, upon public
hearing, the board of county commissioners is satisfied that the public will
not be materially injured by the proposed vacation, it shall order the street
or easement vacated. The board of county commissioners may make the order
conditional, and the order becomes effective only upon the fulfillment of the
conditions prescribed.
   C.   If a utility has an easement over the property, the board of county
commissioners shall provide in its order for the continuation of that easement.
   D.   The order must be recorded in the office of the county recorder, if all
the conditions of the order have been fulfilled, and upon the recordation title
to the street or easement reverts to the abutting property owners in the
approximate proportion that the property was dedicated by the abutting property
owners or their predecessors in interest. In the event of a partial vacation of
a street where the vacated portion is separated from the property from which it
was acquired by the unvacated portion of it, the board of county commissioners
may sell the vacated portion upon such terms and conditions as it deems
desirable and in the best interests of the county. If the board of county
commissioners sells the vacated portion, it shall afford the right of first
refusal to each abutting property owner as to that part of the vacated portion
which abuts his property, but no action may be taken by the board of county
commissioners to force the owner to purchase that portion and that portion may
not be sold to any person other than the owner if the sale would result in a
complete loss of access to a street from the abutting property.
   E.   If the street was acquired by dedication from the abutting property
owners or their predecessors in interest, no payment is required for the title
to the proportionate part of the street reverted to each abutting property
owner. If the street was not acquired by dedication, the board of county
commissioners may make its order conditional upon payment by the abutting
property owners for their proportionate part of the street of such
consideration as the board of county commissioners determines that the vacation
has a public benefit, it may apply the benefit as an offset against any
determination of reasonable consideration which did not take into account the
public benefit.
   F.   If an easement for light and air owned by the county is adjacent to a
street vacated under the provisions of this article, the easement is vacated
upon the vacation of the street.
   G.   In any vacation or abandonment of any street owned by the county or any
portion thereof, the board of county commissioners may reserve and except
therefrom any easements, rights or interests therein which the board of county
commissioners deems desirable for the use of the county or any public utility.
(Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
ARTICLE M. REVERSION OF MAPS
SECTION:
13-17M-1: Reversion Of Divided Land To Acreage
13-17M-2: County Action On A Map Of Reversion
13-17M-3: Recording Of An Approved Map Of Reversion
13-17M-1: REVERSION OF DIVIDED LAND TO ACREAGE:
   A.   Any owner or governing body desiring to revert any recorded subdivision
map, parcel map, map of division into large parcels, or part thereof to acreage
or to revert the map or portion thereof shall submit a written application
accompanied by a map of the proposed reversion which contains the same survey
dimensions as the recorded map to the planning commissioners. Application must
describe the requested changes.
   B.   A filing fee as provided for in the fee schedule on file in the county
planning office shall be paid to Lincoln County upon the filing of the proposed
map. The fee is nonrefundable.
   C.   The map reversion must contain the appropriate certificates as required
by Nevada Revised Statutes 278.376 and 278.377 for the original division of the
land, any agreement entered into for a required improvement pursuant to Nevada
Revised Statutes 278.380 for the original division of the land, and the
certificates required by subsection D of this section. If the map includes the
reversion of any street or easement owned by the county or the state, the
provisions of article L of this chapter must be followed before the approval of
the map.
   D.   The final map of reversion must be:
      1.   Prepared by a professional land surveyor registered pursuant to
chapter 625 of Nevada Revised Statutes. The professional land surveyor shall
state in his certificate that the map has been prepared from information on a
recorded map that is being reverted. The professional land surveyor may state
in his certificate that he assumes no responsibility for the existence of the
monuments or for the correctness of other information shown on or copies from
the document. The professional land surveyor shall include in his certificate
information which is sufficient to identify clearly the recorded map being
reverted.
      2.   Clearly and legibly drawn in black permanent ink upon good tracing
cloth or produced by the use of other materials of a permanent nature generally
used for such a purpose in the engineering profession. Affidavits, certificates
and acknowledgments must be legibly stamped or printed upon the map with black
permanent ink and a map in digital format must be supplied to the county
planning office.
   E.   The size of each sheet of the final map must be twenty four inches by
thirty two inches (24" x 32"). A marginal line must be drawn completely around
each sheet, leaving an entirely blank margin of one inch (1") at the top,
bottom and right edges, and of two inches (2") at the left edge along the
twenty four inch (24") dimension.
   F.   The scale of the map must be large enough to show all details clearly
and enough sheets must be used to accomplish this end.
   G.   The particular number of the sheet and the total number of sheets
comprising the map must be stated on each of the sheets and its relation to
each adjoining sheet must be clearly shown. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17M-2: COUNTY ACTION ON A MAP OF REVERSION:
At its next meeting, or within a period of not more than thirty (30) days after
the filing of the map reversion, whichever occurs later, the board of county
commissioners shall review the map and approve, conditionally approve or
disapprove it. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
13-17M-3: RECORDING OF AN APPROVED MAP OF REVERSION:
   A.   Upon approval of the map of reversion, it must be recorded in the
office of the county recorder. The county recorder shall make a written
notation of the fact on each sheet of the previously recorded map affected by
the later recording, if the county recorder does not maintain a cumulative
index for such maps amendments. If such an index is maintained, the county
recorder shall direct an appropriate entry for the amendment.
   B.   A map of reversion presented to the county recorder for recording must
include a certificate by the planning commission stating that it approved the
map.
   C.   A map of reversion presented for recording must include a certificate
signed and acknowledged, pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 111.270, by each
person who is an owner of the land consenting to the preparation and
recordation of the map for the purpose of reversion.
   D.   A map of reversion presented for recording must include a report from a
title company which lists the names of:
      1.   Each owner of record of the land; and
      2.   Each holder of record of a security interest in the land, if the
security interest created by a mortgage or a deed of trust.
   E.   A map of reversion presented for recording must include the written
consent of each holder of record of a security interest listed pursuant to
subsection D2 of this section, to the preparation and recordation of the map of
reversion. A holder of a security interest may consent by signing:
      1.   The map of reversion; or
      2.   A separate document that is recorded with the map of reversion and
declares his consent to the reversion, if the map contains a notation that a
separate document has been recorded to this effect.
   F.   For the purpose of this section, the following shall be deemed not to
be an interest in land:
      1.   A lien for taxes or special assessment.
      2.   A trust interest under a bond indenture. (Ord. 2005-10, 1-3-2006)
TITLE 14
TOQUOP TOWNSHIP PUD
CHAPTER 1
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
14-1-1: Purpose
14-1-2: Applicability And Authority
14-1-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Create, enhance and foster public health, safety and general welfare in
the area known as the Lincoln County land act area (Toquop township). Ensure
that this undeveloped area of over thirteen thousand (13,000) acres that is
located far from existing county services and facilities is planned
appropriately as a region considering limited county resources, surrounding
land uses and jurisdictions and lack of infrastructure in the area. This region
is to be developed to provide for high quality public services that complement
existing services throughout the county.
   B.   Ensure that development in the Toquop planning area provides for a
positive benefit to the county tax base (as described in the fiscal impact
report) capable of sustaining long term growth.
   C.   Encourage innovations in residential, commercial and industrial
development so that the Toquop area provides unsurpassed opportunities for
housing, education, recreation, shopping and employment for Lincoln County
residents.
   D.   The general intent for the Toquop area is to create an ideal, safe, and
healthy community and environment where people can live, work, and play to the
fullest extent. Goals will include traditional village designs, providing for a
market driven mixture of development, incorporating multiple lifestyle concepts
to maximize absorption rates and planning flexibility for the developer and
planning and support certainty for public services and facilities.
   E.   Provide for harmonious selection of uses and groupings of buildings,
parking areas, circulation and open spaces. Design and development standards
are set forth within this title and are intended to act as a minimal rule for
all development in the area. Proposing elements beyond these standards is
highly encouraged (examples: more landscaping than minimum standards is always
desirable, more community protection facilities than required, etc.).
   F.   Provide for an integrated community system including trails and
extensive pedestrian/bikeway systems, and locations for future mass transit
facilities encouraging public access to areas throughout Toquop without the use
of a car. Parking requirements will meet specific land use needs. Developers
will be asked to incorporate features such as trails, pathways, cart paths,
bike facilities and future transit locations to reduce dependence on
automobiles.
   G.   Encourage conservation of natural resources (including known water
resources) and protection of air quality through the encouragement of home
occupations and mixed use zoning to reduce vehicle trips, planning for mass
transit and alternative transportation, limiting turf landscaping to reduce
water usage, protection of the natural landscape by minimizing the amount of
grading and anchoring neighborhoods and roadways with existing topographical
features to reduce erosion and ground disturbance.
   H.   Maintain consistency with the policies and goals of the Lincoln County
master plan, water plan and the public land policy plan.
   I.   Provide for orderly development of the Toquop township planning area
and to promote high quality development and supporting service for its
residents including work force housing options. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-1-2: APPLICABILITY AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Tentative Approval: Per Nevada Revised Statutes 278A, an application
for tentative approval of the plan for a planned unit development must be filed
with the county by or on behalf of the landowner (see chapter 4 of this title
for submittal requirements) and the administration of the planned unit
development be consistent with the provisions set out in Nevada Revised
Statutes 278A and this title.
   B.   Suspension And Revocation: Upon violation of any applicable provision
of this title or upon failure to comply with conditions, the PUD approval shall
be suspended and shall be subject to revocation upon notification to the owner
of the subject property.
   C.   Approval: A PUD approval pursuant to these provisions shall run with
the land and shall continue to be valid upon a change of ownership of the site
or structure, which was the subject of the application.
   D.   Conformance With Title: Any proposed master development plan submitted
for review by the county for development in the Toquop township planning area
must be in substantial conformance with this title, including land use
districts described in this title and allowed uses. Any proposed modifications
must be outlined in a development agreement and described in the master
development plan in a deviations document. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
14-2-1: Districts Enumerated
14-2-1: DISTRICTS ENUMERATED:
   A.   Density for each master parcel within Toquop shall not exceed 3.3
residential units per acre. Residential PUDs must be primarily residential with
no more than twenty percent (20%) of total area in commercial uses.
   B.   Commercial PUDs must be predominately commercial uses with no more than
five percent (5%) of total area in residential uses. Residential density cannot
exceed eight (8) units per acre in the residential portion.
   C.   Industrial PUDs must be predominately industrial and commercial with no
more than five percent (5%) of total area in residential uses. Residential
density cannot exceed eight (8) units per acre in the residential portion.
                           Units/Acre Or    Minimum Lot Size     Types Of Uses
District Name Abbreviation Intensity Of Use "Square Feet" Or PUD Allowed
                                            Size In Acres
                                              Minimum Lot Size
District Name   Abbreviation Units/Acre Or    "Square Feet" Or Types Of Uses
                             Intensity Of Use PUD Size In      Allowed
                                              Acres
                                                               Residential only
Rural estates   R-E          1                                and those uses
                                                               accessory to the
                                                               primary use
                                                               Residential only
Rural           R-3          2                15,000           and those uses
residential                                                    accessory to the
                                                               primary use
                                                               Residential only
Single-family   R-1          4                6,000            and those uses
                                                               accessory to the
                                                               primary use
                                                               Residential only
Single-family   R-1a         10               4,500            and those uses
                                                               accessory to the
                                                               primary use
Medium          R-M          16               Attached units    
residential
High            R-H          26               Attached units   Special use
residential                                                    permit required
Commercial/     C-P                                          Offices only, no
professional                                                   retail services
                                                               Transitional use
Limited                                                        to C-2, can abut
commercial      C-1                          10 acre PUD      neighborhoods,
                                                               single story
                                                               only
General                                                        Cannot abut
commercial      C-2                          10 acre PUD      single-family
                                                               neighborhoods
Mixed use                                                      Commercial on
residential/    X-U                                          first floor only
commercial
                                                               Industrial,
Industrial      M-1          Light use        10 acre PUD      residential up
                                                               to 5 percent
               M-2          Heavy use        10 acre PUD       
Hotel/resort    H-1                                          Resort only; no
                                                               casino permitted
               H-2                                          Resort/casino;
                                                               casino permitted
                                                               Includes
                                                               schools,
                             Heavy use with                    government
Public facility PF           special use      5 acres          offices,
                             permit                            emergency
                                                               services and
                                                               public
                                                               facilities
                                                               May include
                                                               public golf
Open space      O-S                                          courses up to 25
                                                               percent total OS
                                                               area
                                                               Parks and
Park            P            Uses per title                   allowable
                                                               facilities
                                                               May include
Agricultural    A-3          5-10                             interim
                                                               agricultural
                                                               uses
 
(Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
CHAPTER 3
MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN
SECTION:
14-3-1: Minimum Standards
14-3-2: Ownership
14-3-3: Minimum Site/Dedications
14-3-4: Encouraging Development
14-3-5: Residential Density
14-3-6: Architectural Style; Appearance
14-3-7: Streets, Utilities And Facilities
14-3-8: Conformance To Codes
14-3-9: Coordination Of All Development
14-3-10: Development Agreements
14-3-11: Extension Of Infrastructure Into Undeveloped Or Underdeveloped Areas
14-3-1: MINIMUM STANDARDS:
Nevada Revised Statutes 278A sets forth minimum standards of design for all
PUDs, which must be met. This chapter includes standards for the Toquop
township planning area which may be more restrictive. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-3-2: OWNERSHIP:
The tract shall be a development of land under unified control at the time of a
master development plan application and planned and scheduled to be developed
as a whole. Subsequent land divisions (including all maps), developments and
ownership changes shall refer back to the original parcel A-J as the parent
parcel. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-3-3: MINIMUM SITE/DEDICATIONS:
The minimum total PUD shall be no less than ten (10) acres for commercial/
industrial uses. These uses must be coordinated with a larger master PUD of no
less than one hundred (100) acres. A minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of
gross PUD area will be required for public facilities, parks and open space.
(Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-3-4: ENCOURAGING DEVELOPMENT:
The use of the PUD concept will encourage the best use of all property within
the Toquop planning area including the protection of sensitive areas while
encouraging varying levels of uses and intensities where appropriate. (Ord.
2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-3-5: RESIDENTIAL DENSITY:
Residential development in a master development plan shall provide for a
variety of housing types and design allowed in any of the residential zoning
districts. While overall residential density is limited to 3.3 units per acre,
the number of dwelling units allowed may be flexible from parcel to parcel.
Densities in a tentative PUD shall consider increased efficiency in the
provision of public facilities and services based upon such factors as:
location, amount and proposed use of common open space, retention of slopes,
natural drainages, water usage, internal connectivity of roadways and paths,
design and type of dwelling units, physical characteristics of the site, site
design and landscaping. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-3-6: ARCHITECTURAL STYLE; APPEARANCE:
The overall appearance and compatibility of individual buildings to other site
elements or to surrounding development will be of high consideration during PUD
review by the commission, however, unique architectural styles that enhance the
community are encouraged through design handbooks or CC&Rs. Public facilities,
signage (provided by the developer) and siting will be developed to the same
style and/or village theme as the adjacent development. Design handbooks may be
submitted for each project which set forth more specific and restrictive
guidelines for development. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-3-7: STREETS, UTILITIES AND FACILITIES:
The uniqueness of each proposal for a PUD may allow design specifications and
standards for streets, utilities and services to be subject to minor
modifications of the specifications and standards established in this title and
other county ordinances governing their construction. The plans and profiles of
all streets, utilities and services shall be reviewed, modified if necessary
and approved by the county per adopted standards prior to the final approval of
the PUD. All PUDs shall be served by public or community water and sewer
systems versus private wells or septic systems. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-3-8: CONFORMANCE TO CODES:
All planned unit developments and related development and uses in the Toquop
township must conform to the standards and uses listed in this title and other
applicable titles of this code and conform to the current Lincoln County master
plan. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-3-9: COORDINATION OF ALL DEVELOPMENT:
All developers/owners within the Toquop planning area should coordinate
planning and funding efforts for the development of roadways, utility
corridors, provision of public services and facilities, layout of land uses,
connections for roads, trails and open space, protection of significant
landscape features, planning for emergency services and protection of
floodplains. Lincoln County may require bonding (see section
14-4-4 of this title) or assess impact fees for development prorated per acre,
dwelling unit or square footage to reimburse a pooled fund held by the county
or designated group for regional engineering studies related to: drainage,
transportation, utilities, geotechnical, off site roadway improvements, 911
system, technology services or other public facilities necessary for the
overall development of the Toquop township planning area. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-
2007)
14-3-10: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
Development agreements will be required by Lincoln County in the Toquop
planning area to determine both financial and public service commitments of
both the developer and the county. This will ensure an orderly and coordinated
development and to provide the public services to appropriate stages of the
project.
These agreements will also outline cost sharing mechanisms that are equitable,
proportionate and reimbursable for all property owners/developers for necessary
development costs and impacts to county operations in the Toquop township
planning area and for infrastructure and specific public facilities as it
relates to its proportional share of the overall development of the Toquop
planning area. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-3-11: EXTENSION OF INFRASTRUCTURE INTO UNDEVELOPED OR UNDERDEVELOPED AREAS:
Analysis by Lincoln County to construct infrastructure in undeveloped areas
shall include the following:
   A.   Lincoln County may require an analysis, recovery of costs for planning,
engineering and related studies to construct infrastructure in an area which is
relatively undeveloped and which is likely to become developed ensuring goals
set forth in the county master plan.
   B.   The analysis of the cost to construct infrastructure in an area that is
relatively undeveloped must include, without limitation:
      1.   A precise description of the area, either in the form of a legal
description or by reference to roadways, lakes and waterways, railroads or
similar landmarks, and township, county, city or state boundaries. It shall
also include the proximity of the area to other developed areas that are
currently served by Lincoln County services or other jurisdictions and/or
infrastructure and the ability of the county to provide for such services/
facilities.
      2.   An estimate of the expected total population of the area when the
land becomes fully developed and cumulative impacts to proposed systems upon
full build-out.
      3.   An assessment of the infrastructure and public services that will be
necessary to support the area when it becomes fully developed in accordance
with master plan policies or zoning ordinance provisions adopted by the
governing body and for adjacent jurisdictions.
      4.   A plan for the development of the infrastructure which includes,
without limitation:
         a.   Any minimum requirements for the development of infrastructure
that have been determined by the county commission or regional transportation
commission;
         b.   A plan to meet the anticipated creation, operation and
maintenance needs of the area for police and fire protection, parks, roads,
regional transportation and flood control facilities when the land becomes
fully developed;
         c.   An estimate of the date on which each phase of the development
will occur including the ratio of residential, commercial and industrial uses;
         d.   The manner in which the plan for the development of the
infrastructure will be implemented;
         e.   Any interim or long term transportation or drainage
infrastructure plans;
         f.   An economic analysis of the cost to plan, fund, fully develop and
maintain the infrastructure for the area; including both on site or off site
improvements required;
         g.   Any necessary predevelopment fees, bonding measures,
reimbursement methods and provisions for a fund held by the county and provided
by the developers to administer such studies, including administrative fees and
interest;
         h.   Any fees or other cost recovery methods will be based upon
planning and engineering studies for areawide infrastructure improvements
reasonably related and beneficial to the particular development seeking
approval; and
         i.   Updates to any capital improvement plans for the county.
      5.   The governing body may, if it finds that the analysis of the
projected need and associated funding strategies for infrastructure planning is
consistent with the Lincoln County master plan and will meet the purpose of
this title, and will not conflict with adjacent roadway plans, approve the
analysis by ordinance and require such findings to be part of a master plan
amendment, development agreement or any amendments to either document.
      6.   Any related fees for undertaking regional studies may be collected
through a development agreement, application or impact fees, or paid by a
dedicated county fund with contributions made by the developers or the county.
Dedicated facilities provided by the developer through a development agreement
will not be credited per this section (preliminary studies) but may be
considered reimbursable for other public needs provided to the county in the
development agreement. Fees recovered using public expenditures may include
interest and administrative costs.
      7.   The governing body shall provide the necessary copies of the
analysis to the regional transportation commission, capital improvement
committee and planning commission for review and information.
   C.   Lincoln County is authorized to negotiate master development agreements
to carry out plans for infrastructure.
      1.   Lincoln County may carry out the planning for infrastructure by
negotiating terms as part of a development agreement, retaining consultants for
studies for regional improvements in order for the Toquop area to be developed
in a coordinated manner.
      2.   As used in this section, "master development agreement" means a
written agreement:
         a.   Between a governing body and a person(s) who has a legal or
equitable interest in land that is entered into upon the application of the
person who wishes to develop that land;
         b.   To enable the governing body to distribute equitably the costs to
develop infrastructure for an area of land that is largely undeveloped;
         c.   That is based on an analysis of the need for infrastructure based
on a capital improvements plan or construction/phasing plan for a planned unit
development; and
         d.   That will impose fees on a "proportional" basis to owners where a
"nexus" exists between the proposal development and the impact to public
systems or public safety.
   D.   Analysis for regional planning and engineering studies for the entire
Toquop township planning area may be required before the county may approve a
development agreement for master development plan. An analysis will be done to
determine the types of studies to be considered in a regional study, any
potential impact fees or development agreement fees, the cost sharing and
reimbursement provisions necessary, and the development of a dedicated fund
whereas Lincoln County will serve as the trustee. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
CHAPTER 4
DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION PROCEDURES
SECTION:
14-4-1: Development Application Process
14-4-2: Tentative PUD Plan Submittal
14-4-3: PUD Final Plan Approval
14-4-4: Fees
14-4-1: DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Filing Application; Conference: An application for master development
plan must be filed with the county by the landowner or on behalf of the owner
in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 278A. A presubmittal conference is
required between these parties. All land divisions for any approved uses/
structures in the Toquop planning area will be required to follow the PUD
process listed in Nevada Revised Statutes 278A, this title and title 13 of this
code where applicable.
   B.   Application Fee: A nonrefundable fee established by the Lincoln County
planning fee schedule for the review, consideration, and approval/denial or
conditioning of an application for all stages of a PUD plan approval is
required.
   C.   Other County Reviews: Any special use permit or variance requests made
as a part of the planned unit development must be submitted concurrently for
review with the tentative PUD plan. Separate fees will apply.
   D.   Mandatory Presubmittal Conference: Prior to submittal of a master
development plan application, a presubmittal conference application must be
filed, with the planning director, by the owner and be accompanied by the
presubmittal conference fee required in this chapter.
      1.   A presubmittal conference will then be scheduled by the planning
director to be held within sixty (60) working days of the application filing.
      2.   The presubmittal conference will be held with the owner (or an
authorized representative), planning director, one county commissioner, county
manager, additional staff as required, including staff from other affected
agencies or jurisdictions that may have an interest in the tentative PUD plan.
      3.   The purpose of the presubmittal conference is to discuss the
proposed tentative plan and review submittal requirements. No decisions will be
rendered or actions taken.
   E.   Master Plan Amendment Application:
      1.   Master plan amendments for a PUD area will be required prior to the
approval of a development agreement.
      2.   Applicants will need to demonstrate that development agreement and
master development plan proposal are in conformance with the adopted master
plan. This may require an amendment to the master plan and/or master plan map,
the submission of an area/specific plan and findings to support the planned
development request.
   F.   Development Agreement Application:
      1.   An overall master development plan may require a concurrent
submission of a development agreement. Such agreements may require plans or
studies listed as requirements of this title or deemed necessary for the
development agreement to fulfill the overall intent of this title and the
county master plan.
      2.   Preapplication meetings will be required with developers to identify
necessary submittal components of the development agreement.
      3.   The development agreement materials will be reviewed by Lincoln
County within thirty (30) days after submission. A letter of completeness will
be provided to the applicant stating any inadequacies.
      4.   The applicant will have thirty (30) days to respond.
      5.   Once an application is determined to be complete, or further
materials are not provided by the applicant, a public hearing will be scheduled
for review by the planning commission. Any incomplete applications will be
recommended to the planning commission for denial.
      6.   Planning commission will be provided a recommendation by staff and
have up to thirty (30) days to forward a recommendation to the county
commission. Continuances may be requested by the applicant or the county for a
period of up to sixty (60) days.
      7.   The Lincoln County board of commissioners will have final authority
on any proposed development agreements. Development agreements will be adopted
by ordinance.
      8.   Fees for review of development agreements, PUDs and master plan
amendments are determined by the county commission and described in the county
planning fee schedule.
      9.   Development agreements may require timing thresholds for the
submission of materials set forth in master development plan applications for
larger studies or those requiring a greater degree of coordination with
adjacent parcels (A-J). All master development plan application materials must
be submitted within a time specified in the development agreement and prior to
a division of large parcels.
      10.   The items in the following subsections of this chapter may be
submitted in accordance with subsection F9 of this section: 14-4-2O1, O2, O3,
O4, O10, O12, O16.
      11.   A synopsis must be required for items listed in subsection F10 of
this section for the master development plan application that describes the
preliminary issues known at the time of application and the approach being
taken to provide detailed information to meet application completeness.
   G.   Master Development Plan Application:
      1.   For any planned unit development to be developed in multiple phases/
or with multiple developers a master development plan will be required for
review and adoption concurrently with a development agreement (if not already
included with the development agreement) and prior to the submission of the
first tentative PUD proposal or land division. The application submittal
requirements for master development plan are listed in section
14-4-2 of this chapter in italics.
      2.   Variations of this approval for standards may be approved by the
planning director for up to ten percent (10%) of density and area allocations
allowed in the master development plan. Modifications greater than ten percent
(10%) will require a full review under this and other applicable sections.
      3.   Design handbooks may be submitted concurrently with development
agreements to provide more detail for development types and improve the village
concept. A deviations document must be submitted with a master development plan
indicating comparable sections of this title to any proposed modifications of
this title (with justification) being requested as part of the development
agreement.
      4.   The master development plan for the proposed development shall
include findings to satisfy the following expectations:
         a.   Is compatible and harmonious with adjacent existing land uses and
potential surrounding development areas.
         b.   Protects the general prosperity, health, safety and welfare of
the community.
         c.   Demonstrates a proportional provision of public services,
utilities and infrastructure based on potential build-out of parent parcel.
         d.   Describes how the proposed development will be designed and
operate in conjunction with the overall Toquop area.
         e.   Avoids premature or inappropriate development.
         f.   Provides adequate infrastructure, public facilities, interim
funding and public services as required in the development agreement.
         g.   Ensures an orderly and creative arrangement of land uses,
including hillside areas, compatible with the village type proposed, that may
include a variety of housing types, commercial services, employment and
recreational opportunities, and common open space areas for recreational
purposes, or any combination thereof, designed to achieve a balanced
integration of economic, housing, and recreational opportunities within the
overall planning area.
   H.   Subdivision Of Master Development Plan Parcels:
      1.   Parcels to be divided prior to sale from parent parcels A-J will be
required to submit a map of large parcels for review.
      2.   All requirements listed in title 13 of this code will be followed in
addition to any requirements set forth in approved development agreements for
the master parcels.
      3.   Tentative maps will require the identification/dedication of
roadways, trail networks, parks, public facilities, funding for regional
studies per section
14-3-11 of this chapter, or other planning elements to enable the Toquop
township to function as one planned area. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-4-2: TENTATIVE PUD PLAN SUBMITTAL:
Submittal of a PUD application will require the applicant to disclose and
include the following. Items italicized will be required for both the
conceptual and tentative PUD application.
   A.   Justification Letter: Letter addressing the request to vary to current
zoning district(s) of the area and to allow a planned unit development.
   B.   Statement: A statement of the purpose and objectives of the PUD.
Overview of setting and existing conditions and why land use conditions justify
a PUD.
   C.   Schedule: In the case of a plan which proposes the development of a
planned unit development in multiple sections, or over a period of years, a
schedule of proposed times for the submittal of final plans for each section
shall be provided.
   D.   Land Use Plan: Type, density, and proposed land uses of the land to be
developed (including a computation table showing all proposed land use
allocations in acres and percent of total site area) and proposed allocations
of land use expressed as a percentage of the total area and in acres. This land
use plan will outline general land uses that are proposed major roadway
alignment and trails. Uses to be indicated include:
      1.   Arterial, collector, local, public and private streets.
      2.   Open space (public and private).
      3.   Parks, trails and plan per section and recreation facilities.
      4.   Pedestrian accessways and trails.
      5.   Residential subdivisions.
      6.   A stratification of residential uses in terms of single-family
detached units, patio homes, townhouses, garden apartments, etc.
      7.   Commercial districts, ratio to other uses. Number of proposed units
for commercial districts.
      8.   Industrial uses (if appropriate) shall be reviewed through a special
use permit.
      9.   Other public use areas, including schools, golf courses and
utilities.
      10.   Public emergency infrastructure facilities.
      11.   Golf/resort/casino districts and acreages.
   E.   Residential To Nonresidential: The ratio of residential to
nonresidential use.
   F.   Legal: Location, size, property boundaries, and legal description of
parcel (indicating gross area).
   G.   Name And Address: Name and address of record owner, architect,
engineer, surveyor, planner and contractor known at the time of filing.
   H.   Drawings: Minimum twenty four inch by thirty six inch (24" x 36")
drawings providing date, north arrow and scale (a scale of not less than 1 inch
equals 20 feet).
   I.   Digital Format: All maps and documents are to be furnished in a digital
format acceptable to Lincoln County for conceptual, tentative and final maps.
   J.   Vicinity Map: A vicinity map at a scale of not less than one inch
equals two thousand feet (1" = 2,000').
   K.   Location Map: Map showing surrounding land uses and traffic circulation
patterns.
   L.   Address Map: Address map illustrating proposed addresses based on
county addressing system ordinance, policy and grid. All private street names
will be signed according to Nevada Revised Statutes 278A.360. Major arterial
names shall continue from adjacent jurisdictions and be delineated based on a
directional prefix.
   M.   Site Conditions: An analysis of the existing site conditions which
indicates topographic contours with intervals of no more than two feet (2'), to
a distance of one hundred feet (100') beyond the property boundary, location
and extent of major vegetative cover (if any), grade considerations, existing
drainage and flood patterns and special flood hazard zones, areas of fissuring
and/or subsidence.
   N.   Aesthetics: Approximate height, bulk, and location of all buildings and
other structures as well as architectural features and exterior materials
planned.
   O.   Reports: Technical reports including the following:
      1.   Water supply report indicating the quantity of water demanded
during, and after, its construction, estimated by applying a demand factor
established by the provider of water service, or an equivalent calculation, to
the number of units that will be created, and the gross acreage that will be
occupied by the project. Water consumption by irrigation, commercial use and
industrial operation water use of the PUD must also be described. Water plans
will include reservoirs as needed for supply and emergency storage.
      2.   A conservation plan for water must be attached describing the
measures to be utilized to maximize the use and reuse of water resources.
Report must be accompanied by a statement from the Lincoln County water
district or other approved water purveyor verifying an adequate supply of water
for the project. Water treatment overview with proposed treatment, methods and
operations will be discussed. A plan for water distribution and delivery shall
also be provided outlining how water will be distributed to the entire Toquop
area and within the subject area. Any proposed split piping systems need to be
outlined with this point.
      3.   Wastewater treatment report indicating the quantity of sewage
effluent generated, estimated by applying a sewage generation factor
established by the provider of sewer service, or an equivalent calculation, to
the number of units or area of indoor floor space that will be created. If
there is no provider of sewer service available, submittal of a plan for this
service to be provided is required. Average daily flows from all proposed land
uses will be provided. If transitional treatment systems are proposed, then
those bench marks will be outlined to build-out of area. Service plans will be
provided by the applicant for interim and long term service. Water reclamation
methods and water quality measures will be provided.
      4.   Geotechnical report outlining major geological conditions on the
site including soils report, fault zones and other hazard areas as related to
the proposed development. The report will delineate proposed impact mitigation
measures considered by the applicant to be adequate to alleviate adverse
geologic hazards and adverse subsurface soil and ground water. Report should
specifically address extent and nature of any existing and proposed fill on the
site, extent of new fill and compaction measures proposed, stability of
existing and recontoured sloping ground, suitability of the land (or
recontoured land where earthworks are proposed) for the foundations of
buildings, roads and services, in terms of strength and settlement, and details
of any earth retaining structures proposed as part of the subdivision.
      5.   Fire protection and emergency services report indicating that there
is an adequate supply of water for fire protection as required by section 903.2
of the latest adopted uniform fire code and that the existing water delivery
facilities are sufficient to provide adequate fire protection. Also indicate
planned emergency management facilities, number of stations and substations to
meet required mileage radius. (See section
14-5-19 of this title.)
      6.   Police service report indicating number of square feet for single-
family, multi-family, commercial, industrial and hotel/casino uses,
identification of any security measures proposed to be provided for the project
by the applicant, and the distance from the site to where the nearest police
services are provided, including facilities that are planned but not yet
constructed. (See section
14-5-19 of this title.)
      7.   Educational services plan including the following:
         a.   A program for estimating the number of school age children
(elementary through high school) which will live in the proposed development
and the data that developers will provide in the biannual development agreement
review regarding the current capacity of or need for the public schools that
will provide educational services to the area and the existing and planned
capacities of schools.
         b.   A site plan showing the size and location of school sites using
the acreages and school capacity limits found in the development agreement.
Plan will also indicate safe pedestrian routes for schoolchildren to and from
residential areas, locations for school bus fleet yards, a description of
siting for all school sites in the conceptual map that will provide the safest
location and access for students based on the roadway system, residential
areas, commercial development and other complementary and detrimental uses.
         c.   A letter of approval from the board of trustees of the Lincoln
County School District.
         d.   A provision of service, acreages and siting meeting national
standards per capita.
      8.   Fiscal impact report providing an estimate of the economic benefit
for Lincoln County including:
         a.   Analysis of county tax base (all sources) on an annual basis
based on proposed development up to twenty five (25) years. Description and
analysis of the proposed development and outlined land uses and their
relationship to county departments, workloads and the ability of expected
revenues to sustain and expand public services/utilities for the term of the
development agreement. The expected property tax revenues from the proposed
development should be examined and analysis provided based on recent property
tax limits.
            1.   General fund services including: law enforcement, juvenile
probation, adult detention, cooperative extension, judicial (district attorney,
public defender, district and justice courts), and general government (clerk/
registrar of voters, recorder, treasurer, grants, auditor, assessor, and
buildings and grounds, planning, roads, parks and recreation, public works,
public health, surveyor, GIS, information technology, emergency management) as
well as costs of construction and leasing of offices for additional public
sector employees;
            2.   Museum and library funds including operating costs for the
library department;
            3.   Capital projects fund including the costs of construction of a
library, a police substation and a jail;
            4.   Hospital district fund including costs associated with
construction and operation of a community clinic;
            5.   Regional development fund;
            6.   Transportation fund; and
            7.   Lincoln County School District budgets and funding.
         b.   Public and private sector employment created by the proposal,
both prior, during and after construction up to twenty five (25) years.
         c.   Analysis of proposed GIDs and other special service districts
allowed by Nevada Revised Statutes and the fiscal impact from each to provide
service for the area.
         d.   Analysis of early tax revenues for on site building material
delivery, temporary housing facilities, personal and real property and the
provision of commercial uses to serve early residents and workers of the area.
         e.   Phasing plan and space analysis for operational workload for
public facilities, services and sites requested by the county in the
development agreement or required by this title.
         f.   Sales tax projections and implications for the county's
guaranteed status of revenue. This should include an overview of all
nonproperty taxes including, but not limited to, fuel taxes, gaming revenues,
room taxes, etc.
      9.   Grading plan (plus hillside development grading plan if applicable)
shall include the number of acres and percentage of overall area to be
disturbed, left in a natural state or altered for other nonbuilding uses.
      10.   Construction plan is simply an analysis of timing for building
streets, drainage facilities, sewers, water supply lines, developments, etc.
      11.   Traffic plan providing preliminary traffic information defining the
number of vehicle trips generated, estimated by applying to the proposed
project, the average trip rates for the peak days and hours established by the
Institute of Transportation Engineers or its successor, the effects of the
traffic expected on the streets, roads and highways, and proposed mitigation
measures considered by the petitioner to be adequate to alleviate any adverse
traffic impacts.
The report should address the relationship to the streets and highways plan and
shall include proposed locations for traffic signal improvements both on and
off site, and any special striping detail to be included in the area, not
otherwise considered standard by AASHTO. Report on the number of commuters/
distances driven expected to serve this PUD during and after project completion
(work force) and their impacts on adjacent roadways. This report will also
describe facilities for mass transit, car pool staging areas, pedestrians,
school crossing corridors and bicycle usage/storage.
      12.   Pedestrian plan: The following elements must be outlined and
provided as part of the application process:
Sidewalks and meandering pathways will be within street rights of way and
throughout interior portions of the project to provide connections between the
residential villages, commercial areas, parks, schools, open space and other
nonresidential areas. Pedestrian accessways will not be blocked between land
use districts by walls or other barriers but must be designed to allow for
direct access to varying uses.
      13.   Right of way report delineating public and private right of way
dedication and the existing and planned capacities of roads considered by the
petitioner to be adequate to alleviate access and traffic circulation impacts
(must include trip generation projections for each project). This report will
illustrate this plan's conformity to the adjacent properties as well as the
overall Toquop planning area transportation study. Rights of way must be
designed to accommodate overall build-out in the Toquop area and include design
for all underground utilities and transportation systems.
      14.   Entry plan providing sketches of proposed project entries showing
walls, signage, lighting and other character features. It will also include any
prohibitions on materials, lighting and orientation to streetscape and adjacent
residential areas.
      15.   Technical drainage study for parcels included in each development
agreement and their relationship to overall drainage for the entire Toquop
area, including preliminary drainage information defining how the petitioner
will drain and flood protect the proposed land and proposed mitigation measures
considered by the petitioner to be adequate to alleviate flood control and
drainage impacts on upstream and downstream properties resulting from the
proposal. They should show the increase in quantity of stormwater runoff
generated, estimated by using standard hydrologic methods. Mitigation of any
potential impacts to the Virgin River shall also be included in the drainage
study. Mitigation standards of the Nevada department of environmental
protection (NDEP) shall be used, as well as any stipulated requirements in the
final MSHCP and EA.
      16.   Landscape plan indicating landscaped areas in relation to property
lines, pavement, streets, and buildings; the common name, botanical name, size,
number and location of existing and proposed plant materials and nonliving
ground cover (see section
14-6-4, "Appendix D; Trees For Tomorrow", of this title); water features,
irrigating techniques, fences and retaining walls; total landscape area in
square feet, with amount of turf separately listed; grading to show retention
of precipitation when possible, including any golf courses.
      17.   Utility plan indicating dry utilities and proposed utility
corridors throughout the PUD. Plan shall also address the locations for
communication facilities and the ability to collocate future facilities at
build-out that will serve multiple forms of communications for the Toquop
township planning area. Power, telecommunications, natural gas and solid waste
provisions will be provided in this report.
      18.   Master development sign plan identifying the location of all
signage for the planned community. Sign height, use, and type must follow the
design standards outlined in section
14-5-17 of this title.
      19.   Proposed covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs) to be
placed upon each neighborhood and project builder and an explanation of how
homeowners' associations will be set up and the types of items to be
restricted.
      20.   Description of village themes for each area. A neighborhood theme
will be identified for the area that illustrates the rural and natural setting,
natural features/wildlife habitat and open space or other unique attributes to
the site. The developer shall identify such a theme for all distinct
development areas including: architectural vernacular, landscape concept and
theme, streetscape concept, signage and monuments, entries, wall and fence
concept and project lighting.
      21.   Lighting plan. Outdoor lighting within the Toquop planning area
will be limited to preserve the night sky of the area. The PUD shall include
provisions requiring dwellings to include dark sky approved lighting fixtures
for all exterior lighting fixtures. This standard shall be based upon the
lighting standards in section
14-6-3, "Appendix C; Outdoor Lighting Code", of this title. Covenants will be
created by the developer for all proposed uses that must be recorded.
      22.   Conservation plan. The master developer shall submit a report that
outlines policies of support for conservation within and adjacent to the
project area and the maintenance of undeveloped areas. Such a report will
outline plans and programs that enhance wildlife habitat, promote stormwater
practices in conjunction with open spaces, support transit and pathway systems,
promote energy efficient designs, promote water conservation, and preserve
slopes, drainages and other sensitive natural features.
      23.   Social services report. An analysis of facilities and amenities to
be provided catering to the needs of a targeted population for each village.
This may include, but not be limited to: county health facilities, healthcare
sites, senior centers, transportation centers, fitness centers, community
centers, trails, and recreation facilities, trails and parks for a variety of
ages. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-4-3: PUD FINAL PLAN APPROVAL:
   A.   Application Process: An application for final approval shall be made to
the planning director within the time specified by the minutes granting
tentative approval.
   B.   Application Criteria: An application for final approval may be for all
the land included in the tentative plan or to the extent set forth in the
tentative approval for a section thereof subject to minimum areas of this
title.
   C.   Application Fee: A nonrefundable fee, in an amount established from
time to time by section
14-4-4 of this chapter, for the review, consideration, and approval/denial or
conditioning of an application for final plan approval must be paid to the
board or board designee at the time of final application submittal. A master
development plan will be required for the entire parcel area (A-J) prior to the
submission of the tentative PUD application to create parcels.
   D.   Application Contents: The application must include such maps, drawings,
specifications, covenants, easements, conditions and form of performance bond
as were set forth in the minutes at the time of the tentative approval and a
final map if required by the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 278.010 to
278.630, inclusive. Zoning districts will be assigned concurrently with final
map approval.
   E.   Electronic Data: All tentative and final maps must be accompanied with
electronic data for maps in a digital file format suitable to the county.
   F.   Final Map Processing: Final PUD map processing will be done according
to Nevada Revised Statutes 278A.530-580 and this title.
   G.   Fees And Costs: Lincoln County reserves the right to hire consulting
services to assist in the review and processing of application materials. Any
such additional fees will be agreed upon by both Lincoln County and the
applicant. These costs will be based on reimbursement requests from the county
to the applicant. Subsequent fees will be required for individual planned unit
developments and/or additional development agreements or master plan amendments
(per the county fee schedule for the Toquop planning area or the county
planning fee schedule) to address specific items not adequately addressed or
anticipated in the original development agreement. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-4-4: FEES:
Fees are set periodically by the commission as deemed appropriate.
   A.   Residential Construction Tax: For initial parks and open space
development and maintenance a fee will be imposed for all new development. Upon
receipt of an application for a building permit for residential development: 1)
the valuation of the proposed construction will be determined based on actual
construction costs; 2) calculate one percent (1%) of said valuation; 3)
determine whether the one percent (1%) calculation results in an amount greater
than or less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00); 4) if the one percent (1%)
is equal to or greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), impose a
residential construction tax of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00); and 5) if the
one percent (1%) is less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), a residential
construction tax equal to the one percent (1%) amount will be imposed.
   B.   Bonding For Infrastructure: All PUD developers may be required to post
bonds for future improvements once development plans are finalized with the
county. Bonding shall be recorded as a deed restriction running with the land.
   C.   Residential Construction Tax: One thousand six hundred dollars
($1,600.00) per unit for schools will be imposed for all new development. This
fee will be paid upon receipt of an application for a residential building
permit.
   D.   Impact Or Assessment Fees: Impact or assessment fees for infrastructure
cost sharing will be imposed on all new development. These assessments will be
in accordance with a formula based on specific costs for public facilities.
Cost based fees may be levied in the future for regional improvements in the
Toquop area necessary for public health and safety.
   E.   Mitigation: Per the multispecies habitat conservation plan for
southeastern Lincoln County, impact mitigation fees for the protection of the
desert tortoise, southwestern willow flycatcher, or other species will be
assessed to Toquop developers. All developed acreage within Toquop will be
assessed five hundred fifty dollars ($550.00) per acre for mitigation. Any
fencing requirements or other required best management practices or fencing
maintenance required will be assessed to the developers or a GID on a prorated
basis by acreage.
   F.   Application Processing Fees, Including Master Development Plans/Maps,
Master Plan Amendments, Planned Unit Developments And Development Agreements
And Other Reviews As Needed: Fees will be required prior to the second meeting
with any development group. Planned unit developments over one hundred (100)
acres will be assessed fees based on the number of parcels, acres, dwelling
units or square footage of structures. These fees are listed under a separate
county planning fee schedule. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
CHAPTER 5
SPECIFIC DESIGN REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
14-5-1: Separation Of Uses
14-5-2: Height, Bulk, And Scale
14-5-3: Exterior Materials And Finishes
14-5-4: Accessory Use Standards
14-5-5: Flood Control And Drainage
14-5-6: Geotechnical
14-5-7: Slopes And Grade Lengths
14-5-8: Hillside Development
14-5-9: Setbacks
14-5-10: Landscaping
14-5-11: Screening
14-5-12: Open Space, Parks And Recreational Facilities
14-5-13: Roads
14-5-14: Streetscapes
14-5-15: Parking
14-5-16: Lighting
14-5-17: Signs
14-5-18: Storage And Trash Enclosures
14-5-19: Public Safety Infrastructure
14-5-20: Water Distribution System
14-5-21: Water Reliability Requirements
14-5-22: Wastewater Collection Treatment
14-5-23: Water Conservation
14-5-24: Utilities
14-5-25: Homeowners' And Common Area Maintenance Associations (HOA And CAM)
14-5-26: Manufactured Housing
14-5-27: Home Occupations
14-5-1: SEPARATION OF USES:
The creation of a planned unit development allows for greater flexibility in
design for a developer while protecting important features of a site. However,
an orderly and compatible arrangement of proposed uses will ensure long term
viability and success of a mix of uses throughout the planning area. All
permitted and special uses by zone are listed in section
14-6-7, "Appendix G; Permitted Uses", of this title.
   A.   Commercial uses (C-2) may not abut any residential property at R-3 or
greater density. Only C-P or C-1 uses may be allowed as transition densities to
C-2.
   B.   Any establishment selling liquor must be at least one thousand feet
(1,000') direct distance from any school, church, park or childcare facility
with distance being measured from business to primary use building.
      1.   Liquor establishments include taverns and liquor retail stores.
(Restaurants with a bar are not considered liquor establishments for the
purpose of this separation.)
      2.   Liquor establishments must be at least one thousand five hundred
feet (1,500') from adult business (AB) uses.
   C.   With the exception of full service restaurants, liquor sales will only
be permitted in industrial, resort, mixed use and C-2 commercial zones.
   D.   Resort zones may not abut any single-family residential properties.
   E.   Commercial/professional (C-P) office uses and mixed uses (X-U) are
acceptable as buffers to higher intensity commercial zones or light industrial
zones.
   F.   Aggregate sites may not be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
residential uses.
   G.   Religious institutions are encouraged in residential areas with
appropriate design and parking standards for screening, buffering and siting of
facilities to prevent glare, noise or other possible operational impacts.
   H.   Adult businesses (AB) may not be located within two thousand five
hundred feet (2,500') of any religious institution, school, boundary of any
residential district, park, boys' club, girls' club, similar existing youth
organization or childcare facility.
      1.   ABs shall be separated from all liquor establishments by one
thousand five hundred feet (1,500').
      2.   ABs may not be operated within one-half (1/2) mile of another such
business, which will include any adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
massage parlor or any sexual encounter establishment.
      3.   ABs may only be located in C-2, M-1 and M-2 industrial zones. All
other zones are prohibited.
   I.   Transitional uses or design features may be required by the county for
any compatibility concerns not mentioned above. This may include, but not be
limited to, transitioning, using or modifying proposed: height, colors, floor
area, lot size, lighting, walls or berms, landscaping, grading of site,
placement of structures on site, orientation of structures or lots, alternative
uses of space. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-2: HEIGHT, BULK, AND SCALE:
   A.   Commercial and residential buildings will not exceed a maximum height
of two and one-half (21/2) stories, or thirty five feet (35') at average grade
unless a variance is granted by the commission for appropriate uses. No waivers
will be permitted in or adjacent to any residential zone.
   B.   Variance requests for height will be accompanied by building design,
landscaping orientation, emergency equipment to serve building, setback and
streetscape measures that will lessen the visual impacts upon surrounding areas
and uses.
   C.   Box like or single, monolithic forms that are not relieved by
variations in massing or articulation of facades are not acceptable. The
perceived height and bulk of buildings shall be reduced by dividing the
building mass into smaller scale components.
      1.   Larger buildings must incorporate jogs, offsets or other
architectural features to reduce the visual length of long walls. Variety and/
or variation of rooflines is required to reduce the apparent size of commercial
buildings and provide visual interest.
      2.   All building surfaces over two (2) stories high or fifty feet (50')
in length must be relieved with a change of wall plane that provides strong
shadow and visual interest.
      3.   Loading areas and rooftop equipment shall be visually screened from
residential uses.
      4.   Building elevations with public access or windows shall face the
street(s).
      5.   Loading areas shall be provided for each freestanding commercial
structure or shared sites for grouped structures.
      6.   Loading docks shall not be visible from the street. These areas
shall be designated as to prohibit trucks from idling in these areas except in
approved loading spaces in daylight hours. Loading docks may not be located
adjacent to residential, park or open space areas unless enclosed.
   D.   Buildings shall be compatible with the scale and mass of existing
development allowed by the applicable land uses for the surrounding area as
established at the time of application, and shall be sited and designed to
provide a sensitive transition to nearby development.
      1.   All single-family detached dwellings shall contain a minimum of one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of living area.
      2.   Block walls may not exceed fifty feet (50') in length without
jogging, sawtooth, or meandering visual effects added to break up visual
intensity. Walls used between zoning districts shall provide for direct route
pedestrian pathways to increase pedestrian mobility of residents.
      3.   Projects on the edges of zoning districts shall be developed in a
manner which minimizes the adverse impacts resulting from incongruous height,
activities, bulk and scale of large buildings. Alternatives to mitigate such
impacts include, but are not limited to, siting and design, additional building
setbacks or stepping back of upper floors, operational changes and the actual
physical reduction of the height, bulk and scale of a project. (Ord. 2007-01,
3-5-2007)
14-5-3: EXTERIOR MATERIALS AND FINISHES:
   A.   Building Exterior: Stone, stucco, colored or exposed aggregate or
textured finish concrete, decorative block and brick are the preferred
materials for building exteriors. Simulated materials and building systems
which provide an aesthetic similar to the preferred materials may also be
acceptable. The use of ceramic tile, brick cast or real stone accents and trim
are encouraged.
   B.   Roofing: Concrete or clay tile is encouraged on all sloped roofs
however a composition shingle tiles or other similar materials are acceptable.
Architectural metal roofing may also be acceptable but should not be used as
the primary material for large expanses of roof. Wood shingles and shakes are
not acceptable. Commercial buildings may be approved with other roofing on a
case by case basis.
   C.   Trim: Exposed wood trim shall be of materials rated for a desert
environment. All wood shall have a stained or painted finish. The use of
durable substitute materials for wood such as painted polymer aluminum, metal,
or fiberglass is recommended.
   D.   Building Facade: The building design shall incorporate patterns and
materials that provide visual interest. Flat, plain building walls are not
acceptable. This shall be accomplished through the use of changes in color,
materials and/or relief such as the inclusion of belt lines, pilasters, pop
outs, etc. At a minimum, the front elevation of all dwellings shall have
recessed windows and entrance doors, or pop outs or other architectural
detailing around windows, entrance doors and garage doors. In addition, the
rear or side elevation of any dwelling, when the rear or side elevation faces a
collector or arterial street, shall have recessed windows, or pop outs or other
architectural detailing around windows.
   E.   Reflective Material: Highly reflective, shiny or mirror like materials
and unplastered exposed standard concrete and standard concrete masonry units
shall not be used.
   F.   Simplicity: Restraint should be used in the number of different
materials and colors selected. Simplicity of patterns is desired.
   G.   Coherent Design: All sides of a building shall be coherently designed
and treated. A consistent level of detail and finish is required for all sides
of a building.
   H.   Flat Roof: Any building design, which utilizes a flat roof shall
incorporate a parapet wall and/or cornice element on all sides of the roof.
   I.   Lighting: All lighting fixtures shall be dark sky friendly approved
lighting fixtures according to section
14-6-3, "Appendix C; Outdoor Lighting Code", of this title. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-
2007)
14-5-4: ACCESSORY USE STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards: Must be in conjunction with a residential development
containing at least three hundred (300) units or a recreational vehicle park,
regardless of the number of spaces.
   B.   Commercial Uses Within A Residential Zone (Only R-H And R-M): (Example:
Sundries store within an apartment complex):
      1.   Use should be designed to serve the immediate residents and guests
only.
      2.   Location must be within building used for recreational purposes or
property management offices.
      3.   Floor area to be no more than one thousand (1,000) square feet per
every three hundred (300) residential units with a maximum of two thousand five
hundred (2,500) square feet.
      4.   No exterior signs or lighting can be added.
      5.   Hours of operation and delivery are six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   C.   Accessory Dwelling Units:
      1.   Shall include a deed restriction filed with the county recorder
limiting the use of the accessory unit as a guesthouse and precluding the unit
as a rental unit.
      2.   Shall be connected to public water and sewer services where
available, or have on site water and sewer facilities that comply with all
county and state regulations.
      3.   May not be sold separately from the sale of the entire property,
including the principal dwelling unit.
      4.   Shall be permanent structures.
      5.   Shall be limited to one-story detached structure except a guesthouse
or caretaker's quarters located over a garage.
      6.   Shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) square feet of habitable area
or be less than six hundred (600) square feet.
      7.   Must meet all required setbacks listed in section
14-5-9 of this chapter.
      8.   Accessory units are permitted based on zoning district table.
   D.   Accessory Structures:
      1.   Private tennis courts shall not be constructed within twenty feet
(20') of any adjoining residential property line. Tennis court fences or walls
shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in height, and lighting standards will be
subject to lighting requirements in section
14-6-3, "Appendix C; Outdoor Lighting Code", of this title.
      2.   Private pools shall not be constructed within five feet (5') of any
adjoining residential property line and fencing shall be provided around all
pools and must conform to international building code.
      3.   Detached accessory buildings within R-3 or greater density
residential zones shall be less than seventy five percent (75%) the footprint
size of the primary structure first floor area unless allowed by a special use
permit.
      4.   Accessory structures shall adhere to the same building style, height
and color palette of the primary structure.
      5.   No accessory structures may be built within a specified utility
easement. All building setbacks are measured from the edge of such easements.
(Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-5: FLOOD CONTROL AND DRAINAGE:
All flood control facilities shall follow the design standards and
specifications set forth by the Lincoln County floodplain manager and in
accordance with adopted county standards and any overall drainage study for the
Toquop area.
   A.   Facilities shall follow RFCD procedures for ponding and settling of
floodwaters and storm runoff as well as erosion and sedimentation measures.
   B.   Specifications for open channels, detention basins, culverts, bridges,
and street drainage shall meet RFCD codes.
   C.   All developers/owners will share proportionally in the costs for
planning and coordinating flood control measures for the entire Toquop planning
area.
   D.   Required open space areas may include flood control facilities.
   E.   Specifications for drainage improvements such as storm drain manholes
and drop inlets shall also comply with RFCD standards.
   F.   Drainage facilities in a PUD may not be designed to increase peak flow
or velocity of water in any given location.
   G.   Flows may not disrupt the existing streambed or cause undue
interference with existing spawning. All discharge that might flow to the river
must either enhance or maintain the existing water quality and must be filtered
out via treatments such as oil absorbent pads or other acceptable mitigation
standards.
   H.   To the extent possible, drainageways shall be lined with natural
materials such as grass, soil, gravel or rock or other materials such as
patterned concrete as allowed by the regional flood control district. These
drainageways will be funded via assessment fees to developers per development
agreements. Where these drainageways service more than one development site,
proportionate costs are to be shared between all developments involved. (Ord.
2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-6: GEOTECHNICAL:
   A.   Geotechnical analyses, soil studies, borehole tests, grading, and slope
specifications shall conform to the international building code, most recent
edition.
   B.   Before any earthworks are commenced, areas of cut and fill shall be
clearly defined, and where necessary or as directed, sufficient fencing or
barriers should be provided around trees or other features that are to be
protected. Adequate provision shall be made for the control of erosion and
surface water runoff subject to an approved grading permit for all areas over
two (2) acres in size.
   C.   Erosion control and sediment loss measures shall be used per the
international building code. Additionally, developers will be required to
expose only as much ground as reasonably needed at any one time.
   D.   When geotechnical conditions are favorable, natural features such as
washes should be retained in their natural state to the greatest extent
possible and integrated into the design of the site.
   E.   A site disturbance plan shall be required for all development at the
tentative plan stage to indicate areas to be retained in their natural
topography and areas of disturbance. Slope maps must be provided at two foot
(2') contours indicating before and after landforms and areas to be graded.
(Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-7: SLOPES AND GRADE LENGTHS:
   A.   Slopes and grade lengths for sidewalks will meet ADA standards; in
addition, driveways in multi-family zones will meet ADA standards.
   B.   Slopes and grade lengths for sidewalks, driveways, and streets will
meet regional transportation commission standards and specifications.
   C.   Cross slopes will not exceed two percent (2%) maximums with sidewalks
at a distance of five feet (5') from back of curb. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-8: HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   Site Disturbance: For all areas of the lot or parcel with less than a
fifteen percent (15%) slope and outside a sensitive ridgeline, one hundred
percent (100%) site disturbance may occur in conjunction with development
phasing. All development areas with slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%)
will be considered hillside development areas. Slopes between fifteen (15) and
thirty five percent (35%) slopes may be graded and developed according to
approved development plans and this section. Grading on slopes greater than
thirty five percent (35%) is prohibited except in small areas (1/2 acre or
less) surrounded by lesser slopes. Slopes will be no greater than two to one
(2:1) on slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%) and three to one (3:1) for
slopes under fifteen percent (15%). Grading plans will be required for any
disturbances greater than two (2) acres including those within five hundred
feet (500').
   B.   Development Specifications: Excavation, transition sloping, trenching,
backfill, erosion control, aggregate and material bases shall all meet the
construction detail specifications of the RTC uniform standards and
specifications manual.
   C.   Water Runoff: Reduce water runoff and control erosion by maintaining
the natural features of the land, using on site best management practices to
reduce erosion and minimize stormwater runoff.
   D.   Need For Public Services: Minimize the need for public services where
the ability to provide services is limited by the terrain.
   E.   Identification: Tentative development plan shall identify specific
hills to be used for hillside development, planned slopes and excavation.
   F.   Density: The maximum density within hillside development is two (2)
units per acre, and nonresidential development as a principal use, other than
public facilities, is not permitted.
   G.   Erosion Control: Seeds for trees, desert shrubs, and grasses shall be
planted with a density adequate to control erosion and based on the approved
weed management plan (section
14-6-5, "Appendix E; Weed Management Plan", of this title).
   H.   Watering System: A watering system shall be used until the revegetated
materials are established and approved by the RFCD.
   I.   Stabilizing Material: The stabilizing material used shall blend with
the natural appearance of the site or lot and its surrounding terrain.
   J.   Buildings: All exterior walls and roofs of structures, except solar
generating/collecting equipment, shall be colored to blend with the desert
environment and reflective building materials (i.e., mirror finished glass and
mirror finished doors, metal roof unless treated to eliminate glare and other
polished materials that would increase the sun's reflective glare) shall not be
permitted.
   K.   Setbacks:
      1.   Approved Setback: All development, excluding perpendicular road
crossings, is subject to an approved setback from each sensitive ridgeline.
      2.   Grading Plan: The grading plan shall be approved prior to any
grubbing, grading, or clearing of an area and shall occur only within the areas
identified on the approved grading plan.
   L.   Riprap: All cut and fill slopes steeper than a ratio of three
horizontal to one vertical (3:1), or as approved by a geotechnical report with
the exception of retaining walls, shall be treated to control erosion as
approved by the county.
   M.   Natural Areas: The intent of natural areas is to provide for retention
of hillside areas in their natural state and to provide for open space. The
density and site disturbance shall be transferred to other portions of a site.
Specific criteria for natural areas includes:
      1.   Natural areas shall be at least one-half (1/2) acre in size or
immediately adjacent or contiguous to other land also designated as a natural
area which, in the aggregate, totals at least one- half (1/2) acre in size.
      2.   Site disturbance other than hiking trails or related structures
shall not be permitted within the geographical area of a natural area, unless
approved for public use equipment such as benches, restrooms, and parking areas
in order to offer recreational advantages.
      3.   The natural area shall be delineated on the tentative and final maps
of a subdivision, grading plans or on any development plan required for
development other than a subdivision, and shall be designated by legal
description for lot division.
      4.   Natural areas may be designated as a deed restricted portion of a
privately owned lot, or as a deed restricted separate parcel. Such parcel may
be under the ownership of a property owners' association or deeded to any
organization, or a maintenance district which accepts responsibility for the
perpetual preservation and maintenance of the natural area, subject to approval
and acceptance by the commission.
   N.   Hillside Ownership: Ownership of hillside property shall be that of the
lower property owner.
   O.   Hillside Wall Standards: The intent of wall standards is to reduce the
visual impact of screening and retaining methods used on hillside developments.
Specific criteria for design include:
      1.   The maximum height of retaining walls is thirty six feet (36'). For
each six feet (6') of vertical height, a six foot (6') horizontal offset shall
be provided.
      2.   Walls with a change in alignment shall to the greatest practical
extent incorporate the use of graduating steps rather than sharp corners.
      3.   Walls shall either incorporate the use of native materials or be
earth tone colors to match the native soils.
      4.   Hillside residential developments shall include covered porches or
other architectural features on the front elevation, which will effectively
reduce the vertical effect of the raised structure. The minimum width of such
porch or architectural feature shall be seventy five percent (75%) of the width
of the front elevation.
      5.   The use of wrought iron or other similar open materials is
encouraged for security walls and opaque rear walls.
      6.   Perimeter walls may be permitted around the sides of hillside
development parcels. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
(Ord. 2002-05, 10-21-2002, eff. 12-6-2002)
14-5-9: SETBACKS:
   A.   General Goals: Due to the flexibility of the PUD concept, it is
impractical to define an exact pattern for the arrangement of group dwellings.
However, development in the area shall provide a functional and nonmonotonous
orientation of units with a maximum of open space. General goals include:
      1.   Minimum Spacing: The minimum spacing between buildings in a PUD
shall comply with all fire code and international building code regulations
governing spacing.
      2.   Rear Yards: The rear yards of all buildings in all residential zones
must be no less than thirty feet (30'). Patio covers may be placed in rear
yards, but the distance between the rear wall and patio cover eaves must remain
no less than fifteen feet (15'). This setback applies to accessory structures
placed in rear yards as well.
      3.   Side Yards: Side yards abutting a street (public or private) in all
zones, except detached residential (R-E, R-3, and R-1a) shall not be less than
twenty feet (20'). Detached residential side yards shall not be less than ten
feet (10') from the street or side property line.
      4.   Front Yards: The front setback of all buildings in all zones is no
less than twenty five feet (25') from the back of sidewalk, or curb if a
sidewalk is not planned. For all residential subdivisions, garages must be a
minimum of thirty feet (30') from the back of sidewalk.
      5.   Buildings Front To Front: Buildings that have a front to front
relationship across a landscaped area or open courtyard must maintain a minimum
setback between buildings of fifty feet (50').
      6.   Buildings Side To Side: Buildings in all zones that have a side yard
to side yard relationship must maintain a minimum setback of twenty feet (20').
      7.   Buildings Rear To Rear: Except in detached residential zones,
buildings that have a rear yard to rear yard relationship must maintain a
minimum setback of forty feet (40'). In order for detached residential zones to
meet the thirty foot (30') back yard minimum, the rear to rear setback must be
sixty feet (60').
      8.   Buildings Rear To Side: Buildings that must have a minimum thirty
foot (30') separation distance.
   B.   Measurements: All building setbacks must be measured from the outside
edge of all porches, permanent awnings or architectural features versus flat
wall of the building. Any proposed waivers to setback standards must account
for allowances for such structures.
   C.   Yards: Yards are the area contained between the building and the
property lines and apply to the front, side, and rear areas of lots.
   D.   Required Setbacks: Required setbacks shall extend the entire width or
depth of the lot and shall be open from the ground to the sky except for
required utility equipment, accessory structures, such as mailboxes, light
poles, or pedestrian overpass bridges when required by any government entity or
as needed by any public utility.
   E.   Parking: Parking may be located within required setbacks except on
sidewalk areas. These are applicable for front, side and rear setbacks of lots.
   F.   Residential Lots: Residential lots shall not front any collector or
arterial streets.
   G.   Freeways Or Drainage Channels: Residential buildings shall not be
erected within fifty feet (50') of the right of way of any freeway or one
hundred feet (100') regionally from the high water mark of a significant
drainage channel or other drainageway identified in the regional drainage
study. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-10: LANDSCAPING:
   A.   Arterial Streets: Sidewalks/bike lanes shall be surrounded by an
average of ten feet (10') of landscaping on both sides for a total minimum
buffer of street to development of thirty feet (30').
   B.   Collector Streets: Sidewalks/bike lanes shall be surrounded by an
average of five feet (5') of landscaping on both sides for a total minimum
buffer of street to development of twenty feet (20').
   C.   Private Collector Streets: Internal private collector streets shall
have minimum of one 24-inch box tree (minimum 2 inch caliper) for every twenty
feet (20') of gross frontage, with a maximum distance of twenty feet (20') on
center between any such tree and the tree nearest to it, whether on the same or
different lot; and a minimum of four (4) shrubs, each with a minimum size of
five (5) gallons (minimum 3 feet above the top of the root ball), shall be
provided for every tree.
   D.   Internal Private Streets: Sidewalks shall be surrounded by an average
of three feet (3') of landscaping on both sides for a total minimum buffer of
eleven feet (11').
   E.   Maintenance: Trees located on streets described in subsections C and D
of this section will be maintained by the HOA, CAM or other assigned district.
   F.   Bare Soil: Bare soil is not permitted other than on hillsides (where
natural) used as open space or natural areas. Any streetscape area not covered
by vegetation must contain a minimum of two inches (2") of mulch, landscape
stone or decomposed granite.
   G.   Minimum Canopy: Landscaping must provide minimum ground coverage of
sixty percent (60%).
   H.   Required Landscaping: Required landscaping shall be irrigated, contain
live plant materials, and be maintained in a living, growing, sustainable
condition.
   I.   Turf Areas: Turf areas in nonresidential zoning districts shall not
exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the net lot area, exclusive of public rights of
way. Turf shall consist of either fescue, bermuda, or bluegrass species.
AstroTurf may not be considered as turf. Turf may not be used on slopes greater
than fifteen percent (15%).
   J.   Turf Area Width: To provide for the efficient use of water and to
minimize the runoff of water onto adjacent nonpermeable surfaces, the minimum
width of any turf area, except in single- family zoning districts, shall be ten
feet (10').
   K.   Parking Lot Landscaping: Landscaping shall also be provided within
parking lots in a manner which will serve to visually reduce the expanse of
paved areas.
      1.   Larger areas of grouped plantings will be encouraged over smaller
planting areas.
      2.   Pedestrianways should be developed in conjunction with larger
planting strips or islands of at least twenty five (25) square feet per tree.
      3.   Plant one large canopy tree for every seven (7) parking spaces
around the perimeter and throughout parking lots, the maximum distance between
trees in linear tree islands should be thirty feet (30').
      4.   The minimum width for tree wells and planting islands is eight feet
(8'). Structural soils may be required for tree wells.
      5.   Provide a minimum open soil surface area for small, medium and large
trees of twenty five (25), one hundred (100) and four hundred (400) square feet
respectively.
   L.   Visibility Restriction Areas: All landscaping within sight visibility
restriction areas shall be no taller than thirty inches (30") above the
adjacent street centerline when fully mature.
   M.   Irrigation: Landscaping shall be irrigated with an automatic sprinkler
system; drip irrigation systems with automatic moisture sensor shall be used in
all landscaping buffer areas or areas smaller than twenty feet (20') in width
where ground cover, trees, and flowerbeds occur.
   N.   Tree Guidelines: No tree whose mature height exceeds fifteen feet (15')
shall be planted under a high voltage transmission line.
      1.   Staking: Trees shall be staked for the first year of growth only.
      2.   Selection: "Trees For Tomorrow" shall be used for tree selection and
best management practices for trees.
      3.   Landscape Conformance: All landscaping and best management practices
shall conform to the "Trees For Tomorrow" publication in section
14-6-4, "Appendix D; Trees For Tomorrow", of this title for water conservation.
   O.   Irrigation On Residential Lots:
      1.   Each residential lot shall have a minimum of two (2) trees planted
with irrigation between the sidewalk and the front of each house at the time
the house is constructed.
      2.   Each residential lot shall be provided with an inground irrigation
system for front, side and rear yards with at least three (3) valves.
      3.   All landscaping and irrigation systems will be installed and
maintained by the developer until such point that the maintenance district, HOA
or other responsible party has agreed to take over its maintenance. CC&Rs will
include language for the maintenance and operation of irrigation systems. (Ord.
2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-11: SCREENING:
   A.   Screen Fence Or Wall: All commercial projects shall provide a solid
screen fence or wall (subject to subsection L of this section) not greater than
six feet (6') in height along all rear and side property lines which are common
to property zoned for residential purposes. In the case of a floodplain, the
solid wall or fence may be replaced by a wrought iron structure where
appropriate. Walls may not be higher than eight feet (8') unless approved by
the county.
   B.   Masonry Walls: Masonry walls must conform to the international building
code.
   C.   Retaining Walls: All retaining walls shall be sealed by a method
approved by the county to prevent the leaching or transmission of mineral
deposits through the wall. Weep holes shall be provided to prevent water
pressure buildup.
   D.   Block Or Stone Walls: Split faced block walls with a minimum of two (2)
rows of offset color, stucco walls, or screen walls are required unless other
screening materials are approved by the county. Stone walls are also permitted.
   E.   Business And Industrial District Fences: Fences and walls in all
business and industrial districts shall not exceed eight feet (8') in height
except that boundary line fences abutting residential districts shall not be
greater than six feet (6') in height (measured from residential side) and
barbed wire shall not be permitted along said boundary line. Perimeter walls
around retail stores and shopping centers should match the building(s) in
material or color. This provision is subject to subsection L of this section.
   F.   Waivers: If a perimeter fence's or wall's proposed deviation is the
result of unique topographic conditions, the person wishing to construct such
fence or wall may apply for a waiver. Fencing styles shall include open fencing
types, ranch style fencing, split rail, black iron, etc.
   G.   Wall Along Street: No screen wall along any street shall directly abut
the rear of the curb. Landscaping strips and sidewalks will be provided.
   H.   Height:
      1.   Allowed: Unless otherwise authorized in the planning process through
a variance, a screening wall of no more than six feet (6') in height above high
grade may be constructed and maintained between uses of differing intensity or
character. This may include between existing and/or future:
         a.   Multi-family and other multi-family developments;
         b.   Single-family and multi-family developments;
         c.   Residential and nonresidential uses;
         d.   Differing nonresidential uses;
         e.   Parking areas subject to general public view if not specified
elsewhere in this title;
         f.   Rear and/or side lot areas and public rights of way.
      2.   Location: Screening shall be located adjacent to perimeter property
lines, but on the constructing party's property, unless otherwise approved by
the county, which may include public rights of way.
      3.   Exceptions: In lieu of screen walls, the county encourages and may
require alternative methods for screening uses of differing character, density
or intensity. Alternative methods may include open space with landscaping;
landscaped earth berms (particularly with parking lots); lower screen walls
with landscaping (particularly with parking lots); open fencing with view lots.
   I.   Side Yard Walls: Side yard walls, higher than thirty two inches (32"),
shall not extend beyond the plane of the front wall of the house. Alternative
dynamic design ideas may be approved by the commission as submitted with the
PUD application.
   J.   Decorative Screen Walls: Pilasters and decorative caps are encouraged
as one method of providing decorative screen walls. The county will review each
decorative screening idea as submitted with the PUD application.
   K.   Sight Visibility Zones: Sight visibility zones shall be established and
maintained at all intersections of public and/or private streets and alleys and
drive aisles.
      1.   Height: No structure, vegetation, or object of any kind is permitted
over thirty two inches (32") in height, measured from the top of the adjacent
curb if a curb exists.
      2.   Traffic Control Devices And Streetlights: Traffic control devices,
their related appurtenances and streetlights illuminating public streets may be
placed within the sight zones.
      3.   Drive Aisles: An additional sight zone shall be maintained within
fifteen feet (15') of the point of intersection of any drive aisle curb cut
(including any medians) and any public or private street right of way (see
diagram below). (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
(Ord. 2002-05, 10-21-2002, eff. 12-6-2002)
   L.   Pedestrian Accessways: Screening walls and fences must provide for
pedestrian accessways through the walls between varying land uses in all land
use districts and to establish direct corridors for safe school routes from
home to school and for subsection H1 of this section. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-12: OPEN SPACE, PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES:
   A.   Development: Development of open space, parks and recreational
facilities agreed upon in the master development map/development agreement or
tentative PUD map stage or required in this title must be completed within the
first phase of each development in a multiphase project or at thresholds as
identified in the development agreement.
   B.   Natural Features: All significant natural features such as drainages
and prominent rock features shall be preserved and, where necessary, protected
by setbacks and easements from development.
   C.   Native Plants: Significant native plants shall be preserved and
protected from alteration and destruction.
   D.   Minimum Percentage: A minimum of twenty five percent (25%) of gross
acreage must be identified for open space and parks and public facilities. A
minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross land area must be preserved as public
open space. Public uses include trails, recreation areas, parks, public golf
courses, community centers and stormwater detention facilities (if usable by
the public for parks and recreation).
   E.   Computed Open Space: No parking areas, public facilities, schools
areas, roadways, private internal open space, storage areas or required park
acreage above shall be computed as open space. A minimum of twenty five percent
(25%) of all required open space lands must be usable for either passive or
active recreation uses.
   F.   Park Acreage Requirement: In addition to the ten percent (10%) open
space requirement, developers in a PUD must provide a minimum of six (6) acres
of park per one thousand (1,000) persons. If the development does not have one
thousand (1,000) persons, the park area required will be based on a ratio.
Persons per household will be determined based on an average of 2.5 persons per
unit, hence a minimum of six (6) acres of developed park space for every four
hundred (400) homes/units. These sites must be identified in the master
development plan map stage by their identification within each proposed
development area and finalized upon filing of tentative map applications. Park
locations must be designated separately and in addition to public facility
sites and dedications. Park areas must be identified as land use districts on
the preliminary map and required for all public uses including trails,
recreation areas, parks, public golf courses and stormwater detention
facilities (if usable by the public for recreation). Thresholds for park
dedications must be outlined in the development agreement as a percentage of
required park for any tentative map phase.
   G.   Trail System: Common open space must be set aside for the use and
benefit of the residents and owners and shall be linked to existing and planned
public open space areas to provide an overall open space system.
      1.   The plan for the thirteen thousand five hundred (13,500) acres of
Toquop planning area will include a comprehensive trail system along all major
arterials and to residential areas, connecting all parks and recreation
facilities and schools.
      2.   Any such trail system should connect with any adopted trail plans
for the city of Mesquite and conform to county trail standards.
      3.   Pedestrian and bicycle connections and necessary equipment shall be
provided to link all PUD areas including, but not limited to: all adjacent
neighborhoods, school sites, commuter parking facilities, open space, parks and
recreation facilities and commercial areas.
      4.   Split use trail systems shall be provided for both nonmotorized and
motorized uses (if golf cart paths are proposed).
   H.   Recreational Facilities: All residential areas within planned unit
developments shall be provided with common usable open space with active (e.g.,
swimming pools, tot play equipment, courts, golf courses, fitness stations,
etc.) and passive recreational facilities (e.g., ponds/water features,
sheltered picnic tables, barbecue facilities, swinging benches, etc.). Open
space and recreational facilities are encouraged for adjacent/shared use with
school facilities. Operational agreements will be provided which are acceptable
to the Lincoln County School District.
   I.   Construction And Maintenance: All recreational facilities will be
constructed by the developer to a level commensurate with a commercial
installation standard. The developer shall maintain such facilities (prior to
dedication to an approved entity) for up to two (2) years or provide payment
for such transfer at an earlier date. Parks are encouraged as part of model
home site areas to create a destination for early visitors and users. Park
sizes should be varied allowing for larger regional parks and for smaller
neighborhood parks.
   J.   Prohibited: The following areas shall not be considered as open space
or parks: rights of way, required setback areas and/or private yards,
landscaped entry features, private golf courses, public facility sites, any
area which is not platted as a separate lot, unless it is made available for
common use by means of an appropriate access and use easement, perimeter
landscaping, unless it is part of an approved common open space and
recreational facilities plan.
   K.   Park Design: Parks and facilities shall be designed and constructed to
a commercial installation standard by the PUD developer at its sole expense
according to the development agreement timing. All parks will be constructed to
a commercial installation standard, prior to dedication to the maintaining
organization and shall include at a minimum:
      1.   A multipurpose field or open play area.
      2.   A playground or tot lot with equipment.
      3.   Landscaped picnic areas with barbecues.
      4.   Daytime restroom facilities and drinking fountains.
      5.   A landscaped parking area/public telephone.
      6.   Shade structures for areas in subsections K1 and K2 of this section.
      7.   Trail system connecting to adjacent neighborhoods, schools, open
space, an overall trail network and commercial areas.
      8.   Any amenities required in county park plans.
   L.   Overall Plans: Overall plans for parks, trails and open space
(including channels, slopes or wash areas) will be required at the time of the
conceptual map/development agreement application for approval to ensure that
desired amenities for the neighborhoods are provided and that maintenance for
these facilities are ensured into the future.
   M.   Golf Courses: Public golf courses may be considered in open space
allocations up to twenty five percent (25%) of total required open space. Trail
networks and pathways will provide connections and be designed as part of
public golf courses to increase their usage.
   N.   Private Open Space: Internal open space areas shall be situated on each
residential lot and/or development envelope or clustered immediately adjacent
to each residential area. These private areas will not be considered in the
measurement of parks or open space area. The following uses are permitted in
private open space and developed public parks:
      1.   Riding stables.
      2.   Tennis courts.
      3.   Swimming pools.
      4.   Clubhouses.
      5.   Athletic fields.
      6.   Public museums.
      7.   Skateboarding facilities (open air).
      8.   Fairgrounds.
      9.   Zoo.
      10.   Farmers' market (as a special use).
      11.   Community centers (as a special use).
   O.   Golf Cart Paths:
      1.   Where cart paths exist they must be used by carts in preference to
parallel city streets with the exclusion of those cart paths privately owned
and maintained by the golf courses.
      2.   Carts driven at night must be equipped with functional headlights
and taillights; carts driven along public streets must have an audible signal
and brake lights.
      3.   Golf cart paths are required to facilitate pedestrian and golf cart
access from residential and commercial developments to schools, parks,
playgrounds and other city amenities via a cart path system. When the cart path
system is extended to the boundary of the parent parcel, the county will work
with other adjoining developers to maintain consistency of transport and
materials used.
      4.   Carts are not allowed on or across roadways or rights of way greater
than eighty feet (80') in width.
      5.   No person under the age of twelve (12) is permitted to drive a golf
cart; maximum cart speed is fifteen (15) miles per hour.
      6.   Golf cart parking spaces shall be provided in all commercial areas
and public facility locations accessible by the overall path system. Separate
pedestrian and bicycle paths/trails will be provided in addition to the cart
paths.
   P.   Channel Or Wash Area: The area of any channel or wash which is to be
retained in its natural state, improved as a nonconcrete channel, or improved
with a combination of natural materials and stamped concrete, may be counted
toward the requirements for open space within the subdivision or planned unit
development upon the review and approval of the county.
   Q.   Physical Improvements: Physical improvements that are permitted within
public open space may include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Trails, for equestrian, joggers or bikers, paved with materials such
as wood chips or gravel, per AASHTO standards.
      2.   Stormwater and erosion control facilities.
      3.   Protected cultural resource sites.
      4.   Community gardens/greenhouse.
      5.   Interpretive kiosks.
      6.   Other uses approved by the county. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-13: ROADS:
   A.   Grades: Grades and siting of roads should be designed to minimize
grading of the original topography. Combinations of steep grades and sharp
curves should be avoided.
   B.   Erosion: Road systems should minimize erosion and provide for efficient
and maintainable drainage and utility systems.
   C.   Attractive Development: Roads shall be designed and arranged with
appropriate regard for topography and other natural features, which would
enhance attractive development and be buffered from adjacent residential areas
and other development areas.
   D.   Design Standards: Roadway designs must be in conformance with NDOT
standards as well as the RTC uniform standards and specifications, including
all types of roadways, bikeways, sidewalks, driveways, cul-de-sacs, knuckles,
alleys, medians, and bus turnouts.
   E.   Private Roads: Private roads within developments should be designed and
arranged so that their use by through traffic or other high speed traffic will
be discouraged. Traffic calming measures shall be employed through design such
as bump outs, pedestrian crossings with surface treatments, vertical
structures, landscaped islands and other means.
   F.   Intersections: Proposed roads shall intersect one another, as well as
existing roads, as nearly at right angles as topography and other limiting
factors of good design permit. Curved roads versus grid style are encouraged,
but never to the extent that they limit the traffic flow of emergency vehicles.
   G.   Emergency Vehicle Standards: Roads shall be designed so as to provide
emergency ingress and egress for residents, occupants, and emergency equipment
and conform to the NFPA and state of Nevada fire code standards.
   H.   Turnarounds: Turnarounds must be provided and paved when adjacent
property is undeveloped; construction and maintenance of a turnaround of
approximately eighty feet (80') in diameter may be required for temporary use,
with plat notation that land outside the normal road right of way shall revert
to abutting property owners whenever the road is continued.
   I.   Rights Of Way:
      1.   Reduce Dependency: All streets within the PUD will be designed to
reduce the dependency on the automobile and reduce the number of daily trips by
single occupancy vehicles. All subdivisions shall be designed to provide
walkways and paths that connect with destinations such as parks, schools, and
shopping areas and other nearby developments.
      2.   Arterial Streets: Arterial streets will be no less than one hundred
feet (100') wide and shall, upon acceptance, be maintained by Lincoln County as
public roadways. Arterial streets shall be designed to flow from one
development to another with the design intent to make Toquop planning area one
community.
      3.   Collector Streets: Collector streets will be no less than eighty
feet (80') wide and shall be maintained, upon acceptance, by Lincoln County as
public roadways.
      4.   Local Streets: Local streets will be no less than sixty feet (60')
wide and shall be maintained by the PUD developer as either public or private
roadways, unless accepted by the county as public streets. The installation of
dead end streets will be allowed only on a case by case study.
      5.   Internal Private Streets: Internal private streets will be no less
than forty feet (40') wide. Exceptions may include the provision of CC&Rs
restricting on street parking, where streets may then drop to no less than
thirty five feet (35') wide. Internal private streets shall be maintained by
the developer, a district or HOAs as applicable as private roadways.
      6.   Right Of Way Slope: Maximum three feet (3') horizontal for one foot
(1') vertical behind the roadway apron and within the right of way.
      7.   Trails: Trails shall provide a minimum of ten foot (10') rights of
way with a six foot (6') paved area.
   J.   Bus Turnouts: Bus turnouts must be offered at least every one thousand
three hundred feet (1,300') along arterial and collector streets and are
encouraged every one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') on local streets.
   K.   Intersection Spacing: No less than two hundred feet (200'), measured
centerline to centerline.
   L.   Landscaping: All street medians shall be landscaped; turf shall be
limited to fifteen percent (15%) of total landscaping in median areas. Areas
with slopes over ten percent (10%) shall not include turf but rather natural
landscaping and Xeriscaping.
   M.   Curbs And Gutters:
      1.   Shall follow NDOT standards.
      2.   Thirty two inch (32") minimum width rolled curbs may be used in low
density residential and public facility areas.
      3.   L-curbs are required in commercial, industrial and medium to high
density residential developments.
   N.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs shall have a maximum length of six hundred
feet (600') measured from the centerline of the connecting street to the face
of curb at the turnaround. This length may be extended up to one thousand feet
(1,000') with fire department approval.
   O.   Dead End Streets: Will be reviewed by the county for public safety and
allowed by exception only. Streets at the county line may be dead end to allow
for future connections.
   P.   Easements And Infrastructure: Easement corridors and infrastructure
(for roads and public utilities) shall be provided by each PUD sufficient in
area and size to accommodate maximum build-out for the entire planning area
based on the potential of 3.3 units per acre for each parent parcel. Specific
easement and infrastructure needs on each parcel will be determined at the
development agreement stage and during each tentative PUD review based on
regional roadway studies. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-14: STREETSCAPES:
Streetscapes will conform to a submitted design standards handbook, Lincoln
County regional streets commission specifications and will be maintained by
homeowners' associations, CAMs or as otherwise designated organizations. (Ord.
2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-15: PARKING:
Parking standards will be set by section
14-6-6, "Appendix F; Parking Standards", of this title and standards below:
   A.   Dimensions: Each required parking space shall not be less than ten feet
(10') wide and eighteen feet (18') long, exclusive of access drives, and in
addition there shall be adequate space for ingress and egress. Access drives
shall be a minimum of twenty four feet (24') in width.
   B.   Recreational Vehicle Spaces: Recreational vehicle spaces shall be ten
feet (10') wide by forty two feet (42') long.
   C.   Commercial Vehicle Spaces: Commercial vehicle spaces shall be ten feet
(10') wide by twenty five feet (25') long, with a minimum fourteen feet (14')
of vertical clearance.
   D.   Parking Accessory To A Residential Use: Off street parking facilities
accessory to residential use shall be utilized solely for the parking of
licensed and operable passenger automobiles; no more than one truck not to
exceed gross capacity of 1.5 tons; and recreational vehicles and equipment.
   E.   Parking In Residential Setbacks: A motor home or recreational vehicle
may be parked subject to county regulations.
   F.   Single-Family Dwellings: Except as provided below, the off street
parking spaces required for an attached or detached single-family dwelling
shall be furnished within an enclosed garage. The garage shall have minimum
area of six hundred twenty five (625) square feet with unobstructed space to a
height of eight feet (8'), except for two foot (2') protrusions into this space
by utility systems and storage units. The garage shall be attached directly to
the dwelling unless exempted by a development agreement or approved by the
county.
   G.   Driveway Setbacks: Driveway setbacks shall be considered additional
parking space, but may not be calculated to meet off street parking
requirements.
   H.   Landscaping: Where parking areas are larger than fifty (50) spaces,
landscaping shall be incorporated into design to break large expanses of
pavement and provide visual relief as well as relief of the effects of heat and
glare. Any planting strip used must be a minimum of eight feet (8') in width.
Landscaping will be subject to the "Shades Of Green: BMP" guide.
   I.   Parallel Parking Spaces: Parallel parking spaces shall be a minimum of
twenty four feet (24') in length.
   J.   Surfacing: All areas intended to be utilized for parking space and
driveways shall be surfaced with pavers, concrete or asphalt concrete to
control dust and drainage. All proposed parking areas and driveway improvements
shall require a grading and drainage plan approved in accordance with provision
of the drainage control uniform regulations.
   K.   Striping: Except for single-family dwellings, all parking stalls shall
be marked with painted lines not less than four inches (4") wide.
   L.   Protruding Vehicles: All on site parking stalls, which abut property
lines shall be designed and constructed such that parked vehicles shall not
protrude over property lines.
   M.   Handicapped Parking: Handicapped parking spaces shall be provided
subject to federal Americans with disabilities act standards and Nevada Revised
Statutes 484.408.
   N.   Shared Use Of Parking Facilities: Up to eighty percent (80%) of the
parking facilities required for a church or for an auditorium incidental to a
public or parochial school may be supplied by the off street parking facilities
by other uses; provided a shared use calculation is completed ensuring maximum
parking shall not be exceeded during any given period. A shared use must be by
signed recorded agreement between all affected property owners.
   O.   Requirements Per Shared Use Calculations: Example: A church that only
meets as a congregation on Sunday but houses a day school throughout the
remainder of the week and not at the same time will only be required to meet
the higher parking requirements of the two (2) uses and not both requirements.
   P.   Number Of Spaces Required: The minimum number of off street parking
spaces shall be provided and maintained by ownership, easement and/or lease for
and during the life of the respective uses in accordance with the requirements
listed in section
14-6-6, "Appendix F; Parking Standards", of this title or Lincoln County RTC
parking standards.
   Q.   Vehicles For Sale: It is unlawful for any person to display for the
purpose of sales or lease any vehicle upon any vacant lot or unimproved portion
of public right of way.
   R.   Emergency Parking Areas: All buildings within the PUD are required to
have emergency parking areas in compliance with NFPA and state of Nevada fire
codes.
   S.   Bicycle Parking: All public or commercial buildings will be equipped
with bicycle parking and storage facilities meeting the NDOT statewide bicycle
plan standards. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-16: LIGHTING:
Street lighting, signals, and other such street furniture shall conform to the
regional transportation commission (RTC) uniform standard drawings and
specifications manual for spacing, setbacks, wiring, and construction. However,
privately maintained creative "character areas" with unique streetlight and
signal designs are encouraged. Character area designs may be approved by the
county during the tentative plan approval process. All lighting must conform to
lighting standards in section
14-6-3, "Appendix C; Outdoor Lighting Code", of this title. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-
2007)
14-5-17: SIGNS:
   A.   Prohibited: Signs prohibited in the Toquop planning area are:
      1.   Imitations or simulations of any directional, working, danger and/or
informational sign.
      2.   Illumination of such brilliance and/or position as to blind or
dazzle the vision of travelers.
      3.   Signs, advertising displays, and structures containing statements,
words or suggestions or pictures of an obscene, indecent or immoral character.
      4.   Off site signage for commercial uses.
      5.   Misleading, erroneous or false information and/or advertising.
      6.   Signs, advertising displays, and/or structures that emit any sound,
portable or mobile signs, unless permitted as a temporary sign or for public
safety.
      7.   Signs placed on parked vehicles or trailers, or parked commercial
vehicles where the apparent purpose is to advertise a product or to direct
people to a business or activity located on the same or nearby property.
      8.   Roof signs.
      9.   Banners, pennants, festoons, searchlights (special use permit).
      10.   Signs imitating or resembling official traffic or government signs
or signals.
      11.   Snipe signs or signs attached to trees, utility poles, public
benches, streetlights, or placed on any public property or public right of way.
   B.   Canopies And Awnings: Signs are permitted on architectural building
features such as canopies and awnings, with all regulations applying to text
and logos only.
   C.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding monument, entry/exit, construction,
ladder, and for sale signs are allowed and shall be considered to face the
street to which they are most nearly perpendicular. All other types of
freestanding signs will not be allowed in any district.
      1.   Height: Ladder signs shall not be more than sixteen feet (16') tall,
measured from the high point on the sign to ground level. Monument signs shall
not be taller than seventy two inches (72") in height. Signs in residential
areas (for churches and other uses applicable in these areas) may be no more
than four feet (4') in height.
      2.   Display: Front entrance signs shall display the development name,
subdivision name, and directions to the subdivision only. Off premises
directional signs shall display the subdivision name and a directional arrow
only. Off premises directional signs shall only display a maximum of seven (7)
subdivision location signs.
      3.   Materials: Ladder signs shall be constructed of a metal material.
Monument signs shall be constructed of either cement products, or of rock,
marble or metal material.
      4.   Distance: Entrance signs shall be constructed at the main entrance
of the planned unit development or subdivision. Off premises directional signs
are allowed a minimum of one-fourth (1/4) mile apart and at major intersections
only. No one subdivision can have more than two (2) off premises directional
signs unless the subdivision measures more than one mile in length. This would
be measured along the street from the main entrance sign. If the subdivision is
more than one mile in length the subdivision is allowed two (2) signs for every
measured mile. All signs shall adhere to the community theme selected for the
neighborhood.
      5.   Illumination: No backlit signs will be allowed. No internal lighting
may be used for signs in this section. Signs may be externally lit with
concealed lighting only. Exposed bulbs or neon tubes are not allowed in or
adjacent to planned unit developments.
   D.   For Sale Signs: For sale signs must be no larger than three feet by
three feet (3' x 3') in residential areas and are only allowed posted on local
streets from Friday at five o'clock (5:00) P.M. to Sunday at twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight. Individual sale signs for homes may be posted continuously.
   E.   Election Signs: Temporary election signs must be removed within five
(5) working days of an election date and are subject to commission approval of
size and height if proposed larger than three feet by three feet (3' x 3') for
road signs and four feet by eight feet (4' x 8') for temporary ground
billboards. (Candidates winning primary elections may leave signs in place
until after general election.)
   F.   Safety Signs: School signs, block number signs, and other safety signs
must conform to RTC uniform standards and specifications.
   G.   Street Name Signs: Street names signs shall be in accordance with the
NDOT standard drawings and specifications manual, however, creative character
areas with unique street sign designs are encouraged. Character area designs
may be approved during the tentative plan approval process.
   H.   Billboards: Billboards of any kind (except temporary ground A-frames)
are not allowed in the PUD communities and will be reviewed for use only along
arterials by special use permit. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-18: STORAGE AND TRASH ENCLOSURES:
   A.   Refuse Container Enclosures: All development, except for single-family
residential development, shall provide interior or exterior enclosures for all
refuse containers, including recyclable containers if provided, compactors, and
areas per the standard of the local trash service provider.
      1.   Trash enclosure walls shall be five feet four inches (5'4") high,
constructed of masonry, concrete block or wood and shall have solid/screened
gates. The height may be waived with the approval of the county if the owner
demonstrates that the height of the trash enclosure will completely screen the
trash receptacles.
      2.   The enclosure shall be set back at least fifty feet (50') from any
residential development on an adjacent parcel and exact locations shall be
provided to the county for approval with the PUD.
      3.   An enclosure shall be located within two hundred feet (200') of each
multi-family residential or commercial building within a development.
      4.   Doors shall not open into the right of way, or be located within any
required yard.
      5.   Colors and materials for refuse facilities should blend with and be
carefully placed to minimize impacts on structures in the area.
      6.   Refuse container sites and access should be designed as to minimize
traffic impairment.
   B.   Storage Enclosures: Outdoor storage and display of merchandise,
materials, or equipment, including display of merchandise, materials, and
equipment for customer pick up, may be permitted subject to special use permit
in the commercial and industrial zones with approved visual screening
requirements and other conditions if deemed necessary to prevent such adverse
impacts. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-19: PUBLIC SAFETY INFRASTRUCTURE:
   A.   Automatic fire sprinkler systems, meeting the specifications of the
fire district, shall be required in all structures, including residential and
multi-family.
   B.   Emergency medical services will be provided by the emergency medical
services district having jurisdiction. Law enforcement services will be
provided by the Lincoln County sheriff according to development agreements
provisions.
   C.   A 911 system must be available to all residents and visitors in Toquop.
This system may be maintained in the Toquop community or outside Toquop with
direct dispatch capabilities to Lincoln County emergency management personnel.
Developers shall provide cash contributions for the establishment of such a
system on a prorated system based on gross acreage owned.
   D.   Fire prevention and suppression services will be provided by the fire
district having jurisdiction.
   E.   Developers, at their sole expense, shall provide cash contributions or
construction of county fire stations, dedication of sites and associated
equipment and police substations, to be credited toward overall contribution by
all parcel owners in the Toquop planning area. Contributions of sites,
equipment and facilities will be credited or prorated toward overall public
safety needs in a proportional manner by all parcel owners in the Toquop
planning area.
   F.   The Toquop planning area fire stations shall be located within a five
(5) mile road distance radius of all developed properties and maintain at least
one primary police station. Site dedications by developers will be based upon
locational needs and requirements of this title.
   G.   Substations will be required based on travel distance, density and the
type of proposed development and determined by Lincoln County at the time of
the development agreement. Substations will require at least one fire engine,
one quick response vehicle and one EMT/rescue vehicle.
   H.   The primary fire station shall be equipped and provided by developers
with at least two (2) pumper trucks, one tanker truck, and ladder truck capable
up to thirty five feet (35') in height (standard building height for Toquop),
one EMT/rescue vehicle. If building height waivers are requested above thirty
five feet (35') developers will be required to provide a ladder truck near the
site and associated storage facilities for such vehicles.
   I.   Public clinic locations shall be available to residents in Toquop,
either by interlocal agreement, development agreements or other means.
   J.   All buildings must follow the adopted codes of Lincoln County (IBC) in
order to meet public safety requirements.
   K.   The fire safety rating system will be the highest rating attainable
with all buildings required to be fire sprinklered. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-20: WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM:
   A.   Sizing: The water distribution system internal to the development shall
be sized to meet both the initial and future culinary and fire safety demands
of the proposed development. Oversizing for likely extensions for future phases
is also required at the time of installation. Any oversizing costs shall be
shared proportionally based on overall development areas and proposed densities
by the affected developers.
   B.   Design Standards: Except as noted, all water systems shall be designed
in accordance with the uniform design and construction standards for water
distribution systems, the uniform standard specifications for public works
construction, and the NFPA code.
   C.   Building Fire Sprinkler Systems: All buildings shall be provided with
an approved automatic fire sprinkler system in accordance with the fire code.
The water system design shall accommodate the requirements for building fire
sprinkler systems in accordance with NFPA 13, 13R, and 13D. The building fire
sprinkler system shall meet fire code requirements.
   D.   Fire Hydrants: In all residential areas, fire hydrants shall not be
spaced greater than five hundred feet (500') apart.
   E.   Future Connections: If future connection to a different supply system
is anticipated, critical pressure in that system may be used as the starting
design pressure.
   F.   Service Life: The system is to be designed for a minimum service life
of fifty (50) years.
   G.   Freeze Prevention: System must provide sufficient cover to prevent
freezing.
   H.   Dead End Mains: Dead end mains are to be provided with a suitable means
for flushing.
   I.   Fire Flow Standards: Standards for fire flows as required by
international fire code and NFPA. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-21: WATER RELIABILITY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The average daily demand of the entire service area and the proposed
development will be based on a maximum of one-half (1/2) acre-foot per home per
year with water conservation measures at the national average or future
requirements set forth by the county water district.
   B.   The average daily demand and fire flow for commercial and industrial
uses will be reviewed based on the anticipated demand of the proposed
development. Appropriate multipliers may be utilized in calculating this
amount.
   C.   Each residential lot shall have adequate water to meet required
landscaping areas and types as specified in this title.
   D.   In addition to the fifteen percent (15%) turf limitation, watering will
not be permitted between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) P.M. between April 1 and October 1 of each year.
   E.   The development agreement shall include any requirements for water
under section
14-4-2 of this title.
   F.   Individual on site wells will not be permitted in the Toquop township.
   G.   All water facilities (tanks and accessory buildings) colors and design
shall blend with the surrounding environment. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-22: WASTEWATER COLLECTION TREATMENT:
   A.   Wastewater collection systems shall be designed in accordance with
uniform plumbing codes.
   B.   Septic systems shall not be permitted except in the R-E district for
residential use. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-23: WATER CONSERVATION:
   A.   Standards: Standards for water closets, urinals, and flow rates used in
the Toquop area shall conform to the most recent international plumbing code.
   B.   Reuse Water (Secondary System): A secondary (or dual) water system
shall be utilized throughout all zones in the PUD. Rights of way shall be
designed to accommodate the use of dedicated irrigation lines in addition to
other required systems.
   C.   Gray Water Systems: Use of gray water systems are encouraged in master
planned communities, particularly in large projects (such as hotels) as the
water supply for flushing toilets.
   D.   Landscape Watering: Reuse and gray water systems for watering golf
courses (fairways and greens), fountains, landscaping strips in ROWs, common
open space, and ponds are required. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-24: UTILITIES:
   A.   Underground Installation: All utilities, including electricity and
telephone, television and traffic signal service lines shall be installed
underground, with the exception of high voltage transmission lines above one
hundred thirty eight (138) kilovolts (all distribution voltage must be buried),
transformer and switch boxes, and vaults.
   B.   Electric Utilities: Electric utilities will meet national electrical
safety code standards.
   C.   Underground Location: Typical underground utility and pipe locations in
streets shall follow RTC uniform standards and specifications.
   D.   Installment Methods: Trenching, anchoring, installation, and
chlorination methods shall follow RTC uniform standards and specifications.
   E.   Utility Fixtures: Utility fixtures, such as transformers, junction
vaults, and traffic control pedestals, irrigation controls, and fire protection
equipment (except hydrants) shall be set back from public rights of way and
screened from view.
   F.   Location Of Utility Poles And Cabinets: Utility poles or cabinets must
be located away from sidewalks.
   G.   Telecommunications Facilities: All telecommunications facilities and
accessory structures will be sited to minimize their view or be collocated with
other facilities. Facility design, exterior colors and materials will be
required for the facility to blend with the surrounding landscape. (Ord. 2007-
01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-25: HOMEOWNERS' AND COMMON AREA MAINTENANCE ASSOCIATIONS (HOA AND CAM):
   A.   Homeowners' Associations:
      1.   Much of the Toquop area roads and landscape will eventually be owned
and maintained by private homeowners, requiring an ongoing homeowners'
association to be established. Therefore, HOAs must be established prior to the
first parcel being sold within all residential developments.
      2.   Membership and dues to the homeowners' association shall be
mandatory for each owner and successive buyer.
      3.   Maintenance of the perimeter landscaping shall be the responsibility
of the property owner, developer, or homeowners' association and described as
such in proposed CC&Rs for each PUD.
      4.   The management and maintenance agreement for common open space and
recreational facilities shall be permanent or in conjunction with a long term
agreement (e.g., 99 years).
      5.   The homeowners' association shall be responsible for liability
insurance and the maintenance of recreational service and other facilities as
deemed necessary by the county.
      6.   CC&Rs for each individual development/subdivision shall be initially
created by the developer and subsequently maintained and enforced by the
established HOA in perpetuity. Any CC&Rs must meet minimum standards of this
title.
      7.   CC&Rs shall address parking limitations, landscaping and
architectural limitations, common area maintenance and other issues deemed
appropriate by each HOA if not outlined in this title. Any additional
requirements may not be less restrictive than those listed herein. The HOA must
also address the limitation to potential impacts to the Virgin River Basin
through involvement in the Virgin River watershed group or through the
establishment of a best management practices committee.
      8.   Homeowners shall pay their pro rata share of the cost and the
assessment levied by the association that can become a lien on the property in
accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 278.
      9.   The association shall be required to adjust its assessment to meet
changing needs with a majority of total votes received.
   B.   CAMs:
      1.   Office, commercial and industrial developments shall establish a
mechanism to manage and maintain common areas to the development.
      2.   Each building and/or property owner in the development shall be a
member of this management mechanism.
      3.   The management and maintenance agreement for common open space and
recreational facilities shall be permanent or in conjunction with a long term
agreement (e.g., 99 years).
   C.   Maintenance Districts: Maintenance districts may be created by the
county to address any maintenance or service related issues not addressed
adequately by the homeowners' association. Any associated cost will be imposed
as a fee to be paid by the property owner and if unpaid will become a lien upon
the property. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-26: MANUFACTURED HOUSING:
   A.   Manufactured housing standards must conform to Nevada Revised Statutes
278.
   B.   Manufactured homes in the Toquop area shall contain a minimum of one
thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of living area, equal to that of the
smallest single-family home. In addition, all manufactured homes will be
required to have the first floor level near adjacent finish grade level. The
intent is to maintain the appearance of a standard stick built home. (Ord.
2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-5-27: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.   Purpose: Home occupations although more of a "use" than a standard, are
addressed in this title because the community is expected to model a quiet
bedroom type community with higher percentages of persons working at home than
the national norm. For this reason, the following standards must be met:
   B.   Permitted Home Occupations: Permitted home occupations are subject to
the following standards:
800 numbers and 900 numbers.
Artist.
Bookkeeping, accounting services.
Ceramics, kiln with a one hundred twenty (120) volt service only.
Computer based businesses.
Computer graphics services.
Consulting services.
Court reporting.
Errand services.
Family home (baby sitting).
Flower arrangement, excluding fresh flowers.
Handicraft, including gift basket assembly (no alcoholic beverages nor food
products produced at the home).
Health fitness training services.
Information services.
Insurance adjustment services.
Interior design services.
Internet design and management.
Janitorial services.
Jewelry making, excluding the smelting of metal.
Maintenance businesses, except licensed contractors.
Massage therapist - outcall only.
Newspaper delivery service.
Party planning services.
Photography and related services, excluding the processing of film.
Professional services (such as architects and similar professions).
School - individual instruction.
Secretarial services.
Tailoring, sewing services.
Tax preparation services.
Telephone services, does not include escort services nor telemarketing
services.
Travel agent.
Writer.
   C.   Services: Services must be business outcall only with no walk- in
traffic.
   D.   No Disturbance: There shall be no disturbance such as noise, vibration,
electrical interference, smoke, dust, odor, lighting, heat or glare beyond the
lot lines or beyond the confines of the dwelling unit.
   E.   No On Site Sales: There shall be no direct selling, leasing or delivery
of stocks of merchandise, supplies or products on, to or from the premises.
   F.   Exterior Alterations: There shall be no external alteration of the
residential appearance of a dwelling unit. At or in front of the dwelling unit
of the home occupation, there shall be no exterior display; no exterior storage
of merchandise, inventory, equipment or materials; no exterior deposition of
waste materials, except that which is placed at the curb the day of garbage
pick up; window display, including a sign visible from outside the dwelling
unit; no house calls; nor other indication from the exterior that a dwelling
unit or accessory building is being used in part for any use other than that of
a dwelling unit or accessory building for purely residential purposes.
   G.   Harmful Materials: There shall be no toxic, explosive, flammable,
combustible, corrosive, etiologic, or radioactive materials, used or stored on
the premises, except that which is generally used for residential purposes.
   H.   Parking: At or in front of the dwelling unit of the home occupation,
the use; parking or storage of such equipment and vehicles as tractors,
semitruck tractors or trailers; heavy equipment such as construction equipment;
vehicles over 1.5 tons; and commercially licensed vehicles with six (6) wheels
or more shall be prohibited.
   I.   Space: Occupation must occupy no greater than fifteen percent (15%) of
space in home (excluding garage).
   J.   Employees: No more than one on site employee (in addition to homeowner)
is permitted to work on premises.
   K.   Other Uses: Any uses not listed for home occupations (or prohibited)
may be considered by the planning director through a similar use determination
application process. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
CHAPTER 6
APPENDICES
SECTION:
14-6-1: Appendix A; Definitions
14-6-2: Appendix B; Toquop Planning Area Map
14-6-3: Appendix C; Outdoor Lighting Code
14-6-4: Appendix D; Trees For Tomorrow
14-6-5: Appendix E; Weed Management Plan
14-6-6: Appendix F; Parking Standards
14-6-7: Appendix G; Permitted Uses
14-6-1: APPENDIX A; DEFINITIONS:
ABUTTING: Having a common border with, or being separated from such a common
border, by a public or private street, alley, or easement.
ACCENT LIGHTING: Any directional lighting which emphasizes a particular object
or draws attention to a particular area.
ACCESS: A means of approach to provide vehicular or pedestrian physical
entrance to a property.
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A detached building clearly incidental to, and located
upon, the same lot occupied by the main building. Any accessory building shall
be considered to be a part of the main building when joined to the main
building by a common wall or when an accessory building and the main building
are connected by a breezeway.
BUILDING: Any structure, other than a tent, having a single or common roof
supported by columns or walls.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average grade to the highest
building point.
CASINO: A gaming establishment that holds a nonrestricted gaming license issued
by the Nevada gaming commission and by the board pursuant to title 4, chapter 9
of this code.
CHARACTER AREA: Specific designs in designated areas that are all similar in
style and color and highlight the character and aesthetics of an area with
colors, styles, or designs.
DARK SKY LIGHTING: Outdoor lighting fixtures that are ninety degree (90°)
cutoff fixtures, shielded towards the ground and do not allow light pollution
onto adjacent parcels. See section
14-6-3, "Appendix C; Outdoor Lighting Code", of this chapter.
DENSITY: The number of residential dwelling units occupying a given land area,
expressed in terms of dwelling units per gross acre of land.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written agreement, adopted pursuant to state statutes
for a specified period of time between the county and any person having a legal
or equitable interest in real property for the purpose of developing such
property in accordance with specified laws, ordinances, codes, rules and
regulations in effect at the time such agreement is executed, in return for
additional development requirements that may include, but are not limited to,
provision of design standards, public facilities and staffing, on and off site
infrastructure and other improvements.
DISABLING GLARE: Light that impairs visibility, and does create a potentially
hazardous situation for either pedestrians or motorists.
GLARE: The brightness of a light source that causes eye discomfort.
GRADE: The average level of the finished ground level at the center of all
walls of the building and the finished grade for the purpose of determining the
height of fences, walls, and/or hedges shall be the top of curb grade for
fences, walls and hedges along a street. Where the finished grade line of a lot
is above or below the finished grade line of an abutting lot, the finished
grade shall be the point on the high side.
GRADING: Any excavation, filling, clearing vegetation, rough grading,
stockpiling, or altering the natural ground surface or its elevation.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: May include, but are not limited to, explosives,
flammables, combustibles, compressed gases, cryogenics, poisons and toxins,
reactive and oxidizing agents, radioactive materials, corrosives,
carcinogenics, or etiological agents, or any combination thereof.
LAMP: The light producing source installed in the bulb portion of a luminaire.
LANDSCAPING: The combination of natural elements such as trees, shrubs, ground
covers, vines, and other living organic and inorganic material which are
installed for purposes of creating an attractive and pleasing environment,
screening unsightly views, reducing environmental heat, filtering particulate
matter from the air, and boosting oxygen levels. Public art, water features,
plazas, patios, decorative courtyards and lighting may also be considered
landscape elements.
LEGAL HARDSHIP: That the strict application of the regulations would work an
unnecessary hardship and that the granting of the application is necessary for
the preservation and enjoyment of substantial existing property rights.
LIGHT POLLUTION: General sky glow caused by the scattering of artificial light
in the atmosphere and resulting in decreased ability to see the natural night
sky.
LIGHT TRESPASS: Light emitted by a luminaire that shines beyond the property on
which the luminaire is installed.
LUMINAIRE: A complete lighting unit including the lamps, together with the
parts required to distribute the light, to position and protect the lamps, and
to connect the lamps to the power supply. Used synonymously with fixture.
MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN: Upon submittal of development agreement or any
development of land within the Toquop planning area a master development plan
shall be submitted in accordance with Nevada Revised Statutes 278A, title 13 of
this code and this title. Selected portions of the planned unit development
submittal requirements will be required per this title for any master
development plan.
MASTER DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPLICATION: Preliminary design concept for overall
planned unit development area as presented by parcels A-J subsequent to the
approval of a development agreement outlining overall development potential of
the subject tract.
NUISANCE GLARE: Light that creates an annoyance or aggravation, but does not
create a potentially hazardous situation.
OPEN SPACE: Land areas which are dedicated to the county, GID or HOA for public
use. These areas may not be occupied by any nonrecreational structures designed
or intended for vehicular traffic, parking, buildings, or structures but allow
water features, decorative objects such as artwork, decorative fences,
unenclosed patios and balconies. Public open space areas will include areas of
not less than twenty five percent (25%) total open space area that are usable
for recreational uses and contain slopes less than thirty five percent (35%).
PATIO COVER: A structure, which is not enclosed and provides sheltered outdoor
space, except that a patio cover may be partially enclosed providing that the
wall area is more than fifty percent (50%) open, not including windows. This
does include balconies.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Water, sanitary or storm sewers, telecommunications, traffic
signal and street lighting systems, petrochemical pipelines, electric power,
gas, cable television systems or facilities, irrigation water company systems,
or other facilities permitted to be within county rights of way or the
companies operating such facilities, and including the meaning ascribed under
section 704.020 of the Nevada Revised Statutes.
RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION: Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building, which
is used primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land, which is used as a roadbed, either for a street
or railway. The land is set aside as an easement or in fee, either by agreement
or condemnation. Also used to describe the right of land to pass over that of
another.
SCHOOL: Any public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child daycare facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, primary schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools, special
education schools, universities, and community colleges. School includes the
school grounds, but does not include the facilities used primarily for another
purpose and only incidentally as a school.
SECONDARY WATER SYSTEM: Pressurized or open ditch water delivery system of
untreated water for irrigation of privately or publicly owned lawns, gardens,
parks, cemeteries, golf courses and other open areas. These are sometimes
called "dual" water systems.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
shop, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, massage parlor, sexual encounter establishment, escort
agency or seminude model studio. This includes phone and internet based adult
businesses.
SHIELDING: No light rays are emitted by a fixture above the horizontal plane
running through the lowest point of the fixture where light is emitted.
STREET: A public or private thoroughfare used, or intended to be used, for
passage or travel by automobiles, trucks, bicycles and/or pedestrians, whether
designated a street, road, avenue, trail or otherwise, and including all the
improvements and landscaping within the right of way or easement or a
thoroughfare which has been made public by right of use and which affords the
principal means of access to abutting property.
TURF: Any grassy area maintained by frequent mowing and fertilization and/or
watering, commonly used for lawns and playing fields.
XERISCAPE: A style of landscaping for the purpose of water and energy
conservation that is generally accepted to include the following seven (7)
principles:
   A.   Appropriate planning and water conserving design.
   B.   Reduced lawn areas.
   C.   Appropriate and efficient irrigation.
   D.   Soil improvement for water absorption and retention.
   E.   Use of organic or inorganic mulches.
   F.   Use of low water demand plants and trees.
   G.   Good maintenance. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007; amd. Ord. 2008-04, 12-15-
2008, eff. 7-1-2009)
14-6-2: APPENDIX B; TOQUOP PLANNING AREA MAP:
(Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-6-3: APPENDIX C; OUTDOOR LIGHTING CODE:
   A.   The purpose of the outdoor lighting section is to regulate outdoor
lighting in order to: reduce light pollution; reduce or prevent glare; reduce
or prevent light trespass; conserve energy; promote a sense of safety and
security; and ensure aesthetically appropriate outdoor lighting in keeping with
the character of the Toquop planning area.
   B.   Applications for tentative PUDs, building permits which include the
installation or replacement of outdoor lighting fixtures for new construction,
additions or remodeling shall provide evidence of compliance with the
requirements of this section. The submittal shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Plans indicating the location, type, and height of luminaires
including both building and ground mounted fixtures;
      2.   A description of the luminaires, including lamps, poles or other
supports, and shielding devices, which may be provided as catalogue cuts from
the manufacturer;
      3.   Photometric data, such as that furnished by the manufacturer,
showing the angle of light emission; and
      4.   Additional information as may be required by the planning and land
use department in order to determine compliance with this section.
   C.   Applications for single-family residential or other projects where no
lamp exceeds one hundred sixty (160) watts shall not be required to comply with
subsection B of this section.
   D.   Illumination levels and uniformity shall be in accordance with current
recommended practices of the Illuminating Engineering Society as available from
the planning and land use department. Recommended standards of the Illuminating
Engineering Society shall not be exceeded.
   E.   All outdoor lighting fixtures shall be designed, installed, located and
maintained such that nuisance glare onto adjacent properties or streets shall
be minimized to the greatest extent practical. Disabling glare onto adjacent
properties or streets shall not be permitted. This subsection may be enforced
on the basis of a formal complaint filed in writing with the planning
department.
   F.   To address public safety concerns, pedestrian corridors and crosswalks
may include lighted bollards or low profile (4 feet or shorter) decorative
lighting fixtures. These fixtures shall meet dark sky lighting standards and be
ninety degree (90°) or less cutoff fixtures and fully shielded or hooded.
   G.   Lighting covenants will be developed and recorded by developers for
homeowners to disclose to homeowners the nature of the dark sky policies and
proper lighting fixtures for all exterior lighting. The HOA will be responsible
for monitoring and enforcement of such covenants.
   H.   Any accessory structures or utilities built in conjunction with the
Toquop planning area will follow dark sky lighting standards developed in
conjunction with the PUD.
   I.   Accent lighting shall be directed onto the building or object and not
toward the sky or onto adjacent properties. Direct light emissions shall not be
visible above the roofline or beyond the building edge.
   J.   Soffit or recessed lighting is strongly encouraged when exterior
ambient lighting is necessary for all buildings.
   K.   The following type of lamps are permitted and shall be shielded as
follows:
Lamp Type Required Shielding
Lamp Type                                                    Required Shielding
Low pressure sodium                                          Yes
High pressure sodium                                         Yes
Metal halide                                                 Yes
Fluorescent, quartz-halogen, and incandescent over 160 watts Yes
(per fixture)
Incandescent 160 watts or less (per fixture)                 No
Glass tubes filled with neon1, argon, or krypton             No
Any light 50 watts or less (per fixture)                     No
 
   Note:
       1.   Neon is permitted only in casino districts.
(Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-6-4: APPENDIX D; TREES FOR TOMORROW:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/16930d5087bd3b45ee3faa3c39ed0ed19f35a9b5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2253.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/16930d5087bd3b45ee3faa3c39ed0ed19f35a9b5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2255.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/16930d5087bd3b45ee3faa3c39ed0ed19f35a9b5/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2257.png]
 
(Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-6-5: APPENDIX E; WEED MANAGEMENT PLAN:
   A.   Invasive plant species are dramatically changing the natural resources
of Nevada by displacing historic native vegetation and forming extensive
monocultures of alien plants. This process displaces plants necessary for soil
retention, ecological function, helps limit fire history to historic
frequencies, and provides habitat and nutrition for many different species of
animals. Included among the animals dependent upon native vegetation are many
endangered species, including the desert tortoise.
   B.   Coordinated long term controls of invasive plants are essential to keep
them in check. All people who are associated in any way with natural resources
have a responsibility to assist in the efforts to keep invasive plant species
under control. Landowners are specifically responsible for designated noxious
weeds under Nevada statute.
   C.   Developers need to take all steps necessary to ensure that noxious
weeds are not allowed to produce propagative parts (seeds, root stolons, etc.)
to grow within the PUD boundaries.
   D.   An approved "noxious weed management plan" will be required with a
tentative PUD application or grading permit. Items to be included in a "noxious
weed management plan" for approval are:
      1.   Survey of development proposal and all existing noxious weed
infestations located with GPS.
      2.   Soil disturbances will be held to a minimum. When soil disturbance
is necessary topsoil will be removed, stored in a manner that keeps it weed
free, and replaced over all appropriate disturbed areas.
      3.   Wherever soil disturbance does occur the disturbed area will be
revegetated, planted or reseeded with appropriate, approved vegetation at the
earliest practical growing season, even if this necessitates additional
revegetation at a future date.
      4.   All vehicles and equipment used in the construction and maintenance
activities will be thoroughly cleaned before site entry of soil or plant
materials that could transport noxious weed seed to the site.
      5.   All staff will receive training about noxious weed management and
will make every effort to identify any noxious weeds growing on the site.
      6.   Noxious weed maintenance will continue for the life of the
development and until complete restoration of the site to a condition similar
to the vegetation prior to development.
      7.   The plan will be reviewed and accepted by the Lincoln County board
of commissioners prior to the issuance of notice to proceed with the
subdivision development. The weed management plan will be reviewed for approval
by the local conservation districts, weed control district or other assigned
body.
      8.   Oversight will be the responsibility of the developer, but Lincoln
County reserves the right to periodically review the oversight with on site
visits.
      9.   Planting materials for revegetation will be reviewed for acceptance
by the county. (Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-6-6: APPENDIX F; PARKING STANDARDS:
             Minimum       Other/Additional Minimum Required
Housing Type Required      Space            Bicycle Parking  Minimum Required
             Parking       Requirements     1                Loading Spaces1
             (Per Sq. Ft.)
                Minimum       Other/       Minimum Required
Housing Type    Required      Additional   Bicycle Parking  Minimum Required
                Parking       Space        1                Loading Spaces1
                (Per Sq. Ft.) Requirements
Single- and
two-family      2.0                                        
residences
Single-family      1.25                                 
attached
Studio
apartment or 1     1.75                                 
bedroom unit
2 bedroom units    1.75                                 
Units with more    2.0                                  
than 2 bedrooms
Visitor parking       1:                             
Senior housing     1       Covered or                    
                              enclosed
 
               Minimum
Commercial/    Required     Other/Additional Minimum Required Minimum Required
Retail Service Parking (Per Space            Bicycle Parking  Loading Spaces1
Uses           Sq. Ft. Or   Requirements     1
               Other Basis)
                Minimum         Other/          Minimum
Commercial/     Required        Additional      Required        Minimum
Retail Service  Parking (Per    Space           Bicycle Parking Required
Uses            Sq. Ft. Or      Requirements    1               Loading Spaces1
                Other Basis)
Adult
bookstores and  3 per 1,000                                    
sex novelty
shops
Adult                           Not less than
entertainment   10 per 1,000    15                              
cabarets
Adult theaters  1 per 90 sq.    Not less than                   
(AB)            ft.             15
Automobile      5.5 per 1,000   Not less than 5                 
repair
Automobile                      Plus 1 per 20
sales/ auctions 2 per sale      display                         
                                vehicles
Bar, lounge,    10 per 1,000    Plus 2 per
tavern          sq. ft.         1,000 outdoor                   
                                use areas
Car wash,       2               1 per employee                  
automated                       stacking areas
Financial       4 per 1,000                                    
services
Funeral home    10 per 1,000                                   
                sq. ft.
Furniture and   2 per 1,000 sq. Then 1.25 per
appliance store ft. up to       1,000                           
                15,000 sq. ft.
Grocery stores/ 4 per 1,000 sq.
convenience     ft.                                            
markets
                                1:2 500-1,000
                                1:4 over 1,000
Hotels/motels   1 per guestroom and 10 per                      
                up to 500 rooms 1,000 sq. ft.
                                of on site
                                restaurant
Office          4 per 1,000 sq.                                
                ft.
Plant
nurseries,      2 per 1,000 sq.
building        ft., plus 1 per
materials,      2,500 sq. ft.                                  
equipment       of outdoor
rental or sales display
yards, and
similar uses
                1 per guestroom
Resort hotels,  up to 500 plus
includes        1 per 2
timeshare and   guestrooms over
all accessory   500 up to 1,000
uses, including plus 1 per 4
cofacilities    guestrooms over                                
(except for     1,000 plus 6
amusement parks per 1,000 sq.
and stadiums or ft. all other
arenas)         uses (except
                for access to
                the rooms)
Restaurants:    10 per 1,000
freestanding    sq. ft. plus 2
restaurants not per 1,000 sq.                                  
in a shopping   ft. outdoor
center          public uses
Retail uses
such as
freestanding
restaurants or
places of
worship within
a shopping
center,         5 per 1,000 for
personal        up to 75,000                                   
services,       sq. ft.
auctions,
showrooms in
conjunction
with retail
uses, appliance
repair shops,
and amusement
arcades
Vehicle                         Plus 4 per
services/       3 per service   1,000 sq. ft.                   
maintenance     bay             of retail sales
stations
 
 
                                                              Minimum  Minimum
Institutional Minimum Required Parking           Other/       Required Required
Uses          (Per Dwelling Unit)                Additional   Bicycle  Loading
                                                 Requirements Parking  Spaces1
                                                              1
Congregate    1 per 3 beds                       1 per                 
care facility                                    employee
Hospitals     1.5 per bed                                             
Hotels,
motels
(including
office,       1:2 guestrooms, 0–500 sq. ft.    Plus 10 for
lobby, and                                      restaurant            
timeshare,    1:4 guestrooms, 500–1,000 sq. ft.on site
but not
including
resort
hotels)
Medical/
dental        4 per 1,000 sq. ft.                                     
offices and
clinics
Place of                                         0.5 per
worship       10 per 1,000 sq. ft.               bedroom for           
                                                 residence
 
 
               Minimum                         Minimum
Educational    Required        Other/          Required        Minimum Required
Uses           Parking (Per    Additional      Bicycle Parking Loading Spaces1
               Sq. Ft. Or      Requirements    1
               Other Basis)
Childcare or                   Designated drop
daycare        4 per 1,000     off and                         
                               stacking place
Elementary and                 Plus 4 per
middle schools 1 per classroom 1,000 sq. ft.                   
                               of office
                               Plus 4 per
                               1,000 sq. ft.
                               or 1:90 sq. ft.
High school    7 per classroom of gym or                       
                               auditorium
                               (larger of the
                               2)
                               1 per 3
Colleges/      1 per 2         students based
universities   employees       on maximum                      
                               projected
                               enrollment
Other schools
for music,                     Plus 4 per
technical,     2 per 1,000     1,000 sq. ft.                   
business or                    office
sports
 
              Minimum
Cultural      Required     Other/Additional Minimum Required Minimum Required
Entertainment Parking (Per Requirements     Bicycle Parking  Loading Spaces1
Uses          Sq. Ft. Or                    1
              Other Basis)
                Minimum                        Minimum
Cultural        Required       Other/          Required        Minimum Required
Entertainment   Parking (Per   Additional      Bicycle Parking Loading Spaces1
Uses            Sq. Ft. Or     Requirements    1
                Other Basis)
                1 per 600 of
Amusement parks internal                                      
                acreage
Billiards hall  1 per 90                                      
Bowling alleys  4.5 spaces per                                
                lane
Club/lodge      10 per 1,000                                  
Community/
recreational
buildings not   4 per 1,000                                   
in conjunction
with a
residential use
Convention
facilities      2 per 1,000                                   
(stand alone)
Dance halls,
skating rinks   10 per 1,000                                  
and similar
uses
Golf course     2.5 per 1,000  Plus 1:2 tees 4                 
                               per green
Health or       5:1,000                                       
fitness
Library, museum 3.3:1,000                                     
Miniature golf  3 per hole                                    
Stables,
horseback       1:3 per stalls                                
riding and      or corrals
boarding
Stadiums and    1:4 seats or
arenas          per 8 ft. of                                  
                bench
Tennis clubs    3 per court    Plus other uses                 
                               on site
Theaters        1:4 seats or 1                                
                per 90 sq. ft.
 
 
               Minimum
               Required      Other/Additional Minimum Required Minimum Required
Technical Uses Parking (Per  Requirements     Bicycle Parking  Loading Spaces1
               Sq. Ft. Or                     1
               Other Basis)
Distribution   1:1,000 up to 1:2,000 over                      
centers        125,000       125,000
Manufacturing,
industrial,                  May include
warehousing    2 per 1,000   incidental uses                   
(with
showrooms)
Outside                      Plus 1:42,000
storage, auto  1:7,000 up to additional                        
dismantling,   42,000        space; minimum 3
salvage yards                spaces
 
Note:
   1.   Standards to be adopted by Lincoln County.
(Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
14-6-7: APPENDIX G; PERMITTED USES:
 
 
* Special use permit required  # Reviewed as home occupation
 
          Zoning Districts
Permitted C-P C-1 C-2 X-U M-1 M-2 H-1 H-2 PF O-S A-3 R-E R-3 R-1 R-1a R-M R-H
Uses
                Zoning Districts
Permitted Uses  C- C- C-2 X-U M-1 M-2 H-1 H-2 PF O-S A-3 R-E R-3 R-1 R- R-M R-H
                P  1                                                 1a
Adult business      Y*     Y*  Y                                
Agriculture     Y* Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y   Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
Airports and      Y* Y*     Y   Y              Y*                 
landing strips
Ambulance       Y* Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*    Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
services
Animal
husbandry           Y*     Y*             Y*  Y                  
(including
exotic animals)
Animal sales      Y  Y      Y                 Y*                 
and services
Arts and crafts Y  Y  Y   Y               Y     Y                  
Assisted living Y* Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*    Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
Bail bond           Y                                         
brokers
Banks and
savings and     Y  Y  Y   Y                    Y*                 
loans
Building
materials and       Y*     Y   Y              Y*                 
services
Caretakers
quarters/       Y  Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y     Y   Y   Y*  Y*  Y* Y   Y
guesthouse
Casinos and
gaming                             Y                          
establishments
Catering        Y  Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y     Y   Y#  Y#  Y#  Y#  Y# Y#  Y#
services
Cemetery/       Y* Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
funeral homes
Check cashing       Y   Y*  Y   Y   Y   Y                          
services
Childcare       Y  Y* Y*  Y   Y*  Y*  Y   Y   Y     Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
Circuses and        Y*           Y*     Y  Y*  Y*                 
carnivals
Clubs and         Y* Y   Y*        Y   Y                          
lodges
Cogeneration              Y   Y         Y*                      
facility
Commercial        Y* Y   Y*  Y   Y   Y*  Y*  Y  Y*                    
filming
Commercial        Y  Y   Y                                      
laundry
Commercial
recreation and    Y  Y   Y*                                     
entertainment
Communications
facilities      Y* Y* Y   Y*  Y   Y   Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*          Y*
(cellular
towers)
Community              Y               Y  Y*        Y*  Y*  Y* Y   Y
center
Concrete
products                  Y   Y                    Y*           
production
Construction              Y   Y                    Y*           
storage yard
Convenience       Y  Y      Y   Y                                
markets
Crop production                         Y   Y                  
Cultural        Y  Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y  Y   Y   Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
institutions
Detention                 Y*  Y*        Y*                      
facilities
Eating and
drinking          Y  Y   Y         Y   Y                          
establishments
(restaurants)
Emergency         Y  Y   Y         Y   Y   Y                      Y
healthcare
Food and          Y  Y   Y         Y   Y                          
beverage sales
Golf course     Y  Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y  Y*  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y  Y   Y
Government      Y  Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y  Y   Y                 Y
offices
Greenhouse                Y   Y              Y                  
Group living    Y* Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*    Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
Heliports           Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y                       
Holiday sales   Y* Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*       Y*                 
(temporary)
Home occupation        Y#                      Y#  Y*  Y*  Y* Y#  Y#
Horticulture              Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*    Y*  Y                  
Hospitals       Y* Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*                     Y*
Hotel/motel       Y* Y   Y*  Y      Y   Y                          
Junkyard                  Y*  Y*             Y*                 
Laboratories    Y* Y* Y*     Y*  Y*             Y*                 
Liquor store    Y* Y* Y   Y*  Y   Y   Y   Y                          
Live
entertainment     Y* Y      Y            Y  Y   Y                  
events,
temporary
Maintenance and   Y* Y*     Y*  Y*             Y*                 
repair services
Maintenance and
service             Y      Y   Y         Y     Y*                 
facilities
Microbreweries, Y  Y     Y*  Y   Y   Y   Y        Y*                 
malt beverage
Mining and
processing                Y*  Y*             Y*                 
(short or long
term)
Mobile home
estate                                        Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
subdivision
Museums         Y* Y  Y   Y*        Y   Y   Y                       
Nonprofit
rehabilitation  Y* Y  Y      Y                                   
centers
Pawnshops           Y*     Y*                                  
Personal
improvement     Y* Y  Y                       Y                  
services
Personal        Y  Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y     Y   Y   Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
services
Plant nurseries   Y* Y*     Y*  Y*        Y     Y                  
Property sales  Y* Y* Y*  Y*                   Y#  Y#  Y#  Y#  Y# Y#  Y#
(real estate)
Public safety   Y  Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y  Y   Y
facilities
Recycling           Y*     Y*  Y         Y*    Y*                 
facilities
Religious
assembly        Y* Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*    Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
(includes
churches, etc.)
Research and
development     Y  Y  Y   Y*  Y   Y              Y*                 
services
Retail sales/     Y  Y   Y*  Y      Y   Y        Y*                 
rental
Rock crushing             Y*  Y*             Y*                 
Schools         Y* Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*    Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
Senior
institutional   Y* Y* Y*  Y*        Y*  Y*  Y*    Y*     Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
housing
Service station   Y* Y*     Y   Y   Y   Y        Y*                 
Street fairs/     Y* Y   Y*  Y*     Y   Y                          
trade fairs
Swap meets          Y      Y   Y                                
Tattoo and body
alteration          Y   Y*  Y                                   
parlors
Taverns and       Y  Y*  Y         Y   Y                          
bars
Temporary
buildings       Y* Y* Y   Y*  Y   Y   Y*  Y*  Y* Y   Y   Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
incidental to
construction
Temporary
development     Y  Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y     Y   Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y
lodging
Temporary       Y* Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*                 
outdoor event
Temporary
religious       Y  Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y  Y   Y
assembly
Toolsheds
(storage of
domestic        Y  Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y  Y   Y*
supplies -
noncommercial)
Transfer
station (solid      Y*     Y   Y              Y*  Y*              
waste)
Transfer          Y* Y      Y*  Y   Y*  Y   Y*    Y*                 
terminal
Travel services Y  Y  Y   Y                       Y#  Y#  Y#  Y# Y#  Y#
Travel trailer      Y*           Y*  Y*       Y*                 
and RV park
Utilities       Y  Y  Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y   Y* Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y*  Y* Y*  Y*
Vehicle/
equipment sales     Y      Y   Y              Y*                 
and services
Veterinary
office (no      Y* Y  Y      Y                 Y   Y*              
exotic animals)
Visitor
accommodations/ Y* Y  Y   Y*  Y      Y   Y   Y  Y   Y                  
help centers
Wedding chapel
(see also         Y* Y   Y*        Y   Y        Y*                 
religious
assembly)
Wholesaling,
distribution        Y      Y   Y              Y                  
and storage
 
(Ord. 2007-01, 3-5-2007)
TITLE 15
COYOTE SPRINGS
CHAPTER 1
DEVELOPMENT AND DEMOGRAPHICS
SECTION:
15-1-1: Community Overview
15-1-2: Boundaries
15-1-3: Projected Absorption Of Service Plan Area
15-1-4: Population And Assessed Valuation Estimates
15-1-1: COMMUNITY OVERVIEW:
Coyote Springs Investment, LLC (herein referred to as "CSI") controls
approximately forty two thousand eight hundred (42,800) acres of undeveloped
property lying along the Lincoln County and Clark County border east of U.S.
Highway 93 and north of State Highway 168, and is commencing development of
those properties.
The southern portion of the property, consisting of approximately twelve
thousand eight hundred (12,800) acres, is located in Clark County and is not
included within the boundaries of the Coyote Springs - Lincoln County fire
protection and emergency medical service (EMS) general improvement district
(GID) (herein referred to as the "fire district") or the Coyote Springs -
Lincoln County general improvement district (GID) (herein referred to as the
"district"). CSI proposes the first phase of its development within its Clark
County lands.
The balance of the property, consisting of approximately twenty seven thousand
five hundred (27,500) acres, is located in Lincoln County and is within the
boundaries of the fire district and the district. The Lincoln County property
will be developed in accordance with the development agreement between CSI and
Lincoln County adopted on December 20, 2004 (the "development agreement"). The
full development of the properties in Lincoln County is expected to take up to
forty (40) years.
The development concept for the Coyote Springs community consists of the
gradual, phased development of a series of neighborhoods, each with their own
distinct character. The neighborhoods are distinguished and connected by a
network of open space that leads to unique village cores within the community.
Along with golf course development, CSI's initial target development includes
nine (9) distinct village types. These villages provide quality residential
environments including large lot ranch communities, primary and second home
communities, active adult communities, and vacation communities for the short
and long term visitor. In addition, a series of business oriented villages
provide the opportunity for the growth of industry and economic stability
within the Coyote Springs community.
The proposed community will provide Lincoln County with a unique destination
for visitors and a new economically balanced community featuring a variety of
residential villages, recreational amenities, and supporting business,
commercial and related uses. Community development is to be phased over as many
as forty (40) years with the initial emphasis placed on developing a second
home community for the local/regional marketplace seeking a variety of
recreational opportunities. The latter stages focus on transitioning from a
second home and bedroom community to a diverse new town with a full range of
primary residential, commercial and public facilities including schools,
medical facilities, police and fire protection, and grocery stores. (Res. 2005-
07, 5-4-2005)
15-1-2: BOUNDARIES:
   A.   The boundaries for the fire district and district cover the lands
controlled by CSI within an unincorporated area of Lincoln County, and covering
lands as outlined herein:
1.   Township 11 South, Range 63 East, (Lincoln County, Nevada):
All of Sections 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33, 34, and 35;
Section 13, the South Half (S 1/2); Section 36, the West Half (W 1/2); Sections
19, 30 and 31, all except those portions lying West of the Centerline of U.S.
Highway 93.
2.   Township 12 South, Range 63 East, (Lincoln County, Nevada):
All of Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25,
26, 27, 28, 33, 34, 35, and 36; Sections 1, 13, and 24, the West Half (W 1/2);
Section 12, the West Half (W 1/2) of the West Half (W 1/2); Sections 6, 7, 18,
19, 29, 30 and 32, all except those portions lying West of the Centerline of
U.S. Highway 93.
   B.   The planning area described within these legal descriptions includes
the following assessor's parcel numbers (APN) and assessed value (AV)
information for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006:
   TABLE 2:1
   ASSESSOR'S PARCEL NUMBERS AND
   ASSESSED VALUE INFORMATION
Lincoln County
APN Acreage 2005-06 AV 1
Lincoln County
APN            Acreage      2005-06 AV 1
08-201-04         6,080.0   $1,064,000
08-201-05         6,399.8   1,119,977
08-201-15         1,718.0   300,650
08-201-06         6,549.0   1,146,075
08-201-08         952.00    166,600
Power corridor    5,760.0   0
Totals            27,458.   $3,797,302
 
Note:
      1.   2005-06 assessed values of parcels according to the Lincoln County
assessor's office.
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-1-3: PROJECTED ABSORPTION OF SERVICE PLAN AREA:
Table 2:2 of this section provides a summary of an aggressive twenty five (25)
year absorption scenario, including a five (5) year breakdown of residential
and commercial absorption. This service plan contemplates the development of
approximately fifty thousand (50,000) residential units and one thousand two
hundred twenty (1,220) acres of commercial development (an estimated 15,942,960
square feet of developed commercial improvements) over a twenty five (25) year
period.
Assuming an aggressive twenty five (25) year build-out schedule for the fifty
thousand (50,000) residential units, it is estimated that residential
absorption may occur on five (5) year intervals as follows:
In the first five (5) year period, it is estimated that approximately two
thousand six hundred (2,600) residential units and approximately eighty (80)
acres of commercial development (1,045,400 square feet of improvements),
covering approximately two thousand three hundred (2,300) acres will occur. At
the end of the first ten (10) year period, absorption may grow to some sixteen
thousand two hundred (16,200) residential units and four hundred ten (410)
commercial acres (5,357,800 square feet of improvements), on approximately five
thousand four hundred (5,400) acres; after fifteen (15) years approximately
twenty nine thousand two hundred (29,200) residential units and seven hundred
thirty (730) commercial acres (9,539,600 square feet of improvements) on
approximately eight thousand nine hundred (8,900) acres may be built; and
thirty nine thousand eight hundred (39,800) residential units and one thousand
thirty (1,030) commercial acres (13,460,000 square feet of improvements) on
approximately eleven thousand five hundred (11,500) acres may be absorbed in
twenty (20) years.
Table 2:2 also forecasts a population based on the total number of units
absorbed and utilizing an estimate of roughly 2.5 persons per household within
the service plan area. All estimates provided are based upon aggressive growth
scenarios for planning purposes within the community and are subject to change
based on market conditions.
   TABLE 2:2
   PROJECTED MAXIMUM ABSORPTION
   IN FIVE YEAR INTERVALS
 
       Projected Residential Units Projected Commercial Projected Population
Year    Absorbed                    Acreage Absorbed
Year 5        2,600 units           80 acres    6,500
Year 10       16,200 units          410 acres   40,500
Year 15       29,200 units          730 acres   73,000
Year 20       39,800 units          1,030 acr   99,500
Year 25       50,000 units          1,220 acr   125,000
 
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-1-4: POPULATION AND ASSESSED VALUATION ESTIMATES:
   A.   Population Estimates: This service plan estimates population based on
the absorption projections of table 2:2 in section
15-1-3 of this chapter. As the project is implemented, population, new home
sales, and market capture rates can be monitored to develop more realistic
models for growth. Should development occur at differing frequencies than
projected, the fire district and district can curtail or accelerate the
construction of the infrastructure and provision of services to match the
actual growth rate.
   B.   Projected Residential Assessed Valuation: Residential assessed
valuation within the community is dependent upon the demand for the various
residential products that will be offered in the community. As a conservative
estimate, the residential units to be offered are estimated to have an average
appraised value of two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00) per dwelling unit
in the first year of development, including land and improvements. The
residential values in table 2.3 of this section have been appreciated at three
percent (3%) per year and have been based upon the projected residential
absorption.
   TABLE 2:3
   ESTIMATED VALUE PER RESIDENTIAL UNIT
   AND TOTAL RESIDENTIAL ASSESSED VALUE
 
Year    Total             Average Value Per Total Residential
        Residential Units Residential Unit  Assessed Value
Year 5     2,600             $231,8      $ 210,983,500
Year 10    16,200            268,78      1,523,982,600
Year 15    29,200            311,59      3,184,449,800
Year 20    39,800            361,22      5,031,794,600
Year 25    50,000            418,76      7,328,300,000
 
   C.   Projected Commercial Assessed Valuation: Commercial development will
also occur initially and as the residential neighborhoods are completed. This
service plan assumes that the average floor area ratio (FAR) for commercial
facilities is 0.3 FAR, although some commercial parcels will have higher FAR
when built. As an initial conservative estimate, the average appraised value of
any commercial developed parcel in the first year is estimated at one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) per square foot including land and building and
appreciated at three percent (3%) per year. Table 2:4 of this section estimates
the resulting total assessed valuation of the developed commercial parcels.
   TABLE 2:4
   ESTIMATED VALUE PER SQUARE FOOT
   AND TOTAL COMMERCIAL ASSESSED VALUE
 
        Total Commercial Total Commercial    Average          Total Commercial
Year    Acreage Absorbed Development (Square Value Per Square Assessed Value
                         Footage)            Foot
Year 5  80 acres         1,045,400              $174       $ 63,664,860
Year 10 410 acres        5,357,800              202        378,796,460
Year 15 730 acres        9,539,600              234        781,293,240
Year 20 1,030 acres      13,460,000             271        1,276,681,000
Year 25 1,220 acres      15,942,900             314        1,752,124,710
 
   D.   Projected Unimproved Land Assessed Value: Unimproved land will also be
assessed. Although it is difficult at this time to determine the exact assessed
value of unimproved land prior to development, table 2:5 of this section makes
some broad assumptions, in five (5) year intervals, on these assessed values
based on historical tax data.
   TABLE 2:5
   ESTIMATED VALUE PER ACRE OF
   UNIMPROVED LAND AND TOTAL ASSESSED VALUE
 
        Total              Average Value
Year    Remaining          Per Acre      Total Unimproved Land Assessed Value
        Unimproved Land
Year 5        27,500    $ 2,500       $ 24,062,500
Year 10       24,400    5,000         42,700,000
Year 15       20,900    10,000        73,150,000
Year 20       18,600    17,500        113,925,000
Year 25       16,700    27,500        160,737,500
 
   E.   Projected Total Assessed Value: Present assessment standards within the
state of Nevada depend upon the county assessors appraising properties without
regard to purchase price, and require the depreciation of improvements of
approximately 1.5 percent per year for a period of twenty five (25) years. The
assessed value is calculated at thirty five percent (35%) of the appraised
value assigned by the assessor. These standards make projections of actual
assessed values difficult. Should these standards continue it is possible the
projected assessed values could be overstated. However, it is also likely given
recent housing market conditions in southern Nevada, that housing prices for
Coyote Springs will start at a higher average appraisal value than two hundred
thousand dollars ($200,000.00) and will increase at a rate greater than three
percent (3%) over the long term.
The total assessed valuation of the district is therefore estimated to be the
sum of the commercial development, residential development, and unimproved land
assessed values. Provided that development occurs at the rate of the aggressive
twenty five (25) year rate, table 2:6 of this section reflects the total
assessed value at those five (5) year intervals.
   TABLE 2:6
   ESTIMATED TOTAL ASSESSED VALUE
 
       Total Residential Total Commercial Total Unimproved    Total
       Assessed Value    Assessed Value   Land Assessed Value Assessed Value
Year
Year 5     $ 210,983,50   $ 63,644,86   $ 24,062,500     $ 298,710,860
Year 10    1,523,982,60   378,796,400   42,700,000       1,945,479,060
Year 15    3,184,449,80   781,293,240   73,150,000       4,038,893,040
Year 20    5,031,794,60   1,276,681,0   113,925,000      6,422,400,600
Year 25    7,328,300,00   1,752,124,7   160,737,500      9,241,162,210
 
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DISTRICT
SECTION:
15-2-1: Created
15-2-2: Purpose
15-2-3: Justification
15-2-4: Advantages
15-2-5: Expenses And Financing
15-2-1: CREATED:
   A.   The Lincoln County board of county commissioners hereby creates the
"Coyote Springs - Lincoln County fire protection and emergency medical service
general improvement district" as a body corporate and politic, and a quasi-
municipal corporation (fire district"). (Ord. 2005-06, 9-6-2005, eff. 10-1-
2005)
   B.   Creation of the Coyote Springs - Lincoln County fire protection and
emergency medical service general improvement district does not relieve CSI of
its obligations outlined in the development agreement.
Any bonds that are issued for the costs of the construction, acquisition, or
servicing of any improvements within any portion of an approved service plan
component or which are issued for the administration of such improvements shall
be based on a ratio of a taxable value to the amount the bonds issued for such
costs which in the judgment of the governing body or their designee shall be
sufficient to result in the complete repayment of such bonds. Such ratio may be
different for each component as the governing body so determines.
It is agreed that any board of trustees for the Coyote Springs - Lincoln County
fire protection and emergency medical service general improvement district
would be restricted from voting for any increase in the property tax levy of
the district that would exceed the property tax rate of the highest existing
tax district in unincorporated Lincoln County as provided in and in accordance
with the Coyote Springs - Lincoln County fire protection and emergency medical
service general improvement district enacting ordinance.
It is also agreed that any board of trustees for the Coyote Springs - Lincoln
County fire protection and emergency medical service general improvement
district would be restricted, under any circumstance, from imposing a district
property tax levy amount that would cause the Lincoln County School District
(LCSD) board to be unable to increase the LCSD property tax levy amount
necessary to fund LCSD budget requirements within any state imposed property
tax rate limitation.
Additionally, should any action of the Coyote Springs - Lincoln County fire
protection and emergency medical service general improvement district board
cause an adverse effect upon the LCSD's ability to service the debt required to
retire any bonds authorized for issuance by the LCSD on or before May 1, 2005,
whether such bonds have been issued or not at the time of the service plan
approval, the Coyote Springs - Lincoln County fire protection and emergency
medical service general improvement district board shall promptly pay Lincoln
County an administrative fee in an amount equal to the deficit caused by the
adverse action of the Coyote Springs - Lincoln County fire protection and
emergency medical service general improvement district board in immediately
available funds. Lincoln County shall take all steps necessary to transfer all
such funds received to LCSD. (Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The fire district is organized for the purposes of and having all
powers authorized by law to:
      1.   Furnish fire protection equipment, facilities and services as
provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.1181, as now or hereafter amended; and
      2.   Furnish emergency medical equipment and services, as provided in
Nevada Revised Statutes 318.1185, as now or hereafter amended.
   B.   The fire district is and shall be authorized to provide such services
within the plan area (as defined in chapter 1 of this title) and may, pursuant
to an interlocal agreement or agreements, provide services on lands near but
outside the plan area. (Ord. 2005-06, 9-6-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
15-2-3: JUSTIFICATION:
The fire district will be financially capable and best positioned to provide
the proposed fire protection and EMS within the service plan area, while
complementing the services provided by Lincoln County entities in their current
service provision areas. Although the costs to the fire district of providing
these services will not be minimal, the number and value of the properties to
be developed in the service plan area will be sufficient to generate the
revenues necessary to fund these service costs. As the service plan area
develops, the residents will become active in the decisions made by the fire
district board of trustees regarding the expansion, operation, and maintenance
levels of the fire district's fire protection and EMS activities. Those
community resident influenced decisions will help dictate the future amount of
tax levies, fees, and assessments that are to be paid by residents to maintain
the quality of fire district provided services and facilities that are
available for the fire protection and EMS care of the residents and guests of
service plan area. (Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2-4: ADVANTAGES:
Formation of the fire district provides the following advantages to Lincoln
County and the residents of the service plan area:
   A.   The fire district will provide the day to day fire protection and
emergency medical services required and expected in modern communities;
   B.   The fire district will provide local residents with immediate response
to fire protection and EMS needs;
   C.   The fire district will be responsible for most fire protection and EMS
related capital projects, including financing and construction;
   D.   As authorized by law, the fire district will be responsible for
establishing rates, tolls, charges, special assessments, and in cooperation
with Lincoln County, ad valorem tax levies for the services it provides; and
   E.   The fire district will support resolution of broader regional fire
protection and EMS issues of concern to Lincoln County and other jurisdictions.
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2-5: EXPENSES AND FINANCING:
   A.   Major Expenses Related To Formation And Operation: The initial costs of
fire district formation are to be borne by CSI and its development partners.
Once the fire district is created, it will incur typical operational costs of
similar service providers. The fire district will incur personnel costs of
wages and benefits; services and supplies; utilities; legal and audit; and
other costs. It is anticipated that the fire district will impose certain
assessments, rates, tolls and charges as authorized by law from time to time
and to the extent necessary and in cooperation with Lincoln County, through
property taxes levied upon the taxable properties within the fire district as
authorized by law from time to time in order to provide the revenue necessary
to support administrative, operational, and maintenance costs.
   B.   Financing Construction, Maintenance And Operation: The fire district
will utilize Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 271, the consolidated local
improvements law and chapter 350, the local governments securities law to
finance the construction or acquisition of the capital projects that are
undertaken as a result of the service plan. The authorized revenue sources and
the security for the other indebtedness are described within this chapter. The
maintenance and operation of these capital facilities will be funded through
the imposition of certain assessments, rates, tolls and charges as authorized
by law from time to time and to the extent necessary and in cooperation with
Lincoln County, through property taxes levied upon the taxable properties
within the fire district as authorized by law from time to time. (Res. 2005-07,
5-4-2005)
ARTICLE A. FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES
SECTION:
15-2A-1: Furnishing Fire Protection Services
15-2A-2: Existing Fire Protection Services
15-2A-3: Facilities To Be Provided
15-2A-4: Preliminary Engineering And Financial Survey
15-2A-5: Fire District Indebtedness
15-2A-6: Emergency Communications For Fire Protection
15-2A-7: Fire Protection Services To Be Provided
15-2A-1: FURNISHING FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES:
As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.1181, a GID may be granted the
authority to provide certain services related to furnishing fire protection
within the service area. The following provides the specific provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes 318.1181:
NRS 318.1181 Protection From Fire. In the case of a district created wholly or
in part for the purpose of furnishing fire protection, the board may:
      1.   Acquire fire protection equipment and acquire, construct or improve
fire protection facilities and make improvements necessary and incidental
thereto;
      2.   Eliminate fire hazards existing within the district in the manner
prescribed in NRS 474.580 for districts created pursuant to chapter 474 of NRS;
      3.   Clear public highways and private lands of dry grass, stubble,
bushes, rubbish and other inflammable material, which in its judgment
constitutes a fire hazard;
      4.   Coordinate fire protection activities with the state forester fire
warden and the advisory board on natural resources; and
      5.   Cooperate with the state forester fire warden and the advisory board
on natural resources in formulating a statewide plan for the prevention and
control of fires.
(Added to NRS by 1977, 525; A 1991, 382; 1993, 1554)
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2A-2: EXISTING FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES:
The service plan area lies outside the boundaries of any existing Lincoln
County fire protection organization. However, The Pahranagat Valley fire
protection district has historically responded to the service plan area for the
purpose of providing emergency fire protection services. (Res. 2005-07, 5-4-
2005)
15-2A-3: FACILITIES TO BE PROVIDED:
As required by Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308, a description of the
facilities to be constructed and the standards of such construction for fire
protection facilities are provided herein. The fire district will finance,
construct and own the facilities necessary to provide fire protection and EMS
within the service plan area. The facilities to be constructed will be
strategically located within the service plan area to ensure prompt response to
emergency incidents. Through interlocal agreements the facilities may be
provided for use by the Clark County fire department and/or others and be
constructed to meet the specifications and approval of the parties to such
agreements. Should the fire district provide fire services with its own
employees, the facilities will be constructed to the specifications adopted by
the fire district.
The fire district will acquire any such facilities or improvements, provided by
others that have been completed in accordance with fire district standards,
specifications and approval during the initial phases of service plan area
development, and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations for those
facilities or improvements on May 1, 2009; provided, that there are not less
than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the district on May 1, 2009.
Should there be less than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the
district on May 1, 2009, the fire district will acquire any such facilities or
improvements and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations on the
first day of the month next following the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy by the county, for the one thousandth dwelling unit within the fire
district.
Table 4:1 of this section lists the facilities and equipment that are expected
to be required to adequately protect structures and open space areas within the
fire district.
   TABLE 4:1
   ESTIMATED FIRE FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
 
                                Quantity
   Item          Unit Cost  Years Years  Years   Years   Years) 21–25
                                  1–5 6–10 11–15 16–20
                 Additional
Fire stations:   stations based
                on development                             
Total built      agree ment                                 
stations         requirements and -     2      2       1       1
                 escalated at 4%
                 annually
Fire equipment:  Fire equipment
                based on                                   
Fire engines     development                                
($463,500 basis  agreement and    1     1      2       1       1
in year 1)       escalated at 3%
                 annu ally
   Other fire                 (Based on 10% of total fire station capital
equipment                         costs)
Replacement      Reserve based on                           
reserve - fire   10 year average                            
equipment:       vehicle life and                           
                escalated at 3%  -     1      -       1       2
Fire engines     annually
   Other fire                 (Based on 10% of total fire equipment capital
equipment                         cost)
 
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2A-4: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING AND FINANCIAL SURVEY:
Nevada Revised Statutes requires the service plan to provide a financial and
preliminary engineering survey showing the proposed services to be provided and
financed. The fire district expects to provide fire protection services within
the developed and undeveloped portions of the fire district's boundaries from
strategically located facilities that would allow immediate and timely response
to all emergency incidents occurring within the fire district. The initial
facilities would be constructed by others and leased to the fire district, with
options for the fire district to acquire the facilities either during or at the
end of the lease term. Equipment necessary for the provision of fire protection
services would initially be leased, until cash flow will permit the acquisition
of such equipment, or the voters of the fire district permit the issuance of
bonds to acquire the equipment.
Table 4:2 of this section estimates improvement costs for fire facilities and
equipment at five (5) year intervals.
   TABLE 4:2
   ESTIMATED FIRE CAPITAL COSTS IN FIVE YEAR INTERVALS
           Years Years  Years   Years   Years
   Item 1–5 6–10 11–15 16–20 21–25
                       Years    Years       Years       Years       Years
   Item             1–5    6–10      11–15     16–20     21–25
Land                   -        -           -           -           -
Fire stations          -        $11,803,000 $13,683,000 $7,931,200  $9,194,400
Equipment costs:                                                 
                                                                
Fire engines           $537,300 $ 622,900   $1,444,200  $ 837,100   $ 970,500
   Other fire       -        1,180,300   1,368,300   793,100     919,400
equipment
Total - equipment      $537,300 $1,803,200  $2,812,500  $1,630,200  $1,889,900
costs
Replacement reserve:                                             
                                                                
Fire engines           -        $622,900    -           $837,100    $1,941,000
   Other fire       -        118,000     $136,800    79,300      91,900
equipment
Total - replacement    $ -      $740,900    $136,800    $916,400    $2,032,900
reserve
Engineering costs (10% -        $1,180,300  $1,368,300  $793,100    $919,400
of costs)
Fiscal and legal costs -        236,100     273,700     158,600     183,900
(2% of costs)
Other incidental costs -        236,100     273,700     158,600     183,900
(2% of costs)
Total Costs (5 year    $537,300 $15,999,600 $18,548,000 $11,588,100 $14,404,400
basis)
 
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2A-5: FIRE DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan to describe any
proposed indebtedness, including proposed maximum interest rates and any
discounts, any other bonds and any other securities to be issued, their type or
character, annual operation and maintenance expenses.
During the initial stages of development of the community, the fire district
will likely be restricted to leasing such facilities and equipment as are
necessary for adequate provision of fire protection services. Such facilities
and equipment would include fire stations, fire suppression equipment and other
essential assets. As the community develops, these facilities and others could
be constructed and acquired based upon the registered voters approval of
general obligation bonds issued for such purposes. Such bonds would be issued
subject to limitations contained in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 350. Table
4:3 of this section reflects the estimated long and medium term financing that
will be necessary to provide the facilities for which current budget limits
will not permit the inclusion of such assets within the capital outlay
allocation.
   TABLE 4:3
   FIRE DISTRICT DEBT SERVICE
   ItYears Years  Years   Years   Years
        1–5 6–10 11–15 16–20 21–25
   Item                      Years    Years       Years       Years       Years
                                1–5    6–10      11–15     16–20     21–25
   Bonds Issued                                                        
   General obligation bonds  $590,000 $16,050,000 $18,600,000 $11,640,000 $14,450,000
   Average Annual Debt       (Annual debt service has been calculated on the basis of
   Service Payments          a 15 year amortization and a 6% interest rate. Actual
                                bond terms may differ.)
Annual debt service             $60,700  $1,652,600  $1,915,100  $1,198,500  $1,487,800
Estimated tax rate:             0.0203   0.0849      0.0474      0.0187      0.0162
   Per residential unit (avg.$ 16.49  $ 79.91     $ 52.71     $ 23.59     $ 23.75
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.01     0.06        0.04        0.02        0.02
   Per unimproved land acre  0.18     1.49        1.66        1.31        2.27
(avg.)
 
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2A-6: EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS FOR FIRE PROTECTION:
Currently any fire protection communications that may be required by the
Pahranagat Valley fire district (PVFD) in the service plan area are provided
through the Lincoln County emergency management (LCEM) communications system.
This countywide communications system receives 911/emergency calls at the
Lincoln County sheriff's department (LCSD) dispatch center located in Pioche.
The dispatch for PVFD fire protection service is then broadcast by the LCSD
utilizing a VHF radio communications system. Radio communications between LCSD
dispatch and PVFD fire protection units within the service plan area are
accomplished by utilizing the Ella Mountain VHF radio repeater site.
The LCSD dispatch facility provides 911 call receipt, dispatch, and radio
communications services for all emergency service providers in Lincoln County.
The operations and equipment for this facility are funded through county
general fund revenue sources. There are no charges to any entity within Lincoln
County for these services. It is expected that the LCSD dispatch facility will
provide the 911 call receipt, dispatch, and radio communications services
needed to support the fire protection operations of the fire district utilizing
county general fund revenue sources.
It is planned for the district to utilize the southern Nevada area
communications council (SNACC) services for fixed and mobile radio
communications infrastructure and equipment. It is planned for this equipment
to allow fire protection units to communicate on both VHF and UHF radio bands.
SNACC services allow a fire protection provider to expend an annual fee for the
use and maintenance of fixed and mobile radio equipment. There are two (2)
SNACC fees that would apply to the fire district, a one time system buy-in fee
of approximately two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per radio base station or
mobile unit and an annual service fee of approximately two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) per radio/unit. These fees are included in the fire district
operations costs for fire protection. The purchase cost of radio base stations
is included in the construction costs for fire protection facilities. The
purchase cost of fire protection unit mobile radios is included in the purchase
price of those units. (Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2A-7: FIRE PROTECTION SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED:
   A.   As required by Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308, this section
provides a description of the services to be provided by the fire district. The
fire district will finance, construct and lease or own the facilities and
equipment necessary to provide fire protection services within the boundaries
of the fire district. The fire district may also employ the personnel necessary
to properly discharge its responsibilities in providing such services or
through an agreement contract with other entities for the provision of all or a
portion of the services to be provided.
   B.   Table 4:4 of this section provides the estimated personnel requirements
that will be necessary to provide seven (7) days per week and twenty four (24)
hours per day fire protection for the fire district.
   TABLE 4:4
   ESTIMATED FIRE PROTECTION PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS
 
Positions                    Year 5  Year 10 Year 15 Year 20 Year 25
Captains (3.5 per station)      -    7.   14   17   21.0
Engineers (3.5 per station)     -    7.   14   17   21.0
Firefighters (7 per station)    -    14   28   35   42.0
Volunteer firefighters          20   -    -    -    -
Total Professional Staff        -    28   56   70   84.0
 
Each fire company is planned to be staffed by the following positions:
 
Fire captain  1 each
Fire engineer 1 each
Firefighter   2 each
 
   C.   As additional fire stations are acquired or constructed and the fire
district moves to full time staffing, the fire district would employ or
contract for three (3) persons per position and divide the work force into
three (3) platoons that work twenty four (24) hour shifts with one person per
position always being on duty in order to provide staffing on a twenty four
(24) hour seven (7) day per week basis (an average of 56 hours per week).
Additionally, in order to provide vacation and sick leave coverage, an
additional labor cost factor of one-half (1/2) position would be budgeted in
order to hire back off duty personnel on an overtime basis to fill staffing
vacancies. This staffing arrangement is utilized by the Clark County fire
department and is commonly termed "constant staffing" within the fire service.
   D.   The annual 2004/2005 labor costs per position that might be incurred
through a contract with the CCFD are:
 
Fire captain  $173,000.00
Fire engineer 150,000.00
Firefighter   137,000.00
 
   E.   To develop the projected annual labor cost per fire company for
purposes of this service plan, each required position cost was multiplied by
3.5. The projected 2004/2005 total fire company labor costs are:
 
Fire captain  $ 605,500.00
Fire engineer 525,000.00
Firefighter   479,500.00
Firefighter   479,500.00
Total         $2,089,500.00
 
   F.   To account for inflation in future labor costs, the staff costs were
then increased annually at three percent (3%). According to the development
agreement, permanent fire stations, housing one fire company each would be
constructed, provided and staffed by paid personnel at the labor costs shown
below.
Table 4:5 of this section illustrates an estimate of the costs of staffing and
operating the fire protection services to be provided by the fire district.
            TABLE 4:5
            OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES
   ItYear Year Year Year Year
        5    10   15   20   25
   Item                      Year     Year       Year        Year        Year
                                5        10         15          20          25
Salaries and wages              -        $5,452,600 $13,854,400 $19,794,600 $27,279,500
Services and supplies           $100,000 272,600    692,700     989,700     1,364,000
Utilities                       13,900   32,300     74,800      108,400     150,800
Capital outlay                  20,900   48,500     112,200     162,600     150,800
Debt service                    60,700   1,652,600  1,915,100   1,198,500   1,487,700
Total Annual Costs              $195,500 $7,458,600 $16,649,200 $22,253,800 $30,432,900
   Average Annual Property TaAverage property tax is calculated based upon the
                                average assessed value of each class of property.
Estimated tax rate              0.0654   0.3834     0.4122      0.3465      0.3314
   Per residential unit (avg.$53.11   $360.66    $449.55     $438.07     $485.75
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.040    0.271      0.338       0.329       0.364
   Per unimproved land acre  0.57     6.71       14.43       21.22       31.90
(avg.)
 
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
ARTICLE B. EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES
SECTION:
15-2B-1: Furnishing Emergency Medical Services
15-2B-2: Existing Service
15-2B-3: Facilities And EMS Vehicles To Be Provided
15-2B-4: Fire District Indebtedness For EMS
15-2B-5: Preliminary Engineering And Financial Survey
15-2B-6: Emergency Communications For EMS
15-2B-7: Emergency Services To Be Provided
15-2B-1: FURNISHING EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES:
As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.1185, a GID may be granted the
authority to provide certain services related to furnishing emergency medical
services within the service area. The following provides the specific
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 318.1185:
NRS 318.1185 Emergency Medical Services. In the case of a district created
wholly or in part for furnishing emergency medical services, the board may:
      1.   Acquire any equipment and property necessary for those services;
      2.   Hire and supervise emergency medical technicians certified pursuant
to chapter 450B of NRS and other personnel necessary to carry out the functions
of the district; and
      3.   Fix rates or charges for the use of the services furnished by the
district and change those rates or charges as it considers necessary.
(Added to NRS by 1985, 1798)
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2B-2: EXISTING SERVICE:
The service plan area is not located within the service area of any Lincoln
County franchised or public agency EMS provider. However, the Pahranagat Valley
fire protection district has historically responded to the service plan area
for the purpose of providing EMS. (Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2B-3: FACILITIES AND EMS VEHICLES TO BE PROVIDED:
The facilities required to house EMS personnel and equipment will normally be
shared with the fire protection services provided by the fire district.
Table 4:6 of this section reflects the expected need for EMS vehicles to
properly serve the service plan area.
   TABLE 4:6
   ESTIMATED RESCUE AMBULANCE VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS
 
                                     Quantity
   Item            Unit Cost     Years Years  Years   Years   Years 21–25
                                       1–5 6–10 11–15 16–20
Rescue ambulance   Based on
vehicle            development
($212,500 basis in agreement and       1     –    1       –     1
year 1)            escalated 3%
                   annually
                   Reserve based on 10
Replacement/       year average
reserve rescue     vehicle life and    –   –    1       –     1
ambulance vehicle  cost escalated at
                   3% annually
 
Table 4:7 of this section estimates improvement costs for EMS facilities and
rescue ambulances at five (5) year intervals.
   TABLE 4:7
   RESCUE AMBULANCE CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
   ItYears Years  Years   Years   Years
        1–5 6–10 11–15 16–20 21–25
   Item                     Years    Years  Years    Years   Years
                               1–5    6–10 11–15  16–20 21–25
Land                           –      –    –      –     –
Equipment costs:                                             
   Rescue ambulance vehicles$246,300 –    $331,100 –     $444,900
   Total equipment costs    $246,300 –    $331,100 –     $444,900
Replacement reserve equipment:                               
   Rescue ambulance vehicles–      –    $331,100 –     $444,900
   Total replacement reserve–      –    $331,100 –     $444,900
Total Costs (5 year basis)     $246,300 –    662,200  –     $889,800
 
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2B-4: FIRE DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS FOR EMS:
Nevada Revised Statutes requires the service plan to describe any proposed
indebtedness, including proposed maximum interest rates and any discounts, any
other bonds and any other securities to be issued, their type or character,
annual operation and maintenance expenses.
Indebtedness for EMS will be limited to specialized equipment required to
properly provide the services to the community. During the initial stages of
development of the community, the fire district will lease such equipment as is
necessary for adequate provision of EMS. Upgrades and expansion of equipment
will be budgeted as required in later years. It is doubtful that the fire
district will require long term financing of EMS equipment.
Table 4:8 of this section reflects the estimated financing that will be
necessary to provide the EMS facilities within the fire district.
   TABLE 4:8
   ESTIMATED EMS DEBT SERVICE
   ItYears Years  Years   Years   Years
        1–5 6–10 11–15 16–20 21–25
   Item                      Years    Years  Years    Years   Years
                                1–5    6–10 11–15  16–20 21–25
   Leases                                                  
Lease obligation                $246,300 –    $662,200 –     $889,800
   Average Annual Lease      Annual lease obligation has been calculated on
Payments                        the basis of a 10 year amortization and a 6%
                                interest rate. Actual bond terms may differ.
Annual lease payments           $33,500  –    $90,000  –     $120,900
   Per residential unit (avg.9.10     –    5.46     –     9.77
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.007    –    0.004    –     0.009
   Per unimproved land acre  0.10     –    0.08     –     0.13
(avg.)
 
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2B-5: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING AND FINANCIAL SURVEY:
Nevada Revised Statutes requires the service plan to provide a financial and
preliminary engineering survey showing the proposed service to be provided and
financed. The fire district expects to provide EMS from fire protection
facilities strategically located within the service plan area that will ensure
prompt response to EMS incidents. Equipment necessary for the provision of EMS
would initially be leased, until cash flow permits the acquisition of such
equipment, or the voters of the fire district permit the issuance of bonds to
acquire the EMS equipment. (Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2B-6: EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS FOR EMS:
Currently any EMS communications that may be required by the Pahranagat Valley
fire district (PVFD) in the service plan area are provided through the Lincoln
County emergency management (LCEM) communications system. This countywide
communications system receives 911/emergency calls at the Lincoln County
sheriff's department (LCSD) dispatch center located in Pioche. The dispatch for
PVFD EMS service is then broadcast by the LCSD utilizing a VHF radio
communications system. Radio communications between LCSD dispatch and PVFD EMS
units within the service plan area are accomplished by utilizing the Ella
Mountain VHF radio repeater site.
The LCSD dispatch facility provides 911 call receipt, dispatch, and radio
communications services for all emergency service providers in Lincoln County.
The operations and equipment for this facility are funded through county
general fund revenue sources. There are no charges to any entity within Lincoln
County for these services. It is expected that the LCSD dispatch facility will
provide the 911 call receipt, dispatch, and radio communications services
needed to support the EMS operations of the fire district utilizing county
general fund revenue sources.
It is planned for the fire district to utilize the southern Nevada area
communications council (SNACC) services for fixed and mobile radio
communications infrastructure and equipment. It is planned for this equipment
to allow EMS units to communicate on both VHF and UHF radio bands. SNACC
services allow an EMS provider to expend an annual fee for the use and
maintenance of fixed and mobile radio equipment. There are two (2) SNACC fees
that would apply to the fire district, a one time system buy-in fee of
approximately two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per radio base station or mobile
unit and an annual service fee of approximately two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) per radio/unit. These fees are included in the fire district
operations costs for EMS. The purchase cost of radio base stations is included
in the construction costs for fire protection facilities. The purchase costs of
EMS rescue ambulance mobile radios are included in the purchase price of those
rescue ambulances. (Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
15-2B-7: EMERGENCY SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED:
   A.   As required by Nevada Revised Statutes, a description of the EMS to be
provided by the fire district is as follows. The fire district plans to provide
EMS through an interlocal agreement with the Clark County fire department and/
or others. In the event an interlocal agreement is not reached with the Clark
County fire department for the provision of these services the fire district
may provide the services with its own employees or through contract with
others. Initially these services may be provided at an emergency medical
technician level, and as the community develops increased to a paramedic
service level. Rates, tolls and charges consistent with the EMS provided will
be established by the fire district and revised at intervals as necessary.
An EMS company within the fire district is planned to be staffed by the
following positions:
 
Fire engineer/paramedic 1 each
Firefighter/paramedic   1 each
 
   B.   In order to provide staffing on a twenty four (24) hour seven (7) day
per week basis, the fire district would employ or contract for three (3)
persons per position and divide the work force into three (3) platoons that
work twenty four (24) hour shifts with one person per position always being on
duty (an average of 56 hours per week). Additionally, in order to provide
vacation and sick leave coverage, an additional labor cost factor of one-half
(1/2) position would be budgeted in order to hire back off duty personnel on an
overtime basis to fill staffing vacancies. This staffing arrangement is
utilized by the Clark County fire department and is commonly termed "constant
staffing" within the fire service.
   C.   The annual 2004/2005 labor costs per position that might be incurred
through a contract with the Clark County fire department are:
 
Fire engineer/paramedic $168,000.00
Firefighter/paramedic   153,500.00
 
   D.   To develop the projected annual labor cost per emergency medical
company within this service plan, each required position cost was multiplied by
3.5. The projected 2004/2005 total emergency medical company labor costs are:
 
Fire engineer/paramedic $ 588,000.00
Firefighter/paramedic   537,040.00
Total                   $1,125,040.00
 
   E.   To account for inflation in future labor costs, the staffing costs were
then increased at three percent (3%). The service plan estimates that three (3)
EMS response units would be needed and supplemented with the fire protection
companies. Table 4:9 of this section provides estimates of the EMS personnel
that will be required to provide seven (7) days per week and twenty four (24)
hours per day EMS coverage for the fire district.
   TABLE 4:9
   ESTIMATED EMS PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS
 
Positions                Year 5 Year 10 Year 15 Year 20 Year 25
Engineer/paramedic       –    7.0     14.0    14.0    21.0
(3.5 per rescue company)
Firefighter/paramedic    –    7.0     14.0    14.0    21.0
(3.5 per rescue company)
Volunteer EMT            12.0   –     –     –     –
Total Professional Staff –    14.0    28.0    28.0    42.0
 
   F.   Table 4:10 of this section illustrates an estimate of the costs of
staffing and operating the EMS to be provided by the fire district.
   TABLE 4:10
   EMS OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES
   ItYear Year Year Year Year
        5    10   15   20   25
   Item                      Year    Year       Year       Year       Year
                                5       10         15         20         25
Salaries and wages              –     $1,468,000 $3,404,000 $3,945,600 $6,861,000
Services and supplies           –     73,400     170,200    197,300    343,100
Capital outlay                  –     –        –        –        –
Lease payments                  33,500  –        90,000     –        120,900
Total Annual Costs              $33,500 $1,541,400 $3,664,200 $4,142,900 $7,325,000
   Average Annual Property TaAverage property tax is calculated based upon the
                                average assessed value of each class of property.
Estimate tax rate               0.0112  0.0792     0.0907     0.0645     0.0798
   Per residential unit (avg.$ 9.10  $74.53     $98.94     $81.55     $116.92
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.007   0.056      0.074      0.061      0.088
   Per unimproved land acre  0.10    1.39       3.18       4.52       11.17
(avg.)
 
(Res. 2005-07, 5-4-2005)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
SECTION:
15-3-1: Created
15-3-2: Purpose
15-3-3: Justification
15-3-4: Advantages
15-3-5: Establishing Service Plan Time Lines
15-3-6: Services Not Proposed
15-3-7: Expenses And Financing
15-3-1: CREATED:
   A.   The Lincoln County board of county commissioners hereby creates the
"Coyote Springs - Lincoln County general improvement district" as a body
corporate and politic, and a quasi-municipal corporation ("district"). (Ord.
2005-07, 9-6-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
   B.   Creation of the Coyote Springs - Lincoln general improvement district
does not relieve CSI of its obligations outlined in the development agreement.
Any bonds that are issued for the costs of the construction, acquisition, or
servicing of any improvements within any portion of an approved service plan
component or which are issued for the administration of such improvements shall
be based on a ratio of a taxable value to the amount the bonds issued for such
costs which in the judgment of the governing body or their designee shall be
sufficient to result in the complete repayment of such bonds. Such ratio may be
different for each component as the governing body so determines.
It is agreed that any board of trustees for the Coyote Springs - Lincoln County
general improvement district would be restricted from voting for any increase
in the property tax levy of the district that would exceed the property tax
rate of the highest existing tax district in unincorporated Lincoln County as
provided in and in accordance with the Coyote Springs - Lincoln County general
improvement district enacting ordinance.
It is also agreed that any board of trustees for the Coyote Springs - Lincoln
County general improvement district would be restricted, under any
circumstance, from imposing a district property tax levy amount that would
cause the Lincoln County School District (LCSD) board to be unable to increase
the LCSD property tax levy amount necessary to fund LCSD budget requirements
within any state imposed property tax rate limitation.
Additionally, should any action of the Coyote Springs - Lincoln County general
improvement district board cause an adverse affect upon the LCSD's ability to
service the debt required to retire any bonds authorized for issuance by the
LCSD on or before May 1, 2005, whether such bonds have been issued or not at
the time of the service plan approval, the Coyote Springs - Lincoln County
general improvement district board shall promptly pay Lincoln County an
administrative fee in an amount equal to the deficit caused by the adverse
action of the Coyote Springs - Lincoln County general improvement district
board in immediately available funds. Lincoln County shall take all steps
necessary to transfer all such funds received to LCSD. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3-2: PURPOSE:
   A.   The district is organized for the purposes of and having all powers
authorized by law to:
      1.   Furnish electric light and power, as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 318.117, and now or hereafter amended;
      2.   Exterminate and abate mosquitoes, flies, other insects, rats and
liver fluke or fasciola hepatica, as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes
318.118, as now or hereafter amended;
      3.   Furnish streets and alleys, as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes
318.120, as now or hereafter amended;
      4.   Furnish facilities for storm drainage or flood control, as provided
in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.135, as now or hereafter amended;
      5.   Furnish sanitary facilities for sewerage, as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 318.140, as now or hereafter amended;
      6.   Furnish facilities for lighting streets, as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 318.141, as now or hereafter amended;
      7.   Furnish facilities for the collection and disposal of garbage and
refuse, as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.142, as now or hereafter
amended;
      8.   Furnish recreation facilities, as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 318.143, as now or hereafter amended;
      9.   Furnish facilities for water, as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes
318.144, as now or hereafter amended;
      10.   Furnish control and eradication of noxious weeds, as provided in
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 555, as now or hereafter amended;
      11.   Establish an area or zone for the preservation of endangered or
threatened wildlife, as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.1177, as now or
hereafter amended.
   B.   The district is and shall be authorized to provide such services within
the plan area (as defined in chapter 1 of this title) and may, pursuant to an
interlocal agreement or agreements, provide services on lands near but outside
the plan area. (Ord. 2005-07, 9-6-2005, eff. 10-1-2005)
15-3-3: JUSTIFICATION:
This service plan provides evidence that:
   A.   There is a projected need for organized public services in the area to
be serviced by the district. The distance from the service plan area to
existing service providers within Lincoln County creates a burden upon the
county from both an expenditure and service perspective. The district
alleviates the county's financial and service obligations to provide certain
services outside its traditional service territories.
   B.   The existing service in the area to be served by the district is not
adequate for projected needs. Currently there are no existing services with the
service plan area. The district provides the vehicle to allow a local
government jurisdiction to create interlocal agreements and other arrangements
that can provide the administration and revenue generation that would permit
certain service providers near the service plan area to service the community
through the district.
   C.   Adequate service will not be available to the area through municipal
annexation by other existing municipal or quasi- municipal corporations within
a reasonable time and on a comparable basis. Other than Lincoln County, the
closest jurisdiction to the service plan area is the town of Alamo. Currently,
the base of infrastructure for Alamo town is further than thirty (30) miles
from the service plan area. Even if Alamo town could annex the service plan
area, it would be difficult for Alamo town to provide comparable services given
the exorbitant costs of extending infrastructure to the Coyote Springs -
Lincoln County general improvement district service plan service plan area.
   D.   The district is capable of providing economic and sufficient service to
the area within its proposed boundaries. As outlined within this chapter, the
district will have the capability, in conjunction with other local service
providers, to meet the service needs within the community. In addition, the
district provides local residents with access to more immediate response to
local needs and insulates the county from day to day management and operational
duties.
   E.   The area to be included in the district will have the financial ability
to discharge the proposed indebtedness, other securities, or other obligations
to be incurred on a reasonable basis. Since initial phases of development are
financed through CSI and its partners, the initial development will provide an
existing tax base for the district to support indebtedness in line with growth
within the community through authorized revenue sources supported by the
homeowners and businesses within the community. The developed private
properties will have the value to support future acquisition, maintenance, and
operational costs of the district through authorized revenue sources supported
by those private properties.
   F.   The facility and service standards of the district are compatible with
the facility and service standards of adjacent municipalities and special
districts. In general, the district will utilize the service standards of
surrounding jurisdictions and agencies as the basis for developing facilities
and infrastructure within the community as outlined within this service plan.
   G.   The district is not being formed for the primary purpose of financing
the cost of developing private property. The landowner and its affiliates and
partners will initially finance the cost of developing private property as well
other improvements that will eventually be dedicated or acquired by the
district within the service plan area. The developed private properties will
have the value to support future acquisition, maintenance, and operational
costs of the district through tax levies, fees, and assessments made upon those
developed private properties. Given the magnitude of the service area
boundaries, the district provides the opportunity to represent the impartial
local service needs of all residents of the community separate from CSI.
Eventually the community will be complete, and CSI will no longer be involved
in the community. At such time or before, the community will need a local
jurisdiction that services its needs. The district provides the logical vehicle
to meet the community's short term and long term service needs.
The district will be financially capable and best positioned to provide the
proposed services within the service plan area, while complementing the
services provided by Lincoln County. Although the costs to the district of
providing these services will not be minimal, the number and value of the
properties to be developed in the service plan area will be sufficient to
generate the authorized revenues necessary to fund these service costs. As the
service plan area develops, the residents will become active in the decisions
made by the district board of trustees regarding the expansion, operation, and
maintenance levels of the district's services and facilities. Those community
resident influenced decisions will help dictate the future amount of authorized
revenues that are to be paid by residents to maintain the quality of district
provided services and facilities that are available to the residents and guests
of the service plan area. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3-4: ADVANTAGES:
Formation of the district provides the following advantages:
   A.   The district alleviates Lincoln County's financial and logistical
obligation to provide certain services outside their traditional service
territories;
   B.   The district will be responsible for most public capital projects,
including financing and construction, providing Lincoln County with a strong
tax base without reciprocal service obligations;
   C.   The district insulates Lincoln County from day to day management and
operational duties;
   D.   The district provides local residents with access to a more immediate
response to local needs;
   E.   The district will provide local access to most public services expected
in modern resort and retirement communities;
   F.   As authorized by law, the district will be responsible for establishing
rates, tolls, charges, special assessments, and in cooperation with Lincoln
County and subject to the limits provided in the service plan, ad valorem tax
levies for the services it provides; and
   G.   The district will be a conduit for remedies to broader regional
problems and issues of concern to the county and other jurisdictions. (Res.
2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3-5: ESTABLISHING SERVICE PLAN TIME LINES:
With reference to the time lines set forth in this chapter, the start of year
one will be the date on which the U.S. fish and wildlife service approves the
Coyote Springs multi-species habitat conservation plan and issues a section 10
permit to CSI covering the service plan area. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3-6: SERVICES NOT PROPOSED:
The following services are not presently being proposed for the district but
may be added in the future:
   A.   Furnishing facilities or services for public cemeteries, as provided in
Nevada Revised Statutes 318.119;
   B.   Furnishing facilities for swimming pools, as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 318.1191 (The furnishing of swimming pools is included under the
recreation facilities section of this service plan as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 318.143);
   C.   Furnishing facilities for television, as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 318.1192;
   D.   Furnishing facilities for FM radio, as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 318.1187;
   E.   Furnishing facilities for protection from fire, as provided in Nevada
Revised Statutes 318.1181 (The furnishing of fire protection will be provided
by a request to create a separate fire protection district under Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 318);
   F.   Furnishing energy for heating, as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes
318.1175;
   G.   Furnishing emergency medical services, as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 318.1185 (The furnishing of emergency medical services will be
provided by a request to create a separate fire protection district under
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 318);
   H.   Furnishing curbs, gutters and sidewalks, as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 318.125 (The furnishing of curbs, gutters and sidewalks is included
within this service plan under streets and alleys as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes 318.120); and
   I.   Furnishing fencing, as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.1195
(The furnishing of fencing is included, to the extent necessary within this
service plan under streets and alleys as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes
318.120 and under preservation of endangered or threatened species as provided
in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.1177). (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3-7: EXPENSES AND FINANCING:
   A.   Expenses Of Formation And Operation: The initial costs of formation of
the district are to be borne by CSI and its development partners. Once the
district is created, it will incur typical costs of administration similar to
other public agencies. Most of the services that are to be provided by the
district will be self-supporting as enterprises of the district. Other costs
will be of a general nature and not logically supported by user fees.
Since the district is to provide a variety of services, all administered by a
central staff and board of trustees, some of the administrative costs will be
allocated to those services on a basis yet to be determined. General
administrative expenses that are not allocated to the enterprise funds will be
paid from other appropriate district revenue sources. The district will incur
personnel costs of wages and benefits; services and supplies; utilities; legal
and audit; and other costs.
   B.   Financing Construction, Maintenance And Operation: The district will
utilize Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 271, the consolidated local
improvements law and chapter 350, the local governments securities law to
finance the construction or acquisition of the capital projects that are
undertaken as a result of the service plan. The authorized revenue sources and
the security for indebtedness are described within this chapter. The
maintenance and operation of these capital facilities will be funded through
the imposition of certain assessments, rates, tolls and charges as authorized
by law from time to time and to the extent necessary and in cooperation with
Lincoln County, through property taxes levied upon the taxable properties
within the district as authorized by law from time to time. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-
2005)
ARTICLE A. ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER
SECTION:
15-3A-1: Furnishing Electric Light And Power
15-3A-2: Existing Service
15-3A-3: District Provided Services
15-3A-4: District Provided Facilities
15-3A-5: Preliminary Engineering And Financial Survey
15-3A-6: District Indebtedness
15-3A-1: FURNISHING ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER:
As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.117, a GID may be granted the
authority to provide certain services related to furnishing electric light and
power within the service area. The following provides the specific provisions
of Nevada Revised Statutes 318.117:
NRS 318.117 Electric Light And Power. If a district is created, wholly or in
part, to furnish electric light and power, the board may:
      1.   Acquire, by purchase, condemnation or other legal means, all lands,
rights and other property necessary for the construction, use and supply,
operation, maintenance, repair and improvement of the works of the district,
including, without limitation, the plant, works, system, facilities or
properties, together with all parts thereof, the appurtenances thereto,
including contract rights, used and useful primarily for the production,
transmission or distribution of electric energy to or for the public for any
purpose, works constructed and being constructed by private owners, and all
other works and appurtenances, either within or without the state of Nevada.
      2.   Furnish, deliver and sell to the public, and to any municipality and
to the state and any public institution, heat, light and power service and any
other service, commodity or facility which may be produced or furnished in
connection therewith.
      3.   Purchase generating capacity on the terms set forth in subsection 3
of Nevada Revised Statutes 244A.699.
(Added to NRS by 1967, 1693; A 1985, 642; 2001, 2083, effective July 1, 2003)
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3A-2: EXISTING SERVICE:
The service plan area lies within the service area of Lincoln County power
district 1 (LCPD).
An existing sixty nine kilovolt (69 kV) transmission line, owned and operated
by LCPD, runs generally along Route 168 and along U.S. Highway 93 adjacent to
the service plan area. A portion of this transmission line has recently been
upgraded and could be converted to a one hundred thirty eight kilovolt (138 kV)
line. Initial studies show that the upgrade has enough capacity to serve
development of fifteen thousand (15,000) homes within the service plan area;
however, alternate sources or upgrades to the existing power grid will be
needed once initial phases are completed. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3A-3: DISTRICT PROVIDED SERVICES:
As required by Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308, this section provides a
description of the services to be provided by the district within the service
plan area. The district proposes to finance, construct and own the electrical
distribution system within the service plan area. Further, the district
proposes to have the system operated by LCPD through the implementation of an
interlocal agreement as provided in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 277,
however, in the event LCPD is not the system operator, the district or another
private or public entity would be the operator. LCPD has indicated their
interest in operating power facilities and service within the service plan area
through an interlocal agreement with the district as outlined in their letter
of interest. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3A-4: DISTRICT PROVIDED FACILITIES:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a description of the facilities to
be constructed, and the standards of such construction for power facilities to
be provided for each proposed service. The electric power distribution system
is to be constructed and owned by the district and will be primarily installed
underground. The source of power to be distributed within the service plan area
may be purchased from others or from generation facilities located within or
outside the service plan area and owned by the district or others. The electric
power distribution system will be constructed according to the requirements and
standards of the LCPD.
The district will acquire any such facilities or improvements, provided by
others that have been completed in accordance with district standards,
specifications and approval during the initial phases of service plan area
development, and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations for those
facilities or improvements on May 1, 2009; provided, that there are not less
than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the district on May 1, 2009.
Should there be less than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the
district on May 1, 2009, the district will acquire any such facilities or
improvements and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations on the
first day of the month next following the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy by the county, for the one thousandth dwelling unit within the
district. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3A-5: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING AND FINANCIAL SURVEY:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan to provide a
financial and preliminary engineering survey showing how the proposed service
is to be provided and financed. The district expects to provide undergrounding
of power lines throughout the community. The costs of this construction will be
borne by the properties served through the levy of special assessments as
provided in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 271. Upon completion of
construction, the facilities will be owned by the district and operated and
maintained by LCPD, the district or another private or public entity. Table 4:
1 of this section reflects the anticipated costs of construction for the power
facilities as provided in part by LCPD.
   TABLE 4:1
   ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER FACILITY COSTS
         Years Years  Years   Years   Years
   Item1–5 6–10 11–15 16–20 21–25
                                        Years      Years       Years       Years       Years
   Item                               1–5      6–10      11–15     16–20     21–25
Land                                     –        –         –         –         –
Substation construction and upgrades:                                                
   Substation no. 1                   $ 600,000  –         –         –         –
   Purchase 230 kV line capacity      –        $ 127,500   –         –         –
   Tortoise substation upgrade        –        1,750,000   $ 1,750,000 –         –
   Sheep Mountain substation          –        900,000     –         –         –
   Coyote Springs substation no. 1    –        1,300,000   –         –         –
upgrade
   Tap upgrades                       –        1,800,000   –         –         –
   Evergreen Flat substation          –        180,000     –         –         –
   Sheep Mountain Prince line upgrade –        1,500,000   –         –         –
   ACADA upgrade                      –        3,000,000   3,000,000              –
   Additional upgrades                –        –         19,400,900  18,504,800  19,402,900
Total transmission facility costs        $ 600,000  $10,557,500 $24,150,900 $18,504,800 $19,402,900
Power distribution costs:                                                            
   Primary distribution and pad mount $1,738,900 $10,247,400 $11,373,200 $10,927,000 $11,254,100
transformers
Total distribution costs                 $1,738,900 $10,247,400 $11,373,200 $10,927,000 $11,254,100
Engineering costs (10% of costs)         233,900    2,080,500   3,522,400   2,943,200   3,065,700
Fiscal and legal costs (2% of costs)     46,800     416,100     710,500     588,600     613,100
Other incidental costs (2% of costs)     46,800     416,100     710,500     588,600     613,100
Total Costs (5 year basis)               $2,619,600 $23,301,500 $39,787,000 $32,963,600 $34,335,800
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3A-6: DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan to describe any
proposed indebtedness, including proposed maximum interest rates and any
discounts, any other bonds and any other securities to be issued, their type or
character, annual operation and maintenance expenses.
The district will finance the construction, acquisition, operation and
maintenance of electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities
through a combination of assessments, rates, tolls and charges, as allowed by
law from time to time. It is anticipated that annual operating revenues will be
primarily be through rates, tolls, and charges that will be established for the
services provided by the district.
Under Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 271, GIDs may finance construction of
electrical generation, transmission and distribution facilities with
improvement bonds that are secured by special assessments levied upon
properties receiving a benefit from such facilities. Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 350 limits the interest rates on indebtedness issued by a Nevada local
government. If the district determines that the most economical method of
financing electrical facilities would be through the issuance of improvement
bonds, the terms would be limited by the authorizations of these two (2)
statutes. Table 4:2 of this section provides an indebtedness schedule for the
electric light and power improvements, and table 4:3 of this section provides
the annual operating expenses to provide electric light and power service.
   TABLE 4:2
   ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER
   IMPROVEMENTS INDEBTEDNESS SCHEDULE
   ItYears Years  Years   Years   Years
        1–5 6–10 11–15 16–20 21–25
   Item                      Years      Years       Years       Years       Years
                                1–5      6–10      11–15     16–20     21–25
                                Assessments have been spread for purposes of this service
Average Assessment              plan based upon assessed valuation. Actual spread may
                                differ.
Improvement bonds               $2,670,000 $23,350,000 $39,840,000 $33,010,000 $34,390,000
   Per residential unit (avg.725.32     1,129.08    1,075.74    649.81      548.91
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.54       0.85        0.81        0.49        0.41
   Per unimproved land acre  7.82       21.00       34.52       31.48       36.05
(avg.)
   Average Annual            Annual debt service has been calculated on the basis of a
   Assessment Payments       15 year amortization and a 7% interest rate. Actual bond
                                terms may differ.
Annual debt service             $293,200   $2,563,700  $4,374,200  $3,624,300  $3,775,800
   Per residential unit (avg.79.65      123.97      118.11      71.35       60.27
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.06       0.09        0.09        0.05        0.05
   Per unimproved land acre  0.86       2.31        3.79        3.46        3.96
(avg.)
 
   TABLE 4:3
   ANNUAL OPERATING EXPENSES TO
   PROVIDE ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER SERVICE
   ItYear Year Year Year Year
        5    10   15   20   25
   Item                  Year     Year       Year        Year        Year
                            5        10         15          20          25
Transmission expenses       $195,400 $1,392,700 $ 2,907,900 $ 4,604,700 $ 6,631,700
Miscellaneous maintenance   586,200  4,178,100  8,723,700   13,814,200  19,895,000
General administration      130,300  928,500    1,938,600   3,069,800   4,421,100
Total annual expenses       $911,905 $6,499,310 $13,570,215 $21,488,720 $30,947,825
Average monthly power fees  Annual costs of operation and maintenance are allocated
(annual costs do not        to residential and commercial customers on the basis of
include power commodity     proportional assessed values for each class of
charges which will be       customer. Actual cost allocations may vary from this
established by the power    estimate.
purveyor)
   Per residential unit  $20.64   $26.19     $30.53      $35.25      $41.16
(avg.)
   Per commercial SF (avg0.02     0.02       0.02        0.03        0.03
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
ARTICLE B. VECTOR AND PEST CONTROL
SECTION:
15-3B-1: Overview
15-3B-2: Furnishing Vector And Pest Control
15-3B-3: District Provided Services
15-3B-4: District Indebtedness
15-3B-1: OVERVIEW:
The service plan area is remote from existing pest extermination services and
includes a drainage and open space area that will require the control of
mosquitoes and other pests that may be attracted to those areas. The district,
through revenue sources authorized by law, is the logical agency to fund and
provide such services either through a contract with public or private service
providers or with its own personnel and equipment. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3B-2: FURNISHING VECTOR AND PEST CONTROL:
As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.118, a GID may be granted the
authority to provide certain services related to furnishing mosquito and other
pest abatement within the service area. The following provides the specific
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 318.118:
NRS 318.118 Insect And Rat Extermination And Abatement.
   1.   In the case of a district created wholly or in part for exterminating
and abating mosquitoes, flies, other insects, rats, and liver fluke or fasciola
hepatica, the board may:
      (a) Take all necessary or proper steps for the extermination of
mosquitoes, flies, other insects, rats, or liver fluke or fasciola hepatica in
the district or in territory not in the district but so situated with respect
to the district that mosquitoes, flies, other insects, rats, or liver fluke or
fasciola hepatica from that territory migrate or are caused to be carried into
the district;
      (b) Subject to the paramount control of any county or city in which the
district has jurisdiction, abate as nuisances all stagnant pools of water and
other breeding places for mosquitoes, flies, other insects, rats, or liver
fluke or fasciola hepatica in the district or in territory not in the district
but so situated with respect to the district that mosquitoes, flies, other
insects, rats, or liver fluke or fasciola hepatica from that territory migrate
or are caused to be carried into the district;
      (c) If necessary or proper, in the furtherance of the objects of this
chapter, build, construct, repair and maintain necessary dikes, levees, cuts,
canals or ditches upon any land, and acquire by purchase, condemnation or by
other lawful means, in the name of the district, any lands, rights of way,
easements, property or material necessary for any of those purposes;
      (d) Make contracts to indemnify or compensate any owner of land or other
property for any injury or damage necessarily caused by the use or taking of
property for dikes, levees, cuts, canals or ditches;
      (e) Enter upon without hindrance any lands, within or without the
district, for the purpose of inspection to ascertain whether breeding places of
mosquitoes, flies, other insects, rats, or liver fluke or fasciola hepatica
exist upon those lands;
      (f) Abate public nuisances in accordance with this chapter;
      (g) Ascertain if there has been a compliance with notices to abate the
breeding of mosquitoes, flies, other insects, rats, or liver fluke or fasciola
hepatica upon those lands;
      (h) Treat with oil, other larvicidal material, or other chemicals or
other material any breeding places of mosquitoes, flies, other insects, rats,
or liver fluke or fasciola hepatica upon those lands;
      (i) Sell or lease any land, rights-of-way, easements, property or
material acquired by the district; and
      (j) Sell real property pursuant to this subsection to the highest bidder
at public auction after 5 days' notice given by publication.
   2.   In connection with the basic power stated in this section, the district
may:
      (a) Levy annually a general ad valorem property tax of not exceeding:
         1.   Fifteen cents on each $100 of assessed valuation of taxable
property; or
         2.   Twenty cents on each $100 of assessed valuation of taxable
property if the board of county commissioners of each county in which the
district is located approves such a tax in excess of 15 cents on each $100 of
assessed valuation of taxable property.
      (b) Levy a tax in addition to a tax authorized in paragraph (a), if the
additional tax is authorized by the qualified electors of the district, as
provided in subsections 4 to 7, inclusive.
   3.   The proceeds of any tax levied pursuant to the provisions of this
section must be used for purposes pertaining to the basic purpose stated in
this section, including, without limitation, the establishment and maintenance
of:
      (a) A cash-basis fund of not exceeding in any fiscal year 60 percent of
the estimated expenditures for the fiscal year to defray expenses between the
beginning of the fiscal year and the respective times tax proceeds are received
in the fiscal year; and
      (b) An emergency fund of not exceeding in any fiscal year 25 percent of
the estimated expenditures for the fiscal year to defray unusual and
unanticipated expenses incurred during epidemics or threatened epidemics from
diseases from sources, which the district may exterminate or abate.
   4.   Whenever it appears to the board of a district authorized to exercise
the basic power stated in subsection 1 that the amount of money required during
an ensuing fiscal year will exceed the amount that can be raised by a levy
permitted by paragraph (a) of subsection 2, the board may:
      (a) At a special election or the next primary or general election submit
to the qualified electors of the district a question of whether a tax shall be
voted for raising the additional money;
      (b) Provide the form of the ballot for the election, which must contain
the words "Shall the district vote a tax to raise the additional sum of
........?" or words equivalent thereto;
      (c) Provide the form of the notice of the election and provide for the
notice to be given by publication; and
      (d) Arrange other details in connection with the election.
   5.   A special election may be held only if the board determines, by a
unanimous vote, that an emergency exists. The determination made by the board
is conclusive unless it is shown that the board acted with fraud or a gross
abuse of discretion. An action to challenge the determination made by the board
must be commenced within 15 days after the board's determination is final. As
used in this subsection, "emergency" means any unexpected occurrence or
combination of occurrences, which requires immediate action by the board to
prevent or mitigate a substantial financial loss to the district or to enable
the board to provide an essential service to the residents of the district.
   6.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter:
      (a) The secretary of the district shall give notice of the election by
publication and shall arrange such other details in connection with the
election as the board may direct;
      (b) The election board officers shall conduct the election in the manner
prescribed by law for the holding of general elections and shall make their
returns to the secretary of the district; and
      (c) The board shall canvass the returns of the election at any regular or
special meeting held within 5 days following the date of the election, or at
such later time as the returns are available for canvass, and shall declare the
results of the election
   7.   If a majority of the qualified electors of the district who voted on
any proposition authorizing the additional tax voted in favor of the
proposition, and the board so declares the result of the election:
      (a) The district board shall report the result to the board of county
commissioners of the county in which the district is situated, stating the
additional amount of money required to be raised. If the district is in more
than one county the additional amount must be prorated for each county by the
district board in the same way that the district's original total estimate of
money is prorated, and the district board shall furnish the board of county
commissioners and auditor of each county a written statement of the
apportionment for that county; and
      (b) The board of county commissioners of each county receiving the
written statement shall, at the time of levying county taxes, levy an
additional tax upon all the taxable property of the district in the county
sufficient to raise the amount apportioned to that county for the district.
   8.   The district shall not:
      (a) Borrow money except for medium-term obligations pursuant to chapter
350 of NRS;
      (b) Levy special assessments; or
      (c) Fix any rates, fees or other charges except as otherwise provided in
this section.
   9.   The district may determine to cause an owner of any real property to
abate any nuisance pertaining to the basic power stated in this section, after
a hearing on a proposal for such an abatement and notice thereof by mail
addressed to the last known owner or owners of record at his or their last
known address or addresses, as ascertained from any source the board deems
reliable, or in the absence of the abatement within a reasonable period fixed
by the board, to cause the district to abate the nuisance, as follows:
      (a) At the hearing the district board shall redetermine whether the owner
must abate the nuisance and prevent its recurrence, and shall specify a time
within which the work must be completed;
      (b) If the nuisance is not abated within the time specified in the notice
or at the hearing, the district board shall abate the nuisance by destroying
the larvae or pupae, or otherwise, by taking appropriate measures to prevent
the recurrence of further breeding;
      (c) The cost of abatement must be repaid to the district by the owner;
      (d) The money expended by the district in abating a nuisance or
preventing its recurrence is a lien upon the property on which the nuisance is
abated or its recurrence prevented;
      (e) Notice of the lien must be filed and recorded by the district board
in the office of the county recorder of the county in which the property is
situated within 6 months after the first item of expenditure by the board;
      (f) An action to foreclose the lien must be commenced within 6 months
after the filing and recording of the notice of lien;
      (g) The action must be brought by the district board in the name of the
district;
      (h) When the property is sold, enough of the proceeds to satisfy the lien
and the costs of foreclosure must be paid to the district and the surplus, if
any, must be paid to the owner of the property if known, and if not known, must
be paid into the court in which the lien was foreclosed for the use of the
owner if ascertained; and
      (i) The lien provisions of this section do not apply to the property of
any county, city, district or other public corporation, except that the
governing body of the county, city, district or other public corporation shall
repay to any district exercising the basic power stated in subsection 1 the
amount expended by the district upon any of its property pursuant to this
chapter upon presentation by the district board of a verified claim or bill.
(Added to NRS by 1967, 1694; A 1973, 13; 1993, 1061; 1995, 1815)
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3B-3: DISTRICT PROVIDED SERVICES:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires that a service plan describe the
services and facilities to be provided by the proposed district, including any
costs of acquiring land, engineering services and legal services. The district
will either contract with a public or private pest control service or acquire
the necessary personnel and equipment to provide effective control of such
pests within the service plan area. The district should not require additional
land, engineering or legal services to provide this service. Table 4:4 of this
section provides an estimate of the costs for mosquito and other pest control.
Notwithstanding any provision of Nevada Revised Statutes 318.118, the district
is subject to the paramount control of the Lincoln County board of county
commissioners in the performance of any activity authorized by Nevada Revised
Statutes 318.118 outside the established boundaries of the district.
   TABLE 4:4
   ESTIMATED COST OF MOSQUITO
   AND OTHER PEST CONTROL
   ItYear Year Year Year Year
        5    10   15   20   25
   Item                         Year   Year    Year    Year    Year
                                   5      10      15      20      25
Acreage to be treated              169    457     759     1,071   1,310
Mosquito abatement                 $2,400 $ 6,400 $10,600 $15,000 $18,340
Other pest control                 1,700  4,570   7,590   10,710  13,100
Estimated annual costs             $4,100 $10,970 $18,190 $25,710 $31,400
Estimated tax rate                 0.0014 0.0006  0.0005  0.0004  0.0003
Estimated annual property tax                                  
   Per residential unit (avg.)  $ 3.18 $ 1.52  $ 1.40  $ 1.45  $ 1.43
   Per commercial SF (avg.)     0.002  0.001   0.001   0.001   0.001
   Per unimproved land acre (avg0.03   0.03    0.05    0.07    0.09
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3B-4: DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan describe any
proposed indebtedness, including proposed maximum interest rates and any
discounts, any other bonds and any other securities to be issued, their type or
character, annual operation and maintenance expenses. The district is not
expected to incur any long term indebtedness to provide this service. The
annual operating and maintenance expenses will be incorporated into the
district's annual budget. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
ARTICLE C. STREETS AND ALLEYS
SECTION:
15-3C-1: Overview
15-3C-2: Furnishing Streets And Alleys
15-3C-3: Preliminary Engineering And Financial Survey
15-3C-4: District Provided Facilities
15-3C-5: District Provided Services
15-3C-6: District Indebtedness
15-3C-1: OVERVIEW:
The district will acquire or construct, then own, and maintain streets that are
constructed in public rights of way or easements, except within state highway
rights of way, together with curbs, gutters, sidewalks, landscape traffic
signaling and signage, entry monumentation street lighting for all parkways and
collectors, and for local streets after dedication. These improvements will be
constructed as the community is developed and be financed through the sale of
assessment bonds issued by the district and secured by assessment liens upon
the properties being benefited by the construction. The streets will be
constructed to meet or exceed the specifications of AASHTO and/or ITE
standards. Private streets will not be the responsibility of the district. The
continuing maintenance of the streets and landscaping will be the
responsibility of the district and be paid from a property tax levied upon all
taxable properties in the district.
Costs of off site traffic improvements for US 93 and SR 168 within state
highway rights of way as required by the counties will be borne by CSI and its
partners and may be funded through special mitigation fees or by federal
highway funds where applicable. In the future, the district could participate
in roadway and appurtenances improvements necessary to mitigate the off site
traffic impacts and costs created by residents and visitors of the district
through an interlocal agreement with the Nevada department of transportation
(NDOT) or by expanding the boundaries of the district to cover these areas. In
these cases, it is expected that the district, regional transportation
commissions and NDOT could share the cost of any improvements that mitigate
these impacts. The district's financial support for these improvements will be
provided through special assessments or other authorized revenue sources as may
be allowed at the time of construction. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3C-2: FURNISHING STREETS AND ALLEYS:
As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.120, a GID may be granted the
authority to provide certain services related to furnishing streets and alleys
within the service area. The following provides the specific provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes 318.120:
NRS 318.120 Streets And Alleys.
      1.   In the case of a district created wholly or in part for acquiring
paving, the board shall have the power to grade and regrade and to surface and
to resurface streets, alleys and public highways, and parts thereof, within the
district, with suitable material, and to acquire street and alley improvements
necessary and incidental thereto.
      2.   Such street, alley and public highway improvements may include,
without limitation, grades, regrades, gravel, oiling, surfacing, macadamizing,
paving, crosswalks, driveway inlets, curb cuts, curbs, sidewalks, gutters,
valley gutters, catch basins, culverts, drains, sewers, manholes, inlets,
outlets, retaining walls, bridges, overpasses, tunnels, underpasses,
approaches, artificial lights and lighting equipment, grade separators, traffic
separators, traffic-control equipment, off-street parking facilities and
structures, parkways, canals and other water type streets, or any combination
thereof.
(Added to NRS by 1959, 462; A 1971, 1053)
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3C-3: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING AND FINANCIAL SURVEY:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan to provide
financial and preliminary engineering or architectural surveys showing how the
proposed services are to be provided and financed. A preliminary street layout
has been developed for the community that projects some one hundred thirteen
(113) miles of public traffic lanes to be constructed in the district over the
build out period. As a general rule, this service plan assumes that the
district will assume the capital costs within public parkways and collector
roads, and that CSI or its partners will bear the capital costs of street
improvements for all local roads.
The district expects to acquire or construct such streets as the development of
the community proceeds through the sale of special assessment bonds secured by
liens upon the properties that are benefiting from the construction. Many of
the parkways are to be constructed with four (4), and in some cases six (6)
lanes of traffic. These parkways are to be constructed with landscaped medians
and rights of way, curbs, gutters and sidewalks. Street lighting will be a
community theme component that will be dedicated to the power utility that
serves the community. The maintenance of all public streets will be funded
through authorized revenue sources for that purpose.
Any improvements within state highway rights of way will be engineered by the
Nevada department of transportation. As the district is developed, the
residents and visitors of the district may impact traffic volumes on Highway 93
from the Lincoln/Clark County boundary north to the area of Kane Springs Road.
These impacts may be mitigated through the provision of highway improvements
that could include additional traffic lanes, turn and acceleration lanes, and
traffic control devices. It is currently expected that any improvements
constructed would be maintained by and at the expense of the Nevada department
of transportation. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3C-4: DISTRICT PROVIDED FACILITIES:
As part of the service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of the facilities to be constructed, and the standards of such
construction for each service proposed. Public streets will be constructed to
meet or exceed the requirements of AASHTO and/or ITE standards. The district
will generally acquire or construct improved parkways and collectors streets.
Developers will generally construct and then dedicate to the district all
improvements in local public roads. Curbs, gutters and sidewalks will be
constructed on all parkways, which will also feature landscaped medians and
shoulders. Collector streets will also include curbs, gutters and sidewalks and
in some cases landscaped medians. Utility easements will be provided in the
landscaped areas. Bicycle lanes will be provided along most parkways.
Improvements constructed within state highway rights of way will be constructed
to the standards of the Nevada department of transportation. The specific
improvements and the construction scheduling of those improvements will reflect
the impacts anticipated by the rate of development within the district.
The district will acquire any such facilities or improvements, not within state
highway rights of way, provided by others that have been completed in
accordance with district standards, specifications and approval during the
initial phases of service plan area development, and assume associated
maintenance and repair obligations for those facilities or improvements on May
1, 2009; provided, that there are not less than one thousand (1,000) dwelling
units within the district on May 1, 2009. Should there be less than one
thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the district on May 1, 2009, the
district will acquire any such facilities or improvements and assume associated
maintenance and repair obligations on the first day of the month next following
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy by the county, for the one
thousandth dwelling unit within the district. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3C-5: DISTRICT PROVIDED SERVICES:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan provide a
description of the services to be provided by the proposed district, including
the costs of acquiring land, engineering services and legal services. The
district will construct and maintain all the public streets and its related
improvements to meet or exceed the requirements of AASHTO and/or ITE standards.
The district will acquire such rights of way or easements as are required to
construct or maintain these improvements. The costs of construction,
engineering, legal and other incidental costs of the projects will be financed
through the sale of bonds to be repaid from the collection of special
assessments levied upon the benefiting properties. Table 4:5 of this section
provides the current estimate of road acquisition and/or construction costs and
quantities that may be incurred over the development period of the community,
except for off site rights of way, and table 4:6 of this section estimates
roadway construction costs at five (5) year intervals.
   TABLE 4:5
   ESTIMATED COST AND QUANTITY
   OF ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS
 
Improvements To Unit Cost          Quantity (Linear Feet Of Roadway)
Be Acquired Or  (Linear Feet)      Years  Years   Years   Years   Years 21–25
Constructed                        1–5  6–10  11–15 16–20
                $310.00 per linear
Parkways        foot escalated at  24,800 31,400  57,200  14,400  13,100
                3% annually
                $200.00 per linear
Collectors      foot escalated at  39,100 110,500 108,300 79,900  70,000
                3% annually
Parkway         $100.00 per linear
expansions      foot escalated at  0      0       16,200  17,100  17,000
                3% annually
 
   TABLE 4:6
   ESTIMATED ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS COSTS AT FIVE YEAR INTERVALS
                              Years       Years       Years       Years       Years
   Item                     1–5       6–10      11–15     16–20     21–25
Land                           -           -           -           -           -
Parkways - hardscape                                                        
   Parkways - 4 lanes       $2,878,700  $4,225,300  $ 8,922,900 $2,604,100  $5,010,500
   Curb and gutter          650,600     954,900     2,016,600   588,500     1,132,400
   Sidewalk                 764,900     1,122,700   2,371,000   692,000     1,331,400
Total - initial parkways       $4,294,200  $6,302,900  $13,310,500 $3,884,600  $7,474,300
Parkways - other improvements                                               
   Landscaping - median and $2,458,700  $3,608,900  $ 7,621,200 $2,224,200  $4,279,600
ROWs
   Signage                  155,600     228,500     482,500     140,800     270,900
   Traffic improvements     333,300     489,200     1,033,100   301,500     580,100
   Streetlights             292,000     428,500     905,000     264,100     508,200
   Monumentation and other  233,300     342,400     723,200     211,100     406,100
features
Total - other improvements on  $3,472,900  $5,097,500  $10,765,000 $3,141,700  $6,044,900
parkways
Parkways - expansion                                                        
   Parkways - 2 lanes       -           -           $1,263,600  $1,546,200  $1,782,000
   Partial curb and gutters -           -           142,800     174,700     201,400
   Sidewalk                 -           -           167,900     205,400     236,800
   Landscaping - median and -           -           539,600     660,300     761,000
ROWs
   Signage                  -           -           13,700      16,700      19,300
   Traffic improvements     -           -           29,300      35,800      41,300
   Streetlights             -           -           25,600      31,400      36,100
   Monumentation and other  -           -           20,500      25,100      28,900
features
Total - parkway expansion      -           -           $2,203,000  $2,695,600  $3,106,800
Collector improvements                                                      
   Roads - 2 lanes          $946,200    $ 3,098,400 $ 3,519,100 $ 3,009,300 $ 3,059,000
   Partial curb and gutters 427,700     1,400,500   1,590,700   1,360,200   1,382,700
   Sidewalk                 502,800     1,646,600   1,870,200   1,599,300   1,625,600
   Landscaping - median and 808,100     2,646,400   3,005,700   2,570,300   2,612,700
ROWs
   Signage                  102,300     335,100     380,600     325,400     330,800
   Traffic improvements     175,300     574,000     651,900     557,500     566,700
   Streetlights             191,900     628,500     713,800     610,400     620,500
   Monumentation and other  109,500     358,700     407,400     348,400     354,200
features
Total - collector roads        $3,263,800  $10,688,200 $12,139,400 $10,380,800 $10,552,200
Engineering costs (10% of      $1,103,100  $ 2,208,900 $ 3,841,800 $ 2,010,300 $ 2,717,800
costs)
Fiscal and legal (2% of costs) 220,600     441,800     768,400     402,100     543,600
Other incidental costs (2% of  220,600     441,800     768,400     402,100     543,600
costs)
Total Costs (5 year basis)     $12,575,200 $25,181,100 $43,796,500 $22,917,200 $30,983,200
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3C-6: DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS:
As part of any service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of any proposed indebtedness, including proposed maximum interest
rates and any discounts, any other bonds and any other securities to be issued,
their type or character, annual operation and maintenance expenses.
Construction or acquisition of the public streets is to be paid through
proceeds of special assessment bonds secured by liens levied upon the
benefiting properties. Local improvement bonds authorized under chapter 271
will be issued representing unpaid assessments. Such bonds shall have terms not
longer than allowed by Nevada Revised Statutes and will be issued with a
maximum interest rate and discount not exceeding the limits as provided in
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 350. Annual operating and maintenance expenses
for the streets will be paid from authorized revenue sources within the
district.
Table 4:7 of this section reflects the estimated bonds to be issued and the
estimated cost of debt service and maintenance to be collected from the
property owners within the district, and table 4:8 of this section provides a
roadway maintenance schedule, which depicts annual costs of maintenance within
the service plan area.
   TABLE 4:7
   ROADWAY IMPROVEMENTS INDEBTEDNESS SCHEDULE
                               Years       Years       Years       Years       Years
   Item                      1–5       6–10      11–15     16–20     21–25
                                Assessments have been spread for purposes of this service
   Average Assessments Leviedplan based upon assessed valuation. Actual spread may be on
                                a different basis.
Improvement bonds               $12,630,000 $25,230,000 $43,850,000 $22,970,000 $31,030,000
   Per residential unit (avg.3,431.03    1,219.98    1,184.02    452.17      495.28
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  2.57        0.92        0.89        0.34        0.37
   Per unimproved land acre  37.00       22.69       38.00       21.91       32.53
(avg.)
                                Annual debt service has been calculated on the basis of a
   Average Annual Debt Servic15 year amortization and a 7% interest rate. Actual bond
                                terms may differ.
Estimated annual debt service   $1,390,000  $2,770,000  $4,814,000  $2,522,000  $3,407,000
   Per residential unit (avg.377.60      133.94      129.99      49.65       54.38
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.28        0.10        0.10        0.04        0.04
   Per unimproved land acre  4.07        2.49        4.17        2.41        3.57
(avg.)
 
   TABLE 4:8
   ROADWAY MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE
                               Years    Years      Years      Years      Years
   Item                      1–5    6–10     11–15    16–20    21–25
Annual road maintenance         $244,800 $1,046,500 $1,957,000 $2,735,600 $3,527,000
(2.5% of total capital costs)
Annual road repaving and repair
(Capital reserve - 5% of total  489,600  2,092,900  3,914,000  5,471,200  7,054,100
costs)
Total Annual Costs              $734,400 $3,139,400 $5,871,000 $8,206,800 10,581,100
   Average Annual Property TaAverage property tax is calculated based upon the
                                average assessed value of each class of property.
Tax rate                        0.2459   0.1614     0.1454     0.1278     0.1152
   Per residential unit (avg.$199.40  $151.80    $158.53    $161.55    $168.89
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.15     0.11       0.12       0.12       0.13
   Per unimproved land acre  2.15     2.82       5.09       7.83       11.09
(avg.)
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
ARTICLE D. STORM DRAINAGE
SECTION:
15-3D-1: Overview
15-3D-2: Furnishing Facilities For Flood Control
15-3D-3: District Provided Facilities
15-3D-4: Preliminary Engineering And Financial Survey
15-3D-5: District Provided Services
15-3D-6: District Indebtedness
15-3D-1: OVERVIEW:
The district will assume primary responsibility for the construction and
maintenance of storm drainage improvements consistent with the provisions of
this code. Most of the improvements will be constructed utilizing natural
drainage courses that will be located within open space that will be owned by
the district, and may include recreation trails and other recreation amenities.
In addition, storm sewers will be constructed throughout the service plan area
utilizing drainage systems that collect storm water and transfer it to the
natural drainage courses. The costs associated with the construction of the
storm drainage system will be financed through the sale of improvement bonds as
provided in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 271 and be secured by liens filed
upon private properties that will benefit from the improvements. The continuing
maintenance of the storm drainage system will be paid through a maintenance
district created by the district under Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 271.
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3D-2: FURNISHING FACILITIES FOR FLOOD CONTROL:
As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.135, a GID may be granted the
authority to provide certain services related to furnishing storm drainage
facilities within the service plan area. The following provides the specific
provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 318.135:
NRS 318.135 Storm Drainage Or Flood Control. In the case of a district created
wholly or in part for acquiring, improving or operating storm drainage or flood
control improvements, the board may construct, reconstruct, replace or extend
storm sewer and other drainage or flood control facilities and improvements
necessary and incidental thereto within the district, including, but not
limited to, the laying of pipes and the erection of catch basins, drains and
necessary inlets and outlets.
(Added to NRS by 1959, 462; A 1991, 1708)
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3D-3: DISTRICT PROVIDED FACILITIES:
As part of the service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of the facilities to be acquired or constructed, and the standards
of such construction for each service proposed. The district will acquire or
construct storm drain facilities, including intake structures, piping, open
channel and detention basins, which are sized to handle major flood events.
Additionally, these facilities may incorporate recreation improvements in their
design and construction.
The district will acquire any such facilities or improvements, provided by
others that have been completed in accordance with district standards,
specifications and approval during the initial phases of service plan area
development, and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations for those
facilities or improvements on May 1, 2009; provided, that there are not less
than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the district on May 1, 2009.
Should there be less than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the
district on May 1, 2009, the district will acquire any such facilities or
improvements and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations on the
first day of the month next following the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy by the county, for the one thousandth dwelling unit within the
district. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3D-4: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING AND FINANCIAL SURVEY:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan to provide a
financial and preliminary engineering or architectural surveys showing how the
proposed services are to be provided and financed. Engineers who assisted CSI
in the planning and design of the proposed community have prepared preliminary
estimates of the storm drainage system costs. As a general rule, this service
plan assumes that the district will assume the capital costs of storm drainage
within public parkways and collector roads, and that CSI or its partners will
bear the capital costs of storm drainage improvements within all local roads.
Any recreation component of the storm drainage system may be financed through
the "recreational facilities" authority of the district.
Table 4:9 of this section reflects the estimated quantities and unit costs for
these improvements, exclusive of recreation facilities and local road
improvements, and table 4:10 of this section estimates improvement costs at
five (5) year intervals.
   TABLE 4:9
   STORM DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS
   ESTIMATED QUANTITIES AND UNIT COSTS
                                          Unit Quantity
   Item                             Cost       Years  Years  Years   Years   Years
                                                  1–5  6–10 11–15 16–20 21–25
                                       $23 per
                                       linear
                                       foot
                                       including
                                       all
Storm drainage - main parkways (linear piping,
feet)                                  joint      24,800 31,400 57,200  14,400  23,900
                                       trenching
                                       and drain
                                       inlets and
                                       escalated
                                       at 3%
                                       annually
                                       $12 per
                                       linear
                                       foot
                                       including
                                       all
Storm drainage - collectors (linear    piping,
feet)                                  joint      16,300 46,100 45,100  33,300  29,200
                                       trenching
                                       and drain
                                       inlets and
                                       escalated
                                       at 3%
                                       annually
Other flood control - allocation:                                           
                                       $1,300 per
   Bridges and main storm culverts  acre and
(acres)                                escalated  2,300  3,100  3,500   2,300   1,900
                                       at 3%
                                       annually
                                       $27,500
                                       per acre
   Settling basins (acres)          and        11.5   15.5   17.5    11.5    9.5
                                       escalated
                                       at 3%
                                       annually
                                       $55,000
                                       per acre
   Channel development (acres)      and        21.5   22.7   25.8    31.0    21.1
                                       escalated
                                       at 3%
                                       annually
                                       $165,000
                                       per acre
   Pahranagat Wash improvements     and        5.4    5.7    19.3    23.2    15.8
                                       escalated
                                       at 3%
                                       annually
                                       $220,000
                                       per acre
   Flood control lakes and ponds    and        21.5   22.7   25.8    31.0    21.1
(acres)                                escalated
                                       at 3%
                                       annually
 
   TABLE 4:10
   STORM DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS ESTIMATED
   COSTS IN FIVE YEAR INTERVALS
                                 Years       Years       Years       Years       Years
   Item                        1–5       6–10      11–15     16–20     21–25
Land                              –         –         –         –         –
Storm drainage - main parkways    $674,000    $989,300    $2,089,200  $609,700    $1,173,200
Storm drainage - collectors       221,500     726,200     823,600     705,000     716,700
Other flood control - allocation:                                              
   Bridges and main storm      3,527,600   5,511,800   7,214,200   5,495,800   5,263,100
culverts
   Settling basins             367,500     574,100     751,500     572,500     548,200
   Channel development         1,372,900   1,684,400   2,214,100   3,083,700   2,438,300
   Pahranagat Wash improvements1,029,700   1,263,300   4,981,800   6,938,300   5,486,200
   Flood control lakes and pond5,491,700   6,737,800   8,856,500   12,334,800  9,753,300
   Other flood control - total $11,789,400 $15,771,400 $24,018,100 $28,425,100 $23,489,100
allocation
Engineering costs (10% of costs)  $ 1,268,500 $ 1,748,700 $ 2,693,100 $ 2,974,000 $ 2,537,900
Fiscal and legal costs (2% of     253,700     349,700     538,600     594,800     507,600
costs)
Other incidental costs (2% of     253,700     349,700     538,600     594,800     507,600
costs)
Total Costs (5 year basis)        $14,460,800 $19,935,000 $30,701,200 $33,903,400 $28,932,100
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3D-5: DISTRICT PROVIDED SERVICES:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan provide a
description of the services to be provided by the proposed district, including
the costs of acquiring land, engineering services and legal services. The
district will have primary responsibility for construction, maintenance and
operation of the storm drainage improvements.
The district will design and establish maintenance requirements for the
proposed storm drainage improvements. The district will have no costs related
to the acquisition of land for the storm drainage improvements. Engineering,
legal and other services needed for the design and financing of the
improvements will be recovered from the sale of improvement bonds authorized
under Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 271. Continuing maintenance of the
improvements will be provided through authorized revenue sources. (Res. 2005-
06, 5-4-2005)
15-3D-6: DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS:
As part of the service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of any proposed indebtedness, including proposed maximum interest
rates and any discounts, any other bonds and any other securities to be issued,
their type or character, annual operation and maintenance expenses.
The district will issue improvement bonds as provided in Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 271 to pay for the improvements and related costs associated
with the storm drainage system. The bonds will be sold subject to the
limitations on interest rates and discounts as set forth in Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 350. Repayment of the bonds will be made through assessment
installments paid by the owners of benefited properties. Table 4:11 of this
section presents the estimated indebtedness to be incurred in the construction
of the storm drainage facilities, the source of repayment of such indebtedness
and the annual costs of operation and maintenance of the facilities.
   TABLE 4:11
   STORM DRAINAGE DEBT SERVICE AND MAINTENANCE COSTS
                               Year        Year        Year        Year        Year
   Item                      5           10          15          20          25
                                Assessments have been spread for purposes of this service
   Average Assessment        plan based upon assessed valuation. Actual spread may be on
                                a different basis.
Improvement bonds               $14,510,000 $19,990,000 $30,750,000 $33,950,000 $28,980,000
   Per residential unit (avg.4,287.08    988.30      845.61      680.39      470.80
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  3.22        0.74        0.64        0.51        0.35
   Per unimproved land acre  46.23       18.38       27.14       32.96       30.92
(avg.)
                                Annual debt service has been calculated on the basis of a
   Average Annual Debt Servic15 year amortization and a 7% interest rate. Actual bond
                                terms may differ.
Annual debt service             $1,593,100  $2,194,800  $3,376,200  $3,727,500  $3,181,800
   Per residential unit (avg.470.69      108.51      92.84       74.70       51.69
   Per Commercial SF (avg.)  0.35        0.08        0.07        0.06        0.04
   Per unimproved land acre  5.08        2.02        2.98        3.62        3.39
(avg.)
   Annual Maintenance And    Annual maintenance costs are estimated at 5% of improvement
   Reserve Costs             costs and are allocated in proportion to assessed values of
                                properties in the district.
Total annual operating costs    $723,000    $1,719,800  $3,254,900  $4,950,000  $6,396,600
   Per residential unit (avg.213.62      85.03       89.51       99.20       103.92
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.16        0.06        0.07        0.07        0.08
   Per unimproved land acre  2.30        1.58        2.87        4.81        6.82
(avg.)
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
ARTICLE E. SANITARY SEWER
SECTION:
15-3E-1: Overview
15-3E-2: Furnishing Sanitary Facilities For Sewerage
15-3E-3: Existing Service
15-3E-4: Wastewater Production
15-3E-5: District Provided Facilities
15-3E-6: District Provided Services
15-3E-7: Preliminary Engineering And Financial Survey
15-3E-8: District Indebtedness
15-3E-9: Maintenance And Operation
15-3E-1: OVERVIEW:
Unless provided by a private entity, the district will construct or acquire
package treatment facilities that will be sited to accommodate the phased
construction envisioned for the development of the community. The treatment
plants will provide secondary treatment of domestic and commercial sewage,
temporary storage of treated effluent, and delivery systems for the reuse of
the effluent for irrigation or aquifer recharge purposes within the community.
A facility connection fee will be collected upon application for service. (Res.
2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3E-2: FURNISHING SANITARY FACILITIES FOR SEWERAGE:
As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.140, a district has the authority to
provide certain services related to furnishing sanitary sewer facilities within
the service area. The following provides the specific provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes 318.140:
NRS 318.140 Sanitary Sewer Improvements. In the case of a district created
wholly or in part for acquiring sanitary sewer improvements:
      1.   The board may:
(a) Construct, reconstruct, improve or extend the sanitary sewer system or any
part thereof, including, without limitation, mains, laterals, wyes, tees,
meters and collection, treatment and disposal plants.
(b) Sell any product or by-product thereof and acquire the appropriate outlets
within or without the district and extend the sewer lines of the district
thereto.
(c) Enter into and perform, without any election, contracts or agreements for a
term not to exceed 50 years with any person or a public agency, to provide the
services, equipment or supplies necessary or appropriate to conduct tests of
the discharge of pollutants into the state's water and to report the results of
those tests as required by chapter 445A of NRS or the regulations adopted
thereunder. For the purposes of this paragraph, "public agency" has the meaning
ascribed to it in NRS 277.100.
      2.   The provisions of chapters 332 and 339 of NRS do not apply to a
contract under which a private developer extends a sewer main to his
development or installs any appurtenances to that extension. Except as
otherwise provided in this subsection, the provisions of chapter 338 of NRS do
not apply to such a contract. If the developer does not pay all of the initial
construction costs of the extension, the provisions of NRS 338.013 to 338.090,
inclusive, apply to the contract.
(Added to NRS by 1959, 463; A 1967, 1711; 1971, 1053; 1977, 541; 1983, 1285;
1995, 12)
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3E-3: EXISTING SERVICE:
No public sanitary sewer system exists in the vicinity of the service plan
area. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3E-4: WASTEWATER PRODUCTION:
The following estimates are based on projected domestic and commercial water
consumption and proportional wastewater production related to the service plan
area in Lincoln County. Long term water consumption for the community, which is
outlined in article I of this chapter, includes both domestic and commercial
uses. A large portion of the community's consumed water is then delivered back
to the wastewater facilities for treatment and potential reuse. The remaining
water is consumed for domestic and commercial irrigation purposes and is not
available for reuse through the sanitary sewer system.
Average daily flows for domestic and commercial wastewater production were
estimated by: a) utilizing the water demand factors outlined in the service
plan, b) allocating fifty percent (50%) of those factors as a percentage of the
potable water source available for reuse, and then c) converting the factor
from acre-feet per year (AFY) to average gallons per day (gpd). The factors
assume that one AFY equals approximately three hundred twenty six thousand
(326,000) gallons annually, and the average daily flows have been rounded off
for purposes of these wastewater estimates. Utilizing a fifty percent (50%)
factor for irrigation purposes, a conversion of the water consumption from AFY
to wastewater production in gpd provides the approximate results shown in
tables 4:12 and 4:13 of this section.
   TABLE 4:12
   AVERAGE DAILY FLOW FACTORS
 
Type Of Use               Water                Corresponding Wastewater
                          Consumption Factors  Production Factors
Single-family residential    0.54 AFY per un      240   gpd per unit
Multi-family residential     0.25 AFY per un      110   gpd per unit
Active adult residential     0.34 AFY per un      150   gpd per unit
Commercial                   2.28 AFY per ac      1,000   gpd per acre
 
   TABLE 4:13
   WASTEWATER CAPACITY PER DAY ESTIMATED IN FIVE YEAR INTERVALS
 
Year       Projected Daily Sewer
           Treatment Capacity
   Year       0.41 mgd
   Year       2.50 mgd
   Year       4.50 mgd
   Year       6.20 mgd
   Year       7.64 mgd
 
As the community is developed, the district will monitor flows and develop more
realistic models for projecting sewer flows based on actual growth patterns,
which will aid in planning the expansion of facilities and infrastructure.
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3E-5: DISTRICT PROVIDED FACILITIES:
As part of the service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of the facilities to be constructed, and the standards of such
construction for each service proposed. Collection sewer interceptors may be
located on the east and west sides of the Pahranagat Wash running north and
south throughout the length of the development. Lift stations may be required
in some locations to avoid deep laterals.
As the community grows, wastewater will be treated via approved treatment
facilities constructed in needed locations with the treated effluent
distributed for reuse or aquifer recharge.
Technologies for wastewater treatment facilities will also change in the
future, allowing other technologies to be considered. These technologies may
have the capacity to further reduce facility sizing and minimize visual impacts
of current treatment techniques. The district will continue to consider the use
of new and alternative technologies that meet Nevada division of environmental
protection (NDEP) and federal standards. As the community grows, a detailed
wastewater facility strategy will be developed that addresses the phased
construction of wastewater treatment improvements.
The district will acquire any such facilities or improvements, provided by
others that have been completed in accordance with district standards,
specifications and approval during the initial phases of service plan area
development, and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations for those
facilities or improvements on May 1, 2009; provided, that there are not less
than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the district on May 1, 2009.
Should there be less than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the
district on May 1, 2009, the district will acquire any such facilities or
improvements and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations on the
first day of the month next following the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy by the county, for the one thousandth dwelling unit within the
district. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3E-6: DISTRICT PROVIDED SERVICES:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan to provide a
description of the services to be provided by the proposed district, including
the costs of acquiring land, engineering services, and legal services. The
district will have primary responsibility for construction, maintenance and
operation of the wastewater collection, treatment facility, and treated
effluent distribution improvements. The district will acquire or construct
sanitary sewer collection, treatment facilities and treated effluent
distribution systems as the development of the community progresses. The
treatment facilities will be designed to produce effluent of such a quality
that it can be reused for irrigation of public parkways, parks and golf
courses; aquifer recharge; and discharge directly to waterways. Should the
district treat collected effluent and then convey that treated effluent for the
approved use, including aquifer recharge, of any other public or private
entity, it shall do so in accordance with all applicable state and federal
regulations. The district's treated effluent distribution system shall be
constructed and operated consistent with the terms of the treated effluent
reuse agreement by and between Lincoln County and CSI dated 2005. (Res. 2005-
06, 5-4-2005)
15-3E-7: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING AND FINANCIAL SURVEY:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan provide financial
and preliminary engineering or architectural surveys showing how the proposed
services are to be provided and financed. The district will utilize improvement
bonds issued pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 271 to finance the
construction of the sewer collection, treatment and effluent disposal
facilities. The package treatment plants will be designed to treat up to 7.64
million gallons per day (mgd) over twenty five (25) years. The collection
system will be constructed in public street rights of way or easements
dedicated for utility services. As a general rule, this service plan assumes
that the district will assume the capital costs of sanitary sewer improvements
within public parkways and collector roads, and that CSI or its partners will
bear the capital costs of sanitary sewer improvements within all local roads.
Table 4:14 of this section reflects the estimated quantities and unit costs for
the sewer facilities needed to serve the developing neighborhoods, and table 4:
15 of this section reflects the estimated costs in five (5) year intervals for
providing sanitary sewer collection and treatment facilities.
   TABLE 4:14
   SANITARY SEWER FACILITIES
   ESTIMATED QUANTITIES AND UNIT COSTS
                                             Unit Quantity
   Item                                Cost       Years  Years  Years   Years   Years
                                                     1–5  6–10 11–15 16–20 21–25
Treatment facilities - added capacity     Additional                            
                                          plant
                                          packages
                                          added at
                                          $5.9
   Projected daily sewer capacity (mgd)million    0.41   2.09   2.00    1.70    1.44
                                          per mgd of
                                          capacity
                                          at 3%
                                          annually
Sanitary sewer main trunk:                $49 per                               
   Piping - parkways (lf)              linear     24,800 31,400 57,200  14,400  23,900
   Piping - parkways to plant (lf)     foot       2,480  3,140  5,720   1,440   2,390
                                          average
                                          including
                                          all piping
   Piping - plant to tertiary storage  and joint
(lf)                                      trenching  1,240  1,570  2,860   720     1,195
                                          and
                                          escalated
                                          at 3%
                                          annually
Sanitary sewer collection system          $23 per                               
                                          linear
                                          foot
                                          average
                                          including
                                          all piping
   Collection system piping (lf)       and joint  16,300 46,100 45,100  33,300  29,200
                                          trenching
                                          and
                                          escalated
                                          at 3%
                                          annually
 
The estimated cost of construction of all package treatment plants through
build-out is approximately $73.8 million. The district will be responsible for
the maintenance and operation of the sewer facilities.
   TABLE 4:15
   SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT FACILITIES
   ESTIMATED COSTS IN FIVE YEAR INTERVALS
                                  Years       Years        Years        Years        Years
   Item                         1–5       6–10       11–15      16–20      21–25
Land                               –         –          –          –          –
Treatment plants                   $2,808,500  $16,596,900  $18,411,800  $18,142,700  $17,815,600
Pump stations                      140,400     829,800      920,600      907,100      890,800
Sanitary sewer main trunk:                                                         
   Piping - parkways            1,413,400   2,074,600    4,381,100    1,278,600    2,460,100
   Piping - parkways to plant   141,300     207,500      438,100      127,900      246,000
   Piping - plant to tertiary   70,700      103,700      219,100      63,900       123,000
storage
Sanitary sewer collection system:                                                  
   Collection system piping     444,400     1,457,000    1,652,400    1,414,400    1,437,800
Replacement reserve                1,254,700   5,317,400    6,505,800    5,483,700    5,743,300
Engineering costs (10% of costs)   501,900     2,127,000    2,602,300    2,193,500    2,297,300
Fiscal and legal costs (2% of      100,400     425,400      520,500      438,700      459,500
costs)
Other incidental costs (2% of      100,400     425,400      520,500      438,700      459,500
costs)
Total Costs (5 year basis)         $6,976,100  $29,564,700  $36,172,200  $30,489,200  $31,932,900
                                  Sewer connection fees have been calculated based on a $1,440
   Initial Sewer Connection Feesconnection fee in year 1 and annualized at 2% increases
                                   thereafter. Actual connection fee terms may differ.
Average sewer connection fee       $ 1,670     $ 1,940      $ 2,240      $ 2,600      $ 3,020
(Less) Sewer connection fees       (4,516,600) (27,220,600) (30,056,700) (28,579,300) (30,345,800)
Net Cost To Be Financed            $2,459,500  $ 2,344,100  $ 6,115,500  $ 1,909,900  $ 1,587,100
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3E-8: DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS:
As part of any service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of any proposed indebtedness, including proposed maximum interest
rates and any discounts, any other bonds and any other securities to be issued,
their type or character, annual operation and maintenance expenses.
Wastewater facility connection fees will be assessed upon each dwelling unit,
commercial property, and other uses that require wastewater treatment services.
The facility connection fee will offset the cost of providing the required
treatment facilities, which will reduce indebtedness in providing wastewater
treatment facilities. Special assessments will secure improvement bonds issued
pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 271. Interest rates and discounts
will be limited by maximums established under Nevada Revised Statutes chapter
350. Table 4:16 of this section reflects the current estimates of costs of debt
service for the construction of the sewer facilities.
   TABLE 4:16
   SANITARY SEWER AND TREATMENT FACILITIES
   ESTIMATED COSTS OF DEBT SERVICE
                               Year       Year       Year       Year       Year
   Item                      5          10         15         20         25
                                Assessments have been spread for purposes of this
   Average Assessment        service plan based upon assessed valuation. Actual
                                spread may differ.
Improvement bonds               $2,510,000 $2,390,000 $6,170,000 $1,960,000 $1,640,000
   Per residential unit (avg.681.86     115.57     166.60     38.58      26.18
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.51       0.09       0.13       0.03       0.02
   Per unimproved land acre  7.35       2.15       5.35       1.87       1.72
(avg.)
   Average Annual Assessment Annual debt service has been calculated on the basis
   Payments                  of a 15 year amortization and a 7% interest rate.
                                Actual bond terms may differ.
Annual debt service             $275,600   $262,400   $677,400   $215,200   $180,100
   Per residential unit (avg.74.87      12.69      18.29      4.24       2.87
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.06       0.01       0.01       0.00       0.00
   Per unimproved land acre  0.81       0.24       0.59       0.21       0.19
(avg.)
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3E-9: MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION:
Wastewater service within the community will consist of a system of collector
mains that will convey sewage to interceptor mains, which, in turn, will be
routed to package treatment facilities, and a distribution system for treated
effluent. The treatment process will provide an effluent suitable for landscape
irrigation, aquifer recharge, or discharge directly to waterways in accordance
with NPED water quality permit requirements. The district will be responsible
for the maintenance and operation of sewer facilities.
Unless a private entity provides wastewater services, the district will
establish assessments, rates, tolls and charges that are sufficient to properly
operate and maintain the facilities. Table 4:17 of this section reflects the
maintenance and operation expenses for the sanitary sewer system, which
expenses may be funded by assessments, rates, tolls and charges established by
the district for these services.
   TABLE 4:17
   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
   MAINTENANCE AND OPERATING EXPENSES
                           Year     Year       Year       Year        Year
   Item                  5        10         15         20          25
Pumping expenses            $115,000 $ 640,000  $1,270,000 $1,932,000  $2,628,000
Treatment expenses          250,000  1,355,000  2,690,500  4,093,000   5,569,600
Collection expenses         165,000  900,000    1,788,100  2,720,000   3,700,600
General administration      100,000  350,000    750,000    1,000,000   1,250,000
Effluent disposal costs     25,000   140,000    305,000    518,000     773,000
Depreciation                100,000  550,000    1,100,000  1,650,000   2,200,000
Total Annual Costs          $755,000 $3,970,000 $7,978,600 $12,013,000 $16,246,200
                            Annual costs of operation and maintenance are
   Average Monthly Sewer allocated to residential and commercial customers on
Fees                        the basis of proportional assessed values for each
                            class of customer. Actual cost allocations may vary
                            from this estimate.
Per residential unit (avg.) $17.09   $16.00     $17.95     $19.71      $21.61
Per commercial SF (avg.)    0.01     0.01       0.01       0.01        0.02
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
ARTICLE F. STREETLIGHTS
SECTION:
15-3F-1: Overview
15-3F-2: Furnishing Facilities For Lighting Streets
15-3F-3: Preliminary Engineering And Financial Survey
15-3F-4: District Provided Facilities
15-3F-5: District Provided Services
15-3F-6: District Indebtedness
15-3F-1: OVERVIEW:
The district will install street lighting fixtures that are representative of
the village theme in which they are placed. This themed lighting is expected to
be more expensive than the provision of "standard" fixtures by a jurisdiction.
The district will provide replacement of themed street lighting fixtures
through authorized revenue sources for the maintenance of the streetlight
improvements. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3F-2: FURNISHING FACILITIES FOR LIGHTING STREETS:
As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.141, a GID may be granted the
authority to provide certain services related to furnishing street lighting
within the service area. The following provides the specific provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes 318.141:
NRS 318.141 Lighting Of Streets. The board shall have the power to acquire,
construct, reconstruct, improve, extend or better a works, system or facilities
for lighting public streets, ways and places. It may also, without calling for
bids, contract for providing such facilities and the electrical current
necessary therefor, or such current, with any public utility serving in the
district, at uniform rates and charges established for the utility operator.
(Added to NRS by 1963, 626)
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3F-3: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING AND FINANCIAL SURVEY:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan provide financial
and preliminary engineering or architectural surveys showing how the proposed
services are to be provided and financed. The district will finance the
construction of the street lighting through the sale of improvement bonds as
provided in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 271. The district will own the
light standards and will contract with the LCPD for the maintenance of the
facilities. The district will provide the electric service for street lighting
through a contract with LCPD. The costs of providing street lighting are
included in article C, "Streets And Alleys", of this chapter. (Res. 2005-06, 5-
4-2005)
15-3F-4: DISTRICT PROVIDED FACILITIES:
As part of the service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of the facilities to be constructed, and the standards of such
construction for each service proposed. Lighting for the community will consist
of several different types. The most visible will be the streetlights. These
lights will be designed to fit the architectural theme of the village in which
they are located and coordinate well throughout the community. Street lighting
fixtures will be located according to the requirements of the district and in a
manner that will meet AASHTO standards.
The district will acquire any such facilities or improvements, provided by
others that have been completed in accordance with district standards,
specifications and approval during the initial phases of service plan area
development, and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations for those
facilities or improvements on May 1, 2009; provided, that there are not less
than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the district on May 1, 2009.
Should there be less than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the
district on May 1, 2009, the district will acquire any such facilities or
improvements and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations on the
first day of the month next following the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy by the county, for the one thousandth dwelling unit within the
district. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3F-5: DISTRICT PROVIDED SERVICES:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan provide a
description of the services to be provided by the proposed district, including
the costs of acquiring land, engineering services, and legal services. The
district will be responsible for the construction and replacement of the
decorative street lighting fixtures. The costs of these improvements were
included in article C of this chapter. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3F-6: DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS:
As part of the service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of any proposed indebtedness, including proposed maximum interest
rates and any discounts, any other bonds and any other securities to be issued,
their type or character, annual operation and maintenance expenses. The
district will finance the construction of the street lighting through the sale
of improvement bonds as prescribed in Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 271. The
costs of construction and maintenance of these improvements are included in
article C, "Streets And Alleys", of this chapter. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
ARTICLE G. SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
15-3G-1: Overview
15-3G-2: Furnishing Facilities For Garbage Collection And Disposal
15-3G-3: Preliminary Engineering And Financial Survey
15-3G-4: District Provided Facilities
15-3G-5: District Provided Services
15-3G-6: District Indebtedness
15-3G-1: OVERVIEW:
The service plan area is within the franchise area of Lincoln County disposal
and recycling company ("LCDRC"). The Lincoln County franchise agreement with
LCDRC expires during 2005. The status of Lincoln County's franchise will not be
known during the approval period of this service plan. If there is a need for a
transfer station to serve the service plan area, ample land should be available
for locating such a facility within a reasonable distance of the service plan
area. The transfer station may be operated by a Lincoln County solid waste
franchisee, or the district whichever is most practical. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-
2005)
15-3G-2: FURNISHING FACILITIES FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL:
As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.142, a GID may be granted the
authority to provide certain services related to collection and disposal of
garbage and refuse within the service plan area. The following provides the
specific provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes 318.142:
NRS 318.142 Collection And Disposal Of Garbage And Refuse. The board shall have
the power to acquire, by purchase or lease, sites for the disposal of garbage
and refuse, and to own and operate equipment for the collection and disposal
of, and collect and dispose of, garbage and refuse, or to contract, without
calling for bids, for the collection and disposal of garbage and refuse from
within the district.
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3G-3: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING AND FINANCIAL SURVEY:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan provide financial
and preliminary engineering or architectural surveys showing how the proposed
services are to be provided and financed. Through a franchise agreement with
Lincoln County, LCDRC has exclusive rights to all solid waste disposal within
the Lincoln County portion of the service plan area. This includes household,
construction, and industrial waste. Currently, LCDRC serves inhabited areas of
Lincoln County with drop box service. LCDRC currently provides no services
within the boundaries of the service plan area. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3G-4: DISTRICT PROVIDED FACILITIES:
As part of the service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of the facilities to be constructed, and the standards of such
construction for each service proposed. As the community develops, a solid
waste transfer station or convenience center may become necessary. The district
will work with Lincoln County to determine and implement an appropriate solid
waste disposal plan for the service plan area.
The district will acquire any such facilities or improvements, provided by
others that have been completed in accordance with district standards,
specifications and approval during the initial phases of service plan area
development, and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations for those
facilities or improvements on May 1, 2009; provided, that there are not less
than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the district on May 1, 2009.
Should there be less than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the
district on May 1, 2009, the district will acquire any such facilities or
improvements and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations on the
first day of the month next following the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy by the county, for the one thousandth dwelling unit within the
district. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3G-5: DISTRICT PROVIDED SERVICES:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan to provide a
description of the services to be provided by the proposed district, including
the costs of acquiring land, engineering services, and legal services.
The disposal system within the Lincoln County portion of the service plan area
will be established in cooperation with the Lincoln County board of county
commissioners and LCDRC. The district will establish a program that encourages,
manages and services single-family homes, multi-family residential units and
commercial facilities with a community wide recycling program in consultation
with the county. Materials for the recycling program may include wood products,
aluminum, glass, steel, and plastics.
The district will establish a community wide composting program. A composting
facility will be constructed within the service plan area that will be easily
accessible to the community. The composting program will include guidelines for
operation and maintenance and will outline the types of composting waste
accepted at the facility. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3G-6: DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS:
As part of the service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of any proposed indebtedness, including proposed maximum interest
rates and any discounts, any other bonds and any other securities to be issued,
their type or character, annual operation and maintenance expenses. Currently,
it is expected that any facilities necessary for solid waste disposal will be
borne by the Lincoln County franchise operator and carried to the consumer
through their fee structure. If the composting facility or transfer station
were to be financed by the district, revenue bonds or improvement bonds would
be appropriate financing tools. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
ARTICLE H. RECREATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
15-3H-1: Overview
15-3H-2: Furnishing Recreation Facilities
15-3H-3: Preliminary Engineering And Financial Survey
15-3H-4: District Provided Facilities
15-3H-5: District Provided Services
15-3H-6: District Indebtedness
15-3H-1: OVERVIEW:
The service plan area is remote from any existing recreation facilities in
Lincoln County. Recreation facilities will be needed in the service plan area
as it develops and should be funded by revenues generated within the service
plan area. It is proposed that the district fund, own and operate the parks,
recreation facilities, and open spaces within the service plan area. It is
expected that the residential construction tax (the "RCT") will cover a
majority of the costs of construction for qualified parks in the service plan
area. Continued maintenance, operation and expansion of facilities will be the
responsibility of the district and funded through the levy of an annual
recreation charge on residential properties within the service plan area as
provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.197. New capital facilities, other than
those funded through the RCT program will be financed through revenue bonds or
general obligation bonds secured by the recreation charge. At the present time,
it is unknown what additional recreation facilities will be included in such
future development. It is anticipated that such community facilities as
swimming pools, ball fields, play areas, and recreation improvements within
storm drainage areas will be typical expansions of the district's recreation
facilities. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3H-2: FURNISHING RECREATION FACILITIES:
As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.143, a GID may be granted the
authority to provide certain services related to recreation facilities within
the service plan. The following provides the specific provisions of Nevada
Revised Statutes 318.143:
NRS 318.143 Recreational Facilities.
      1.   Subject to the provisions of subsection 2, the board may acquire,
construct, reconstruct, improve, extend and better lands, works, systems and
facilities for recreation.
      2.   If the proposed recreation facilities are situated within 7 miles
from the boundary of an incorporated city or unincorporated town, and if the
county in which the proposed recreational facilities are situated has adopted a
recreation plan pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes 278.010 to 278.630,
inclusive, the authority conferred by subsection 1 may be exercised only in
conformity with such plan.
      3.   Such recreation facilities may include without limitation exposition
buildings, museums, skating rinks, other type rinks, fieldhouses, sports
arenas, bowling alleys, swimming pools, stadiums, golf courses, tennis courts,
squash courts, other courts, ball fields, other athletic fields, tracks,
playgrounds, bowling greens, ball parks, public parks, promenades, beaches,
marinas, levees, piers, docks, wharves, boat basins, boathouses, harborages,
anchorages, gymnasiums, appurtenant shower, locker and other bathhouse
facilities, amusement halls, dance halls, concert halls, theaters, auditoriums,
aviaries, aquariums, zoological gardens, biological gardens and vivariums (or
any combination thereof).
(Added to NRS by 1965, 1088; A 1967, 1714; 1971, 1054)
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3H-3: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING AND FINANCIAL SURVEY:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan to provide
financial and preliminary engineering or architectural surveys showing how the
proposed services are to be provided and financed.
It is anticipated that an RCT for park development will be implemented in
Lincoln County. The RCT will provide a portion of the revenue stream needed for
the district to fully develop qualified parks within the service plan area.
Additional funding may be required from developers within the service plan area
or from the district to meet the community's requirement for qualified parks.
The district will impose an annual recreation charge on all residential
properties in the community for the maintenance, operation and improvement of
its parks, recreation facilities, and open space areas. As additional parks,
recreation facilities, and open space areas are constructed in the community,
the recreation charge will be adjusted to include these additional costs. It is
expected that the initial recreation charge, for a single-family home, will be
in the range of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) to three hundred seventy
dollars ($370.00) per year for debt service and the maintenance and operation
of the parks, recreation facilities, and open space areas. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-
2005)
15-3H-4: DISTRICT PROVIDED FACILITIES:
As part of the service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of the facilities to be constructed, and the standards of such
construction for each service proposed. The district shall have a standard of
ten (10) acres of qualified parks for every one thousand (1,000) residential
units within the service plan area. Assuming the absorption schedule outlined
in this service plan, the total acreage of constructed qualified parks over
twenty five (25) years is shown in table 4:18 of this section.
   TABLE 4:18
   TYPICAL QUALIFIED PARK CONSTRUCTION
 
Year    Total Absorption Qualified Park Acreage Constructed
Year 5  2,600            26 acres
Year 10 16,200           162 acres
Year 15 29,200           292 acres
Year 20 39,800           398 acres
Year 25 50,000           500 acres
 
A portion of the costs of these qualified parks will be paid or recovered
through the RCT. Financing the remaining costs of construction and maintenance
of the parks shall be the responsibility of the district. In addition, other
separate park facilities, which include a regional park system and a system of
open space and neighborhood parks will be funded and maintained by funds
generated by the district from residents and property owners within the service
plan area.
In addition, the district will provide a series of public leisure pools and
recreation centers that will be constructed at certain thresholds. The RCT will
not be adequate to cover the costs of these facilities. Table 4:19 of this
section estimates the quantities and unit costs for parks and recreation
facilities in five (5) year intervals.
   TABLE 4:19
   PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES ESTIMATED
   QUANTITIES AND UNIT COSTS
 
                                       Quantity
   Item            Unit Cost     Years Years  Years   Years   Years 21–25
                                       1–5 6–10 11–15 16–20
                   $150,000 est. per
Qualified parks    acre escalated at
(acres)            3% annually and     26.0  136.0  130.0   106.0   98.0
                   built at thresholds
                   required by county
                   $2.5 million per
Swim and           facility escalated
recreation centers at 3% annually and  –   1      –     1       1
(units)            built at thresholds
                   required by county
Regional trail     $50,000 est. per
system/GID parks   acre escalated at   30.0  31.8   36.0    43.3    29.5
(acres)            3% annually
Pahranagat Wash    $10,000 est. per
open space and     acre escalated at   113.2 119.8  135.9   163.2   111.3
interpretive       3% annually
trails (acres)
 
Table 4:20 of this section reflects the estimates of costs, in five (5) year
intervals, of the various components of the parks and recreation facilities to
be constructed by the district as needed to meet the demands of growth in the
service plan area.
   TABLE 4:20
   PARKS AND RECREATION ESTIMATED COSTS
                                     Years       Years        Years        Years        Years
   Item                            1–5       6–10       11–15      16–20      21–25
Land                                  –         –          –          –          –
Qualified parks:                                                                      
                                     $4,521,200  $27,415,900  $30,380,400  $28,717,200  $30,778,500
Total cost of park construction
   (Less) RCT available funding    (3,014,100) (18,277,300) (20,253,600) (19,144,800) (20,519,000)
Total qualified parks - GID           $1,507,100  $ 9,138,600  $10,126,800  $ 9,572,400  $10,259,500
assistance
Swim and recreation centers           –         $3,359,800   –          $4,515,300   $5,234,400
Regional trail system/GID parks       $1,738,900  2,133,500    2,804,300    3,905,700    3,088,300
Wash open space and interpretive      1,312,600   1,610,400    2,116,800    2,948,200    2,331,200
trails
Other recreational facilities:                                                        
   Specialty rec. - facilities     1,388,500   5,100,300    3,966,400    4,045,500    3,615,000
allocation
   Specialty rec. - Field and park 347,100     1,275,100    991,600      1,011,400    903,700
allocation
Total - other recreational facilities $1,735,600  $6,375,400   $4,958,000   $5,056,900   $4,518,700
Engineering costs (10% of costs)      $ 930,800   $4,089,500   $4,026,000   $4,514,300   $4,595,100
Fiscal and legal costs (2% of costs)  186,200     817,900      805,200      902,900      919,000
Other incidental costs (2% of costs)  186,200     817,900      805,200      902,900      919,000
Total Costs (5 year basis)            $7,597,400  $28,343,000  $25,642,300  $32,318,600  $31,865,200
 
The district will acquire any such facilities or improvements, provided by
others that have been completed in accordance with district standards,
specifications and approval during the initial phases of service plan area
development, and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations for those
facilities or improvements on May 1, 2009; provided, that there are not less
than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the district on May 1, 2009.
Should there be less than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the
district on May 1, 2009, the district will acquire any such facilities or
improvements and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations on the
first day of the month next following the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy by the county, for the one thousandth dwelling unit within the
district. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3H-5: DISTRICT PROVIDED SERVICES:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan provide a
description of the services to be provided by the proposed district, including
the costs of acquiring land, engineering services, and legal services. The
district will have primary responsibility for the acquisition or construction,
maintenance and operation of the recreation facilities.
The district will have primary responsibility for the continuing maintenance
and operation of the public recreation facilities in the service plan area. The
required parks, recreation facilities, and open space areas will be dedicated
to the district, after the developer has constructed the necessary
improvements. As the service plan area develops and additional facilities, such
as those included within the list of recreation facilities authorized under
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 318, are needed to satisfy the recreation needs
of the community, the district will construct, operate and maintain these
facilities. All costs of constructing and operating these facilities and those
of the parks and open space will be paid from the annual recreation charge to
be collected from the property owners within the service plan area. Table 4:21
of this section reflects the anticipated costs of maintaining and operating the
parks, recreation facilities and open space areas.
   TABLE 4:21
   RECREATION FACILITIES OPERATION AND
   MAINTENANCE COSTS
                      Year     Year       Year       Year       Year
   Item             5        10         15         20         25
Parks                  $ 50,000 $ 221,00   $ 488,000  $ 808,000  $ 1,189,00
Open space             25,000   110,000    244,000    404,000    594,000
Trails                 12,500   55,000     122,000    202,000    297,000
Swimming pools         –      276,000    335,000    740,000    1,226,000
Recreation centers     –      1,104,000  1,341,000  2,961,000  4,904,000
Ball fields            –      276,000    335,000    807,000    1,226,000
Other recreation       –      552,000    1,067,000  1,480,000  2,043,000
buildings
General administration 165,000  665,000    1,300,000  1,750,000  2,175,000
Total Operating And    $112,500 $2,759,000 $4,597,000 $8,702,000 $13,229,000
Maintenance Costs
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3H-6: DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS:
As part of the service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of any proposed indebtedness, including proposed maximum interest
rates and any discounts, any other bonds and any other securities to be issued,
their type or character, annual operation and maintenance expenses.
The district will establish an annual recreation charge, as permitted in Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 318, that will be collected on each residential lot
receiving benefit from the availability of use of the parks, recreation
facilities, and open space areas. The annual recreation charge will be
established at such rates that will permit the issuance of revenue bonds, or
general obligation bonds additionally secured by the recreation charge, to
construct such parks, recreation facilities, and open space area improvements,
and the annual costs of maintaining the improvements. Table 4:22 of this
section reflects recreation facility indebtedness after providing for a credit
of RCT fees collected from within the service plan area.
   TABLE 4:22
   RECREATION FACILITIES INDEBTEDNESS
                                     Years      Years       Years       Years       Years
   Item                            1–5      6–10      11–15     16–20     21–25
Bonded indebtedness                   $7,650,000 $28,390,000 $25,690,000 $32,370,000 $31,920,000
                                      Annual debt service has been calculated on the basis of a
   Total Annual Recreation Costs   15 year amortization and a 7% interest rate. Actual bond
                                      terms may differ.
   Annual debt service             $839,900   $3,117,100  $2,820,600  $ 3,554,100 $ 3,504,600
   Total operating and maintenance 112,500    2,759,000   4,597,000   8,702,000   13,229,000
costs
Total Annual Recreation Costs         $952,400   $5,876,100  $7,417,600  $12,256,100 $16,733,600
                                      Recreation charges have been calculated by dividing total
   Recreation Charge               recreation costs by the number of residential units. No
                                      charge is associated with commercial parcels.
   Per residential unit (avg.)     $366.31    $362.72     $254.03     $307.94     $337.37
   Per commercial SF (avg.)        –        –         –         –         –
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
ARTICLE I. WATER SERVICES
SECTION:
15-3I-1: Overview
15-3I-2: Furnishing Facilities For Water
15-3I-3: District Provided Facilities
15-3I-4: Common Area Irrigation
15-3I-5: Impact On Ground Water Resources
15-3I-6: Preliminary Engineering And Financial Survey
15-3I-7: District Indebtedness
15-3I-1: OVERVIEW:
The district will own the domestic and commercial water facilities within the
service plan area, and the district will acquire water from available
resources. The Moapa Valley water district (MVWD) has expressed their interest
in operating and maintaining the facilities and the water services for the
district. The district proposes to have the water wells, transmission,
treatment, storage, and distribution system operated by the MVWD through the
implementation of an interlocal agreement as allowed under Nevada Revised
Statutes chapter 277 or by contract with another public or private entity. MVWD
or another entity would treat the water to clean water act standards and
deliver the water to district customers within the service plan area. As an
alternative, the district has the powers and could operate and maintain the
water facilities and service under the authorities granted in ordinance 2005-07
creating the district.
The district, in cooperation with MVWD or another entity, will construct and
own all required water wells, transmission, treatment, storage, and
distribution facilities. All water services will be metered at the customer
delivery point. Rates for water service will be established to meet the costs
of such delivery. Prior to the issuance of a permit to construct a building
requiring water service, the district will collect a water facility connection
fee; a meter provision and installation fee; and other necessary charges
associated with providing water service. The other costs of constructing the
water facilities will be paid from the proceeds of improvement bonds issued
under the authority of Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 271. The bonds will be
secured by a lien levied upon the benefiting properties. Annual or semiannual
principal and interest will be collected from the property owners sufficient to
meet the debt service of the bonds. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3I-2: FURNISHING FACILITIES FOR WATER:
As provided in Nevada Revised Statutes 318.144, a GID may be granted the
authority to provide certain services related to domestic and commercial water
within the service plan area. The following provides the specific provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes 318.144:
NRS 318.144 Supply, Storage And Distribution Of Water.
      1.   The board may acquire, construct, reconstruct, improve, extend or
better a works, system or facilities for the supply, storage and distribution
of water for private and public purposes.
      2.   The provisions of chapters 332 and 339 of NRS do not apply to a
contract under which a private developer constructs water facilities for his
development. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the provisions of
chapter 338 of NRS do not apply to such a contract. If the developer does not
pay all of the initial construction costs of the facility, the provisions of
NRS 338.013 to 338.090, inclusive, apply to the contract.
(Added to NRS by 1961, 464; A 1967, 1712; 1971, 1054; 1973, 716; 1977, 542;
1995, 12)
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3I-3: DISTRICT PROVIDED FACILITIES:
As part of the service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of the facilities to be constructed, the standards of such
construction for each service proposed. As the operator, the MVWD or another
entity will take water at its source, transmit the water to the community,
store the water in reservoirs, treat the water to safe drinking water standards
prior to distribution, and distribute the water to the customer service
connection. All facilities involved in the production, transmission, storage
and delivery of potable water will be constructed to meet the standards and
specifications of the American Water Works Association (AWWA) and the MVWD or
another entity. The facilities will be designed and constructed to meet the
demands of the service plan area as it develops. Tables 4:23 and 4:24 of this
section reflect the estimated water consumption of the service plan area. These
estimates are used to determine maximum water requirements within the Coyote
Springs community based on the projected absorption within the service plan
area.
The district will acquire any such facilities or improvements, provided by
others that have been completed in accordance with district standards,
specifications and approval during the initial phases of service plan area
development, and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations for those
facilities or improvements on May 1, 2009; provided, that there are not less
than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the district on May 1, 2009.
Should there be less than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the
district on May 1, 2009, the district will acquire any such facilities or
improvements and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations on the
first day of the month next following the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy by the county, for the one thousandth dwelling unit within the
district.
   TABLE 4:23
   RESIDENTIAL POTABLE WATER CONSUMPTION FACTORS
 
Type Of Water Use         Annual Water Consumption
Single-family residential 0.65 AFY per unit
Multi-family residential  0.30 AFY per unit
Active adult residential  0.41 AFY per unit
 
   TABLE 4:24
   COMMERCIAL POTABLE WATER CONSUMPTION FACTORS
 
Type Of Water Use Annual Water Consumption
All commercial    2.28 AFY per acre
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3I-4: COMMON AREA IRRIGATION:
Common area irrigation applies to any area dedicated to open space, not owned
or operated by a private entity, and golf course irrigation. It has been
assumed that four percent (4%) of the total acreage designated for domestic and
commercial uses will be irrigated and allocated for common area uses, except
within the open space corridor where common area irrigation may reach fifty
percent (50%). Depending upon availability, the district plans to use treated
effluent generated from the service plan area's sewer treatment facilities for
a majority of the common area and golf course irrigation purposes. Table 4:25
of this section outlines the irrigation water consumption factors used to
estimate common area and golf course irrigation needs for the service plan
area.
   TABLE 4:25
   IRRIGATION WATER CONSUMPTION FACTORS
 
Type Of Irrigation
                  Annual Water Consumption
Water Consumption
Common area           6.0 AFY per acre
Golf course           900 AFY per golf course
 
Given the consumption factors outlined in table 4:25 of this section, the water
consumption for all types of uses within the service plan area at full build-
out is estimated in table 4:26 of this section:
   TABLE 4:26
   WATER CONSUMPTION FOR THE SERVICE PLAN AREA
 
Type Of Water Consumption      Annual Water Consumption
Domestic and commercial        21,400 AFY
Irrigation                     13,000 AFY
Total annual water consumption 34,400 AFY 1
 
   Note:
      1.   Overall water consumption estimates in this table assume no treated
effluent is used for irrigation. Table 4:27 of this section outlines the
overall water consumption utilizing treated effluent for irrigation.
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3I-5: IMPACT ON GROUND WATER RESOURCES:
The water consumption estimates shown above, however, do not account for the
reuse of treated effluent generated by the community for common area and golf
course irrigation. It is estimated that a minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the
total water used for domestic and commercial uses within the community can be
treated and reclaimed for irrigation purposes. Utilizing a fifty percent (50%)
reuse factor, estimates of the overall annual impact to the ground water within
the district is shown in table 4:27 of this section as follows:
   TABLE 4:27
   WITHDRAWAL OF GROUND WATER RESOURCES
 
Type Of Water Consumption              Annual Water Consumption
Residential and commercial water usage    21,400 AFY
Treated effluent availability             (10,700 AFY) 1
Irrigation water usage                    13,000 AFY
Overall ground water withdrawal           23,700 AFY
 
   Note:
      1.   Noted as a negative value since effluent reuse would be subtracted
from total ground water withdrawal.
Table 4:28 of this section provides a maximum projection of incremental ground
water withdrawal, showing a five (5) year breakdown of projections in
conjunction with an aggressive twenty five (25) year absorption scenario.
   TABLE 4:28
   GROUND WATER WITHDRAWAL PER YEAR
 
Year    Cumulative Ground Water Withdrawal By Year
Year 5  3,500 AFY
Year 10 10,410 AFY
Year 15 16,870 AFY
Year 20 20,980 AFY
Year 25 23,700 AFY
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3I-6: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING AND FINANCIAL SURVEY:
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires the service plan to provide
financial and preliminary engineering or architectural surveys showing how the
proposed services are to be provided and financed. The construction of the
water system will be completed in phases, consistent with the development of
the service plan area. The phased construction will be financed, by the
district, through the sale of improvement bonds secured by public liens upon
the properties served. The district will utilize Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 271 in establishing an assessment district, perfecting the lien of the
special assessment and issuing bonds sufficient to finance the improvements.
The term of the bonds will be as authorized by Nevada Revised Statutes, will
not bear interest rates higher than three percent (3%) over the bond buyer's
twenty five (25) revenue bond index, will not include more than twelve (12)
months of capitalized interest and will have a principal payment due within one
year of the sale of the bonds. The assessments levied for the water system and
other improvements that may be included in the assessment proceedings will be
adopted pursuant to applicable Nevada law.
The district will adopt assessments, rates, tolls and charges, as provided in
section 318.199 of chapter 318 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, for the
maintenance and operation of the water system by MVWD or another entity. Such
assessments, rates, tolls and charges will be reviewed on an annual basis to
determine whether they are sufficient to provide for the costs associated with
the service. Based upon the engineer's estimate of source of supply, pumping,
storage, transmission, distribution and delivery expenses of the water service,
it is estimated that the monthly charge for a residential customer will vary
from approximately thirty dollars ($30.00) in the first five (5) years of the
service plan to approximately fifty dollars ($50.00) at build- out. All excess
water service will be metered and usage above an established maximum will be
charged at a consumption rate. These costs are affordable when compared to
those of other similar communities.
The preliminary engineering indicates that the development of Coyote Springs as
outlined in the service plan will require facilities to produce and convey
approximately twenty three thousand three hundred (23,300) acre-feet of water
annually to the residential and commercial customers. Surveys of regional water
resources suggest that sufficient water will be available to meet this demand;
however, the ultimate build-out of the community will be based on available
water resources. The preliminary engineering for the construction of necessary
sources of supply, storage, pumping and distribution facilities for the water
system included a design that will meet, or exceed, the standards prescribed by
the AWWA and the MVWD or another entity.
Table 4:29 of this section reflects the estimated quantities and unit costs of
the various components of the water facilities to be acquired or constructed by
the district, and operated by the MVWD or another entity, as needed to meet the
demands of growth in the service plan area, and table 4:30 of this section
reflects estimated water facilities costs in five (5) year intervals.
   TABLE 4:29
   POTABLE WATER SYSTEM ESTIMATED
   QUANTITIES AND UNIT COSTS
                                          Unit Quantity
   Item                             Cost       Years  Years  Years   Years   Years
                                                  1–5  6–10 11–15 16–20 21–25
Treatment plants- added capacity:                                           
   Domestic consumption (mgd)       Additional 2.32   12.15  11.61   9.47    8.75
                                       plant
                                       packages
                                       added at
   Commercial consumption (mgd)     $800,000   0.36   1.47   1.43    1.34    0.85
                                       per mgd of
                                       capacity
                                       at 3%
                                       annually
Total - projected additional capacity            2.68   13.62  13.04   10.81   9.60
                                       $500,000
                                       per mgd
Pump station and well improvements     and        2.68   13.62  13.04   10.81   9.60
                                       escalated
                                       at 3%
                                       annually
                                       $400,000
                                       per
                                       million
                                       gallons of
                                       tank
                                       storage
                                       and
Water reservoir storage (mg)           escalated  3.75   19.07  18.26   15.13   13.44
                                       at 3%
                                       annually;
                                       40%
                                       storage
                                       capacity
                                       added for
                                       fire
                                       protection
Water main trunk:                                                           
   Piping - wellhead to plant (lf)  $27 per    1,240  1,570  2,860   720     1,195
   Piping - plant to reservoirs (lf)linear     1,240  1,570  2,860   720     1,195
   Piping - reservoirs to parkways  foot       2,480  3,140  5,720   1,440   2,390
(lf)                                   average
                                       including
                                       all piping
                                       and joint
   Piping - parkways (lf)           trenching  24,800 31,400 57,200  14,400  23,900
                                       and
                                       escalated
                                       at 3%
                                       annually
Water distribution system:                                                  
                                       $12 per
                                       linear
                                       foot
                                       average
                                       including
   Distribution system piping (lf)  all piping 16,300 46,100 45,100  33,300  29,200
                                       and joint
                                       trenching
                                       and
                                       escalated
                                       at 3%
                                       annually
 
   TABLE 4:30
   WATER FACILITIES ESTIMATED COSTS
   IN FIVE YEAR INTERVALS
                              Years       Years        Years        Years        Years
   Item                     1–5       6–10       11–15      16–20      21–25
Land                           –         –          –          –          –
Treatment plants               $2,569,600  $15,142,700  $16,806,300  $16,147,000  $16,630,300
Pump stations                  143,800     847,600      940,700      903,800      930,900
Water reservoirs               1,678,100   9,888,800    10,975,200   10,544,600   10,860,200
Water main trunk:                                                              
   Piping - wellhead to plan38,500      56,500       119,300      34,800       67,000
   Piping - plant to        38,500      56,500       119,300      34,800       67,000
reservoirs
   Piping - reservoirs to   77,000      113,000      238,500      69,600       133,900
parkways
   Piping - parkways        769,600     1,129,600    2,385,400    696,200      1,339,500
Total - water main trunk       $923,600    $1,355,600   $2,862,500   $ 835,400    $1,607,400
Distribution system piping     $225,500    $ 739,500    $ 838,700    $ 717,900    $ 729,700
Engineering costs (10% of      646,400     2,933,000    3,528,600    2,998,400    3,236,600
costs)
Fiscal and legal costs (2% of  129,300     586,600      705,700      599,700      647,300
costs)
Other incidental costs (2% of  129,300     586,600      705,700      599,700      647,300
costs)
Total Costs (5 year basis)     $6,445,600  $32,080,400  $37,363,400  $33,346,500  $35,289,700
   Initial Water Meter And  Water meter and miscellaneous fees will be determined by the
   Miscellaneous Fees       water purveyor.
   Initial Water Connection Water connection fees have been calculated based on a $1,440
Fees                           connection fee in year 1 and annualized at 2% increases
                               thereafter. Actual connection fee terms may differ.
Average water connection fees  $ 1,670     $ 1,940      $ 2,240      $ 2,600      $ 3,020
(Less) water connection fees   (4,516,600) (27,220,600) (30,056,700) (28,579,300) (30,345,800)
Net Costs To Be Financed       $ 1,929,000 $ 4,859,800  $ 7,306,700  $ 4,767,200  $ 4,943,900
 
The preliminary design of the water system has an estimated construction cost
of over $128.5 million over the first twenty five (25) years. Incidental costs,
including engineering, legal and bond issuance costs are expected to add
approximately $13.3 million to these costs. Connection fees are expected to
provide in excess of $120.7 million of these capital costs. The current
estimated value of the properties to be assessed for the construction of the
water system is over $9.0 billion. This security should provide a market for
the proposed sale of the improvement bonds for the water and all other capital
improvements, within the limitations contained in Nevada Revised Statutes
chapter 271. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3I-7: DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS:
As part of the service plan, Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 requires a
description of any proposed indebtedness, including proposed maximum interest
rates and any discounts, any other bonds and any other securities to be issued,
their type or character, annual operation and maintenance expenses.
Special assessments, representing the costs of the water improvements, are to
be levied upon the benefiting properties that will secure improvement bonds as
authorized under chapter 271 of Nevada Revised Statutes. The interest rates and
discounts on the bonds will not exceed the limits set forth under Nevada
Revised Statutes chapter 271. A user fee schedule will be developed that will
pay the costs of annual operating and maintenance expenses. Table 4:31 of this
section reflects the source of financing and debt service for water system
improvements, and table 4:32 of this section reflects water facilities
maintenance and operating costs in five (5) year intervals.
   TABLE 4:31
   SOURCE OF FINANCING WATER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS
                               Years      Years      Years      Years      Years
   Item                      1–5      6–10     11–15    16–20    21–25
                                Assessments have been spread for purposes of this
   Average Assessment        service plan based upon assessed valuation. Actual
                                spread may differ.
Improvement bonds               $1,980,000 $4,910,000 $7,360,000 $4,820,000 $4,990,000
   Per residential unit (avg.537.88     237.42     198.73     94.88      79.65
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.40       0.18       0.15       0.07       0.06
   Per unimproved land acre  5.80       4.42       6.38       4.60       5.23
(avg.)
                                Annual debt service has been calculated on the basis
   Average Annual Debt Paymenof a 15 year amortization and a 7% interest rate.
                                Actual bond terms may differ.
Annual debt service             $217,400   $539,100   $808,100   $529,200   $547,900
   Per residential unit (avg.59.06      26.07      21.82      10.42      8.75
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.04       0.02       0.02       0.01       0.01
   Per unimproved land acre  0.64       0.48       0.70       0.50       0.57
(avg.)
 
   TABLE 4:32
   WATER FACILITIES MAINTENANCE AND OPERATING COSTS
                           Year       Year       Year        Year        Year
   Item                  5          10         15          20          25
Water production (mgpd)     2.68       16.30      29.34       39.38       48.98
Water supply expenses:                                                 
   Pumping expenses      $ 379,400  $2,539,400 $ 5,030,900 $ 7,432,200 $
                                                                          10,175,100
   Treatment expenses    300,000    2,040,000  4,060,000   6,015,000   8,260,000
   Transmission expenses 360,000    2,400,000  4,780,000   7,080,000   9,720,000
   Depreciation          350,000    2,355,000  4,685,000   6,940,000   9,530,000
   General administration100,000    350,000    750,000     1,000,000   1,250,000
Total - annual expenses     $1,489,400 $9,684,400 $19,305,900 $28,467,200 $38,935,100
Average monthly water fees
(Annual costs do not        Annual costs of operation and maintenance are allocated
include water commodity     to residential and commercial customers on the basis of
charges which will be       proportional assessed values for each class of customer.
established by water        Actual cost allocations may vary from this estimate.
purveyor)
   Per residential unit  $33.72     $39.02     $43.44      $46.70      $51.79
(avg.)
   Per commercial SF (avg0.03       0.03       0.03        0.04        0.04
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
ARTICLE K. ENDANGERED SPECIES
SECTION:
15-3K-1: Overview
15-3K-2: Preservation Of Endangered Or Threatened Species
15-3K-3: Preliminary Engineering And Financing
15-3K-4: District Services Provided
15-3K-5: District Provided Facilities
15-3K-6: District Indebtedness, Annual Operation And Maintenance Expenses
15-3K-7: Compliance With Section 10 Permit And Coyote Springs Multiple Species
Habitat Conservation Plan
15-3K-1: OVERVIEW:
The district proposes to implement and manage the provisions of an endangered
species act, section 10(a)(1)(B) permit that will be issued for the purpose of
conserving habitat within the boundaries of the service plan area. The
implementation and management of the permit by the district will allow all
revenues necessary for such implementation and management to be generated from
residents and property owners of the service plan area on a permanent basis,
all of whom will benefit from the implementation and management of the permit.
As used in this service plan, "an area or zone for the preservation of one or
more species or subspecies of wildlife" includes the vegetation occurring
within such area or zone to the maximum extent now or hereafter authorized by
law, and to the maximum extent now or hereafter authorized by law such areas or
zones may be established for the preservation of species or subspecies of
plants. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3K-2: PRESERVATION OF ENDANGERED OR THREATENED SPECIES:
 NRS 318.1177 Establishment Of Area Or Zone For Preservation Of Endangered Or
Threatened Wildlife. In the case of a district created wholly or in part for
the establishment of an area or zone for the preservation of one or more
species or subspecies of wildlife that has been declared endangered or
threatened pursuant to the federal endangered species act of 1973, 16 USC
section 1531 et seq., the board shall have the power to:
      1.   Establish, control, manage and operate or provide money for the
establishment, control, management and operation of the area or zone.
      2.   Purchase, sell, exchange or lease real property, personal property
and other interests in property, except water rights, as necessary for the
establishment, control, management and operation of the area or zone.
(Added to NRS by 2003, 1513)
In the event Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 318 is hereafter amended to
authorize a general improvement district to create and manage areas or zones
for the preservation of any species or subspecies listed as sensitive,
threatened or endangered pursuant to Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 527, the
district shall have the same powers as if the species or subspecies were listed
solely under the federal endangered species act. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3K-3: PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING AND FINANCING:
The district expects to mitigate (both within and without the district
boundaries) any adverse impacts to habitat caused by development through the
implementation, maintenance and management of the provisions and requirements
of the section 10(a)(1)(B) permit that will be issued for the lands within the
service plan area. The costs of this implementation, maintenance and management
will initially be funded through a land disturbance fee assessed at the time of
construction permitting of through developer in-kind services. Remaining future
costs, not within the revenues generated by the initial land disturbance fee
may be funded through an annual property tax levied upon properties and/or
annual assessments of benefiting property owners within the district. (Res.
2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3K-4: DISTRICT SERVICES PROVIDED:
The services to be provided by the district will be limited to those that may
be required by the section 10(a)(1)(B) permit issued to conserve habitat within
the district. There are no lands to be acquired in implementing the section 10
(a)(1)(B) permit. The district would pay for engineering, legal and other
services relating to the implementation, maintenance and management of the
section 10(a)(1)(B) permit through the initial land disturbance fee, annual
property tax levied upon properties and/or annual assessments of benefiting
property owners within the district. The district may provide such services in
connection with facilities or projects occurring within or without the district
boundaries; provided, that such facility or project is required under or
described in the section 10(a)(1)(B) permit or the related habitat conservation
plan. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3K-5: DISTRICT PROVIDED FACILITIES:
The facilities to be constructed and the standards of construction will be
those required by the section 10(a)(1)(B) permit issued to mitigate habitat
impacts within or without the district. Table 4:34 of this section provides
estimated capital facilities costs for habitat conservation efforts. These
costs will be revised as annual plans are developed in line with CSI's
requirements under its 10(a)(1)(B) permit.
The district will acquire any such facilities or improvements, provided by
others that have been completed in accordance with district standards,
specifications and approval during the initial phases of service plan area
development, and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations for those
facilities or improvements on May 1, 2009; provided, that there are not less
than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the district on May 1, 2009.
Should there be less than one thousand (1,000) dwelling units within the
district on May 1, 2009, the district will acquire any such facilities or
improvements and assume associated maintenance and repair obligations on the
first day of the month next following the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy by the county, for the one thousandth dwelling unit within the
district.
   TABLE 4:34
   HABITAT CONSERVATION CAPITAL
   FACILITIES DESCRIPTION AND COSTS
                             Years    Years      Years      Years      Years
   Item                    1–5    6–10     11–15    16–20    21–25
Land                          –      –        –        –        –
Habitat conservation capital                                         
projects:
   Reserve perimeter fencin$42,240  $168,960   –        –        –
   SR 168 fencing          158,500  –        –        –        –
   US 93 fencing           300,960  –        –        –        –
   All roadway fencing     –      700,000    $980,000   $1,372,000 $1,920,800
   Culvert replacement and –      100,000    120,000    144,000    172,800
installation
   ACEC disturbance        13,000   100,000    100,000    100,000    200,000
   Survey                  80,000   100,000    150,000    225,000    337,500
   Miscellaneous capital   –      50,000     65,000     84,500     109,850
projects
Total - habitat conservation  $594,600 $1,219,000 $1,415,000 $1,925,500 $2,741,000
capital projects
Engineering costs (10 percent $ 59,500 $ 121,900  $ 141,500  $ 192,600  $ 274,100
of costs)
Fiscal and legal costs (2     11,900   24,400     28,300     38,500     54,800
percent of costs)
Other incidental costs (2     11,900   24,400     28,300     38,500     54,800
percent of costs)
Total Costs (5 year basis)    677,900  $1,389,700 $1,613,100 $2,195,100 $3,124,700
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3K-6: DISTRICT INDEBTEDNESS, ANNUAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES:
There is no proposed indebtedness for the implementation of the section 10(a)
(1)(B) permit by the district. Management and maintenance of the facilities
will be financed through a combination of mitigation fees paid at the time of
initial land disturbance for the construction of private improvements in the
service plan area and a minimal service fee or property tax collected from
properties within the service plan area. Table 4:35 of this section reflects
the estimated costs for operating the habitat conservation and mitigation
services in five (5) year intervals.
   TABLE 4:35
   COST FOR HABITAT CONSERVATION SERVICES
   TO BE PROVIDED BY DISTRICT
                               Year        Year        Year        Year        Year
   Item                      5           10          15          20          25
Habitat conservation operating                                               
costs:
   Administration            $494,000    $534,508    $578,338    $625,761    $677,074
   Travel                    30,000      32,460      35,122      38,002      41,118
   Adaptive management       120,000     129,840     140,487     152,007     164,471
   Facilities maintenance    20,000      21,640      23,414      25,334      27,412
   Reserve land disturbance  90,000      97,380      105,365     114,005     123,354
   Monitoring                125,000     135,250     146,341     158,340     171,324
   Animal control            83,200      90,022      97,404      105,391     114,033
   Public education          35,000      37,870      40,975      44,335      47,971
   Muddy River MOA           60,000      64,920      70,243      76,003      82,236
Total - operating costs         $1,057,000  $1,144,000  $1,238,000  $ 1,339,000 $ 1,449,000
Habitat conservation annual     $ 677,900   $1,389,700  $1,613,100  $ 2,195,100 $ 3,124,700
capital costs
(Less) collected CSI MSHCP      (1,265,000) (1,705,000) (1,925,000) (1,265,000) (1,045,000)
mitigation fees
Total - net operating costs     $ 469,900   $ 828,700   $ 926,100   $ 2,269,100 $ 3,528,700
   Average Annual Property TaAverage property tax is calculated based upon the average
                                assessed value of each class of property.
Estimated tax rate              0.1573      0.0426      0.0229      0.0353      0.0384
   Per residential unit (avg.$127.65     $40.07      $25.01      $44.67      $56.32
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.10        0.03        0.02        0.03        0.04
   Per unimproved land acre  1.38        0.75        0.80        2.47        5.38
(avg.)
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3K-7: COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 10 PERMIT AND COYOTE SPRINGS MULTIPLE SPECIES
HABITAT CONSERVATION PLAN:
An applicant for a land disturbance permit (grading, trenching, etc.) must
submit, together with the application, a copy of the receipt issued by the
Coyote Springs Charter Community Association, Inc. (master association)
evidencing payment in full of the mitigation fee required to be paid under the
Coyote Springs Investment LLC's section 10 permit and associated multiple
species habitat conservation plan for all the land to be covered by the land
disturbance permit. No land disturbance permit will be issued unless and until
the county has received evidence that the appropriate mitigation fee has been
paid to the master association. (Ord. 2008-02, 6-2-2008, eff. 7-1-2008)
ARTICLE L. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
SECTION:
15-3L-1: Overview
15-3L-2: Estimated Costs
15-3L-1: OVERVIEW:
The district will incur general and administrative costs that are common to
most governmental agencies. The district will be subject to the provisions of
Nevada Revised Statutes 354.470 to 354.626 (the "local government budget act"),
which sets forth the requirements for adopting an annual budget that determines
the amount of property tax that will be required for the next fiscal year.
Nevada Revised Statutes chapter 308 does not require estimates of a proposed
GIDs impact upon the property tax roll unless the property tax to be levied is
to cover costs of a specific service being proposed under a service plan. The
general and administrative functions of the district are a necessary and
specific service of the district, the cost of which may require funding from
the levy of a property tax.
The state of Nevada has more than thirty (30) GIDs, most located in the
northern part of the state, that provide quasi-municipal services to their
service area. Most serve small communities that are unable to support full
governmental service needs and rely upon the counties in which they are located
to provide many of the services larger metropolitan areas take for granted.
Many of these GIDs have no property tax levy and rely totally upon user fees
for the limited services they provide. Others that provide multiple services
have authorized revenue sources, to support services and functions for which a
user fee cannot be reasonably assessed. The district proposes to provide
multiple services within the service plan area, several of these services can
be reasonably funded through user fees while others are best funded through
other authorized revenue sources. (Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
15-3L-2: ESTIMATED COSTS:
The district will incur general and administrative costs in providing the
multiple services proposed to be authorized for the service plan area. A
portion of the general and administrative costs of the district can be
allocated to enterprise funds of the district. The remaining general and
administrative costs may be funded through other authorized revenue sources.
Table 5:1 of this section describes the estimated general and administrative
costs to the district, the enterprise funds as allocated for general and
administrative costs, and the nonallocated general and administrative costs of
the district that would be funded through authorized revenue sources.
   TABLE 5:1
   GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
                               Year       Year        Year        Year         Year
   Item                      5          10          15          20           25
Estimated population            6,500      40,500      73,000      99,500       124,000
General and administrative                                                   
expenses:
   Wages and benefits        $500,000   $3,000,000  $5,400,000  $7,350,000   $9,160,000
   Services and supplies     280,000    1,750,000   3,150,000   4,300,000    5,360,000
   Legal and audit           60,000     375,000     675,000     920,000      1,150,000
   Utilities                 35,000     215,000     390,000     530,000      660,000
   Capital outlay            120,000    750,000     1,350,000   1,850,000    2,300,000
   Fiscal agent fees         5,000      20,000      50,000      70,000       90,000
Total general and               $1,000,000 $6,110,000  $11,015,000 $15,020,000  $18,720,000
administrative expenses
Allocation to:                                                               
   Utility fund              $(200,000) $(700,000)  $           $(2,000,000) $(2,500,000)
                                                       (1,500,000)
   Recreation fund           (165,000)  (665,000)   (1,300,000) (1,750,000)  (2,175,000)
   Other sources             (375,000)  (2,345,000) (4,640,000) (6,920,000)  (9,580,000)
Total allocations               $(740,000) $           $           $            $
                                           (3,710,000) (7,440,000) (10,670,000) (14,255,000)
Property tax required           $260,000   $2,400,000  $3,575,000  $4,350,000   $4,465,000
   Average Annual Property TaAverage property tax is calculated based upon the average
                                assessed value of each class of property.
Estimated tax rate              0.0947     0.1261      0.0901      0.0690       0.0495
   Per residential unit (avg.$76.82     $118.66     $98.31      $87.18       $72.54
   Per commercial SF (avg.)  0.06       0.09        0.07        0.07         0.05
   Per unimproved land acre  0.83       2.21        3.16        4.83         6.93
(avg.)
 
(Res. 2005-06, 5-4-2005)
